It has maintained the only work, to speed up Tanzania.
FDL against 1st, 2013.

Since I arrived for the first time here in England for more than 10 years ago, I have contributed to a habit which is like that "my work" every morning, to read news from home in different media sources.

And it is a continuation of that habit, in October 2006 when I met with one news, "scandal of Richmond Development" in that news inside one newspaper in home (Tanzania), was explained the former Prime Minister Edward Lowassa, was doing an effort to encourage the members of CCM to have one stand during the debate about that scandal.

At the same time, I was suffering from one newspaper of every week at home (not this), and due to it being touched by the news that made the presence of the process of putting off the debate on behalf of the Richmond Development Company, I made that news to be a presentation on the article of the week one followed.

That article lasted with great problems, the first journalist, the Prime Minister (at the time), wrote a stern warning to answer, together with other things, "Lowassa was unable to sack him, to the members of CCM not to discuss the issue of Richmond Development in success."
Few days later, I got phones from one of the top leader from what I used to serve the time.

In addition, that leader said that my articles had given birth to the opponents of CCM, and then tell me to leave each time to write the articles on political issues at home. I had tried to obey that order for a long time but later I failed after going back to home in the year 2008 and witnessed how the corrupt people want to have any country.

The mistake that had caused the boss at the time he has called me the phone has been revealed earlier, which basically it aims to advise the presence of a free debate and open issue concerning the scandal of Richmond Development in the article I cautioned that any efforts to be done on that issue under the company's scandal, can bring about effects in front.

Two years later, I was trying to resign from the article when I arrived at the past, when Lowassa was forced to resign as a result of a phone company in the year 2006 when I was expecting, and I don't think it until today (he is still in power) he knows the importance of what I wrote at that time.

Basically, the incident was the first of a bad relationship with my brother, and the picture that I went to, "CCM and his government, although basically we are in my articles about politics which go with the responsibility of the institution to the public, threats and so many times in that institution" not possible. "

The aim of this article not to blame a person or certain institutions together with several factors that have been trying as a result of my intentions that will be able to discuss different issues that get married, even if it has cost me in life.

What I was looking to, the employer of the institution is the ones that is supposed to be done by every employer and the leader of the public institution, in line with each Tanzanian with the true love for our country and we should not depend on it, we have good relationship with some people.

It was trying to return to the tragedy that affected several years ago, I did recently with my fellow teachers at the University of Dar es Salaam and he has continued to be my important pillar during this time when I was leading since I was happy to have two important points when I got them.
