A member of parliament looking at the Holy Quran.
Dec 21, 2013.

The nominated member of parliament (CCM), Mary Mwanjelwa (48), has complained about the claims that were directed to him by involving the Holy Quran during his parliamentary tour in Belgium, September this year.

According to that member of parliament, the truth of those accusations has failed in the political goals from its competitors, and especially political parties heading to the general elections of the year 2015.

On Tuesday this week, her sister and this newspaper, citizens of Tanzania reported about the existence of claims that the member of parliament who is in his first term of parliamentary, he refused to take the Holy Quran and one of the people that stopped him during that event in Brussels city.

"Honorable Sitta was sent here in Belgium to attend the meeting of environmental issues of members of parliament of the African Continent, Kariakoo, and Central Region (ACP) which took place in Belgium.

"Now one day he wants to go to the purchase of the city and the embassy of Tanzania that is in Brussels city when he gave a car for that purpose and made it to one of the shops for the purpose of that shopping.

"He went to the Holy Quran, he will not accept it and he would like the Holy Quran and he will not accept it and later, taking the second name and he will not play but he had not found him but he had not found himself.

"Now there is a person who had seen him because of the fear of being known for that incident, he gave a report to the embassy that it was not late to give a report to the parliament offices and I don't know whether to take any action," said the news source of her sister's newspaper, except on Wednesday and Sunday.

Just after the completion of that meeting in Belgium, Mwanjelwa is among the members of parliament who have the great ability to explain, he went to one of the East African countries in another parliamentary tour.
It is politics of waste water.

But in his talks with the newspaper of Good Citizen, Mwanjelwa said that what is happening is political politics and there is no truth about him about him being involved in the incident.

Mwanjelwa is said to be among the women politicians who have a chance to do well in the next general elections, he says he has been accompanied by a long time and bad luck and between their mother and the way he knows the country through the parliament and the way he knows the country through the parliament and the way they represent the country through the parliament.
Mwanjelwa is not involved in the special committee of parliament that was looking on suspicion of their fees, money that are supposed to be returned to the country after the purchase of the military fees in England.

Together with her, the others who did not want to that committee are Job Ndugai, Musa Azzan Zungu and John Cheyo.
Before being a member of parliament, Mwanjelwa has ever been the director of among the big organizations of the health sector of PSRC here and it is among the women with a good financial ability.
