
Judge Bomani, should start in the special constitutional court to ban the importation of corruption in 15 years.

Recently, our writer made an interview with Judge Mark Bomani, a retired leader in various positions in the government, in that interview, Judge Bomani speaking about different issues about the nation as they follow.
Mke Mwema, Elder Bomani who is an old man with a long time, has helped the government of Tanzania for a long time as the attorney general and also to serve the United Nations (UN) in different issues and soon as the chairman of the minerals industry here in the country.

Judge Bomani, I thank you very much to get a chance to give ideas on some issues that are going on in the country.

I have been able to give my opinion in front of the commission of constitution and later to give a taste some of my opinion, after being asked to do so.

The document about my opinion is a long time (May 32) and it is discussing a lot of things when I'm in a few things, I met the union and advise that so as to end the opinion polls but especially the side of Zanzibar, taken the opinion polls of the people of the United Republic of Tanzania.

If many do not know the union then and that you want you get in peace and therefore we will look for ways of living in peace and cooperating with the best government, because many of them don't like to communicate with the professionals who will get better about the structure.

Another thing I'm talking about, among many things, it is an issue of the court of this disease, it has been a matter which has contributed to an indication that it doesn't have reduced.

In my opinion, the government has said I don't see the problem of having a court of this kind, it's only his ability, to use this new court and our colleagues in Kenya will have this court in their new constitution.

Another thing that I have proposed is the way to get members of parliament and we have proposed that we should have three types of members of parliament who are elected to be elected by members of parliament and the last kind, which will be appointed by the president of the union due to the names that he will be given by various institutions.

Another thing that I have proposed is that ministers, whose number should not turn 30, they should not turn 30, they should not be silent because in their new constitution. I have given my reasons about the proposal.

I have also happy that the issues of resources of the country and the environment should be made in the specific media to deal with them because of the benefit of the country in general, its citizens and of generations to come.
Almighty God bless you are other important things that you would like to hear them?

Judge Bomani, well, in important things that I would like to speak is together with the increase in corruption, embezzlement, theft and cheating.

Contrary to the situation that was in the previous years, Tanzania now has a bad reputation of bribery spread in the theft of those theft.

Embezzlement of various servants, including the public servants have increased by a fast rate, to an extent that I am able to decide the return to the special constitutional court to control the importation of corruption (IBCPA).

Cases of bribery, crimes and embezzlement can be heard slowly.

As I have already explained, maybe the answer is to have special court about using this disease, I don't expect it should be understood that the court can't be paid for rights so as to be a warning to all those involved in this actions.

For example, the law of preventing bribery that is giving the ability to any worker or any leader should be asked to explain how he has given these assets not to succeed in his legal income.

This law will not be trusted as soon, what is in the instrument they will be able to deal with this disease immediately, instead of taking years!

This are just some of the issues that I have given to you in a writing which I have presented to the commission of the constitution.

There are other issues of development of development that I would like to be careful.
The government is striving to promote road infrastructure in the country, the government must lead you and let us continue with its efforts, but in my opinion I see the railway infrastructure has not been successful.

Our country is big, close to one million shillings per day so that our economy continues with high speed, it is a big priority to the railway network that we have today is the first time in Germany (Railway Grounds), being seen if people have left the country!

What is required is to build a new railway network, a broad way and two ways of the train to go through a fast speed.

In the next few years our country will have enough electricity, especially due to natural gas sources and charcoal a day, therefore we build a railway network that will use electricity.

Air transportation in the country have been taken to be true, to take them to the airplane with one plane! When the Emirates has ordered 50 airplane for a long time.
Air travel to allow people and private organizations to focus on the road and railway network.
Mke Mwema should talk about the cases of the recent violence that can be said to be careful with some of the religious leaders?

Judge Bomani said these violence that have passed since the recent days is sad, and they are inspiring.

They are supposed to make additional efforts to various religious leaders, all the government leaders, together with the ordinary citizens with a sober mind to take every kind of action against those violence.

Tanzania does not have a culture of religious violence and big effects which have been following the violence of religious places in various parts of the world, such as Barakah da, Afghanistan and elsewhere, is a stern warning to Tanzania to take appropriate measures to prevent these violence.

For God, Christians and God of Muslims are different from the Almighty God and God of the Sunni and God of the Sunni and God is different from the sacred heart of one child in Mbagala, Dar es Salaam, so as to remind yourself the Quran not is an example of people going bankrupt.

The child who was born with foolish things will be able to loose our parents on a foolish thing, that the child aged 14 years was supposed to have a lot of wisdom, but the bad luck is for a mental checkup.
We shouldn't have living in peace, Muslims and if they get married, leaving themselves and participate in different activities.

For today, maybe I will end here!
