
17 December 2012

The bombs are in Mbagala.

By David John.

The bombs victims of Mbagala have praised President Kikwete to supervise the payment of their compensation which the many of them have not yet been given a situation that causes the citizens to live a lot of life due to lack of permanent registration as previously.
Those citizens have claimed that they have reached that step after the authority led their problem to fail to do what would have been the expectations of many, instead they buy pain arising from compensation that they had been given.

Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the chairman of the improvement committee of those payments, Steven Gmwaijonga said that it is good for President Kikwete, let me feel it more than it is now.

He said.


"We believe that the government has given enough money for our payments but the leaders who were given permission to supervise this issue and they will not see for yourself the real situation and then it will be ready to show a check of those payments then it will be ready to show a check of payments and then it could be able to show them and then it may face it.


And Kimwaga who left the resident of that area met with a bomb attack said they are faced with health problems in his body and something that is still paid compensation until today.

He said among the diseases that are taking off from that explosions are Henson, Macho has not seen, and the biggest thing is suffering from the bladder cancer which causes the urinary tract.

He said that the truth is that people can see if they are determined, but the biggest thing is that following the incident, many groups of the compensation came out, where the others have opened up to the whole case, but they want Kikwete to go up until the problems they are given to its citizens.

Since the occurrence of the bombs, 2009 to the area of Mbagala in Temeke district, Dar es Salaam, more than 300 people have found themselves living a lot of poverty after their homes get connected with the bombs, but so far the government has not yet paid compensation to some residents, a step that has not paid compensation to some residents.
