
Why are some people not to stop the success of Diamond Platinumz?

It is true that other people should not be able to see what they have emerged as the only thing that you missed Tanzania's international competition and we have forgotten the same time which you want Tanzania to make sure there is no good news that you have bought Tanzania outside the country because there is no good news that you have bought Tanzania outside the country because they do not have the leaders of every day and outside the country.

They ate the existence of Kanumba and the efforts that he did, maybe I believe that Bongo Movies was heading to be a good way to break the honor, but since died, there is no one who showed signs of doing what he used to do with our film, have continued to be home alone.

Therefore, if you look for these examples, it is the only music with hope to make it "the name of our country 'Google builds self-" but if music is claimed to be important that makes Tanzania, why are those who do well for representing us?

Up to this time, you give AY, there is another artist of Tanzania the proposed constitution as he is Diamond Platnumz who has succeeded to be an artist who is self-employed and it has not been forced to try to do what many people have been doing and have continued to give responsibility for it.


They are saying that there is no human beings health care, but together with that you can affect the poor rights, it is good to remember to give her rights as a human being that is being affected by another person, but it is not because of what he is doing in Tanzania.


I can't understand that, I personally and Diamond has been trying to see some of the things (like I am surprised) but I cannot get the truth that Diamond has a talent and he knows how he is doing so much more than that, Diamond has been on the front line to market Tanzania and Swahili.


It is something we had explained that we need to have our great artist who is in status and success like P-Square, maybe I believe you should not recognize the truth that they will get our artists here at home alone, that will do more success, then you will succeed outside the country like home need them?


P-Square admitted that it is the elderly and those who have the ones that make them big to that amount and urged Tanzanians to do that to their artists.


"Your musicians are doing what we are doing, what we do is to see these people here if I want to see you get more effort in your musicians here in Dar es Salaam, I would like to see you in a press conference in Dar es Salaam city, one day before Beki of Leaders Club.


Diamond is a human being like others when they see any thing that she is married even in non-Square things, for example, they visited the wedding of Peter of P-Square in Lagos City, Nigeria. It is said that invitation by Peter of P-Square in Lagos city, Nigeria was reported that invitation by Peter LP-Square in Lagos city, Nigeria was reported that invitation by Peter, P-Square in Lagos city, Nigeria.

It is alleged that P-Square will be asked if they know Diamond and that they have said she will not know the truth, that issue has turned the talk and even so, all of them know it is easy for Diamond to introduce himself well by Peter and the extent of making me remember it is hard.


This, yesterday President Jakaya Kikwete said at a seminar for the opportunity to be Diamond is an artist with discipline or only English, "the same way" many of the country's statement by seeing the wife of Diamond's reputation.

But first we ask ourselves, what is the meaning of work discipline but it's the value of work hard and get married, but we don't recognize that Diamond has the ability to start a lot of skills, but we have no qualifications, but we've not been criticized and we have no qualifications to be commended but not to remind them without stopping.

Maybe the others tell you because they don't like, "we will be called on Instagram, clothes and shoes (Instagram) if I remember the statement of Joh Makini that he told recently that other people have been giving birth to their colleagues who succeeded because their lives are hard.


"When you talk about what causes these things, you will discover that many people can't meet the cost of life how they come up, you will inform you that because he is unable to pay their dreams or another to its income, you're not heard in one way or another to its income, you're not heard in one way or another in its income, you're not heard in one way or another in its income, you will discover that someone is usually have a lot of employment.

It has make sure that even so, when you understand that water service has been cut into home and you do not have money to pay or when the day goes up with the same day and when they do not lie!
