You look at the drugs during this period is to see if there are teachers in the language of things that I used to provide education.
According to the union of the union of the development of science and culture, UNESCO is a great importance to the community as we look here to our community we can have more than twenty thousand culture but he will make sure you get more than twenty thousand culture but he will be in a lot of work.
Together with tribe and the sponsors for them to be able to be informed, culture of goods in the year, but when I was born.
And continues to save.
Quickly about the name that there he wants the law of medicine ethics in the city.
Is he is expected to read the news.
That is in Manyara with three points when he was forced to fulfill the children and go to the school.
She got shocked that before primary schools, the average are not very important to thank the ones close to that, it is called a situation that is in a clean state and if this one can be known here and then maybe the soul of a plane or here in the middle of war with my soul.
A short news from the residence of Mister Manyara with his residence is in class seven and boys according to permission.
A little judgment that is normal wherever they are in encouraging.
I have tried to get out of the teachers of Nyato Primary School in a hard state.
In a language of people to be able to talk with my question because the money I was called for Adam and the half time you will be, the only person I have.
I have never involved Paul more so that the challenges still deal with.
Challenges that she gets is to get the problems of their parents first, I feel extremely honored.
Yesterday the situation that there was a poor life when you want to be to say.
A lesson in history we had managed the answers of the work.
Never the body insisted that a Swahili language is a language of communication and put as if we start where we are now looking at, when you see the patients.
Why is to show a Swahili or I will be happy about there and they have a total of their language in that country.
But they are unsuitable for a language of Swahili, to make them first here and in communication we are with.
If the language of communication because there is no weeds, but if it is written about.
They intend to understand them maybe there are two languages that are used to teach.
We are using the second language after they were unable to go to the province, but if it started a big debt to teach in a large percentage.
We need to learn.
I don't know if the government can I agree that if you get into the Arab Emirates if it is possible that in this evening the challenge can also write this opportunity to give the train to the colleges so that some of the teachers are studying the language but from their health.
That is why I would like you and I cannot and therefore, they will be forced to take that hall.
I think that I will follow ups I could continue working as possible when we got great interests, while they were left to work that children can learn in that language it would have been better because this generation is a generation.
We are not known as it is possible, but if it is possible we agreed to continue with the procedure.
But my big challenge is that if it is possible, it was good and I cannot be among the many students who live in language.
I come back to a house with a house where I did not want to know his thoughts and now after the second time of communication.
The chest will allow you in education with a big age earlier it does not lie on it.
At work, our culture is never lost because this is a born of race and they had a difficult time when they have come here, is what is before.
If you feel that she is unable to do it by writing the children in our language of our language, we should not hesitate to know how we get a question and we do not want to know the language they do not get care of the Swahili language that are not affected.
We have been close by our brothers to be jailed yesterday all things in our language but not knowing our children to know yourself in our language, we need children to come out of time to see four people right now because there are no teachers just like it.
He was a statement even.
They were presence of plots, I know that in their health shop, most of you could have.
How is the stock.
