What does our Chinais safe than Kibanda?
December 25, 2013.

The misunderstanding between the parliament are still ongoing in Dodoma.
That is that all the members of parliament have condemned the citizens and asked the government with the government very disappointed and defending himself in front of all the members of parliament from Mnyikulu of the way you want to look and even follow up on different debates between members of parliament and government.
Mnyikulu of the ruling party members against members of parliament and other parties inside the parliament are saying that it doesn't jump, this is because the interests of the parties because the interests of the citizens and the nation.
The members of parliament for Democracy and Development Party (CHADEMA) thanking the government of Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM), members of parliament of CCM members of parliament and beating them with CHADEMA members of parliament and the referee who was accused of stealing the side of the ruling party.

Last week the opposition members of parliament joined the government against what is claimed to have a habit of government using state agencies to deal and remove some of the citizens that concern them being dangerous for the interests of the government and the ruling party that was forced to force the opposition camp to remove some of the parts of the party.
However, after realizing that, that step has not helped a lot, efforts used to use some senior ministers to give information of forcing the government against the bad allegations of attacking and protecting its citizens, Professor Mark Mwandosya and Stephen Wassira visited that work.
That was where the speaker for the speaker decided to get out of the sixth to the opposition members of the opposition party, all the articles I have mentioned in the above.

Mzee Wassira clarified that the Department of National Security does not deal with rhaging into this way. I don't have a problem with any statement saying that I had no problem with me, "I have problems with his statements that if he did," I have problems with his statement saying that his colleagues could not know why those statements are big people.
To me, I explained by saying that if Kibanda was Mbowe or Doctor Slaa's reasons that the department can capture the citizen's reasons for political interests according to the government being an American hostage.

The constitution of our country without stop stuttering on how it gives the freedom to live in addition, give opinions, to participate, look for money and lot of resources like these animals are used by using money and lot of resources that are in special areas like the world.

However, when it comes up for the animals as a China.
