Tanzania or Tanganyika are important in our union.
January 17, 2013.

We start to wave! We are seeing the foundation stone for building our country's union, we are vying for you by religion because we want them to go back, something important is not Tanzania, Tanganyika or our religious faith in the country.
Without the national union, all of us will not be safe for the rich, poor, elderly, youths, religious leaders, leaders, and of the future generations to be safe and even your end to us to be safe to our nation.
When we participate in writing a new constitution, it is important to supervise and maintain our primary issues, but those who don't have good interest in our nation.
After our Uhuru, the great job was to strengthen the national unity, it is able to strengthen the nation of us all.
The colonizures of the country, our bodies and our friends about this responsibility of building a national union, to strengthen themselves, it was every Tanzanian who has a lot of joy to see Doctor Tanaka and later CCM, in time, it had a different photos that had joined the party.
The biggest reason being that during the colonialist, there are parties that were supported and they were unable to rule. But there was also political parties but these parties want to be it a history.
The politics of socialism and self-reliance, under the stadium of Arusha, his aim was to build a national union and patriotism Mister Mwalimu Nyerere, he wanted to make sure he ask him in order to make sure they get their rights and to ensure that the teacher did a mistake to destroy the property and start socialism.
The villages of socialism and the nation-building in Musoma Villages is expected to increase the patriotism Tanzanian shillings during the time we had one political party, although not all people who joined the political party, but many of them have faith in the interest of that party in politics.
And to say the truth, that party met the interests of every Tanzanian - it is very different from now, we consider the sayings of CCM and those CCM members think that they are the only ones with more rights of others!
Teacher, made the philosophy of one party and he explained that many people understood the system of one party because they felt the importance of a teacher, aimed at making a national unity and strengthen themselves.
Unfortunately, we agreed to get into the system of many parties before strengthening the national union and a lot of faith, this two things is difficult to run a nation's system without separation and sometimes the fight or a struggle of dollars and parties that are not power.
During the terror attack, the criterion of testing the patriotism of a person was the membership of the political party, and especially the party that was aimed to bring liberation, as Tanaka which later opened up to CCM, after joining ASP Masoko in Zanzibar.
This launch which had a meaning at the time, has continued today by many people, especially those members of CCM party, they think that the criterion of patriotism is to join CCM and that he is outside CCM is not true.
This problem has come out because the wave of starting a lot of parties started before time, without preparations for one side is good and on the other side, it is good because one party, is making people to fail to see the truth of issues in the community.
Many political parties will help to remove flaws in the party that depends on you, but on another side it is difficult, which aims to start a lot of parties without a stable party, its results is to continue one party, as it is now.
If we have run, we have been able to take place between politics, before the introduction of a lot of political parties, CCM are forced to be first and all parties will start afresh.
