Or is the meaning of this corner.
How they have no value we had to get water problems to me, we did not see a pipeline not for our first time to see the water we were in, we are looking at the water because we are, we are using water because we are all the human being.
When we wait, he says that this is the biggest nuisances that had arrived at the activity of development activities thus we will go around ten o'clock and the two will go back on the outskirts of Karen, after five hours you face.
We are tired of you.
For us, the pregnant woman starts.
If you start looking at you, you start getting me at the same time, I was waiting for machines to go after it and if he will know it's collection.
Twanga Pepeta 'was given hay two hours to end when it started.
A lot of life that he lived for more than half of the century explains the more than 100 percent of the life of Tanzanians.
There are not sure of clean and safe water services according to the statistics of ethics of the health organization in the world that situation together with the organization for serving children in the country, although there are other areas it remains in history and a community that takes place a history after a solution.
We have seen water.
And the machine, we got the mother of a eggs and a problem of water we have to enable the commission and many of them, but it's not another to give him a book because a water has brought a book because a water is found.
You are using the day he saw in the evening and tomorrow there is a little way for water strategies to let the small children get in nine o'clock in the night.
To return to that at 4 o'clock.
Now we are looking for the water we got, we have seen it is good for the development we got.
We are grateful to the Almighty God, he has touched me.
The love is thanks to get water.
To get close water we are happy.
How do I register themselves?
It is getting food by touching on each other because they see the water I don't have problems, we are happy to get a lot of water so as to let me follow keenly and continue living a good life since in the past they were two water.
When he arrived.
Five hours you will use to carry out a few hours you brought in the home, that will enable you to marry off and even in the whole year we finish up with a problem, while how many times you have not seen, it is still not seen.
I don't know vegetables, even if there are twenty thousand shillings, therefore I will do it.
I take you a whole week without hesitation even.
In the past water condition is that it is not good because we have to go to the city.
The long period of water was shocked that but the drought we were unable to fall after they were found.
I failed to go to drawing it.
Given this evening you will meet the elephants or well that we had flooded and we're drinking water which is good and livestock had gone on yourself in the country then we are doing so.
When these hours we had given water close to him even when it happens, you can get even if it is.
At night, I have a lot of thanks because our books will not wait apart from getting water services here because what has been seen even if the patient has come even if there was a patient who has come even if the patient will be able to use where these hours benefiting from the patients close to patients.
