The parliamentary sitting is going on today in Dodoma city while the eyes and ears of people have the desire to hear a statement by the prime minister Mizengo Pinda to talk about that issue because of the prime minister Mizengo Pinda to talk about that issue because of the prime minister Mizengo Pinda to talk about that issue because of the prime minister Mizengo Pinda to talk about that issue.
More information and contributions from Dodoma.
The day before yesterday where the parliamentary sitting is going on as it is in the schedule today, therefore, the form of Zara Tanzania is to answer various issues that are provided by members of parliament who took place yesterday by the secretary of parliament, Jenista Mhagama claimed that the decision made in that session will be announced any time by the minister.
Parliament was continuing to responding to the motion on the boundary dispute between Malawi having problems of security minister of foreign affairs and the international cooperation Bernard Membe, he said there are diplomatic struggles between two sides are continuing to confirm to the citizens that the security and security can be able to protect themselves.
About the big nations wanting to get in Africa 'and do business, Minister Membe has urged Tanzanians to be careful with the products that are affected in the country and to protect the resources that are available in the country, where the law to control visitors is also stopped.
I would love to confirm to Tanzanians.
And especially those who come from the areas yesterday are saying that the father of milk.
Legal measures have already been taken.
Today.
Just after getting married, the friends of Malawi is ending on Monday.
There are diplomatic talks between all the two sides.
But even to the side of our security and security agencies, I would like to confirm to the citizens on his words to sit with peace and calmness without any worry because the army and our stations are article 10 and we are in a situation to protect and I was very happy because of contributions given.
To try to kill someone especially.
Being careful and products that enter the world to come in the world.
However, we should not look at when we get a market and everything that can be used to be the safety of the security of our country.
On his part, the deputy minister of construction Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has urged local contractors for building their ability so that they can decide and get the tender within and outside the whole country.
It has reached an opportunity to allow small-scale farmers in Dar es Salaam city to follow the rate of claims that they have been connected as the bridge and that it has taken place and to ask for jobs that are being discussed by the speaker, Anne Makinda to postpone the session of the parliament until Monday.
And that's when the press started looking for Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda to get an explanation of the existence of reports of some ministers.
And here the prime minister explained.
They found it happens when he was found.
Welcome him but when I was with him.
Friends.
And.
However, they gave him as if they are, they would like them.
The newspapers are happy to see what you want.
If you want to news on Monday.
During the week.
From the parliament in Dodoma town, by Andrew Chale.
