
The phone number of phone, this is the attorney general of 1st, 2012.

Finally I has stopped the strike of discrimination that I started at the Easter holidays with the new year after celebration, life continues.
Life of a human being used to move in the system of continuing with life by directed by events that live in a celebration, after a short ceremony of a new year, there is Iddi, there is Easter, there is Easter celebrations and other celebrations in our community.
These celebrations have a great contribution in a human being, how do you work hard to work, hope, and sometimes he uses someone to forget the last celebration, which by any time he cannot get, but after the end of the last celebration, the others are continuing with life and to get the strength of continuing to live as a result of that incident.
It is possible that my strike did not help anything "today," - it is my faith that I have risen up taxes which tomorrow and the day after tomorrow you will take care of development.
The fight for defending human rights in America found the high speed after one black woman refused to put a white to sit on the seat on then if it was a Zimbabwean, others denied her long time and wanted them to get into free problems.
But in a little act, the world has already witnessed great economical fight to claim that their primary rights and don't want it to carry out that mother, but my faith is that a little action is like a strike of sending messages and it is possible that the days will be seen quickly, but there is a day they are seen.
Sihana, defending himself by starting this strike, I believe it is an extent that I have given them as brothers, friends, relatives and my close relatives, and all the time I had decided to give an application, but the position is not a stand even if it is in my soul.
Even though there are people who make sure and when comparing with a mosquito to don't have a mental checkup, I don't know anything or to see himself a shame, this act of sending and self-shirts.
I have written this bill so as to visit those who use the whole issue of my relationship with my friend of Mtwara, they think that I don't know the development of technology, in Moshi, say I want us to continue living a life of stones!
Business people that destroy the funds of citizens without checking their welfare, think that I am a great importance for the development of their businesses.
Therefore, this defense has aimed at technology, development and welfare of our downfall.
Later we can agree that. We can decide because we can decide whether to continue with the public, what is the one that wants to grow the wealth of Tanzania, and the one that wants them to protect people and leaving how they are requesting for the people of the nation?
I would like technology and I would like to get development, and not the technology of communication alone, but even the availability of water from today in Tabata and other areas in Dar es Salaam city, are more than a lot of water and the aim of making profit without considering the development and development of the Tanzanian.
The congestion of vehicles is unacceptable, people are losing a lot of time of production in the queue, this problem will contribute to reducing the production of our leaders, so that we cannot address the health of our leaders, so that we cannot address the health of our leaders, therefore we need big development in technology.
The big issue of my strike is to identify the phone companies that their cost of talk time is very high and even the payment of your phone is not seen quickly, but it is a must, there is a must, there is a must to stand up and do not expect it.
I commend the holiday because it is time for many people when we know each other, most of us think that they are cost, therefore they decided to greet each other.
This is a good time for phone companies to get a lot of money and sometimes the companies are making types of treatments and let it share it and its results are people to agree and attract these things that have taken and attractive words.
One person has placed itself from more than 100 people without considering the cost of 75 percent compared to other countries, especially the developed countries, you will get a lot of talk time and this is also a lot of work of their citizens, more than talk time and talk time.
Our leaders will be silent because or some of them or their relatives have shares in phone companies, as the phone companies not decided to ensure that it is the share of the shares continues.
They do not have shares in those companies, they will have their companies that benefit through mobile companies or in other ways.
The big evidence shows that there are poor contracts that we have witnessed in our country, some of the children and our leaders do work in these companies.
It is not true that some of the contributions from this companies are heading to political parties, in this situation it is difficult for our leaders to prepare themselves.
We need the technology it takes an accident, we need good technology, we need technology that are not recognized by the welfare of the environment of Tanzania, social welfare of cigarettes and technology that deals with the effects that are brought by smoking cigarettes.
Phone companies have no reason to do that thus follow the example of cigarette companies and also there is need to pass talk time for someone who uses pregnant women to hospitals.
Why the price of contraception is available and a new year do not have different meanings in doing business, will lead you, make sure that you know why phone companies have reduced, because it is good that they are doing business to get benefits, not that business is aiming to benefit the services and development of people.
Who is happy to make sure that the price of talk time is used according to the time you were bought for a example, I bought it more talk time of one thousand shillings, who are ensuring one thousand shillings for the time I won?
We have never been a person, and the very bad man, that when you talk time, you are going to increase without making sure that you have used all the time without being stolen, I don't have sure if there is a system to protect its customers.
Why in this whole exercise of investment that doesn't understand that you are a normal citizen.
I don't have the aim of talking about misuse of mobile phones, I don't have defense, because there are those who use fake phones, without favoring some of the phones and using phones when we were decided to say.
But the normal citizen that makes a phone to the use of the foundation has been decided and make sure that we help him and make noise like, if you join together we are making a message to oppose the phone and send a message that if we have defending champions it is better to stand up and defending himself.
All the donations that are given by phone companies include Toto Africans and these companies are making great benefits, investigators are saying that because this companies can pay the salaries for all servants and run the office.
Phone company with more than three million customers, even if it increased five hundred shillings contrary to the normal use of every customer, it is a great importance in Tanzania and I have faith that they increase more than there and especially during the holiday!
Although I finished in the strike of sending messages, there is still continuing to convince the attempt to refuse to prevent a high level of talk time of the phone, Tusekile Mwaisege and said no!
