
For sure we have a request for the leadership.
May 31, 2012

When it comes to it is said to be said to be said at the session of the elders of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), and the members of parliament of that party in Dodoma province revealed one thing of the leadership in the country.
And it's not only that there's a request for the leadership, but it has also confirmed how our political world is dominated by leaders.
Things that are explained to be said by the minister of state in the office of the president (good administration), Sophia Simba in a session of the executive committee headed by the Retired President, Ali Hassan Mwinyi for inspection of hostility among the members of CCM and their government, that clarified all.
According to Sophia Simba, there is no be clean, CCM, has apologized to the members of parliament of the party who are seen to do not tire to fight against corruption that they don't have anything, it's the corrupt people.
In a total of all these things, what is the situation that we see for the nation to move forward if a bad vehicle.
But this is not the first time for a great nation in a big network, we witnessed the same during Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, but the situation did not be released as bad.
We do not see the symptoms of this situation is stable but to continue being bad, after the CCM members of CCM started to inform you about the private issues that advertise the abdomen.
All those shows that inside CCM it's no one who is seen to have the courage, strength or intention of returning that party in the right direction and that is a party to be given a technical bench by the party.
That there is no one who has tried to fulfill his responsibility, a good example of that issue is Minister Sophia Simba, when he complained about the good leadership that he knows in the government as it is in holiday. "
In addition to other things, Simba was reported to say that some of the religious leaders have received money from those who are used to make sure the cost of their campaigns.
The minister was reported to have accused the member of parliament of Simanjiro District, Christopher Ole Sendeka that if law were being followed and it is possible, then they may now be able in trouble because of facing the accusations that brought together with the offense of giving them a student.

Simba with a bond of good administration in this country, is telling us what to this is that Sendeka was engaged to because he is a member of parliament but he has a normal citizen to be dealt with?
We believe that there is a need to save the nation and this situation of having a request for the leadership before things have not been bad, "we asked the elders of this country?
