
Tuesday, August 12, 2014.

Young has launched Tanzania to build a culture of looking for solutions to our problems.

There have been there that most of the days that our education has not yet been able to make sure what is okay and that we are being taught to find out how they do not be avoided, we are told to learn about the right way of doing research as part of their degree.

What is the reason of this situation?

Others are saying that we have not put effort in science, because of researching and looking for answers of our problems in scientific ways.
It is said, the situation is currently because our schools has not been done by the government, "our schools does not have laboratory equipment," the government, "lack of laboratory, its meaning is a reduction on researching and reducing the solution.

This claims can have true because of a certain amount, we have been taught in science if the history of that was done, his emphasis is not allowed to understand our environment and to identify the real problems facing the people and looking for solutions, and instead, we have been unable to reach things that are not only one.

Young has shown that Tanzania is trying to do?

Young has launched Tanzania, the institution of providing research to youths, in partnership with the government, it is trying to fill in the gap in the year 2011 when Young Africans has been encouraging our students to work harder, and see how it can help them to solve the problems around them through appropriate ways.

When we talk about science, we have no reason for all the studies known as science, but education to identify the regulations, by using the research that are outdated, so as to allow a researcher in the statistics that will enable them to reach the conclusion.
In that meaning, history can also be one type of science, such as physics.

By using the system of competitions starting from the school level and later the nation, students do not think about how to stop their problems, with the aim of winning, but at that time they received their thoughts in science and research.

Young Africans' Tanzania has been able to make the students to do research by using easy equipment, once they are forced to go to the laboratory and when there are need to use devices that are not available in schools, students have been encouraged to get donations from public institutions including the universities in order to do those trials.

It is surprising to see how students can make great things, if they are given a chance to do that.

The exhibition of this week Diamond Jubilee.

In ensuring that it is held, since the month of February this year, students of many secondary schools here in the country, for the donation of their teachers, they have been doing research to try to come up with answers of the problems that are in the country, this week is a peak of the national exhibition that will be held tomorrow on 13 March 2014 at the Diamond Jubilee Hall in Dar es Salaam city.

Students from more than 100 schools in 20 provinces of Tanzania, will participate in the exhibition which finally will be identified by the referees who are involved in four big groups.
1), natural resources, chemicals and mathematics (2), various creatures and injured (3) science and social behavior) and technology.

These exhibitions, and the whole activities in general, it has dropped by BG Tanzania, and Irish Aid, as sponsors.
Twitter, annamatinde @ gmail.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
