
Things are not safe for the member of parliament, Elisa Mollel of 1002.

You are not well again to the member of parliament of Arumeru East Constituency, Elisa Mollel (CCM) after the delegates of the general meeting of that district gave out the candidate that was supporting him in the elections of the CCM chairperson in that district that took place at the end of the week.

In that election, that took place at the Arusha International Conference Center (AICC), delegates told him for a lot of votes, the candidate Joseph Ole Lungamano (67) to be the new chairperson of the party, where the candidate was called for him by the member of parliament, Jeremiah Paul Kaaya (62), who was sacked.

Elections for the position on the district level took place to fill the position of the former chairman of that district, Lucas Solo, who died on July July last year, with blood pressure diseases.

Arumeru district has two constituencies in Arumeru East and Arumeru East, which his member of parliament is the deputy minister of finance and economy, Jeremiah Paul Makonda, but the administrative and of the party is identified as a district.

While announcing the results, the supervisor of that election, Halima Mchoma, said that the candidate got a total of 641 votes equivalent to 5789 percent of all the votes, while his opponent, Gabriel Kilale Nkenyege (57) getting 47 votes equivalent to 3648 votes.

Mamuya, who is also a member of parliament for special seats from Arusha province, said that the third candidate Jeremiah Paul Kaaya (62) ended up a total of 69 votes equivalent to 648 percent whereby a total of 1,121 artworks were killed and four votes were destroyed.

The guest of honor was given by the Revolutionary Party to supervise this election, I would like to announce Joseph Ole Lollipop, to be the new chairperson of CCM in Arumeru district, "said Mamuya and he gave the celebrations from the delegates who were in the parliamentary camp.

By any reason, election results indicate that the dangerous situation to Mollel in the general elections in the year where he is expected to defend his seat for the parliamentary seat in Arumeru East Constituency.
Although it is not a very spokesperson, Mollel he entered to the parliament for the first time in 1995 after winning the opinion polls of CCM and later in the general elections that had great opposition from Colonel Mlabu all, so that the party supports the NCCR-Mageuzi Party.

Since that time, Mollel has been he also wins with a landslide victory in all the elections, although often he has been accused of his opponents that it doesn't have a lot in his constituency inside and outside the parliament.

And not to win those elections only, the member of parliament said that due to a big political power he was having a great desire to be elected by various leaders inside CCM and even those in the local government leaders, and therefore building a stable network that supports him and put him for all times.

But now it is clear that the political wind has started to change to that member of parliament due to the results of the elections to look for him the new chairperson of CCM of Arumeru district.
Since the beginning of many delegates, they refused to be sold and cut off by the aides of Mollel who had been called for the strength of the candidate Jeremiah is Kaaya.

Before that election, outside the hall of AICC, those aides were a difficult time to announce their candidate because of many delegates, to show openly that the candidate is not a problem.

"The time to be elected by leaders and other people have already been seen, the way we want to vote for our will and elect the candidate we want to vote for our party's interests and our country," said one of the delegates, Abdulmalik Mollel.

The member went to a lot by talking to other delegates after the other came to elect the party's presidential candidate, a situation that wanted to continue being divided into that party and to promote hatred in the district.

"Fellow delegates, each one to vote for his skill to elect the presidential candidate, I don't vote for a person or the strength of the money, because we can destroy our party," he knew that member.

After the last campaigns from the aides of candidates, the delegates entered the stage where the candidates were given a chance to explain and ask for votes from the delegates.

In explaining, the candidate who was called for him by the member of parliament Mollel made a mistake of "technical" after explaining the delegates that the position he is requesting for the party even so he was supposed to lead the party at a very high position.

That statement is that if the anger of the delegates who questioned him that if the position of chairperson of the district was small for that candidate, then it is why he came to the government?

After voting for the voting exercise, it was announced that the chairperson of CCM in Arumeru district until the year 2012, many delegates already joined the member of parliament Mollel who was sitting in the high table is seen not to believe those results.

However, when he was interviewed by Raia Mwema, the member of parliament denied the claims of a big surprise for the candidate Jeremiah Kaaya, claiming that it was a nuisance to some of the delegates who have for a long time have been his political rivals.

"I don't have the candidate that I made a campaign dubbed" the person who talked and so they are very normal, in politics of CCM and then I have been used to, and what I get used as challenges, "said Mollel.

Mollel added that those results will not affect any opportunity to vie for a parliamentary seat in the year for another period, because the residents of Arumeru West have still faith in him because of doing great things in their development.

"You will inform us that the citizens should be able to understand about me, I have done a great job to bring development to the education sector, water, health and infrastructure and my record," said Mollel.

And the new chairperson after the announcement of the winner, together with thanking the delegates for electing him, he promised that he will build solidarity inside the party and break all the camp that had been there during the election.

"I assure you that here," Jemedari said that who will lead you by using the constitution, regulations and request for cooperation from you members and the followers of CCM so that we can build a stable party, "he said.

He said his first work is to try to build afresh the image of the party so as to be done more by all citizens and also to improve so as to win them in all the elections expected to take place on October 25th in the whole country.

In general, the election was done with great stability and candidates vying for their old Taarab campaign different from many elections of the ruling party, the ruling party is cracked by complaints on bribery and provision of approximately four candidates in their camp.
