
A parliament has been killed and also a citizen of the president.
By OMR.
In relation to the demonstrators who remain in Burkina Faso yesterday carried out parliamentary buildings despite the presence of great security while pressure for wanting the president Bhebey Ndey will help in another presidential term coming down.
Hundreds of thousands of demonstrators joined the security officers and entered into the parliamentary buildings as they burnt down vehicles and other government offices in Dar es Salaam city.
One person was killed in those violence that were born with this short time before members of parliament participated in the voting process.
Those violence were continued despite the government announcing the resignation of the voters' votes following fear that parliamentarians would continue with that activity later.
A big issue was seen as parliamentary buildings continues to burn including office of the speaker.
The demonstrators also wedded the office of the national broadcasting organization and caused a big destruction.
This is happening as the European Union (EU) warned that maybe the constitutional changes that they have been planned to be sent by democracy, peace and protect themselves in the nation.
The delegation of that union said that both sides involved are supposed to maintain peace.
One day after the general meeting of protest against President Competore, on Wednesday thousands of opposition followers who participated in the estates of the capital city to oppose constitutional changes that have been planned by the government.
The bank, shops and markets were scored when the demonstrators agreed with police officers opposing the changes to the constitution of that country that will be given a chance to President Compas to vie for the presidential position in the country for another period of five years.
The opposition leaders have urged their followers to come out and return to the parliamentary offices if the members of parliament will start discussing an agreement of giving Unitalists, who will participate in his 27 year's presidential election for another period.
"Boznia was decided that Thursday will have a big demonstrations to go back to the parliament," said Emerick Areas.
"October 30th, it will be a revolution day to the country of Burkina Faso like it is also witnessed in the Arab countries," said Mister Pickup, to be handed over a revolutionary party, "said Mister Pickup, to be forced to give birth out of Missouri.
Security officers used to mix up against they are facing the investor who had carrying posters with stones heading to the parliamentary buildings.
According to the former minister, Abdiwawa, who is now a member of opposition, five people were injured in those demonstrations.
Moreover, the government's spokesperson, Aaron Nanyaro, gave a statement to prove that those demonstrations and to identify democracy, "President Competera came in power after identifying the government of President Thomas Sankara in August where he was elected in a democratic way for a period of two years to 2005.
In an previous interview with the official station of the government about that issue, President Competera, was quoted saying that all the decisions that he will put on the interests of that country, a promise that he seems to be discussed.
