
He was sent to death and killed.

Two people have died in different events that took place in Simiyu province, including the resident of Ziba village, Bariadi District, Marco Rubio (25), being attacked by citizens being accused of making the killing of that village.
The acting police commander of that province, Venance Babukege, said the event happened on December 7 this year, at eight at night in the village where residents of the village get information of the group of wanting to make the death of a resident of that village.

"The day before yesterday, the residents of this village got a report that I was a group photo with two fellow colleagues were recorded by unknown people going to killing Mister Masanja Glan (52), who is a resident of this village but they found a house and entered to Mister James John.

"Mister John and his family, screamed, and asked for a donation where the residents of this village succeeded to arrest him as a result of two fellow colleagues who attacked him, after being questioned, he gave out his secret, citizens arrested him up to death," he said.

He said there is no one who was arrested in that incident where police are continuing with investigations in addition to searching for two suspects who have ever moved before the arrest.

In another event, a class one student who learns in Ngapa Primary School, Itilima District, in that province, second aged eight years, has been attacked by a rapper and died when he was going to school together with his fellow student.

Commander Siro has said that the incident happened the day before yesterday at 4 o'clock in the morning while the deceased will be in different parts of his body.

He added that when the lady asked the deceased, his fellow student called him and made noise from asking for the donation, that the citizens came out and arrived at the scene, but they found the patient ready to eat part of the body of the deceased.

He said that currently the citizens in collaboration with the wildlife officers are continuing to look for the hyena, so that they can kill him to continue bringing effects to other people.
