
The journey has not been reached but they did not die.
The organizing committee.
It is silent for seeing the youth of different gender being joined by their party's close to that that is the main difference between him and Shamsa Ford, popularly known as' Neonatal Sepsis', 'Mjinga Mpe Cheo' (SCA).
These two started the group in the year 2013, after knowing that they had a music talent.
To date, they have been able to record one album known as Sainage which has 14 songs.
"We met and discovered that we have great talents in music and we decided to work together so as to be careful," said Ford.
Some of the strokes in that album are Mrs Asha-party, that is a penalty, a man and my sweet love, 'Nimlaumu Nani.
They are saying that their system is unique because the public has a different love. "
"We have participated in Reggae music, Hhip-hop, Kapama, among others in order to differentiate these and other musicians," said Cardinal Pengo.
Apart from that, they are using different languages like Shanghai, Swahili and English so as to include the fans of each other.
Ford, who is the age of 23 years, was forced to study at Mutta Primary School before joining the a technical institution that is seen, in the area of Donde Village, Nairobi.
And Lyombe, who is 22 years, was transferred to Msufini Primary School located in Namanga, before joining the University of Kenyatta, where he completed his recent studies.
These youths are saying that even though they have been able to make progress in music, it has not been easy because they've been able to grow and make sure they deal with many challenges that are usually facing the musicians who are facing musicians.
"Our journey has not been easy because it has not been able to resolve the lot of challenges, one of them is lack of conflicts in our music, especially in the media and it should be known that many upcoming artists are depending on the media, including the launch of fans," said Ford.
On his part, Hamlyn Erasto, who writes that most of the institutions concerned to come out and make sure that they give the youths the help to promote their talents.
He has said that many youths have a great joy, but the institutions that have been buried and those institutions have not been responsible for them.
"Even though we have been able to make steps and we have been able to make changes through several show which we have been invited, we have been given many promise to expand the business industry but we have never been given a lot of promises of expansion of the entertainment sector but we have been given a lot of promises of expansion of the entertainment sector but we have been able to see the results of those strategies," said Rukubigwa.
Apart from continuing to maintain their album, which will be launched in February, these artists are saying that they are in the race to do collaborations with different musicians in the country.
"We have strategies to do collaborations like one of the efforts to bring new awareness, for now, we are talking to the Lord 'Fulfill Your Goals today about doing a collaboration with him that we believe will affect the music industry in the country."
Said Ford.
At the moment, these boys are expecting to record its obligations in educating the community, along with serving the community, this is the plan that we have under the OM production studios, that is organizing and spreading our music at the moment, "he said.
Read or annamatinde @ gmail.
