
The lives of the nation,?
Dec 20, 2012

In this newspaper, we have written news from sadness about the death of baby Amne Salim Turner, who is five years old, who was admitted at the Don Bosco Hospital, Ngorongoro District, Arusha province, for treatment.

Baby Amne Salim was being bothered by a disease, it will pay an amount of hunger that is facing Ngorongoro District, in the villages that are in Ngorongoro Conservation.

In great sadness, we give my condolences to the family of child's family not to do everything that come the nation with natural fertility and enough resources, some of its citizens have died in hunger?

Baby Amne Salim has died in a state of affliction, doctors have tried to give birth medical treatment so as to restore his health that was affected by lack of food without hope.

We believe it's not going to get many other children in some of the areas in the country whose food is the same examinations and even other important services to them is a difficult decisions.

It's not easy to know the level of regrets for leaders and executives who are running, that if they would have been able to save the life of child or not just as they had been keen.
To ensure hunger in Ngorongoro Conservation Area is given food to the time.

We call on government officials and other institutions of institutions and other different organizations in the country not to marry off when the issue of hunger is reported to be in the media like this newspaper that is affecting the villages of Ngorongoro Conservation.

More than that, we urge all Tanzanians to benefit each one in his position to fight for, without getting tired, the lives of children who are the nation of tomorrow, we have written news about the death of five years that was caused by lack of food in the country with great grace as Tanzania.

It is correct that we cannot continue continuing to speak about the death of pneumonia, but also we are supposed to like a nation.
Apart from being an issue of fighting for the lives of all children in the country, it's not only those who are in the family of some of our colleagues in the country but also to fight for the lives of children who come from the poor family, as a very important thing.

We can advise all of us that she's not going to be a small child from the poor family but among our nation, the death of what I do not want to have a great contribution to the children of the children in the country, God rest his soul in peace, the soul of her late Marijani Rajabu.
