The new constitution, Yang FGM?
Deodatha Makani, 2013.

The draft of the new constitution of Tanzania that was launched in Dar es Salaam city, on Monday this week, has brought a lot of things that "flash disk" and "encourage me" prevent it from the process of getting a new constitution.

At the news headlines, you will look at different media stations in the country which were about more what is in that draft, the translation of the meaning that will be wondering around.

Mke Mwema should explain things that will follow me and ask you (voting) to protect themselves from that draft.

The parliament of Tanzania.

Among the buildings of high costs in the history of Tanzania, it is the Parliament that is in Dodoma province, which was launched approximately eight years ago, had a value of 30 billion shillings.

However, that draft has proposed the presence of 75 members of parliament only in the parliament of Tanzania, as is the current building that can take members of parliament to the 400 members.

By such, 75 members of parliament of the Federation of Federation, will be taught in that unique building in the country.

As a result of many primary things to be decided in the United Republic, it is clear that the Parliament of Tanzania Mainland (Tanganyika) will not have many members such as the current.

Also, he did not help members of parliament from Zanzibar at the Tanganyika Assembly, an issue that will make the number of members of parliament to get in the building.

Only one year last year, they received reports of wanting to increase seats in the building so as to pave way for other members of parliament.

This draft is looking at the probability of the possibility that the government started to check it is because he used to look for the benefit of the nation at the modern building because it did not be left to be a good building and any benefits (the White Dent).
The parliamentary candidate for artists and youth.

In recent years, there have been a big increase in youth and artists who have a dream of having members of parliament and this was due to the success she got on the women, Zitto Kabwe, Joseph Mbilinyi (Sugu), Miss Julietha Kabete and others in the previous elections.

That draft that proposed the new system in Tanzania Mainland will have 25 constituencies in the elections and that number are close to the number of provinces which are in Tanzania mainland at the moment.

Its meaning is that every province will give two parliamentarians members in the United Republic of Tanzania (woman and a man), a system that can be like the one of the United States where every constituency (state) offers a two-to be elected although there is no conditions for those candidates to have different gender as required by the country.

For that structure, it means that it will be difficult for the youths and the artists to make it more than the counties system that are in the moment, although they can also get that opportunity because the opportunities that will come up to the Tanganyika Parliament where its constituencies can be reduced.

For example, a young man who is rising in politics in Kilimanjaro province is expected to break the votes of Freeman Mbowe, Philemon Ndesamburo, and Joseph Selcom Company to be the member of parliament for Kilimanjaro for men, as the province has changed the province.

The youth that wants to vie for the parliamentary seat in Mbeya province will have be competed for by women Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, Professor Mark Mwandosya, Victor Moses and others.

Artist who wants the parliamentary seat in Kagera province has to be competed for example, Ambassador Hamis Kagasheki, Professor Anna Tibaijuka, Deogratias H.

When talking about this new constitution, it is true that more than half of the members of parliament who are currently in parliament will not be there in the next parliament especially the parliament of Jamhuri. Here, many people will use them.

The cost of running.

The draft is proposing to be involved in three people in the meaning of Zanzibar, Tanzania Mainland and the United Republic of Tanzania and its meaning is that they will lead three people, three ministers, secretaries to three parliament and other servants.

It is clear that the cost of operations will increase because the experience has shown that there is no member of parliament that I wanted to make it more than his colleague.

Safe only is if the purchase of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League (Tanganyika) will put the requirements of the creation of a small parliament and affordable prices.

CHADEMA and CUF.

As a result of the draft constitution, it is clear that the Citizens Party (CUF) will give its efforts more in the islands of Zanzibar than Tanzania.

Other opposition parties in Tanzania Mainland are having more problems in Zanzibar than it is now due to the political situation as it is in the islands.

CHADEMA too invests more than Zanzibar Islands, the only party that has benefited with a three-government structure as the Revolutionary Party which has all the sides of the union.
The government of Tanzania.
