
Zambi has emerged winner in Mbeya on October 18th, 2012.

The Mbozi region member of parliament, Godfrey Zambi has been selected to be the chairperson of Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Mbeya Province, as after emerging the winner in the elections that took place on Monday this week at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in this city.

Zambi told them to his opponents after collecting 888 votes followed by Allan Mwaruka, who ended up with 318 votes while others followed the former chairman of the Youth of CCM, Reginald Mengi, asking for 237 votes and a politician who had a habit of leaving that party when they intend to play with 11 votes.

The election was held at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium, being 16 years since the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere gave a heavy statement about bribery in elections when he said that the Tanzanian of today cannot buy people before he has not bought for. "

Mwalimu Nyerere gave that statement while addressing the workers at the peak of May first, last year 1996.

The reports of inside that party explains that some of the delegates of the general meeting of that province were given a result of some of the candidates, 10,000 shillings each one, while their number of them to reach 2000 members.

Together with the existence of those allegations, some of the delegates of that meeting of the elections that they were forced to say it is the anger of who failed and told that they are delegates why they have not seen those money.

While those delegates oppose the claims by bribing the candidates, other reports indicate that the existence of some of the candidates using a lot of money, and the financial standards they were used is between 15 million shillings to 30 million.

For instance, one candidate in the position of chairman of the district in this province is alleged to have used more than 30 million shillings to look for that opportunity, even so the election day he found himself fell.

"The election of this journey has no money, in the year 2007 when TRA was dangerous, it was used, this journey even drinking water is very little, the candidate who has contributed a lot of money is 10,000 / = shillings," says one representative outside the Sokoine Stadium.

It was expected to be completed heading to the elections in Mbeya Province were many times while some of the politicians have been mentioned to vie for the presidential position in the year 2015 which is seen in the province because they were told to put more things.

In addition to the presidential position, there are also leaders of the government who is vying to enter the National Executive Council of the party (NEC), who have been seen, they are going round in the province.

Among those leaders is the minister of state in the office of President Relations and coordination, Stephen Wasira who arrived at the elections meeting continuing to speak with the delegates.

Wassira confessed that the current environment of the elections have been changed and, competition is big different from the past.

However, some of the delegates showed themselves not to agree with the step of Minister Wassira visited that meeting so that it seems to be in his campaign for the right of NEC.

Speaking before the start of elections, the supervisor of that election, the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Adam Malima officially confirmed the secret of that party to buy land in Mbeya and Iringa town saying that was caused by the high level of decision to assume the will of the members.

"Iringa, when a mistake is from NEC, members said we want him to look for him, we agreed that their candidate don't expect it."

"Mbeya town is an answer to fail in the opinion polls, who failed in the second side, Sugu has been able to win without CCM members."

The statement of JK about the Mbeya region was revealed after the results of the position of chairman of the province came out, the delegates and some of the members of CCM showed their joy due to what is claimed to fail to one of the candidates, Alan Pardew, anxious.

Those delegates as well as their party members continued to play while showing an indication of doing so that they have succeeded to investigate so in the last general elections.

During the year 2010, the candidate of CCM, Benson Bony speaking in the and the candidate of CHADEMA, Joseph Mbilinyi who is currently the member of parliament for that constituency.

The victory of CHADEMA against CCM in that province is alleged to be associated with one of the one that was done by another candidate of CCM who lost the opinion polls, Tom Mwanachoma, so as to help CHADEMA, they could join CHADEMA to help CHADEMA to help CHADEMA, they could have a lesson.

The election of CCM this year is explained to aim to increase in terms of general elections.

The position of the chairperson of CCM in Mbeya province was being held by Naila Aminel, who has decided to defend that position as a result of health problems.

However, he spoke to the delegates of the short meeting of denied permission to realize that his health is not good.

Among his promise he made when he was appointed as the chairperson of CCM Mbeya in the year 2007, is together with building office of the party with status.

The other promise is to start projects in youth together with removing groups inside the party in this province, groups that is explained to contribute to a large extent of controlling the development of the region.

In addition to realizing that party, his leadership was unable to build a building of status as he promised while groups inside the party continue more than losing two constituencies.

Ayo has told us that, his fellow members together with new leaders by requesting them to stop the fish, from doing the party a place of benefit, breaking groups and leaders to serve the citizens.

The meeting that was accompanied by those involved in the country and there is big in all of violence that were caused by a member of NEC from Mbozi district, George Mwaruka.

The violence led by one of the youth members to intervene in registration of the meeting from Mbozi district, a step that caused two groups to come out open, one being that supports Trump and another is led by that NEC delegate receiving a gift.
