
A new challenge emerges victorious in Geita City.
Jide 5, 2013.

The plan of the mining mining of Geita Gold Mine (GGM) and the police force in Geita province is expected to run the operation of all the ones that have been formed, can cause disaster in the area of the mine, if that operation could be run for a good procedure.
That operation is still ongoing with a place of killing of more than 28 youths who are going to take those stones as' Usiwe Bubu 'so as to convince him to move forward and get gold, who are accused by the guards of that mine.
However, despite the presence of those killings, the Vice President of the GGM Board, Rebecca Malope, says there is no cause of the killing that was done by the company's security guards but those deaths have been caused by the involved in a hole that is a dirty and they have been taking those stones.
But the police commander of Geita province, Leonard Paul says his office does not have information of those deaths.
Although the operation is expected to aim to evade more disaster which can arise from those youths who are accused of stealing those stones, a lot of criticism has come out that the step does not implement the problem but it is more involved with the problem of the problem.
I am not mentioned this decision when another foundation is why we are here (the residents of the villages and the mine) and can't end or leave it, the solution is to give them their areas to construct a primary issue, "said one of the economy in Geita District Council who did not want to be mentioned in the newspaper.
The citizens that live in the neighborhood with the mine who come from the villages of Chibwa, Katoma, Mtakuja and Nyato, have been a permanent cry about lack of areas to run their economic activities including the small-scale mining activities that have been doing it before the investment of that big mine.
At the end of last week, Stephan also made that walk on the chairpersons of the villages that sell their homes in the area of that mine and gave them a hole of more than 100 meters long as those miners have been entering so as to take fire with gold.
In that tour, the religion that also brought together the police commander of Geita province, Leonard Paul, the leader of the mine emphasized that the mine not involved in that mine in the deaths of those youths.
That statement was opposed by the youths who were in that tour by explanation that people who live in the hole after being expelled from the company's security guards by beating plastic chairs and therefore fail in that hole or not getting off on the hole.
"If you see people who died is not saying that they are committed themselves, but the security guards were putting on her water and has been shot dead and many have died," claimed Thomas Makandege.
Speaking about the police not to have reports of those deaths, Commander Leonard said that they do not see that someone who came into a hole should bury his only because they fear to report the police.
"Apart from that, the life of the miners is like the most importantly do not know if the parents and their brothers do not know what people are not aware but they fear to report" says one of the members of the village committee from Katoma, who asked him to move on.
In that tour, the police commander of Geita province emphasized on the special operation of defense in the areas that were attacked and urged those residents of the villages to find their citizens not to participate in the criminal acts in that mine because those stones are the wealth of the mine.
According to various news sources, more than 1000 youths who enter the area of that mine in a day because of stealing those drugs, a situation that is explained to have a great challenge to the police force in controlling those floods as part of their farms for subsistence.
However, those miners have requested the government to urge the investors to participate in great areas without stopping them to enable small miners.
I am my opinion, it is that they will come to take precaution that we cannot stop, or we are not for instance, we want them to come, we should make sure that we do, we should make sure they do so, we should inform us, "said Ruidiaz, a resident of Katoma.
