
Because the ones can't see children have their mental disabilities, and the secret of an ancient attack on May 31, 2012.

To the minister of Mwenge and Ndeki.
Lover Frank Mvungi.
Lo my lover, I feel extremely honored by you with the meaning of this week, his boss has decided to go back to her wedding on the wedding of his album by his boss, but his boss has written the issues of the year tomorrow so that any issue that can be done by citizens of his constituency is very important.
And because MB has been forced to go to, then I am self-reliance because she has not gone anywhere, without being a person to see for other clothes, and clean up his shoes, but when he knows it, she will just stumble.
Then here is like our lover, there is no television, and even the radio is a problem.
I request that I thank you so much because you are not able to look for politics, you can't know if the two days you like, I don't know her, but they feel his sweetness.
However, even here, there is also an eye on whether MB has come here and she has been given another job to visit the widows and orphaned children to place money like to attend to them, but I thank you that there is true that the boss did not remember his votes through most of them.
And on that, it is also like our lover! It is not only honorable members who want to vote for them, even these institutions that are called our community get married and went to the village they want to sell his mother and ran away.
Therefore, when we go to the group of children with problems, suddenly we have found a lot of joy when they went on and cut off all the people when mud did, do not have been given training on life skills.
They see the protests of a lot of protests, all the goats who destroy the liver and sharp teeth.
Now in one village in the neighboring village of the boss, there are two major young people when they decided to prevent the truth like discrimination.
We are happy to Honorable for being given this donation, and we are happy to see leaders of the organization that you will help to help them as we are happy because we are happy to see for each other, "here religious leaders continued without considering the left or right.
"We thank you for the way you go hand and receive funds for orphaned children like we, when we increase their efforts." The leaders who had already wanted them again and started working back to them while waiting for it on it.
"Oreo ', as we are in your purpose," the youth have continued to fall down.
"Honorable Honorable wife, we request that you help us to help me the truth is that our colleagues have been promised the support since last year so that they can study in secondary.
But up to today they have not been given something, "one leader was unable to endure.
"We don't know the youth you are saying, they don't have the money for sponsors who have been delayed until now, but now they have not got into the bank and next week we will come here to lend those money," youths broke down due to this promise. "He continued.
We are happy so much and we have been happy with the desire to get this support so that day they are going on and we want them to witness the same week and lack of support so that you can witness the share of the donation, "many people wait until there are heard of a few youths.
"Talked to him,.
"And we have said that because we have heard this days but no one who arrived.
"Nyamgenda, a lot of children, the vehicle is in your purpose and without having a car we can visit all those with problems?
"If it is like that, why we have given information about two our colleagues who are oppressed and guardians until being beaten by electricity lines, you will come to the headlines because you are heard again.

"And our colleague has been identified himself by strength so that the guardian to God bless you?
"And the one who was accompanied by his father of the same time," the leader of the organization saw things like to continue doing the amount of going to MB 3 as an eye of them is not the head of shivered.
I tried to plan well that one thing that women like other women like I write very fast and show how they were given, I don't understand what more than it is not a place of clothes even little, but his work is to show that they have spread very fast.
"Mistorius said that you do not listen to these who buy.
We are expecting our opportunity to help them but they get into the same day.
MB was seen to read it very little, he did not know how the mother of the organization is his brother, but it was clear that many citizens were part of the youth and those at the end, he used the last weapons to politicians.
This, this, here is not a place of conflicts especially in our country of peace and togetherness and the youths we are happy to ensure that you were satisfied with those words, therefore we will make sure that you do not be satisfied with those words, but those in the past succeeded to get two attackers as Palestinians and believe in Gaza until they met with them.
After that day, every day we heard in the presence of a lot of experts even before going to a place without doubt, the opponents who had explained the day they had been questioned for long hours, the votes were seen and so that I am very worried about it that MB) will do any investigation.
Yes, her lover, I know the other organization is good like those who are in the second village from our country.
For what leaders can't see that children have their mental disabilities, and the secret of an entrepreneur predictable?
Whoever goes against Miss and want to be with you every minute.
Hidaya.
