A good sign for Stars is starting.
Dec 13, 2012

World cup tournament ended in Uganda last week where the hosts defeated the new champions.

Tanzania took the third position - because Zanzibar was the third position while Tanzania Mainland is in the fourth position.

I say it does not expect a lot of love from our teams when the teams met but now I expected to be great from them after the competition.

Zanzibar went to Uganda without playing in one friendly match in Tanzania Mainland went on a moment with the only one striker, John Bocco.

I know the concept of a central striker can be understood because even Mrisho Ngassa can be used as a striker but the striker needs someone with mental disabilities and how to use that number.

Uganda had people like Emmanuel Okwi, Brian Umony, Robert Selega and Mike Pence, who died in those positions and that is why many gave them the defending champions even before the tournament has not started.

However, what happened in that competition gives birth to stem cells, there are signs that now we are making the national team to compete.

I will not say because.

First, we have launched two best people in those competitions. The big problem of Tanzania in a period of ten years ago has been lack of attackers or striker who is sure of getting one goal in every match.

It seems that John Bocco has benefits to our nation, this is a striker who scored five goals in those competitions, it is different types of striker compared to the other we have.

I remember four years ago, when he was the head coach of Tanzania, Marcio Maximo, he was forced to fill in many cases and playing with one striker, Ngassa, and more using a surprise attack.

His reason was that Tanzania did not have a central striker, today, our nation has Bocco together with star striker of TP Mazembe, Mbwana Samatta.

The soccer star in the world, Para, has ever said that soccer is goals and that if it takes, you can't win, but we have made two players who scored five goals in the competition, Bocco and Ngassa. This is the first time for Tanzania to give two best players in any international competition to be at the international levels.

Such as I see this, this is the development that I was surprised and has given an award for the best scorer in the competition by Robert Sainage scored four goals.

But this is not a wonder because I had gone down to play against one big veteran in August this year, who has announced the best scorer in the competition from Simba club but he mentioned the number of 3 goals, when I was going to say the truth when he was planted and leave me and told me to get the things not to make him.

The second issue is the truth that we went to Uganda with a team of small youths while others played their first international competition.

I have been much pleased by the ability of having youths like Frank Domayo applauding, Salum Abubakar, and Khamis Mcha 'Vialli' was scored four goals in that tournament.

It's tasted the actor who earlier this year scored seven goals in the international competition that Zanzibar was invited in Asia.

The competition also gave an opportunity to the youth like Ramadhani Singano, Edward Christopher and Issa Rashid (the father of her), to show their ability.

These are some of the players who will be making the back to our national team next few years to be among the problems that were involved in the previous days is the truth that we will come to if they are playing for the national team.

Another thing that causes the hope is Kim Poulsen, the head coach of the National Team for the good luck is a person who has been.
The coach of the youth team and therefore he knows who are supposed to be given a chance in later.

His behavior of not wanting him to work with his faith in doing exercises, you are making someone to have faith in the future of that team and the players who are under him are talking how do to sustain his exercise.

That is why there is no match in the Kili Challenge competition where our team seemed to have a lot of relief in the last minutes of what happened in Uganda, it was being left behind by ability and not getting tired.

With a team that can fight for ninety minutes, it is that you have a team that is going to believe in war.
