That was forcing a candle.
We should not enter inside here but if it will increase their children.
The ones that were asked many about through the end.
Then, when I get pregnant, I've heard it.
Religion I believe it was the honorable president of the United Republic of United Republic of Honorable Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete.
Its own we have been encouraged.
The sweetness of it is an important thing.
If your child is twenty thousand, the honorable president.
That child just after getting information with the problem of work but there are those who are.
Life is not first but it's impossible.
Who was a must.
Officially, for that reason, this year I don't know whether it gets known as an order to bones presumed to do that profession.
Behind it is not easy.
What are the contributions of I am able to register members.
Hypocrisy when it came to work with the radio and removed the awards, the one given one of the one was the same.
The work and succeed was a spirit you have discovered to get into Mafinga town for example.
It is not known.
When we ask for us to check the P-RT company and his skill of having a lot of five thousand members from Africa which is a very important thing, but another region is very small because we were looking at the same time, but we ask you to move forward.
Therefore, we take that I will be going, but the second is this issue of education.
It was arrested we met.
Last year for ten years.
And third and ten years we have been read from 155,611 to form four now, we are not ready to do.
We increase and last year in celebrating the ten years of honor was Mama Salma Kikwete and.
When the speech was telling us I will inform you, I was not sure that at least we play.
Our information is supposed to be from January next year by the fund by earlier that they are getting six groups to its members who died is getting their children when we don't know where we were not ready to go to give our instructions which are a must for the players of that fund.
For us to look for him, you will make a three-year strategic plan and to reach December last year and three in the value of the value is one until December ten.
Two we get the one of the program that will be given to this year I want to go for a few years after ten years of children, the punishment is still a peace of the child.
And two in the evening.
Only to do that, we must increase members but not members and clubs to invest and we use this economy as well as completing their studies in our performance and because it was living in our performance which now you love you by putting a picture.
The road that takes place in Mlimani City but there was a plan to have a very big number to improve the number one in the period of twenty-five, this project will realize that we are able to leave the liver.
We have that if there will be many people, we will also have houses that we will have houses, but there will be a good thing that we will have a lot of water and clean water so that our stand has never been a lot of affordable houses and at the same time, there will have a lot of affordable houses for public servants, "he has said that our stand has already been done by the company and the good thing that has been started.
In this exhibition of land, we don't see it's because we will take your opportunity for Honorable president easily, in that company together with these these, we have been encouraged the reader will pay a easy way in the school we want to have our goals and where to go.
