Do this today and then you want.
Some of Ongea will want this week to tell me the film shows that.
They feel it is going to marry off his gift.
I saw your phone and my phone is very similar to what I did not give him the late.
When you know about us the Almighty God rest your right, I will be given, I cannot get married, it is always.
If you feel good, I feel good and to hear and then we added that you can be lost just after you came up but it's still doing you to speak with us all the late.
So, the old man will do you know if I have heard similar to Ongea Bure Deilee to its courage but there is why I have talked and make them just even when he doesn't know it.
Remember, do not be afraid and let me talk about what we told the Geographic Newsletter in the world.
The condition was done.
Anything, the late does not tell you, the spokesperson using alcohol give me how she does not meet or therefore at ten o'clock until how many times you are at ten o'clock until how many times you are at ten o'clock.
Or tomorrow?
And this time I was forced to go down in the village I went to work at eight o'clock at the night of how many times more than ten minutes have not been found in the world.
A check of Jah skins?
It's not something to be employed when I am not good, to urge him and I don't know well and I don't know how you don't know how you don't know how you don't know how you don't know how you don't know what you don't know whether you are not the infection of drugs but not to do.
Having those drugs have identified himself, if you are using drugs for the drugs, I have been infected with drugs and you have been commended.
At the ferry they have things and products.
I talk about it and there are no drug abuse, while some of the drugs like Ah to Ongea will talk about you and hear a lot of effects on a Swahili language, where it is where to be given, that step after being blocked for.
There's no last month in the past, Speaker Makinda did not have written that, the late does not lie!
Or there is happy about the program.
