Chairman of the Social Security Funds, Doctor Stephen Wasira, has been found dead after being shot by unknown people after losing in Mabogini village in the city of Dar es Salaam, a report from doctors continued to ban the patients so as to enable the government to implement their allegations.
Those with time.
If you want.
This had only those who tell me what he will give you who you will give you.
Again the debts since?
The misunderstanding was taken after an incident and an attack from a guarantee doctor who is currently a leader in the community of doctors has shown a strike of doctors here in the country, a lesson that had a guarantee doctor in night he explained what happened before the incident.
He really loves those behind by a message.
The normal that was presented according to the love.
The child as BISON.
Here is fees for people they share.
One that I will be here with the vehicle.
I've heard it followed by Simba team.
Taifa Stars will not accept, he was taken.
There was a cause of doctors together with the activists who wanted to know his sudden death, a person who did not know her, but he said that she was surprised by someone who did not know her, therefore it's only a lesson that was not seen but he believes that it's good for a good service to do that work.
You know they are leading?
We will talk about the director of the heart to inform the journalists concerning the state of a guarantee doctor when he was seen as the commander of police commander Suleiman Kova, says that the army is going on with the investigation of the incident and that the special squad has already made him to look for the involved.
What is the one.
He will not be noticed that he is involved with this, there are other people that will be taken against these results in events like this in the hospital and I will come to come to this people after succeeding is a habit, you will see I think this party.
And said?
The Almighty God rest the people.
Let me bless you.
We will do a place.
To ensure that it is not seen in the law.
We get to buy.
Those who are witnesses that have made it to the eyes.
These are the readers.
Without being worried about that truth.
Because we have no boundaries.
The reason why they are required to have all the administration in all the fate of those doctors is valid and unethical.
