The issue of swords and we will be able to hear them speak?
On 28th of 28th, 2014.

A few days ago President Jakaya Kikwete was questioned by the presenter of the International Broadcasting Corporation of CNN and London where he went to attend the meeting on fighting corruption.

After speaking about the issues of crimes and how Tanzania is striving to fight with that reporter, has found each other, when he addressed President Kikwete, the issue concerning the standing of the Tanzania's stand in stopping the laws against illegal immigrants.
A question by a musician, that was aiming to inform President Kikwete as a ploy of knowing that Tanzania's stand is short concerning the issue and more than all the issue of kidney marriages.

A question, doesn't be constructed from the concept of several countries that many countries have been doing well in the western countries that they have done various laws against Altay FK and others have reached even following what is called "the knot soon."
America's only though in the current government, it is still officially known as a man and a woman, in several regions of the provinces (that form the United States) have been infected with what is called "
If you want to know, especially the government of Tanzania is heading to me in recognizing the rights of sexual rights as part of what he found is the awareness of public rights in the world.
The answer by President Kikwete basically there was two parts of the first part denied him a few words only, the claims of having killed and scored for that reason or even killing them, but the second part is the foundation of my question at this topic.

President Kikwete was asked one by one like him, he sees it time has come up to sexual violence and having a stern warning to those involved, President Kikwete said that I can't say so, "I cannot say that now."
When we go back to write a new constitution, I believe one of the challenges of members of parliament (I don't understand why professionally as members of parliament!
Questions related to it is supposed to be dealt with because they do not make sure that you want them feel good and that we will not look for answers and if we will not look for answers and if we will be forced to get for them.
We can be able to make sure we use methods of Uganda and Nigeria - passing great laws against corruption, we believe by doing so, we will make people not to do such actions.
If the law against manslaughter would have been able to prevent people who do not forget yourself, this is true that in matters of theft, lack of public property and the fact that the law is already against these actions and even make people to stop?
Maybe the issue can be given that these laws have not been done well and therefore people feel like a result of the ongoing operation where all people who are believed to be responsible in court.
There are some who can answer you quickly that, it is the right way like what has happened in some of the countries where a homosexual club is supposed to have a female behavior which seems to be women (though men) or those who have started relationship with other women like men.
But if they see for those who have not registered themselves as people of different gender, the people who have their marriages and others have their families but they still do these actions that are seen as a result of the brain, religion and even culture?
The answer by President Kikwete did not be enough to say "during the moment," I am not a answer that he is near him and it's not true that President Kikwete has never done a mental debate about this because it's not aware that even these things are there.
Bad luck are in the office, there are in schools but there are even politicians! I don't think this person especially in the city - who doesn't know one person who is good!
