
According to Saleh Jembe Blog.
If they play at 4 o'clock in the Coast Premier League up to the national level league, he has not show the team of Mwaura's team from Msambya a heart.
But instead, the heads of that team together with players have managed to prepare well for the next season's league and has great hopes of victory.
Real Madrid team participated in the sub-finals of the Coastal Region but it did not qualify for the semi-finals as a result of great problems that involved the team on its participation.
In their participation, the team had good players who would have reached even in the finals in that league but it is reasons that did not be avoided, the ones that did not be avoided, what made the team fail to reach even the semi finals.
The coach of Mwaura United FC, Juma Dimwa, says that his team was able to succeed to win all his matches in the region B in that premier league due to problems that facing their participation.
We had a great faith of looking at the league and even to win but due to lack of important things, he will complete the third position which will not be able to break the position to qualify for the semi-finals, "said Deddy.
That coach also congratulated his players for completing their three matches in the Region B at the third position with four points after winning one match, going to one draw and lost one match.
While explaining the problems facing their participation in that league, Dimwa, denied two leaders in the Msambya Chai area where he did not want to mention them by wanting them to help them fail in a small league but they managed to help them in anything.
"It is something to congratulate her because although we know there are money for the youth that should not be able to ensure our players are not sold to our players, we will not allow you to participate in the match," said the trainer.
Lack of cost Dimwa, told the Coast that the team is in Mombasa for five days of that league, players and its officers have been getting two times a day due to lack of enough money.
"We have been living in your Joomla website where players and officers were running on foot to arrive there after a draw.
I think you are happy to do well in that situation, "said Dombeni.
He thanked the chairperson of that club, Mwaura United Club, Lumumba Bagdad in the way they will help them or else they could not hesitate to participate fully, "like Bagdad to help us as the cost of the journey and other uses, we could not participate in the league," he said.
DPO has given a request to sponsors to come out and help the team that are representing their team in the South Coast Premier League because those teams can do a surprise in that league together with other competitions.
Duwe has reminded two two teams to go up to the national level league next season, "I commend the Super Eagles club and Paul Assad FC for the qualify for the national league in the year 2015 and all of them," he said.
I don't have doubt or any fear that when we get enough sponsorship, we will be able to reach far and I have faith that we can go up to the next few years, "said DPO, for a period of the next few years," said Deddy.
The lack of CDF held for sports money at the Parliamentary Development Bank (CDF) can be used for the teams that represent those areas in different competitions and especially the ones that are taking place outside the country.
"It will be a lot of joy if there will be a special system of sports so as to uplift the music talent in all parts of the country," said Dimwa, who decided to make his team of Mwaura who is one of the big clubs in the Coastal Region.
Dimwa, who once worked for Club Brock Utne have for a period of one year to pay for seven years of Mwenge FC, all from 1970 to 80 years, he believes that good plans have been done in the Coastal soccer teams will start to perform well.
That club of Mwaulanga United Club was created during the year 2012 and Mohamed Abrini and Said Ali Kiroboto has said this season has participated in the Coast Premier League where it has managed to qualify for the small league.
The team of Mwaulanga United team, Kassim Juma, Hassan Jide, who is in brand, Suleiman email, Bakari Kiango, Ricardo Rodriguez, Wanigeria Nkwankwo Kanu and Hamisi Boy.
He says that they are in planning the strategies to strengthen his squad for the next season, "I am sure we will have a stable squad of what we participated in the league this season," said Dombeni.
