Thank you so much Mister.
It is saying that if it is the first you have helped us today in this period we will talk about how various strategies that are going to be implemented in partnership between the government and stakeholders in improving.
Watch the announcement of the project that is going on here is to improve the clean flour and sugar production that is being implemented in Morogoro and Bagamoyo in Pwani province, the hosts of Bagamoyo region explained his joy and the thoughts of his thoughts in the area where a big percentage have been beneficial to the farmers and the citizens in general as it is explained.
Mashauri I have received it only, we change name from Africa and go to me, it had died.
We made the attack to collaborate together in all villages that are leading the project to explain to the citizens that we have died from the investor so as to succeed in farming.
Who missed the suspects is the Saba Saba area.
They get the president we are visiting the way to build the knowledge of their citizens, because there will be small-scale farmers, I have been able to make sure the truth together with an indication of the citizens' cup that is diggers together with the investor so as to build for the purpose of building.
However, the government after seeing that there is big investment.
In the area what happens?
Court have made a big project in the Big Results Now.
That now we continue controlling the investment to take place in this investor.
But also, we must start many farmers in their farms around them.
Where they will make steps they will be able to enter, so as to kill them when they were able to sell him for one month, he said he will start ten years ago.
For the purpose of singing that tour and in the areas to uplift health, he advised the brothers to be able to grow, since the government will not accept it now Miss Tanzania with great income and bad farmers for the purpose of helping small-scale farmers for the purpose of building their ability so that they can benefit from Forogo.
If you are also the director of the church.
Market that there should be an opportunity for employment to our youth?
There is a lot of violence that if the Ambassador Seif giving birth to someone with an investor in which state of life continues to develop their ability, but those who have never talked to the community is before the work that is close to two hundred thousand when it takes something, they will get close to ten thousand shillings.
But also in experience I did not see even before starting that investor.
He has been unable to do a month of small-scale farmers of expanding so as to improve the project for agriculture.
Who has done my work he has done so that he has done that.
On how those farmers should be ready in the hall that it is interpreted as we are starting.
The wall has already been small-scale farmers who had already joined Jamila.
For reasons so that they can be able to get good oil is a must and they do not participate in groups and they can be able to access loans and other things.
How do you miss.
