
The user of the ball in Dar es Salaam, May 31, 2012

The historic visitor is expected to arrive in the country inside this month and is the coming of the president of China Ho'clock.
The coming of the president of China in the country is an opportunity for Tanzania to build a stable foundation of sustainable cooperation in the economic sector of Tanzania and China have had a friendly relationship of many years since it can be said, China and Tanzania have a history of standing on one side of the fight.
It will be remembered that China has been able to help us in different sectors including strengthening our infrastructure for the construction of the TAZARA railway, is one among the many.
Has come at a time now, for Tanzania to ask for Chinese support to strengthen social networks and especially social media networks through a computer.
It is true that China has managed to put in an environment of having mobile services and social media services to its people, an issue that helps the help to improve the economy of the country. Tanzania today is an example of countries with mobile phone services and the highest cost compared to many countries of this world.
Well, when you have changed, we change our friends that cooperate with our friends that involve more steps and in our current partnership, and China we must be able to look for China with other things.
Yes, China of yesterday was a threat to more in America and other industrialized countries, but China is today a big threat in the economy.
Today China is competing with a big nations in the production of industries and industries that will be competed among other big countries in the world market of China, today it needs more natural resources in its industries, it needs oil.
America and other countries of industries, the situation is that same as such, oil produced in the world will not be enough to meet the industries needs.
China, America and other countries of industries can continue depending on oil from East Africa alone.
Today, China has continued to improve technology in large numbers and it is looking for markets of its products in all the world countries, several countries that are continuing in Africa and South America are ready to look for China in other different times, different from China for 1970 and 1980.
I got to write, that in the past, the ambassador of the Socialist Republic of China should be from Africa, South Africa or South America, who was sent to China to represent their countries like ambassadors, who were taken to China for the mistakes they participated in home.
Still there are African countries that have not been able to withdraw from shivered out of China, even so, there are countries involved in eternal peace, these countries don't jump and if the position is supposed to leave each other.
China is going through a vibrant singer, responsibility of economic issues, with the ability to give them close to the analysis of the economic system of China and other development plans are doing so, so as to see how their countries they represent will be able to benefit from China.
In their activities of improving the economy of their countries, China, United States and Europe have noted that Africa is still a continent with great wealth of oil including oil, Cindy, Angola, Nigeria and maybe even South African countries including Tanzania and Kenya.
At the same time Africa is producing a lot of natural resources in industries.
As a result of continuing with a bad state of war in the Central Region, America has thrown out Africa in search of harvesting oil, China and therefore.
In the previous years they were preparing to contest for the South African continent, today they have planned to contest for oil and other natural resources in this continent.

Some of the African countries and even America in South Africa have signed the importance of cooperating economically and China for the economic interests of the two sides of the countries that are ongoing like Nigeria and Brazil, China is a great shape of more than many years.
For instance, in the fight against the liberation of Africa and the fight against the New York in the world, China on both days known as Africa and South America.
In the poor country in the world, there is a lot of benefit economically if they get the contracts of economic cooperation with China without considering the economic interests of those nations.
For instance, it is not normal for China companies to participate in bribery and invasion of economic activities in the process of getting contracts for the rumors and when they start activities of production of products or the natural resources.
If China is heading to Nigeria to buy oil, then, it is not a private company of oil that will do that work, but it is the national oil company of China (China Islamic Center).

In the recent years for China to invest in their homes with the developing countries, especially in Africa without doubt in the long-term plans for the partnership that made up for the first time in the partnership between China and Africa, (China Africa).

That meeting organized, together with other things, the strategies of together with a long-term plans between Africa and China was decided to be there for a long-term meeting after three years in order to strengthen and get in details in that partnership.
The meeting was done as planned, there was a meeting in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia and end of last year China.
Good results of this partnership include Africa and China to have a lot of strength in the discussion of the world business community (WWW).

The biggest of the interests of the long-term interests in Africa and even to our country, is that in this partnership, China should also help the African countries in building the ability to have a good support of China in Africa instead of it's end to building a great contribution from China to China for our presidents.
