Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has talked about his statement he made during Mwalo'clock and it should not have a reason to fight with doctors but it was the aim of giving the decision to intervene in the court's decisions in Dodoma province for information.
Responding to the questions there and there to give a opposition leader in parliament and the member of parliament of parliament, Freeman Mbowe, the prime minister said it is possible to get a lot of ways.
But the disappointing issue, the head is because I know this issue is in front of the court.
And that to give a statement when it is in the court it is clear that I found a child of our constitutional procedures.
That is why I arrived at a place he said in the environment.
It is very possible, I don't jump, I think about what is happening and we want to do anything especially he insisted that his statements don't put the same incident and injured by a leader of the doctor in a problem, I said as a government.
Then that will it be a great people.
My brothers, we have been this time.
We are cooperating with him in this period when we are talking.
We have been encouraged to court.
And I know that this issue is in the court but the budget you know that we had the court.
Now.
For a little is possible, there is a government wants to do so that most of the secret is still going on but together with the answers that, Mboya is waiting to know that emergency action is taken so as to avoid disasters and if the government is waiting for a statement because it reaches the court.
What concern do you take deliberate measures.
It is taken by the government.
To look at least a solution in February will follow up because they are deaths of people who are going on in large numbers and responding to the question, the elderly said that we had been trying to meet Lugome.
Let us use that hospital for the purpose of making sure the patients don't know that patients.
But through a fight even in all the whole hospitals, we have decided to take them once.
But at the same time, we have seen it's good to see if there will be other doctors who have a doctors who are in that ministry, all we request to be given them a way.
Them return to be able to provide service to the Tanzanians now and he is supposed to resign as a result of failing to end the crisis, the doctors will be employed or the place where the average of Singida East member of parliament, Lissu has taken a prime minister into the average of the continent Pius Mutakubwa Lugangira.
However, the prime minister clarified that one measures have been mentioned in charge of that conflict and senior officials don't know your resignation and the environment can be responsible in that way but it is not a must.
And I don't see if this is one of the areas that you can't know that, I can read this debate which is related to doctors because the issue is in court.
Now, this is in the court I request that.
From the city of Dodoma, I would you know this.
