If you go to Grind.
I visited him to look at this issue because I am called Mary and even in the whole world by partnering with us without doubt, you will agree with me that the world needs a world of science.
And the future of the future generation is the first to be held now because tomorrow it can be today with you, the brothers when they see the University of Tanzania where others do not deal with these issues of information and communication technology so that others do not be able to move forward. I believe.
When it was shot in selling close to the 77th minute, they will take place in Dar es Salaam.
Fees for being an example of.
Welcome for one hour to be told.
In the cervix.
This of the information and communication wants to know the information and communication was used, I know Chris Brown has had a lot of importance in science subjects and in its laws, where we have to see that I was walking before we should not know how we should not have a lot of things.
We have seen it is good when we met and still a secondary school teachers and some of the teaching profession in schools to sit in one table so that we can fall in the ICT system and other things behind it was to make sure that when he is given in success.
When he was encouraged to know about the small use of the technology even to secondary schools even when in town, it has completed the universities failed to do enough communication in this area to look for work and so on maybe the work will be.
It is true that a reporter because if you check!
He has been like I would like to thank the students to find science subjects.
They have had great effects.
What is given us to secondary is the judgment because they don't have the internet to say the truth.
Having problems.
Therefore in fighting and therefore, we have seen it is good to get a new video.
The eyes of the crows know that you are going to be used.
Previously, told them to accumulate 41 students and therefore he had conned people to love their studies and be able to know a little book.
Keenly you will decide to start with.
First of the first you should not be seen in the place to go to a ando and yes, he said since I have started to analysts.
A child and after the wedding took place in Dar es Salaam, there will be careful, it is implementing one thing that he is called to go to.
It has started to us students of primary education.
And but he does not know that the report will be as a result of money but he continues to convince him to go and me what has decided to start you.
Cold drinks for their way here since they have said that it is controlling from the same person being a first thing and the second one is our ability, you can't get the same time.
To see that there is a good place to address that bank yes, you know how the bank takes place in only secondary education as if you know if you know more better education here, if you know more than a very good place since it was Page because it was more better to go for a period of the truth this week of buying a student of school.
Even secondary will also been found in Kilindi District.
What is it?
