They have planned to stop the budget of energy.
May 22, 2013.

The Ministry of Energy and Minerals is expecting to present his speech on Wednesday night while there is a report that some of the members of parliament are required to inform them.

The news that was found here when they were not getting some of the members of parliament are saying that the strategy is being created by several parliamentarians who were members of the Parliamentary Committee on Energy and Minerals which was approved by speaker Anne Makinda, last year.
Furthermore, more reports indicate that since the signing of that parliamentary committee, some of the delegates of the committee have not received into and they have been trying to look for ways of how to get to the leadership of the ministry.
For a period of time, the relationship between the leadership of the ministry that involved the minister, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, the deputy minister, George Simbachawene and Masele and the Secretary General George Simbachawene, who had already noted that, some of the members of parliament especially those who were involved by Speaker Makinda.
It is clear that there is a bad relationship between some of the members of parliament and the leadership of the ministry, there are some members of parliament who succeeded in Donge due to the step of Speaker Makinda to break the committee.
"Therefore, if you will see here, or not energy or minerals, but some of the people and especially the leadership of the ministry that occurred this morning, instead of discussing the primary issues of running the country, people should have conflicts," said one of the members of parliament on condition of not being mentioned.

The parliamentary committee made a parliamentary committee to investigate the allegations that some of the members of parliament participated in bribery during the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals last year.

Apart from that, the budget of this year of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals is expected to speak a huge investment in gas projects in Lindi and Mtwara provinces where it is expected to open a large extent in the economy of the south and Mtwara provinces.
