We have written to themselves or we have risen up with us?
Jide 5, 2013.

President of the United States, Barack Obama, has been in the country for two days, July first and second, this year, many issues have emerged before, and after its presence here in the country, especially in Dar es Salaam city.

There are several things and great joy, but as it is normal in big events, we are not seen among the issues that were made are efforts by the Municipal Council and the city of Dar es Salaam in general, to set up areas of the city in a clean environment.

Cleaning in the city of Dar es Salaam has been on a high level, I think previously before that tour, they've already been living to people who are cleaning to that level, at least they reach them.

I think earlier, before the arrival of Obama, even President Jakaya Kikwete, the prime minister Mizengo Pinda, Deputy President Doctor Gharib Bilal, ministers and senior leaders, including the chief secretary, Ambassador Ombeni Sefue, all ministers who live in Dar es Salaam as road, then they don't have living in Dar es Salaam city as roads, then he didn't live in a city with a unsatisfactory performance.

That President Kikwete, his fellow leaders and citizens of other visitors in Dar es Salaam city, which is also the minister of environment, they did not want to live in a clear environment as it is to President Barack Obama who has been in the country for two days only.

That we are happy with, from President Kikwete and other leaders including the head of province and district heads, together with other citizens to live in a clean environment, except President Obama and his delegation were not supposed to live in the dirty environment.

We have witnessed the roads being tested from dust from the ongoing vehicles where road accidents were controlled by water, different roads have been tested in a fast rate, "we saw him, for a clean up" we are asking him to be?

For us we don't know that the cleanliness of fake "we thank Azam FC to know that we are Wasafi Records, some of our leaders are used to live in dirty environment, some of our leaders are used to pass through dirty environment, some of our leaders are used to arrest them.

Therefore, we believe that fake cleaning will be in our leaders in that tour of Obama's tour, will be able to build in it themselves and maybe that its reality is the official guest instead of having our procedure to maintain the city of Dar es Salaam.

Its at the moment, after retiring from Obama, our leaders don't like a shame, to live and live in dirty roads and we need a clean place or we need a clean area for our purpose and not a clean city because of Obama only.
