Twiga Stars does not mean?
Mr 25, 2015.

One of the things that will have given us Tanzanians and especially women who love soccer is together with a win of 4-2 against the national soccer team of Twiga Stars.
That team got the victory at the end of the week against Zambia at the game that was received well, because the team has raised the flag of the country which has many times his soccer has become a knee injury on international standards.
In his greetings to ask for that team, the President of the Football Federation of Tanzania (TFF), Jamal Malinzi congratulated Twiga Stars as he wants the fight for that victory but continue to prepare well for the repeat game.
Another international game that involves other soccer teams in Tanzania is the one of the soccer of Ufukweni that is also the national team of the game was away on tickets to participate in the finals of that African Champions League that will be held in April this year at the Caribbean islands.
Things do not go well in that team after losing 9-4 goals from the hosts Egypt, and in those results, Tanzania has been released at the race for a total of 15-6 goals due to the previous results where Tanzania agreed to be beaten 6-4 goals in Dar es Salaam city.
Malinzi said that the team of Ufukweni soccer did not get good results from the visitors of that tournament and that they were the first time to participate in that tournament being six months since being introduced to the game in Tanzania.
He praised that team saying that TFF has planned to market and sell the football of Ufukweni in various provinces in Tanzania, different from now where the game is played in Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar.
This is a good idea if it will be implemented by good plans because the aim of this article is not to resolve the results of the two teams because of the one of the soccer soccer, but it is wanting to build a bill of TFF to implement the ones that are not done to the development of our country's development, especially when it comes to the issue of preparations for our teams.
Twiga Stars will play the repeat game between April 511 and 12 this year in the city of Dar es Salaam and the overall winner will qualify to participate in the African finals for Women's Women Association (All Africa Games) which will be held in Congo September 3-18 this year.
The great job that is required to be done by TFF is to ensure that Twiga Stars is given enough exercise for the purpose of continuing with that game, but also to build its customers for the international competition.
One of the statements that were given by the team's coach Rogasian Kaijage, while the team went to Zambia it is that they know that they are seen to play a team that has a capacity to be released.
If you have the coach, he continued to know that, while knowing that football is a game of mistakes that are inside any way they can arise.
Before going to Zambia, Twiga Stars sat at the camp for a period of four weeks, one of the things that the team's coach may not depend on because different reasons include lack of friendly matches.
That issue, TFF changed one of the reasons that came as a result of clashes between the countries that they went to play.
Apart from that there are two players from South Africa who were not able to join that camp for different reasons.
Coach Kaijage said that the squad said few days before the squad left to Zambia that he would not be able to use because they think of joining the camp, but he said that they still need those players and he knows their importance due to how he was told their record.
Like Malinzi, he said that the squad was known by that victory, then even TFF it is a must to get a special program in building a special environment which however his coach said that he has faith with it more than the last year's recommendations that the team can work.
