
Kikwete should vie for again or not to vie for?
Deodatha Makani, 2012

As a report of doctors from President, it is enough to be trusted by as Unitats, then the citizens and the members of CCM don't have to ask ourselves as President Kikwete will have a reason to look for enough information and to serve his health and to stop another Tanzanian to take that opportunity.
Some of us, we see a bad thing if he will take that decision, especially considering the explanations of his doctor who given him following the incident of the president he threw out power in Mwanza until causing it to be taken for a half time for close to 10 minutes.
After an additional information of the health condition, and how's the health of President did not like food to his doctors (something that is not known by President Kikwete, but the second one was using my own article since the report of the honorable president having severe pain when I got for a long time.
Doctor Peter Chimela, said that currently, "the only problem which has been releasing the honorable president just after time was severe pains due to suffering from early marriages and during the same same time getting married, there were no pain.
Many times the problems of that way make sportsmen and the army men because of their activities they have shown is not an unusual thing.

We will remember that Honorable President has been a new member of sports, especially basketball player (trip), football and even athletics for the same time.
In order to recognize well the problem of buying so that we should know how to give birth to the treatment we have done all the important tests for the back up to the poor.
We have used a x-ray machine, CT scan to the CT Scan images before they have already helped with specialist doctors in the country and outside the country together with the existence of such acts, those doctors were taught so as to do and he has been doing discipline in a high level.
Its results is to get high prices, that is why these days did not be seen to go against them immediately as it was in the past for those who remember.
We are following up very close to the condition of her stomach, when we look at the MRI tests and not to meet the specialist doctors from time to time, "these explanations made the idea of wanting the president to when he arrived at this time followed by the instructions of article 37 of our constitution, but to build a matter of wanting to be elected and given priority.
But if I read it well, I would like to see more health problems in front of the journey, and especially that, the problem that our doctors have called "the only problem" which has been informed by President Kikwete.
I said, in the first that I have written with Doctor Vaquina, his statement when he said recently, "I am my colleague, that Doctor Mohamed Janabi, we see my statement that the doctor would think about him because he had explained the health of the president.
First, I should start with the issue of the president having a problem in the back thing that causes pain and many people that they have found pictures of President Kikwete in the past, they can see how it has been difficult to change or even in a short time.
Secondly, it is an issue of severe pain of the president to sit in any place in eternal peace, and especially those involved, there should be the congestion of the veins.
It is a very important part that is very delicious with bones presumed with the dangerous environment, but it's also a very important part where someone being beaten or being affected or even dies.
I will leave the doctors to explain the documents of the area, but using anything that is not something to ignore or get them easily, and I believe that is the reason for President Zanzibar to fight the doctors from different places.
Third, up to now the president does not get treatment especially for pain, and that is according to Doctor Charle himself when he said, "for now, it is true that the possibility of the president is supposed to be operated on in future, and there is a difficult way to remove those pain.
But I would also say that, because his pain has been for a long time.
"Since early," I believe it was also known, "he said," he is not true "to someone who has done various leadership positions, I am sure if I wanted to be dealt with.
This is a brought in the fourth issue and it is that the surgery for this time is not the right time because it is possible for the state of that area, for sure, you do a operation that can't make the good work and can cause even other great problems.
Doctor a person can advise that all doctors who tried to see President and champions of veins, have found sure to control these pain by doing exercises and for a long time (something that if they affect the president doesn't know more than a surgery that can be wrecking or even the cause of buying.
If the fourth issue is true or it is very close to the truth, then we should have sure that the health of President Kikwete is good for those things but the biggest thing of making these doctors, then, the situation is not good to make sure these doctors get married then it is not good.
It is because that then I do not agree to give the one of the family to the honorable president and his family that we will organize themselves as the truth, we saw President Kikwete and we wish her good, then politics does not tolerate its field again!
Honorable Kikwete made peace to be the president of Tanzania and their tears which he wanted to lead them if he wanted to lead them since this year's four years and I believe he will complete the fifth term well as they get enough exercise and continue with exercises for human organs.
But after that five years to end, it would have been better when you finish up and leave politics.
But also, it has also celebrated his 59 years recently, then I decided not to vie for the presidency in the year he will make a family to our young children to be able to cooperate with them to enjoy their lives and to see Tanzanian politics so that he can get treatment a situation that does not like.

Now, because the proposal is good and I believe different citizens and various community institutions will not be forced to wish him a good life for my former president so that this year I'll vie for him to attend to his health as a result of all the national responsibilities that are in front of them is very big.

I hope even his close advisers can be able to see wisdom and importance of him not to vie for again this year, not because I will be able to be elected for a lot of votes but not like the year 2005, but because of the importance of buying his health.

My brothers, the most important thing here is his health and his life and as well as to pay time to enjoy the fruits of his soul and put to strengthen his health.
But also, these pain are big and they are continuing to sign him, he can decide to retire early under article 37 of the country's constitution, and Doctor.
Shein, end up on the first phase of Kikwete without causing any problems in the government, because they are deputy president.
To that experience it's close to him by Mkapa and Kikwete, I believe Doctor.
Shein will be able to avoid any doubt in the country towards the general elections of the year.
But it will also be better if President Kikwete will announce early not to vie again in the next year so that his party of CCM and his fellow members inside CCM should start planning to look for the one who succeeded.
