
Mtanzania was given by the minister.

President Paul Kagame of Rwanda has appointed the Tanzanian, Professor Sospeter Muhongo to be the minister of infrastructure of that country in the changes of the cabinet, that took place on Monday night.

Before that appointment, Professor Routh who was the head of the University of Rwanda.

Another new look at that council that was sworn in the day before yesterday in the State House of Rwanda, is together with Wiz Khalifa, who was eliminated (the office of the Minister Mkulabi - family and gender).

Speaking on the phone with our reporter yesterday, the small president of Professor Rutaisingwa, Timothy Bradley (not pictured) that lives in Dar es Salaam, said his brother was born in Dar es Salaam city, said his brother was born in Shishiyu Ward, Muleba District in Kagera Province.

He said Professor Rwizile said that a Tanzanian who decided to take him to Rwanda and all the father are Mzee Titus, they did not come up, "says it is my stomach brother and it is very true for us to be my family members."

The deputy secretary general of the profession of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Professor Makaziwe who said Professor Rwasa had worked at that university and left the head of Faculty of Engineering.

"She left the Kagame Cup when he came to power and he went to lead the Institute of Technology of Kigali (MCST) before going to the University of Kigali," said Professor Maboko.

The scholar went to Rwanda in the year 1997, after being asked by President Kagame who went to UDSM, asked some people to go to Kigali to open the University of his country after the end of the fight against them in the year 1994.

Professor Routh who was the first attorney general to make sure that among the best universities in Africa on issues of technology, something that led to President Kagame.

After that success, President Kagame had appointed the head of the University of Rwanda, Butt where he also gave him reputation after managing well the construction of the shortage in large numbers by that leader as they consider the citizenship of that country as a gift.

However, Professor Rwizile said that he will be forced to identify the citizenship of Tanzania because the country's constitution is not knowing the citizenship of two countries.

Professor Routh who got a primary education in Muleba and he joined the secondary school of Jichunge.'

After that, he joined the University of Leiria in the England University to get degree courses in 1971 and 1975 got a doctorate degree to the same field.
