
50 injured of motorcycle riders were taken to MOI every day.

It has been written by Shadrack Sagna.

It has been released on 09 / 2016.

An average of two million shillings are used to ban one of the motorbikes, an issue that has used the hospital the injured were left roofless from the cost of treatment.

The doctors from the Muhimbili National Institute (MOI) have said that for now every day they have received an average of injured out of 50 and 60 percent, an issue that is supposed to destroy the institution to provide reliable services to those injured.
Those costs arose from those campaigns used to evade paying long balls from outside the country, an issue that is explained by doctors that due to the number of injured every day, it has been forced to MOI to be a shortage of those equipment.
As a result of the increase in those injured, the union of doctors, Christians (TCL) have used their last season that ended the day before yesterday, to discuss this issue and explained that the accidents arising from a motorcycle was a disaster problem because of increasing the cost of surgery the hospital.
In that state, they have condemned the authorities of road safety issues, to make sure that they sell the great laws that will arrive with the motorcycle riders so as to avoid the nation having a lot of disabled people in the transport sector.
Doctors from MOI to the Muhimbili National Hospital in Dar es Salaam city, said the institution for now has extended the amount of cement, an issue that causes equipment and infrastructure of the institution not to explain the needs and thus making the costs offered by those injured.
Those doctors in their annual meeting of the 79 years that ended the day before yesterday at Mwalimu Nyerere Grounds in Dar es Salaam, they received various stakeholders including drivers of an entrepreneur, Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (WHO) and the journalists, to discuss how the nation can reduce road accidents.
President of TCL, Doctor Isaiah Shoki said that they have been forced to use that meeting to discuss accidents arising from a motorcycle because the hospital where they are doing those doctors, Christians have loosened it due to receiving many motorbikes.
"By the truth, our hospitals of churches, every doctor in the country he complains from injured while our hospitals have a capacity to withstand this increase," said Doctor Nuwass.
The specialist doctor of Chunya District Hospital, Yohana Masinga, located in Tabora province said that in his hospital they received an average of 10 injured every day that causes the hospital to have a load of treating there.
I believe that many accidents arose from these drivers not having an understanding of road laws that is why they are getting accidents from time to time, it is a must that you be taken to our hospitals to be expected, "said Doctor Maseru.
The specialist doctor of MOI, Victoria Kimani, has said in the past before being allowed to carry the passengers of business, his institution was receiving injured under five days in a day where there were an accident where they were able to receive an average of 10 injured in a day.
"But these days we are receiving an average of one out of 50 and 60% for a day, infrastructure is the same, therefore our ability to serve them is small," said Doctor are complaining.
He has added that even if the campaigns of the year 2010, that is the way used to avoid sexual violence, a cost of low prices is sold at approximately 70 million dollars (approximately 1450 shillings).
"For those who do not depend on the back 'it is used to use the low cost of 200 American dollars (equivalent to 420,000 shillings).
Doctor Boniface Mponji, who is the specialist doctor for bones presumed with the cost of stealing one of the fire accident is 2 million shillings, something that has done a lot of hospital that has done a lot of cargo.
He has proposed that since the special fund of injured as it is for other electricity fund in the villages (REA) which will help them to be treated with the victims of a motorcycle accident and vehicles.
He said the funds of the fund to arrest while the owner of the vehicle or a motorcycle that when he gets into the road expenditure as it is ongoing with fire.
These insurance company does not help any human being in treatment when I think it was started a lot of money that will help the government to have enough money for treating those injured and it will help to reduce the cargo that is in our hospitals, "said Doctor Kamani.
He said that for now, the services to prevent it has dropped from many hospitals due to lack of money to buy equipment together with drugs due to the increase of a motorcycle riders.
The director of health services, the Christian and Social Services Commission, Doctor Josaphat Ballaghe said that the deaths arising from a motorcycle accident is many to continue the deaths caused by some diseases.
This is another disease where our nation has been involved, we should look for the solution. "Warned that if the nation it will take a step, more than 20 years the national work will be disabled because they are used to make sure they collect costs for the nation, to make sure those injured were taken by many people.
The director of the road (SUMATRA), Triphonia Kahwili, has said that it has been difficult to get drivers' drivers because many youths doing that business are those who had a great behavior in the past.
"These are difficult to learn and if they learn it is hard to understand," said Happines and insisted that the government is making efforts to make that transport later to have honor and reduce the current problems.
