Why the farmer was shot in RC, Doctor Osaka?
August 19, 2012

I am in the restaurant of Neema Crala in Iringa town, Mzee David Lugenge from Iringa and I have planned to meet here for a short time and talks about what he witnessed 40 years ago, it involves the farmer Said Komu.

Having only two minutes before being beaten in seven o'clock in the afternoon, I saw Mzee Ngoyai Lowassa in that restaurant together with his big age, Mzee Chilo said that he seems to have a great body in games.

To those who do not know, on top of sixty years of time when he was in the police force, Mzee Chilo said that he was also the father of a vibrant listener or the late Duncan, who is in soccer and Jane Remmy, on the ball.

I ask Mzee Ngoyai Lowassa, "Doctor Cheni claimed that if they don't know many people of Iringa, that if you don't know the people of Mtwara and you don't know where you are and Mtwara before it's not a person in which way?

"Siwema who know Doctor Bryceson Kiwelu as a friend, I have seen him more work on the work I started in Masasi, Mtwara Province and I remember that he was a tough leader and also to encourage issues with strength.

But also it should be understood here, that in Newala district and other parts of Mtwara were there in helping our brothers from Mozambique, maybe if the situation in Mtwara was different and wanted a person like Doctor Bryceson Kiwelu, "says Mzee Chilo.

And they have said that Manumba is divided for Iringa while you are headed to Iringa while you are from Iringa and it's also a must, Doctor Egid Mubofu, you don't see in Mtwara she had a difference with Doctor Kipligat, which he did with him in Iringa?

I was reported in Iringa on March. I was also the guest of honor and this province of Iringa, I was also a very young man also in Mtwara Province, Doctor Kipuyo has said more on urging citizens in development issues but more in the military state including sexual abuse due to the situation I have explained in there.

And Mtwara people were in a very high level in development of Mtwara, Doctor Bryceson Kiwelu, he had not faced with the opposition in giving his order.

Now I think here in Iringa, Doctor Egid Mubofu, met with a different condition and my thoughts I think Doctor Kipuyo has said that the provincial commissioner was supposed to prepare and learn about the traditional culture and the couple of people in Iringa province because the people of Iringa are people from Iringa.

Doctor Egid Mubofu has been a very young man on the eyes of the elders of this town of Iringa and this town of Iringa had a small group of small-scale farmers who had high-scale farmers.

I read it again, Mzee Chilo said that he has told me there that just after being shot dead in Iringa town, those who were arrested are affected by the arrest, how come farmers to live in town?

When he answered me, Iringa was very different from the big farmers of Iringa they had their farms for Isimani Constituency, a distance of ten kilometers from here and now in farm, they built houses to reach at the time of this season but their homes are in town.

There are farmers who went to the farm in the morning and their transport and in the evening they come back to Iringa Town, and there are some people in this town they have invested in another activity among these people were rich and even at the same level.

I read this question, Mzee Chilo said that in one of the elders that I met with them on phone and I expected to meet with him in a conversation with she is a farmer Mzee Pindani Nyalile and who was one of those who were arrested and put baking paper.
