You want to pray for chicken to recite the issue of each other.
At that session at the box, I want to check it is not a day.
How do I make your strategy to eliminate the questions that they have.
Or it is the first that showed up what I am happy to add to the media because it is it that you will do more.
These time you pass at the streets concerning that way it is clear that the work with the media in the bus can be able to participate fully.
How was your statement.
It was it.
Controversy like this.
We live as drawings you need.
How does it mean?
And the news of the continuation of what usually do this issue which for now Tanzanians have been the national agenda.
Instead, I agree with me that there is a time it is a must for the team to be in.
It should be that I decided to have a big challenge.
And the debate that is going on but at that time it is a must to fulfill the responsibility which we are running all the media.
They can address citizens of something that I will continue especially, which is in the national debate.
So the Ntasoma Hotel.
You must sit and go to a father?
We see you, we see that this is the news that for tomorrow we must make sure that we will make sure that he will make sure that he will make sure that he will make sure that he will make sure that he will make sure that he will make sure that he will make sure that he will make sure that he will help them, why that he will make sure that he will go to the same way and that you can be able to go through it, why that he will make sure that he will go to the same way and that he will not go to the same way.
It is the words of vying for the presidency of ten thousand in the fifth term and five are statements that?
This will not be careful yesterday in Germany, we will meet a lot of words of different politicians, different from announcing the intention of going to the city and we will look at the end of the discussion of the disco hall where I will see you forever.
I have not heard that, I explained the first reason to sit down.
The desks is a must.
I will have a big song 'Imebaki Story.'
Today we woke up with the high level of that attack Story.'
The money can we are or your words, they are saying that it is a lesson so that their work is capable of switching off the young people and when all days you are forced to do I have but in the government.
In the world, they are saying people who are in our towns is to run the government where they feel the government would like to see this one or a lot of things we have seen and we have seen in different countries and we have seen in different countries will depend on.
Poverty.
Not from committing sin?
Therefore, Libya.
