
Who is the friend of President Kikwete?
Dec 6 shillings, 2012

I have been asked why I think it is the best President of ethics (Ambassador Seif) in America, my answer is George Washington (the first President of the United States). This is an explanation of one of the stakeholders of the ethics that he wrote on behalf of the journalism profession.

It is an explanation that was written in February, this year and caused many people the same way if they asked the stakeholder, he would have asked George Washington, I think us (Tanzania) we are supposed to think this question though in another better way.

That is why our problem should be in different opinions and that is from the bar.
By considering the process of the new constitution that is going on, it means that we can do (all times) to make the best president ethics in a term of his leadership.

In another reason, we will consider the system of ethics (unique one to the president) if the new constitution will decide the country to be the executive president listening to him the fate of the president ethics and that of the senior leaders, especially the president of the country.

Voters who tried to know, this issue or that is contrary to the presidential ethics, especially in issues that some have would like to think it is not mistakes by considering the trend of the school's life, the Mosque or construction of the hospital.

This contributions can be taken anywhere, including his friends who in a way he is free not, you will not mention them in public but its freedom of not mentioned in public, her friends have condemned the fundraising which will contribute in some of the people in the community can talk about important questions.

For example, they will move to these friends of president's friends?

Others will see more, these friends of President are involved in which activities in the construction of their private economy and the country in general?

By considering these questions, we should be able to return the event on November 26th, this year, where President Jakaya Kikwete visited the fundraising for the purpose of raising funds for the purchase of students with mental disabilities, at the St John University, which is in Dodoma.

The fundraising took place in the city of Dar es Salaam at the Diamond Jubilee Hall in that program, 584 million shillings were collected including the money he made President Kikwete in collaboration with "his friends."

The religious leaders admitted in that event, which include the Archbishop of the Anglican Church diocese of Talent, Valentino Lukaya and the university's head coach, Doctor Donald Mtetemela.

It is an issue to be commended for those efforts by President Kikwete to participate in helping the community areas that have been made to help in the development of the education sector in the country. In the fundraising, the basis of the money presented by President Kikwete.

There is a big issue of debate about the financial level he has made, President Doctor there is information that he gave the president is for him together with his friends. Here is where we need to think about this event and the process that is going on to write a new constitution.

I wish you the words of George Washington (Zanzibar) when I ever said, "we are taking our country," that is how us continue to have the best president ethics without knowing how to use it.

In an example of President Kikwete, more questions agree.

In a country that were filled with actions of violating the law for example of the purchase of public servants, we have the friends of the president to be a company, an institution or private individuals, a thing that is in the country because of the violation of the country's laws for the purpose of private benefit?

In a country that were filled with complaints with a matter that some of the business people, politicians and investors are like you about the law, therefore, these are the friends of the president?

And here, emphasis is friends that they can be the source of conflict involving themselves in the performance of the president, I'm not happy to have friends of playing with a goal or Wembley that it is hard to build a system of making the best president ethics instead of leaving the president to stop for the president to leave it.

We can be able for example, to decide on the new constitution to be during a campaign or after the presidential candidate was announced, it does not recognize her friends and especially those who can have conflict, but those in Tanzania can be a good country in controlling the ethics of the president.

God bless Tanzania, God bless TANZANIA.
