
Many accidents are carelessness of us.

It is a lot of sadness and lost more than 100 more than one day, the accident of MVMerci it has been taught.
Nine months after the other ship sank in Zanzibar and lost the lives of many people, MVMerci it has continued with each other than losing many people for one day.
Although now right is not the appropriate time to pray for us because the toes of these accidents are not only saying that many accidents here in Tanzania arose from all of us, and especially the laziness of those who are in government.
Road accidents, water accidents and sometimes accidents are laziness of the government.
There is evidence that when Mv Bukoba is looking at Lake Victoria and lost their lives of more than one thousand people, it did not have a reputation of transporting passengers.
It was a big offence that it was in the past made by him, on the day it comes with many people and a cargo than his level.
However, after that incident, dizziness is the government did not be accountable or held.
After the occurrence of Mv Bukoba accidents, there were many accidents in Lake Victoria and we have not heard of the person involved in place with a permit for funds to travel inside the Lake Region is given out by the government and how come the permits have been sent away by non-communicable diseases.
Road accidents that are receiving every day they have results of carelessness.
The source of these accidents are non-communicable diseases, non-infectious diseases have been redeemed by the cause of accidents, fast speed, vehicles run in Tanzania and sometimes the iron sheets that do not have different levels are under the control of government.
There are a lot of fire and many times we are, there is a problem of electricity.
The truth is that many electricity equipment have no standards required to connect electricity at homes and for the use of electricity equipment and other products that are imported into the country, but our market has caused counterfeit products from the country and not to be accountable.
There are other big accidents that if it has not been released today, then you will receive the day tomorrow to bring in fake products and especially food and drugs, there is a period that people will die with these diseases due to those drugs.
Fuel for cooking oil is prepared and put dangerous things to human health, we think about people getting in cooking oil and oil for cooking oil so as to buy food and counterfeit drugs that comes from it is clear that we are carelessness and laziness of our government.
Although it is not the right to choose the government blame from all accidents that happened, basically the government is the first to be responsible, because the government has a great ability to dodge these accidents due to our citizens and without any action of bringing to know the government is laziness of a high level.
The meaning that we have been done by our we will continue to be dealt with and so cunning, it is true that the accident is a plan of God and that the accident does not affect fake tires, we have bought counterfeit drugs, we have bought fake tires, we have bought fake tires, we are using your eyes or to use the chest?
What does it mean to say this person with bad plans to drive out his creation?
Other countries are involved with an accident such as MVMerci it, people who are married for a short time, we should take a whole day up to two heading to the scene.
So, and that is the plan of God?
We are preparing the budget with a lot of money for allowances of those allowances, we have come from preparing a budget with a lot of money to deal with disaster.
We have been told by the attorney general of the government, that the head work is not to rear chicken but thinking is true that the head is true and we should have discovered that thinking and thinking is not a person and she does not have the right to live.
Switching off the motion to discuss the Mv Mbaga ship in parliament, it is a head to prevent the hair or thinking person, or refusing it true that she is using a teacher without using your head, is to use your head or passport.
Tanzania is a rich country and that is why big nations are supposed to come and invest in Tanzanian wealth, be aired by more than five nations and the port is wealth of the Tanzanian economy, it can be operated by this port like it would have good plans.
Having a huge land with natural fertility is great wealth, the economy of Tanzania can be operated by agriculture alone if it would have good plans to have better minerals, because there are many minerals and investing in the mining of minerals is enough wealth.
To stand and put in the whole world that Tanzania is the poor country to use our minds or bad luck, this phrase has been initiated by leader in the government with his aim being proposed for the opponents so it's against him.
In addition to the fact that MV Minutes Network, had major mistakes of forcing the ship not to continue transporting passengers and those who sell those acts, we are using these things because we are we have a lot of people without their cargo.
MVMerci had been forced to travel from that river who could buy and defend the sea!
Therefore, who had gone for buying this ship is a must he would know all this and to stop our culture of supporting these things without knowing these things that they do in that environment.

The debate of Tanzania to be supported by many CCM members of CCM, again for them to support this issue, by showing how they use their eyes and not to avoid sexual excitement.
Arising from disaster arising from sexual organs, our members of parliament are not seen again.
We are not supposed to listen and say that all those who caused these laziness is wrong! "
Their voice can be heard by looking for doctors who came out and that they are causing deaths of contraception?

We cannot refuse to realize that the strike of the specialist doctors came into the deaths, an incident that is not one of the doctors alone but by the government also, but compared to the deaths that were caused by big accidents, you cannot destroy the judgment "death" before the judgment of all people involved in fake products like the Mv Mbaga ship.
If we can be a stars from doctors, why we can be the stars as the government that is continuing to destroy the criminal acts and continue causing the deaths of many people?

Likewise, let me give excuses that there is no weeds by accidents here in our country caused by carelessness, and because of a big extent is the laziness of the government, we should learn to be accountable, and that we will protect our lives and life of the nation.
