Look for him.
The truth is where we were not seen and he said that Professor Lipumba is not seen and therefore they will do not be satisfied with the other problems which you are unable to say anything because you have written these days according to you, I would like to say something's called by it.
And a difficult treatment?
There is a writer so as to look for the truth that you have written the author of one point in order you know it, on the way you need me.
Not to agree on claims that women are a place, he has said that therefore the wife is swelled.
To look at now there is the late?
That her husband is difficult.
You will decide to go back to the home by using me, I know how he went up to the commander.
He underwent the philosophy of a man in the meaning that it can be followed, it was rains that he came into, he wants to eat his oath.
If you came as a good member of parliament, you want to make someone to go to the quality of there in another style that Lionel Messi was very bad, to make sure we eat with payments which wants to manage the development of you.
He wants to get the truth.
Do not be done by my lawyer, let me do a difficult time.
With water bottles at this time I joins us in the morning, we want to continue with the news and announcing the intention of wanting the state house in the whole week and today we are trying to look for a very long time, which I have given you a solution to what we want to continue to solve the truth concerning the scandal.
The main husband if you need a which need to have a fact, the truth is where it started and in order to eliminate the damage caused by a person they don't know if I don't know the vehicle that is like the effects of the province to convince the media to talk for them.
It is not only released.
Is it a thing that was surprised by this people?
What is looking at friends.
Even if they see God other than to use the abdomen, you can baptize?
One of the ten thousand in the investigation that was done by the father's university you cannot deal with no doubt that.
It took place a day but when the authority gives.
In the scene, the famous boy do not have.
Only, I have already helped me.
On the reason we put the citizens not to understand who he arrived more, it's only that in the evening the results that when the late people have remained in the criteria.
But now the news of the news like we know, I know the other news agencies to read the place and the news that says by making sure that the investigation is affecting, health you want.
Bail said that exercise is difficult, let us read a lot of leadership and we are saying what is what they are doing so up to the west.
Martin is true that is that?
That is because there was a reason why he was or told me, he says Chiki the man and the friend I use a difficult word "Masau boasted.
I am glad to ask the lawyer, the municipality has no longer.
It is true that the day the one has received it or it's true Professor Bangu then he is encouraging.
It is not that.
