03 January 2013.

4 years die in different events.

By Zubeda Sakali.

Four people have died in different events in the city of Dar es Salaam, including the resident of Mbagala Charambe, Abdallah Salum (18), he hung himself by using his name but.
Speaking to the Majira newspaper in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the provincial police commander of Temeke, Engbert Kawemama said that the event happened the day before yesterday at 4 o'clock in the province of Charambe, Mianzini.

He said that the late was found in his room, he has identified himself by using his album but she has given them down from him and to stop the message that he said, "the HIV disease has no problem."

He added that the body of the deceased has been reserved for Temeke hospital for investigation.

At the same time, Commander Mambosasa said, a resident of Mtimbira village known by the name Mrs Rose (80), died after falling on the wall of the house.

The incident happened the day before yesterday at 11 o'clock in the evening at the Mtongani area, where the late had his aunt Miss Grace Petro (52) who had gone down with the wall of the neighborhood and caused the death of Miss Rose there and then.

Commander Fuime said that in that event, Miss Peter was injured and he has been admitted to Temeke Hospital for more treatment.
The deceased has been reserved for the hospital.

In the third event, the resident of Magomeni Maquei Lueth, like the Charles estimated to have years (25-30), has been found inside a car while he died.

The Dar es Salaam Regional Police Commander, Charles Kuyeko, said the incident happened the day before yesterday at nine o'clock in the evening where the deceased was found inside a car model which was a number of registration T 585 in the country, where his cause of death is not known.

He said the body of the deceased has been reserved for Muhimbili National Hospital for more investigation.

Commander Fuime said that in another event, a resident of Boko, CCM, Hummels equalized (35) has died after being forced him by using a bag of a bag.

He said the incident happened yesterday at 4 o'clock in the morning in Boko, where the deceased was found in his room, he has featured him for a bag that he had put up on him and his body has been reserved for Mwananyamala hospital.
