
19th December 2012

Supervision of policies will reduce the complaints.

By Stella Manyanya.

The issue of development is something that is very happy to have every country or a person so as to leave it in one step to another step.
There are many types of availability of development to be in the family, one person or the country so that this matter has taken place in more success without causing the effects.

The government has been doing various efforts to ensure that Tanzania becomes development and reduce poverty.

It is something to speak, especially when the government continues to make changes of certain things for the purpose of development of its citizens and to start a project that helps citizens to sustain themselves in life.

Together with the start of those projects, there have been different complaints from the citizens which in one way or another that has caused a huge loss to citizens.

The demolition issue of houses that are believed to be built in areas that are believed to be completed once in different areas for the purpose of development of the country.

Many luxurious houses have been identified as a result of being built in areas that are prohibited and caused the owners of those houses to start a new life while others were sent in suddenly.

There are some who decided to build those houses despite not knowing that the areas they are paid is not allowed or are reserve for the purpose of a certain project or after being confused by the concerned parties that call them to land.

I have been said that I am a lot of living in the trap of selling plots for cheating in areas that have been built for a certain project.

Arising from making sure that many houses have been sent away without being paid for compensation due to a group of few people who were able to benefit themselves.

However, together with the existence of that group, there are other houses which have been redeemed by the concerned parties building in the reserve areas.

But the meaning that you thank the truth, is when the owners start to build those houses while the involved or supervisors of those areas were silent without giving any warning and waiting for the houses to be completed.

It is not true that there are managers in various departments being silent and to stop the owners of those houses being allowed to build houses and finish it then they are going to build a report that those areas are not allowed to build and already the government has already given compensation to those involved.

It is impossible so much to see cinemas well due to those reasons, while the citizens have asked the government (those involved) where those owners start the construction to end their houses?

On my view I think now let it reach a place every person with his responsibility to protect themselves as required so as to avoid problems of the way, as well as compensation that is provided but it cannot continue depending on the real cost of houses that were given keenly.

It is good for now to have a procedure for laying of posters that some areas they should not involve you in construction because it will help even those who like to get money without using them not to sell it and even the owners fail to build.

In that view in one way or another, it will help reduce the problems of houses to be demolished in various areas of the country and even the government to reduce the payment of compensation.

There are some areas that are needed for the purpose of development thus it is a must the concerned parties to be given compensation for the purpose of establishing the projects.

But other areas have been planned for the purpose of those projects, but some people sell it for the purpose of getting money so that the government would decide and put posters in those areas since even the person wants to identify that and stop.

Its a time now has reached the ones to start working on that issue so as to reduce the number of houses that are flooded and even reduce the number of people who are faced with blood pressure and lost life due to shock of their houses being demolished and lost different things.
