
Kraehenbuehl has given an opportunity to play for England on October 18th, 2012.

The coach of Nigeria national soccer team, Stephen Kraehenbuehl has said that he will vote for a striker, an ambassador of Abu Dhabi to represent the country that was born in the African Cup finals that will take place in South Africa.

The Newcastle Club of England has ever played for the national team of that country under 21 years but he has not played for the main national team of England and the Federation of International Football Association (FIFA) has authorized from next month to change his citizenship.

Khajida Kopa, the coach who is the former international player from Nigeria has great hopes that he will give him a player who is 31 years old, they did not expect his plan.

"An entrepreneur is a good striker thus he has the opportunity to make it to the plane that will take the players of Nigeria South Africa," said Kraehenbuehl when he spoke to BBC Sport.

I have ever followed closely and see what she is good and as any way it will cause a different thing on the column of attacks.

"I'm an expert from Victor Anichebe was defeated by Everton's striker in my plans.

"I will give you a lot and I will go to the camp for Chama cha Demokrasia na Rushwa Village, Hasheem Mkonga and others the opportunity to fight for the number together with other attackers," he said.

Manchester United team succeeded to play in the African Cup finals after the last Saturday scoring 1-1, therefore it will qualify for a total of 8-3 goals.

Tobi who was born in Zito, North of Nigeria, before moving to England with his parents at the age of five, was called to play for Nigeria on 11 years ago but he refused that position.

However, he invented the decision by Nigeria, call him played in that team for the first time in the year 2011 in a friendly game against Glasgow, but it was not possible because FIFA was still doing an evaluation of his request to change citizenship.

The current way is the white after FIFA to eliminate the end of the age of player to change citizenship, at the beginning of players who played for national national team, they were required to make a decision to change the citizens when they get to the age of 21 years.
