
We are looking at the Mwalimu Nyerere because we are communicating with me?
October 26th, 2012

Its 648 hours during the day before yesterday, October 14, this year, the drought bridge in Shinyanga is heading to London City, while the convoy of President Jakaya Kikwete was born in London City, England for breast cancer, a day like that, 13 years ago.
After looking for a short period of long-old songs on top, as it is the fee for our leaders on all the days, which usually be played by the left wing, "the president was heading to the main platform where the national song was chosen to indicate the start of that day's activities.
The words of this song that was supported and started being used in hand with the birth of the Tanganyika stadium under Mwalimu Nyerere under Mwalimu Nyerere this year 1961, and thank our leaders, wisdom, unity, and peace, this is this teacher who will enable us to have since the beginning in building one Africa by using wisdom of leaders in a way of peace.
In this country, the song is going on, "God bless Tanzania to maintain freedom and unity, his colleagues in their husbands and children, in the same way," is to show how the teacher entered freedom and national unity without discrimination among its citizens.
I feared being asked, let us know what our leaders are using their wisdom in promoting and protecting the union, freedom and making war discrimination, class in Africa and here in the country.
How are some time you know or that they have emerged and take care for what we got to the teacher?
When he followed the prayers from religious leaders and Christians are the only ones who were invited to pray for peace, peace, stability and love by seeing the religion or the religious leaders in court, no other religion is for a big bridge.
The life of the torch of Uhuru was read by the leader of the torch of Mwenge this year, Captain Hilda Ringo who was introduced in the main platform that was adorned with a few years ago, and which was founded by a 35-year teacher, and which died on claims that he had lost direction.
In the main platform, we had Mama Maria Nyerere, a national mother who was invited to attend the funeral ceremony of her husband's death and arrived in Shinyanga one day before that day.
At one hour the day before yesterday, they attended the memory of the teacher at the Catholic Church, wait in this town which was also attended by some of the ministers that arrived, heads of provinces and district and other leaders.
Most of President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete was the guest of honor in that service, but he did not arrived or send a representative to the national flag that is not normal in the church, it remained as a result of an open part of being selected to be the president.
It is the morning, Mama Maria Nyerere when he got the report that her child Makongoro Nyerere, who was vying for the position of chairperson of CCM Mara region has been closed on night before the funeral of his father (Nyerere) through the strength of money.
It is alleged that 300 shillings were used to buy, they could destroy the elections that has been supervised.
"A member of the party who released a certificate of a minister in the corruption scandal in the country several years ago, and that is known as Nyerere does not expect it.
It is alleged that the strategy that is accused of making 300 votes were bought for money out of 300,000 shillings, 150 votes worth 20,000 and 50,000 shillings.
Reason why he has been a big possibility of the conduct of the party and managing well the agenda of integrity in the party and the government, in order for the late father's father.
Therefore, we had a mother Maria Nyerere on stage, a lot of sadness, doughing, doughing, and attractive, at the end of the father of the nation.
When we will see in this article, the fate of the president did not fulfill the promise he made, the activities that came in the country and if this day is at the Nyerere Memorial Stadium or passport.
He puts him and talked to a question.
"Who is like Nyerere on the platform of leadership in Tanzania and Africa?
The challenges of the teacher of CCM together with the Nyerere Memorial Stadium is more than the government's activities without touching the ruling party because the third reason is first, Tanu (and later CCM), it is the first party to bring freedom.
Secondly, the party is the one that makes leaders to hold the country leading in the country until now, according to the teacher's statement made a statement to the government in power, the teacher did not say, "the party cannot say," the party did not give birth to the government.
I remember a lot of teacher about CCM, and if the truth, the leaders of this party have the courage to go back to the teacher's policies so that they can help them to maintain their thoughts about democracy, good governance and the rule of law, and about the concept of encouraging the ones that are facing them.
For our leadership you are right now, that is a prayer to be unable to try to break into the pocket.
All of us know, after retiring from the year 1985, Teacher did not betray it on events and bad decisions of the party and the government, especially they saw Tanzania, affecting some foundation that he saw like the pillar that takes life and development of the country.
Some of those are together with integrity in the leadership, unity, patriotism and policies about caring for the interests of many, instead of policies that are building, to protect and strengthen the position for a few benefit from those things, but you do not like us here to mention you just among those things.
About the importance of leaders leading by considering the constitution, Teacher said.
"A person who cannot defend the constitution of our country, can't defend the constitution of our country, he cannot defend me, he cannot be happy after the oath.
When we take this example of the constitution of the United Republic of 1977, article nine of the past were forced to see if our leaders get married or don't understand the teacher about that statement.
Article explains the authority of the country and its institutions to be responsible to direct all its activities so as to make sure the following (article 9 (A)), "that the government activities are implemented in ways that will ensure the wealth of all citizens in general, and also prevent someone to remove another person."
And article 9 (i) says, "the use of national wealth is focusing on the development of citizens and especially more, are being directed to the efforts to eliminate the poverty, ignorance, and diseases," also article 9 (J) says, "the 9 growth of property or main ways of economy in the authority of very few people."
Which is a leader that you are able to supervise this with the courage?
Religious leaders don't know, or bribery they will stop, "angels" from "Landscrona", where our leaders have defended him and requested them to protect our constitution to those, while they have changed the economic growth, national resources and bad business people?
When you are taking up with the Angels "that, that the wealth of the nation is for the benefit of wealth through the positions present at the system of foreign affairs but when it is when it is when who will accident the interests of the nation?
The development of development and its implementation (if it is true) has died from the leaders that are involved more in collection of capital to cater for political campaigns and give them directly from the general elections that there was sold to politics that the field of violence and money to own political parties.
In the current elections inside CCM, bribery have been bad and now it is normal to give and receiving bribes from CCM, and now it gets a shame to say that leaders are unable to leave the election as a result of that candidate being left roofless.
Other times in the year 1993, the teacher entered that situation and asked the front of leaders and local activists saying "to the moment the force has been extended to protect and protect this government of or bribery," in the current state, if every Tanzanian is forced to ask him again.
About the party lack of policies and policies, the teacher gave his stand saying, "the party (CCM), I am not my mother and I don't have another mother and I don't have another person, and I am a union that we have improved and will go to this party because of the objective.
Don't understand the policies of the party and not your colleague, today I urge you the truth, I am sending to him, I am pleased with him, (I asked me) this people (CCM) they are going, "?
Maybe, the teacher was quoted saying, "the declaration of Arusha fell (in the field of Zanzibar) I did not say the same way together with his importance to me, if you are very disturbing," we have great stability, "he said.
And with more transparency, Mwalimu has warned them to stop the authorities in the country saying.
"Believe in, I advise that you who believe that you who love our Swahili that you're close to you, that you will lead you from a must, then they have lost hope, and in a difficult time they will be silent for peace and calmness?"
There is no peace without justice, a day that doesn't affect the teacher and warned that every signs for many citizens are seen to be true, "peace and stability have been sold at the same way," peace and stability have been sold at the same way, "peace and stability have been sold at the same way," peace and stability have been sold at the same time, "peace and stability have been sold at the same time," peace and calmness have already been sold to benefit from the wealth of the country and destruction of the poor.
Community condition is divided into ractory sides, among the rich people.
At least 1 billion, the ones with it will be paid 970,046, and those who were 970,089, "the national unity, and calmness," the national unity, then they don't know it, "she doesn't know it," she doesn't know it. "
And because our leaders have been hard to accept to build a good environment so that they can be able to continue with and "those who don't have it, they will continue to arrest them as a measure, where the day they went to them, whereby they will sign up a total of 970,089, those who were found with it.
We want to be surprised that the violence of political parties, violence of Muslims, theft of using 970,089, the deaths of farmers and pastoralists, the citizens and investors have benefited from every kind of ethics and misuse of the community as a result of people who do not get a good nation!
It's not true that in the past since independence, poverty that was there like we, and there was a shortage of products also because people do not lie?
It is because the government allowed the open efforts to enable the country's resources to be used for interests of all citizens especially considering and building a nation of free people, equivalent to good leaders who do not want the economy, but the interests of the nation.
We will try to destroy the anger of "those who don't have it to build it in the economy and other groups, to increase employment and regulations, to help the development of Viate group and citizens, so they love them and be given consent to continue to lead.
This is abiding by the wealth of the high level, if I commend the power and the wealth of these kinds, you will be able to carry the fire with your property, how it has ever said, "you are not less than what was done by all people."
Ole Sendeka those who joined them and they are continuing to play or eliminate the wealth of this nation, to bring back and listen to the citizens.
