Business people of Mufindi have complained.
Seasons Hotel, 2014.

Small scale business people did not accept the permits for harvesting trees in the forest of Sao Paulo Ndunguru that is in Mufindi, Iringa province, have continued to send a throat, "the Deputy Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Mahmoud Mgimwa, presenting complaints against him at the State House.
Together with the complaints against the deputy minister, those business people have also talked to the director of Forest Agency (TFS) and Juma they will go back on the claims of being involved in corruption, and to stop the availability of trees in that forest for the year 2014 / 15.
The reports of the existence of corruption, bribery and bribery were injured after the first time with the newspaper of Mke Mwema, in two past issues of July this year was quoted by the permits for preventing timber in the year 2014-15 that was given to people who do not have the reputation.
The allegations of corruption are together with the organizing committee of the forest that involves the management of Sao Paulo Arena, officers of the Department of Natural Resources and Tourism and the Deputy Minister of the Ministry, Mahmoud Mgimwa.
Normally, the permits are usually given to business people with an important reputation, as a result of a business licenses for timber and also the machine for preventing deaths of high standards (factory) among more than small businesses.
Previously, those business people were given their complaints to the leadership of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Mufindi district and Iringa province where the regional council of CCM (NEC) took the Stars to the secretary general of CCM, Abdulrahman Kinana.
However, it has not been known that the level of CCM's leadership has been dealing with that conflict because the efforts of getting Kinana did not be able to succeed.
Choose the complaints at State House.
In what seems to be able to look for their rights, those business people have written a letter to the chief secretary Ambassador Ombeni Sefue when the Deputy Minister Mgimwa requested him to be involved with corruption that happened.
That letter of July 20 this year has a news reporter, "Tanzania Electric Supply Company (SUMATRA) to remove more than 200 permits for industries and bring in more than 500 permits for non-industries for the year 2014 / 15."
It says that the letter is called "we are forced to you our complaints about the performance of the smell of bribery and use the power that was done by TFS, 2014 / 2015."
In their letter, those business people claim that normally, the organizing committee has requested stakeholders with qualifications to get natural resources in the forest of Sao Paulo Arena.
When he clarified that some of the qualifications are: Airtel - having a machine and other equipment like vehicles, to fill in the application forms and pay the bank - it is divided into various professional certificates.
Claims that even so in the process of this year's organizing committee in partnership with the Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Minister, Mahmoud Mgimwa, the old permits for business people who do not invest capital as well as having the machine of buying timber.
He mentioned that the deputy minister did not encourage more that the existence of corruption in the availability of permits especially considering that he is a member of parliament of that area and also a minister involved in one of the ministries that deals with that forest.
"The permits for 250 permits in business people have been canceled due to the concerned parties involved in 500 million permits while the owners do not be required including not having the machine of buying timber and put up to only 80 percent permits," added that letter.
Those businessmen claim that they are not sure that there is no additional information that there is no legal committee that was done through, discussing and passing the names of the season 2014 / 2015, except that good work was done by politicians and the executive director of the Forest Agency of Tanzania for private interests.
Are explaining about their letter, "an example in that list by using the names of other people (mother diet, health workers, brothers, relatives and his colleagues that own more than 100 permits.
Claims that for every permit, the plane was sent or sell (3,000,000 / =) (three million shillings) with a name being given 500,000 / = shillings (5 million shillings) only through the permits for the season 2014 / 2015 have paid 258,448 shillings (fifty million).
Those business people are explaining more, "the results of the big conflict that was done in the season 2014 / 2015, is an important thing that the procedure of controlling the natural resources did not be dealt with thus we want to ask for your office without knowing this issue.
Those who are complaining, "and it is professionally released by politicians like DC - Mufindi and his team is also the Deputy Minister (Mgimwa) legal action should be taken against them."
