
Ndalichako doesn't understand the scholars.

It has been written by Halima Kimwana.

It has been published today September 2016.

The Minister of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Professor Joyce Ndalichako, has urged the youth who are in the public and graduates in the country, to ensure they are learning more ways to be self-employed and not to wait for employment.

Moreover, that minister has appealed to the education institutions including universities to produce graduates of profession and strategies that will enable them to be self-employed and not graduates who are looking for employment.
He said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday in a speech that was read on behalf of the acting commissioner of education from the Ministry of Education, Technology and Vocational Training, Nicholaus Zacharia during the opening of the youth conference that concerns the strategies of finishing the problem of employment and bribery.
"It is true that the problem of bribery is not big here in the country but in the whole Africa, in general, Africa has approximately one billion people but among them 50 million people have no employment and decided to address this and decided to act so as to give a solution," he said.
He said that when the medicine is lack of employment going on all over the world, it is now time for Tanzanian youths to have climate change and when they graduate they want to have better education that will enable them to be self-employed and not to wait for employment.
"I am saying that we're talking to scholars waiting for employment, even education institutions including universities that we shall talk to the youth with positive feedback with them and this is not only to increase and building the nation economically," he said.
He said the state of continuing to provide education is that is making youths to depend on more employment which is a result of a big problem of lack of employment to many youths who have its results run away.
Speaking about the problem of bribery, he said that the problem together with continuing to chew the country has become a great impetus in the implementation of good administration in various countries in the world including Tanzania.
He said that we have signed in any country that is the youth therefore it is good for the relevant institutions including the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (VAT) it started to involve the very close sibling in controlling the acts of bribery.
On his part, Bromwich, said he believes that the only way that will help in dealing with corruption problem is not to give better interests to the public servants or employees but it is to change their views so that they can stop bribery.
The chairperson of the Youth Network (AYS), Abdulmalik Mollel has said that the meeting has brought together youths from 14 African countries, some of them are Rwanda, Uganda and South Sudan with the aim of discussing and looking for solutions against the problems of lack of employment and bribery.
The representative of the resident director of the United Nations, Stella Vaquina, said the decision by the youth to meet and talk about employment problems and bribery are important because they require 17 development goals (SDGs) being implemented by approximately 193 members of the UN including Tanzania.
Previously, presenting the research results about the state of employment to the youth in Tanzania, the Research Manager from ACS, Elizabeth Nangi, said the results of the research that brought together approximately 3,000 youths have stated that 78 percent do not think about the problem of lack of employment and bribery.
