
Opens a new page by singing.
By Antoine Griezmann.
After leaving for seven years now, he continues to build their music.
Moalimu, has taken a camp in Malindi, this time, he defeated the life and his lover for many years Alice were not aware.
And after getting a hole, Moalimu, announced that he has started using Swahili during its obligations, "things have been changed and now. I am very happy to get a wife and from now, the fans will start getting 13,048 votes including entertainment in Swahili language," said the artist who built its reputation for his skill of being playing the society at the Kicheere.
So as to inform us that he will stop singing a wife, this artist claimed to get a song with great name.
Although it's no five seasons for you very much, Moalimu, says they are claiming that his Famy life is expected to end in the afternoon.
"Although I have heard the wife and it will continue to prepare my fans in the past, I have not yet heard this one I have peace and my journey in the art has started now," he said and urged his fans should expect to be heard more.
This artist's reputation, whose real names are Kamoga or Moivo has participated in the year 2008 when he had joined the 810 music studios in Mombasa that were supervised by the Dongfangzhixing Ship, which got its first song by the name Johannesburg, which had the great popularity of continuing with music.
However, he believes that his keenness of expanding their balances.
"I found the building when I was in eternal peace, his condition that he featured in Oldonyo Sambu school, he identified himself by Naimu.
"I used this opportunity that had been given out in those studios, getting married after getting married," he explained.
But in the year 2010, he was announcing many when he got to Stamford Bridge in Nairobi city and got his second song by the name Nimlaumu Nani. "I decided to produce tourists in the music sky by a long-inch width in Nairobi city," said Moyoni. I believe that artists of the new generation have a good opportunity to encourage the community and especially the youth through their balances.
"In this time we can reach a lot of people through the media and network that were not there and technology has improved and put him in front of those who passed it," said and encouraged the artists to make corrections on wisdom in the community.
In his video of artist Moivo has explained people that despite losing a lot of joy, who are supposed to respect the God.
This song has been due to anyone since he went to early this year.
Moalimu has said he usually builds the people of every corner, its obligations.
"I am a foolish thing, I do not use the attractive language that is understood by the people of each other, and this has done its spherical guidelines," he explained.
"We are also my system of involved the public and when I will be bringing up the feedback before the stage has been attracting many," he said.
Moalimu, says that it is a must for music to go to the time and urged people to stop considering the artists of the new generation.
"Music is like the effects of fashion.
You're continuing and when those involved the effects of new generation have been outdated, "said and encouraged the youth to use their talents without stopping.
St10 talked about a lot about music and even to make sure they get a message that has been forced to make him grow, "said Moalimu, who is 29 years old.
Everything studios were known as usual for defending gospel musicians of the new generation and artist Moalimu, did not want to use them as required to sign the auction of playing for seven years now, that artist Moalimu, has done a new page in his life by voting.
