
Hitler did not want to report the plot of manslaughter.
By John Lukuwi.
The Member of Parliament of the Central Bank, Joseph Gmwaijonga has said that claims of conspiracy by killing the former prime minister Raila Odinga, should be reported at the investigation unit, Ciara, so that investigation is done.
Mister Glawogger who wanted the special member of parliament Doctor Oberlin Kisanga, who last week gave those allegations, to register a report to the police instead of announcing his claims in public.
Doctor Odinga who is the former prime minister, last week claimed that there is a conspiracy for some of the leaders of the East African Community (EAC) killing him away.
"There is need to plan the killing Mister Odinga, though he does not have any decision in the EAC and he does not have any position outside the EAC and they have already retired," said Mister Gola in an interview with the nation today.
On his claims, Doctor Ogano insisted that his claims were true and that recently he will give you a report from the Cemetery.
"At the moment it is not true, I would have not give information any time but Mister GNP has no authority to follow me what should I do so," said Doctor Odinga.
This is happening a few days after the member of parliament involved in parliament after getting explanations about the tour of Mister Odinga in America.
Mister Grisham said the parliament should be discussed if Mister Odinga has retired from politics after living in America for a long time though he was a opposition leader in the country.
The member of parliament of Correa scored together with other leaders of the Jubilee Union have condemned the member of parliament for what they got as the attempt to intervene in life of personal interests of that leader.
Doctor Ogano said that some presidents of the EAC are there and personal agenda in the East African region participated and fear that it will not be reached if political leader will be active, "said there is a plan of killing Mister Odinga just after going back to America.
Claims by the special member of parliament, we stopped apart from the State's spokesperson, Manufacturing Company, Essar said that she has mentioned the ones that do not have any foundation of killing the EAC and its leaders.
The inspector general of police David Kimaiyo said that he has not received any report about those allegations.
Doctor Ogano gave those allegations in two years after another CCM member of parliament has given information equal to a conspiracy by the killing of Mister Odinga.
In the year 2012, the member of parliament of Geology, who is a cousin to Mister Raila Odinga, Anhela Kizigha was said that some of the senior officials in the government were found in killing Mister Odinga, claims that he was aired by the government.
