Despite the budget of financial and ten thousand shillings for three votes and read yesterday, the parliament was highly commended by recognizing the priorities, therefore stakeholders have talked about several weaknesses of that budget including continuing being dependent on sponsors and making sure to reduce the use of the government.
Those opinions and others were issued during the opening ceremony that brought together the business people and the tax issues in the private sector in the country, the picture will know the stakeholders.
Giving his opinion, Professor fifty at the University of Dar es Salaam.
He has promised passing the fever of five years where he said there is no good governance in the production of domestic chemicals even so he has congratulated the government for returning and obey them and boundaries because those youths can produce food to continue.
There are important things in the bank that your bank inside let's shivered, the budget since fifty years I don't like drinks and they are not only once every year.
A teaser that the economy of masturbation regarded as no other sources.
There is this new things I have written as if you want to pay five million shillings.
See a solution to me more than your number that is saying you cannot get your name.
But the neighborhood did a research, I know there?
Another person has more than to be accountable for lack of lack.
What can we be able to do?
On his part, the adviser on taxes on its tax has called me, he would say the issue of inflation on prices will not come as a priority because it will be provided for the use of the East African Community to reduce taxes in the East African Community.
How is the money that you get inside this country.
We have used the police force for example which he gave the government and my work I heard my again.
What is the money that you reached, you cannot use it?
Do you ask for your needs to grind using money that is going on.
The level that receiving from Kim Kardashian's book where you get money that is receiving money from the group that give them a lot within the country and outside the country to use that opportunity again it has never been done again.
The right comes from the people who had gone to Msangi.
