The Christian girl who is alleged to have fallen from her in his tour.

The Christian girl who was accused of mistake by asking for a distance of God in Canada, has got a safe port with his family in Canada.
August last year, Ranaldo and 14 years left, they will be unable to see God after one neighbors to see the girl singing in the holy martyr.
The mistake of that judgment is the death in Pakistan, which involves its religious laws during the period of the age of 1980.
Although Ranaut have finally been thought, his family is still safe to live in Pakistan.
Just after time received threats and for sure, they are forced to leave.
March 14, this year Routh who moved to Canada with his parents, his three sister, and his brother, according to Lawyer Kelley Mwitasi.
They followed the support of a donation by one young person, and now they live in a certain place in Toronto area.
Peter Beka, who is leading the organization that has helped the family of Masog explained that Ryszard Kapuchinski is doing well 'and he is going to school every day.
The dream of the girl started on August last year when a Muslim Brotherhood group asked the religion to report that when he saw the girl when he saw the girl in his home in Boksburg in the neighborhood and it was not mentioned.
Those accusations involves a group of people out of 500 to 600 to come out of Rhema Trust, and resorted from the Christian family.
"Many people gathered and they were saying," we will give out the hands of people who died in the Holy Quran, "her sister has explained.
Rwengenyeza, went against him and he did not from outside the police when they arrived and arrested the girl, he died in prison for 25 days.
Although those accusations cause violence in the neighboring country, there were many in Jerusalem where they were congratulating them to charges.
One of the leader with religious leaders, Ahmed Kipozi, said that the case is required to be brought keenly, especially by considering that 'lice' is that everyone was sentenced to there. "
Finally, who is accusing she is discovered to have evidence of insulting each other and she was identified.
But the judgment of law is not same as the judgment of the public, and the family of Ranaut have continued to live in fear inside their country.
"I have a lot of sadness that a girl who has no doubt was forced to leave in Senegal as he was surprised by the court, and despite there was no possibility of him to live in freedom," said Nyami and explained.
