Very much too.
It is no one that is that.
Though I have not spoke to a voice I have talked to me where in today I hear you come from today, I have no longer and asked the story from yesterday it had said you will go a friend but so if it will be 'Imebaki Story.'
The time it was told me inside, tomorrow they went to the late father of the same day, I will go to tomorrow morning.
It is not available tomorrow it is not a joke to us, I will not come up with the same way you will be okay, when I will not go down, then I will not go through a place where I will not go through a place where I will be, laughing out me when I will do when I will welcome her.
It isn't that CHADEMA is a very long time ago I was surprised and I saw it because it was no one on the table.
And when I ask who will take him there you know that you are taken and we have already done my friend, I will give you a long period of two years to be taken.
It's no one who doesn't know what I don't know himself or go to Nairobi, I found himself and we had already explained the church, I am no longer.
I would like to tell you, the late does not see the average?
Hearts are the hospital.
It is not on the put in the group asked, he did not know what's good, the late God bless you, that is the same way to welcome him and not to see me when you go to the pitch and even you know they are looking for things about his previous eyes.
I believe that they have been told nine or a lot, you can sit down and you can pass through you and we can reach the two that will have a big number.
When the festive season, I have heard the people who have gotten tired and asked the cancer I don't have to pay two hundred thousand shillings and then it is a hospital that is called for then well and asked the late.
It is very important when you give you a chance to look at the chest with the late God bless you and the request you don't know what you don't want to come or it.
I was among those told me that I will go off the same way.
He did not come with good intention to go to you.
