
The Wote Scheme that is expected to shine for films.

With 13 days before being defeated by the intention of voting for artists and their work to vie for the film awards in South Africa, it has been known by the name "Africa Magic Bongo, (KFGM).

In that competition, the question is going to be known as' Siri ya Mtungi ', he will shine by seizing the award, together with those who participated in the different awards.

Apart from that assessment, the artist Juma Rajabu (Cheusi), who died on that film he is competing for an best actor of men competing with three other actors from different countries of Africa.

The Relations Manager of Multichoice Tanzania (Tanzania) that supports the competition, Barbara Kambogi said the main job that is in front of the citizens to ensure that and called each participant in Tanzania in the big film awards in Africa.

According to Mwangaza, the film stakeholders and Mchuchuma project from a total of they can vote to be given, before being beaten in that step in March three this year.

Multichoice has noted that those awards will be released on March eight and that they will be aired directly from Lagos, Nigeria and DSTV, together with former TV.

Vote.

Kambogi mentioned the number of campaigning for Cheusi, explaining that stakeholders and religious stakeholders are required to send 2212,3415 million shillings per hour, just after one hour if the best actor is best, "said Kambogi.

That award is expected.

Multichoice that mentioned the awards that will be used by Theresia SCA as 28th of April there are 26 sections, a new one that is special for recognizing and to respect people who gave an important contribution to build a new song in the African film called Erena.

Some of those awards are the best actor of the Girl Child Goals which is the best actor who is famous in film, model Flaviana Matata, an best actor of film, comedian Lucas Mhavile, an best actor of film, music producer, Lucas Mhavile.

The secret of an ancient attack.
According to the Multichoice film 'Siri ya Mtungi', has succeeded to come out in contesting for awards in seven sections of the competition while also its participants vying for the award.

Those sections include, the best actor in which is being represented by Juma Rajabu, the best actor of film actor Lucas Mhavile, the best film that uses Swahili language (Swahili) and Elias Mwandu with great talent (Kyoma (Swahili).

It was discovered to contest for the best editor of Sauti Sol of Yemi Alade, the best actor of fashion designer (NBL) and was represented by Rehema Nchimbi.
