If you could have M-Pesa in Europe, Leicester would win?
May 5, 2016.

I assure you about the news reporter of this article not to remove my brothers from Vodacom mobile company, when they read the news reporter, they are required to choose a person to read Tigo Pesa, Airtel Money, or Jay-Pesa. I would have been able to choose any name among those.
But Vodacom is the ones that are joining the Tanzania Football Premier League and this topic depends on that way and even so, this topic in general does not concern them.
According to the soccer fans of football, which happened in the English Premier League this season, it was a historic match for the league during this league season, which is only 5000-1, which is only 5000 shillings, is only one who won the championship and it was heading to win the championship.
While this newspaper comes back the day before yesterday, Tottenham Hotspurs was playing with Chelsea as soon as Spurs continued, it is possible that you came up with this article when Leicester are accused of the defending champions of the England Premier League.
But if Spurs will have won, its meaning will have Leicester City to wait for a little time and even if Leicester will be forced to win the championship, his fans will vote in front of the last season, Leicester and Newcastle recently.
Another reason is that the team has given a best player in that league, that player is a citizen of Algeria Riek Machar who now has put the record for being the first of age to get that award.
It should be remembered that this is a league that some of the African rocks like Tony Heah, Nwankwo Kanu and AJay ', Yaya Toure have played and they had never played that award.
Rioba said it is a great fan of a player and she has been bought for more than 125 million pounds (2 billion). This is a little amount of money in the English Premier League.
But we have prepared a team that has a small budget to this amount, it is used to buy a easy price and does not have a lot of money to win the championship in that difficult league in the world?
If I am asked if I was asked if I will give you a direct answer.
When I know where Leicester are in Tanzania, let your impatience will involve the rich people of Simba, Yanga and Azam FC at the Vodacom Premier League, Leicester, I am a team like Coastal Union, Toto African, Majimaji and others in the way.
These are the teams that are normal to participate in the high level of our league, they have its blood fans and there are many years if they play with players or a good team, Coastal Union and Majimaji, I have been criticized by many because there have ever won titles.
Today, I don't see the way one of the teams can win the premier league title in front of the rich of Dar es Salaam City, those teams can have a lot of players who have their own differences with the colleagues of Yanga or Azam but the big difference is coming from the criteria and "infrastructure."
The infrastructure that brings us here is to be like this one that his minister is Professor Makame Mnyama Mbarawa and another one that I will come up because later in this article.
The infrastructure.
All the England countries has a total of 130 million shillings, 239 kilometers, this means that Tanzania is very big times for the nation that has ever been a problem if our country would have been difficult and then the team does not have financial ability to use air travel.
In England, the team cannot travel from one area to another to play in the match by more than four hours and they will use the plane, then the train and all the transport is the same as Toto got to play for 22 o'clock and the road are still unknown.
The buses that they won are up to three three people and because there are no allowances for paying the players, they will be required to be on one day or two before the match at the same time, the rich teams live in Mwanza are using one hour or two.
In the past there were more bad road than now the train from Mwanza was to come from Dar after two days since the start of the journey, but Pamba had been a threat.
