
Earlier on the 9th of February, 2013.

Kenya is a campaign to spread yourself among the family.

Raila Odinga, Uhuru Kenyatta.

In the beginning of the year 1980, I had a good time Himself to politics and wanted to use a political opportunity to sign him in Kenya through the United Republic of Tanzania, Jomo Kenyatta, for the death of her father by saying that Uhuru Kenyatta, the candidate of the United Republic of Tanzania is an outbreak of land.

Washington in history of Kenya, after the death of President Jomo Kenyatta, and President Daniel Arnautovic and to take their position in 1978, tried to make sure they receive the national freedom and to give them positions in order to build the national unity.
One day he made a public rally to explain to him why he had the late Kenyatta, and said that the great reason was that President Kenyatta said that she had already had a lot and once he had promised to arrest him again and he had promised to arrest him again and he had he had gone up to the 1990s while the activities of democracy of many parties participated in speed.

That comes from now in Kenya, is a repeat of the days where the children of Uhuru Kenyatta might play with power in the next month's election.
The professionalism of presidential candidates.

Basically, Raila Odinga has decided to use a land issue like the area that caused the professionalism of Uhuru Kenyatta, I wish him that there is no plain truth that the land's land has been buried and then it is true for a child to pay the sins done by his father?
If Tanzanians should not be good, we should learn something due to these attacks in Kenya for now, the land is something to be looked upon in the whole world.

If you follow up politics from Kenya, it is a country that forced to follow up's capitalist activities that are focusing on private ownership (Private Sector Foundation) and not their property without caring about rights, equity and to compensate the performance of not caring about the procedures.
By considering's capitalist policies, land has been encouraged to get back again. If you read the history, for example, the attackers from South America in Manento said that it is time for Uhuru Kenyatta to see that they have lost land, those who don't have land have been expelled from those areas at the colonial era.
It is the responsibility of the politicians in today to make sure that the former ruling sin should be demolished and they should be discussed again for the current period.
That is why Uhuru Kenyatta is supposed to use this campaign to promise many Kenyans who were expelled from their land and causing them to be eaten by his father, Mzee Kenyatta said that he will get a certain amount of land that his father used his power and not to be taken against him so that he was done by his fellow Kenyans.

Politicians are politicians.

Basically, Uhuru Kenyatta had a lot of age of 15 years when Mzee Kenyatta died. "He is her husband who came into land for her father's home, but that Uhuru Kenyatta decided to return their land because it would be very much and not people to accept the truth.
On the side of Raila Odinga, she has clarified that Uhuru Kenyatta decided to make sure that they have a great land for him, it should be remembered that Kenya is the only thing that has put the procedure of making sure those who made them have been done to ensure those who benefited from.
There is no politician who will be able to return or put in a land.
Like Raila Odinga wants to be true, it is good to explain how he will supervise and make sure that the land policy, land laws and the constitution that has set a section on the history of land problem in Kenya, has stated that it is enough to solve this problem this situation has built the foundation of a new constitution of Kenya in implementing land policies.

In general, this campaign to revive the hatred of parents of candidates is an important thing to show that for a certain extent, our politicians are very important and in the campaign he did not talk about political changes (political parties), but you are preparing itself for political changes in Tanzania.

The statement of the Diamond Jubilee in charge.

The statement of the news reporter of the church?
