
If you will be forced to think that they can't know that they are marrying them on 09 / 2012.

Sunday, the day before yesterday, I was coming from Kariakoo, where in the corner of the Nyamkazi Primary School and Naronyo Kiango, and also a video producer.

And people, especially the youth, they've surrounded that one to listen to hatred in religion that had been grafted as we are at the end, but these days we are fighting for free but these days we are looking for free, "other social poison."

Most of the most important that I found me there, it is one of the most importantly, especially youth not to have employment and better education education, it's a bomb that is waiting for things to make sure that the concerned agencies have already been looking at each other than hatred aside.

As a nation, we must have a solution to this problem of lack of employment to youths together with the problem of lack of quality education and also there are these wards that would have been strengthened, then they've been able to build a stable foundation that would have reduced, then I have been able to build a stable foundation that is causing the effects even by the poor.

A clean up of a house caused the killing of a bomb that was put by a house of severe pains, a shivered and the one with a house of the house.
And he told Bongo, "Eif you know, there is a trap of buying his bed and we help each other to serve the fans before it is not free."

If he answered me, "leave you, at a trap of sending him about what I don't have a strong man, you know that there is a trap of putting off his house, a house that will help each other to serve us because it is free of us."

Goats, he answered me, "when she is when I saw you got in a room for a house?
The trap of putting a lot about goats, goats and shivered to the cows that had a house, and he told the Lord "Eucharist celebrated, a trap of buying his thoughts before it does not affect the effects."

Mchaga answered Yesuu! "I have not want to hear a surprise issue like that, that is, you will have a cow as they were affected by a trap of buying his bed sheets!

Then, it happens one day as a surprise, as he went into a room, with a house, looking at a trap, it was heard.

The neighborhood had arrived for the first day, people were very few, if they intend to get married, a person who has already been done on the second day where the goats will be slaughtered and arrested two goats, a goat that will be avoided.
He was arrested a cow as a person who is already done!

Even if a man, goats and a cows that believe that the effects of the mud could make them remove it because they had a sharp object on it, and not a permit to learn from this incident. I conclude.
