
Picture by Benedict Liwenga.
Picture by Thomas V.
That the male star is not a case, but on the life of the patient, it's then the same way or many male stars who do well in the entertainment field, you will discover that there is one reputation that are still unknown.
This reputation is a big thirst for some of them by using their own kind, money together with popularity, it's claimed that everyone who failed to be found when they did one person they did when they get married.
In breaking the heart it is that, even with their own behavior in Mtwara Province, they are not supposed to move forward and be a fetus and even if he comes back, he entered into the memory of the beauties who have ever been affected by the concerned star.
That was a result of a person not to investigate all the stars who I see for sure it is the sugar of the beauties.
The release of Eindhoven mid-actor, Jomba Koi, got his popularity as a continuation of the famous comedy group that was paid by 8 million dollars (Sh800 dollars).
In every show before not knowing the number.
At the end of last year he stopped the news headlines for the reports of being involved with a large number of women without using the immunity and AIDS virus.
According to the father of five children, the number of women he did from them love it is enough for the people that are enough to run a big company like Tanzania Media Group. With its speed, it will not make sure that the number will rise despite having its health condition for now, it is open for each one to know.
The family still has enough money and due to his condition, he is still expecting to arrest more efforts.
George Cpwaa says her name is very big for Hollywood, he acted later on the Grazanian player (2001), after his three-year old star, 1989 up to 1993, she will never get married again.
It is a promise that he will take care for several years in a period in which he was able to change some of the short time when he was heard by Testify which he was heard by Tomas Rosary, then he went to his home, Lucy Lameck and later read it as BISON.
However, in the year the day before yesterday, November 2014 with the age of 51 years, he denied the promise and decided to marry his lawyer Alice, in Italy, there are still a rumor that their marriage was heading to broke down.
D'JJ (musician) is a musician from Nigeria.
It is a good friend, what is true and he is true that if the age has gone up to 35 years and still we are expecting a marriage issue but how can I get married when he does not have her own suit?
His list of various places being read, I think they are names of the graduation that qualify for different studies in the university for a short time, but some of those who want to get married but later he was announcing to leave the same time, but when he was announcing to leave that is because his friends he likes to go through information.
There is Bonna Mafoto, a reporter of one television station in South Africa and like the radio and their love he finished last year, but now it is alleged to have been sent away by Adaegypti.
Jestina George (actor).
In Nollywood film star, the scandal of various places were mentioned in court, I have sure that they would have lost six years of my life with his former lover Khajida Kopa, the beautiful lady said, "he has lost six years of my life with his former lover.
At the time he took Kah Prize, she found himself saying that he still loves Jomba Kochanke who has admitted openly that he still loves Jomba Kochanke who was ready to give birth to her male child.
When he comes from acting, it has also been said to be said by the fellow actress Dominic Gigabyness (musician) is what is proud of to attract the good music industry who has enough success.
When he was 32 years old, he has not yet been ready to get married and last year, he said that he cannot get because a lot of time he is out of touching on his profession.
He was already two hours due to different women who were in their relationship.
Abdelhamid Radwan, Anna Baamar, there is a rumor that there was also a rumor that he has already made a lot of a music star Chengula who is together with giving a new song together, have been seen as a lot of time.
Ali Kiba (musician) here in our Africa, this is also there.
When you meet with Ali Kiba, my colleague, you can't stop, but the relatives are very delicious, when the issue of primary schools has all three children.
It's a star that is difficult for any woman to kill him, because she had a strong desire to attract more than one hundred and more, this is why it will remain with the actress Elizabeth Michael (Lulu is also known by Diamond Platinumz.
Diamond Pickup, (M).
At the moment since they get married, Hassan got a lot of faith from Uganda, who lives from South Africa, Diamond has been seen since she was born, Diamond has dropped from several number of women suffering from Wema Sepetu, Jichunge.'
Prezzo who in the game is to be the rapper of Kenya who in the recent years, has been seen on the same way with music while there is a rumor that the shame of his shame 'of them' that has not completed.
'Luda, this one who was also known as they met with his wife Daisy and his wife Daisy and the late Goldie Roach, who died recently with the rapper's girl, Nay wa Mitego, and also a resident of Bongo Flava, Nay wa Mitego, and also a resident of Bongo Flava, Nay wa Mitego, had also played several weeks ago.
COMING, Mustafa Panju (in the recent days) the rapper wrote a lot of pain when he met with his lover who claims to change his own life, but before that, Mustafa went up with an artist whom they went to love for pain and he mentioned that she was held for two weeks alone.
Mustafa has ever claimed that, since he left, she left the number of women that he had from them is more than 20.
Willy Paul, (musician) is a gospel musician who does well, has a good body, a good body and the gospel musician, his thirst for someone she did in the streets after saying that she was the day before yesterday.
His friend, is in Ditopile, popularly known as Pendo, on your last time she did his last year when he released his last year, he started having a lot of war to me. "
