Open letter to Jamal Malinzi.
October, 31st, 2013.

First, I would like to take this opportunity to create a private congratulations together with all the new teams that came in power in the general elections of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), that took place last Sunday in Dar es Salaam.

However, this letter is about you, for many years to come, many people will not accept this new leadership through you because you are the top leader.

Your victory, together with other things, has shown faith that the delegates of the TFF general meeting that you should know that you will be able to stimulate the growth of the soccer game in the country.

The problems of the soccer game in this country, most of the first, takes the leadership in a country which have never happened to participate in the big competitions.

First from now, they have been people to choose teams to play during the biggest competitions for approximately 20 years ago, president of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi, reached an agreement that Tanzania is equal to the head teacher of soccer where everyone knows it is wrong.

Up to now, this nation has remained as a head of the trend of a small country like Cape Verde, Rwanda, has been charged and managed to play in great competitions while we are participating in the biggest competitions of the African Cup for the first time and the last time.

This nation that was given a star like Abdallah Kibadeni, Sunday Manara, Omar Mateen, Omar Shekilindi and others was impossible today to have no players.

The players are there but the problem has had a way to identify their talents earlier, to take care of them, to help them and get opportunities to blossom.

Yes, I have proposed that your first work to strengthen the expertise in soccer in the country to ensure that Tanzania becomes enough experts in the ball from coaches, psychology and psychology, referees and other organizations.

But the most basic of all are coaches as a result of having enough coaches, this country will not go anywhere, a ten years ago, Germany was given early in the European cup and that it did now be a threat in the world.

The first one was to increase the number of coaches as the reason of taking care of many coaches as those coaches were distributed in the whole Germany and they were teaching children from the age of 11 years and continue.

Without having coaches, you can't help the children's talents and at the moment, Tanzania has a very small number of coaches as well as the patriotic coaches who are in the country, they don't have the coaching skills that are not accepted.

Most of them live as usual they were doing when they were taught with their coaches but soccer has changed so much and that is why in Europe right now there are groups of famous coaches every year, we discussed about football issues.

This evidence shows that for close to seven or eight years now, many teams in Tanzania have been showing the problems of getting tired early this week can be a reason to do exercises before the match or do a little exercise.

Also, some of the players have been doing mistakes that were for many years for many years without getting rid of this means that there is no people who give direction on how to improve it.

Also, these days we have many players that are known by doing well-related balls and we do not have a vibrant listener or if it was in the past, these issues, more than private talents, are important to be taught.

The technical committee of TFF is important to have been able to make calls on how our national team will be playing soccer. From the age of 17 years to big.

This will help because the player who came from the youth team, getting into the big team will be using the problem because the system is same as we are not need to follow the system of Spain, Germany, Brazil or England but to be made a system that will go with players in Tanzania.

I have heard that you have a plan to make changes in the technical department of TFF by increasing the number of experts and I think that it is a good idea and those experts will be awarded talents early and they will ensure that there is no talent.

It is also important for TFF to put inspiration of forcing all teams in the premier league, to make youth teams (even only one), from starting the area where the team is doing exercises.

Another big problem in Tanzania's soccer is very disturbing, there must be the standards that will be used to decide if the league can be played in the concerned stadium or not.
