
I have ever been approved as a minister.
The member of parliament for Kajirer, Retired Major General of Retired Joseph Noma, was sponsored by parliament yesterday to be the Minister of Internal Security.
Mister Nicrox, who was recommended by President Uhuru Kenyatta, at the beginning of this month, now he will not be appointed officially where he would be expected to resign from his parliamentary position.
The members of parliament to vote for two times after the electronic votes was born by the members of the United Republic of Viate. The first time the electronic votes showed that, 150 members who had agreed with 69 votes were criticized between 234 members who were in parliament at that time.
Through Mister Nyenshile, those parliamentarians of Correa scored for votes of writing him.
While contributing to a motion to marry off, the very few leader in parliament, Mister Nyami said that, that member of parliament for Kajenje interviewed the central region has a great experience.
"General Namkoveka said that when he has been in the army between the year 2011 and 2002, in that period he did a lot including being a special adviser on the army issues of Igunga District, in order to discuss peace in South Sudan.
Mister Nyami even so, he said that General Nicrox, is supposed to implement several issues that will be implemented by security in the country.
He said for example, the police officers are paid a lot of income, an issue that is used to deal with criminals with the terrorists.
"I have been seen to see the payment documents of the police force, normal police and those of prisons, I have noticed that they are starting with a salary of 100,000 shillings, it is true that the officer given a warning to allow criminals to continue with their activities," he asked.
The nominated member of parliament for Kitete Constituency, said that the only way to end corruption and crime is to educate the police officers a good income, and not having laws that can be taken by the minister of security, he advised that even though the security officers find themselves in political issues.
"We must be given this work, to consider the section of 239 of the constitution about the police to avoid conflicts in politics," he said.
The nominated member of parliament for Mbeya town, Charles Kengele posing with discipline and wanted the speaker to ask him, so as to discuss their decision.
"The speaker, I see all parliamentarians who want to be ready to do a decision about this matter because it does not ask you," he said.
The speaker asked the question, it appeared to support many were many, but Mister Nyenshile, he can make votes.
General Namkoveka said that he had been recommended by President Uhuru Kenyatta, two weeks ago when the inspector general of police David Kimaiyo and former Minister of Security Joseph Ole Lerner has said that when he was chased.
Mister Logan says that they have been condemned by the Kenyans and political leaders, especially the United Republic of Geology by continuing the deterioration of the security in the country whereby Mister Lerner has been sacked, 36 people have been killed in cheating.
