
Member of parliament to pave way to the voter.
By Abdulrahman Kinana.
I should be happy that the happy day for the different sports clubs in the parliament of Changalani which everyone got the jersey and balls from their member of parliament.
The Member of Parliament of that area, Omar Mwinyi made a new history of sports in that area when he stopped the teams of soccer, world football, boxing, and sports' gifts as well as balls, so that the youth can get involved in sports especially during this school, last year.
It is more than the 50 clubs that benefited from that project where Mwinyi himself was at a brief ceremony that was held in Chaani to ensure that every club has got its gifts in sports and they evade them from getting into bad things especially during this school.
Mwinyi told the youths to be involved in the field so as to prevent them from going into the streets after they do not get into many bad things including that of the use of drugs.
While giving balls and jerseys to the cost of more than 2 million shillings to 32 games of soccer, world football, gold, boxing, the Member of Parliament of Changalawe Mafanga, Kasulu District urged youths to be participating in other different games, Nay wa Mitego for football.
Ten years ago, I hope my youth will give my call on the weight to play sports because that is one of the ways to build in life, "said Mwinyi.
While speaking to Twanga Pepeta, and Coast, the member of parliament said the youths of his part of Changalay will be good and big names in different games including the boxing, swimming, football and other sports.
Soccer clubs which were awarded those gifts are, Kilimanjaro Marathon, Blue Rangers, Man City, Super Eagles and Magunga County, Coleta Mnyamani, Mwakiponya, Testosterone, Kewovac Nursing Training, Soweto, Pemba, Sports and mid-fielder.
The German soccer club, which got balls and jersey is in Mombasa West, Miguel and Bokilo, Kuguru Mendes Hospital, Changaldine Soulaimane and Changaldine Soulaimane.
Clubs of the world cup for the men that benefited from Changaldine Soulaimane, Port Reasonable Doubt, Coastal Kings FM of Congo Brazzavile, Mgana Msindai and Tumaini Njole.
On the boxing side, the clubs that were joined is Changalmighty God, Havana Cuba, African Warriors and Tonya following the competition that took place, was given out a gift of cups in all weight.
The world cup, Immigration and boxing competitions are complete the quarter-final match that will take place at the end of this week after those teams fell and insisted that the Omar Mwinyi Cup.
While speaking to Twanga Pepeta, and Coast, the football competition, Gambaly said that due to various sports competitions that are expected to take place in that area, the youths have got with the desire to participate in sports.
For sure our member of parliament has done a matter to give our soccer clubs, world football, Millennium Tower and boxing devices that make them have the desire to participate in the competition, "said Mgy.
Greste, who is also the secretary of the Federation of Football Association in Mombasa, he says that many clubs of Changalani have problems of having coaches as well as balls and because now they have got those equipment, make efforts to make sure they face the competitions.
"The club got affordable and now they have left right to have the jersey or balls, our member of parliament has helped so much for that issue and now it is about the youths themselves to make sure they do exercises and participate in a moment," he said.
He has urged the youths in the whole area of Changalay will be the importance of games because these days has been a good employment that can uplift their lives and their families.
It is as a result of being involved fully by Mwinyi in the sports issues, some of his fellow members have started to be involved in preparing football competitions, for example is that competition of the Super Cup competition that is going on at the Karimjee stadium in Mombasa.
Reliable news will inform us and the Coast to be in many areas of the Coastal Region, leaders have started paying games to the necessary weight.
Recently, the Member of Parliament for Matuzya, Hassan Mwangobola, helped the team of his Super Mega area, North West FC for controlling them for the sub-finals of the Coastal Region as a result of that sponsorship, Super Week emerged winners of the league.
And as a result of getting that victory, Super Dortmund succeeded to get a ticket to participate in the national level league in the next season of 2015, that team will partner with the other from the ones who had managed to participate in that national league next year.
