
The request by the IEBC denied the boundaries.
Olemedei has been scored by Isha Mashauzi.
Four politicians in the northern region of Rankings, have made a call to the free commission of elections and borders with the IEBC), to clear the borders of security that are faced with lack of security due to conflicts from time to time this year.
They said that it is by putting the boundaries of distributing them, he said that they have conflicts between the community will succeed.
The leaders said the lack of security in that he is caused by lack of open boundaries for filling it.
Being led by Senator of Vermont Bernie Sanders, are calling him a member of parliament of Ighombwe Village, James Lennarth Hoja, while those leaders requested the commission to put aside the boundaries that has caused several people of the community of breeders and many family members of the headquarters.
The leaders said they have gotten tired to witness the cases of livestock and robbery that they have been receiving out of the community of herbal medicines and pay for every time.
While addressing the journalists in one hotel in Elhaj said that if the government will not get a permanent ring on the issue of boundaries, conflicts between those communities will continue.
"We are vying for peace and constitutional because we know this is the way to get development in the past, he said that we are looking for him.
Mister lodge that asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to come out to ministry to address issues of North of Kenya in order to deal with the challenges that are suffering from the area which for many years have been behind economically and in the community.
"The government of Diamond is not supposed to repeat the mistakes that were done by the previous governments, by wanting money to fund the road projects, water and education in areas that are big and lack of security," said Mister lodge.
He was asked to say that the area has not yet got investors because due to the cases of lack of security caused by lack of boundaries despite having enemies.
