In this course of the journey.
I was looking for a visit to visit the council of his district and meeting with the concerned officers in contributing of the forest.
Such a Swahili language of teachers.
The decision was released when the day before yesterday said that the executive director of his voice Mister Pengo, Paul.
Therefore, I have seen me the education officer in those studies, the lover to Dodoma, I talk about the idea of improving the language of small children to understand any language, instead of a day.
According to the idea, the small children who are starting.
It comes to schools with previous education who know that you can be the previous mother which is given it.
For it's good if they would have been able to finish mother so that they can learn well until they are teaching and Job Ndugai, there is a problem.
Because the teachers that we shall be able to teach them and the locals are present, it is difficult to be able to teach therefore, then they will end the time for the teachers just like you.
My advice is that we continue teaching them therefore, by using a Swahili language that is destroying the nation.
Because the small child is easy to hold a poster that if they will get pregnant even if we go back home and we advise that we continue to use that Swahili language so that when I advise that we continue to use that Swahili language so that when I advise that it will continue to use it as a lesson so that they had already been completed.
The spokesman after different research conducted it has been discovered that if the education curriculum will be used in new languages for a very long time, it will not be allowed to teach and write a new language from him where he would like God to ask questions and give his contribution to address his talent.
They were chosen as the executive director of Tabora region Mister Pengo, Paul.
Now the importance of using the Swahili language to teach in an environment.
The late does it mean?
You're all.
In the star, there is a thing that we did not have a command from where to now we have up.
The last spokesperson, that is the end of seven classrooms with the young people vomiting, as it is now I want to be the best to be able to give birth because.
Wife can't have a lot of little but you are not a cry like Kenya or Kenya to find out how many revolutionaries of Mister and also care!
Say from my wife.
Think about a lot of issues that are set aside.
Therefore, I hope I did not love to entertain or not like.
If the government will see that those researchers have.
By going on.
Because of Jose they taught us from this continent, where we are now every time maybe there is talents to remove it due to that we did not see.
You're being unable to be prepared for a period of early because I would like to learn, you can't say when the incident came or asking because it's not true.
For example the date from here so as to go to form one and from outside, he has said that these are normal.
That is when he was born and he was silent until.
Or sometimes the year for many years now, and when I will be my own kind, I will be like what I was born here and therefore it is possible to realize that there are some of the previous years because there are some that we get especially in the past years.
Swahili language is the language of the language that has helped a lot in building a national unity and it is not supposed to build a big language in the whole country, then its priority should be used in a few parts of the country, then its priority can be used in a few parts of the country where many languages they think they are inspiring.
They should be given that education early in their new language as well as you, oil and raising their talents.
Every year is.
