
Tuesday, August 26th, 2014.

Psychology and parliamentary position - 1.

Psychology, a word that did not overlap with the word of English, it is not a problem that is understood by our community including the origin of 'Foolish Age' which is a word 'Foolish Age' which is the meaning of the soul in our community in solving community problems and thus increasing the efforts of people to bring our development.

Karrima Carter?

The main word that causes the spider plant is a habit when we talk about behavior, we will have the movements that can be seen and even discourage each other, behavior, faith in people and how it affected people.

There is a close relationship between such attitude and faith that don't be seen by that behavior which could be considered so that they can be used to explain any behavior such as love, stigmatization and so on because, all that are measurable.

Although the foundation of any behavior is thoughts, faith, thoughts, the thoughts that you want, but it is clear that all that we have done, it is saying that what is going on in the knowledge of someone (understanding) which is a collection of importance, knowledge, faith, that person is seen by actions that are seen in the way of behavior.

Therefore, when we listen to psychology, basically we will talk about our behavior and how the behavior are distributed, because of the way they come from anything that are seen and it is reduced by using abusive language and not the feelings of opinions or any of you are not so used.

History and the development of technical education.

Etihad's development journey has looked into a big way on the behavior of his source and how it can be able to identify themselves at the previous years, they don't believe in the first time to make sure you want to discover themselves by using a dream that you're getting once again.

They believed that the behavior enter without efforts of a human being and therefore, a human being has no ability to control or change his habit, due to those scientists found themselves doing different types, because they do not have any foundations in science and research.

But later, this education continued to grow and we believe it started involved the environment that is similar to someone with the habit of learning and therefore they can be respected and even if it was in the previous outcome.

However, together with those development, there are still a result of the environment that can lead the habit of a human being with that will and then later on the right to view their relationship between the will and the environment is going on to view their habit, that together with the habit of being taxed.

At the moment, the view that depends on technical education is the way that will affect the behavior, view and environment is affecting the behavior and how this situation is affected by the thoughts, understanding and social environment that are reduced by following the regulations of scientific research which many times take place in the laboratory.

Reception area.

Psychology has four main goals and one is to increase the sources of our behavior here, we have the reason to try to know the environment what we contribute to the behavior of the wealth of a human being, because human beings are avoided and sometimes it is happy.

Three, without the behavior of future, the woman will have a human habit, by using a broad range of behavior, a person can make sure that we can help people with certain behaviors.

This is the second part of this article here.

The writer of the article is the psychology lecturer at the Catholic University of Mwenge (NMBT). It is available on email support @ mkito.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
