
Part of some officers in government concern war against crime.
By Mwangi, professor.
I commend the police officers here in the country yesterday claimed that there are some of the senior officials in the security department who see war against crime.
The chairman of the officers in Mount Kenya region (CPA), Mister Onesimus Laizer, said it is open for anyone who is involved with security services that there are some security officers concerning their fellow officers in the fight against crime.
In a meeting with the journalists in town, he mentioned the killing of 23 officers that were killed earlier this month in the Kao'clock area, he from Barbosa from Barwan as an open incident about violence.
"The news that are available is that emergency officers (Glawogger) and his colleagues (AP) were in one squad that was going to win a bomb attack which was few days before three other officers were killed by attackers," he said.
He said that how the Guvnor's officers joined the caravan of running a lorry with officers from AP in front and he did not end the killing of security questions.
They revealed that the police department is associated with important sections of investigation and the collection of security so then to bring about a bad state that is currently in shambles.
They added that the Minister for Security Mister Joseph Ole Luda, the Director of Security Mister Kimaiyo, chief inspector of police Mister David Kimaiao and the criminal director (CPA), Mister Ndeki.
They put it that even open cases have been put in search of the criminals so as to be dealt with because they will give them an opportunity to prevent them to leave the legal action.
"The gospel officers who were before you were given to who came for their journey to pray for their lorry?
He said that incident that gets a danger of several officers in the high level which are if they understood that there was a series of attackers, they removed some officers not to fall into the trap and then put him up to the officers AP.
