
Mizambale has started the Ministry of Energy Junction.

Some of the workers from the Ministry of Energy and Minerals in collaboration with their colleagues in the organizations and main institutions of that ministry, have been questioning the current efforts to return to the ministry on the front of our citizens, he has told him.
Those efforts are according to various media sources in the government, they have also involved close to some of the chairpersons of the board of organizations and institutions that feel that, in a new environment at the ministry, their employment opportunities are discussed or fail to control conflicts in institutions and organizations.
More news reports are saying that there is a network of those groups that brought together running the campaign of the leadership of the ministry on claims that it has been made a lot of issues concerning services and control of property and revenue which was made of lack, and that was the biggest disease in the ministry and institutions and institutions.
Mke Mwema has also been directed that outside the ministry, institutions and organizations, that network is being supported by some members of parliament, others in committees related to the ministry, and that the implementation of the ministry should be presented to parliament an amount of two weeks from now.
Another argument that is claimed to have been affected by that network as a reason for the need to change the leadership of the ministry is to be the new Minister, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, not a politician, his parliamentary candidate gave him a great opportunity again in the ministry that is mentioned to be rich and destruction of energy and minerals.
Apart from that, Raia Mwema should also be told that other claims are an issue that causes the source of tribalism. Professor Muhongo was coming from Mara province where that is where the secretary general, Professor Muhongo said that they are coming from one province and now they are doing that one office is a problem.
Maswi was asked when he was asked by our citizens about those allegations, at the beginning of this week, he said he does not have a way to prevent people living in the country, "he said there is a way to prevent people living with them and they should not make the ministry they have decided to work so as to bring productivity to the areas they were handed to them.
"President Jakaya Kikwete has been appointed easily so that we need to go here to play.
We have been given an opportunity to implement how to follow me when you go to your home for how many times it mean?
"If you see there is a thoughts like that, you should know that we are doing so that we should never believe in things like electricity, and if you have begun to get rid of our problems in areas like the mines, now they have begun to get rid of our problems in areas like mines," said Maswi.
The permanent secretary who was appointed by President Kikwete to be the deputy secretary general of July last year, to an amount of one year, taking the position that was left by David Jairo who was accused by parliament together with other things, with embezzlement.
In addition, Professor Muhongo, one of the few experts from Geology, has joined the government in the beginning of May this year, after being appointed by President Kikwete first as the member of parliament through 10 positions of the president to elect members of parliament according to the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.
The organizations that are under the ministry of energy and minerals is the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) whose board chairman is retired, retired prime minister and former head of police, Robert why, his executive director is Engineer Godfrey Mhando.
Others are EWURA, its board chairman, Simon Saso and the chief executive officer while Haruna Masala and the Executive Director of the Rural Electrification (REA), that its Chairperson of the Board of Minerals (Tansort), that its Chairperson of the board is Doctor Leonard Kazoba.
Yamungu Kayandabila, chief executive officer, Engineer Paul Masanja.
The other is STAMICO has said that the chairperson of the board is Ramadhani Kailima Ramadhani, the executive director of Professor Jumanne Elfadhil Benki, Professor Abdul Muruma and TPDC) whose chairman is Michael Mnzava with the chief executive officer, Yona Kilumbi.
Very close to one year now the services like electricity has been restored after the country had qualified in the previous years, a situation that caused the government to start depending on the electrical project from the first phase of President Kikwete, Edward Lowassa, to resign from what was discovered in the fifth term of President Kikwete.
The other words which the secretary general in collaboration with his fellow leaders have been control is the one that was happening in the mining sector in the country.
The eating that had been involved in three mining of minerals in the country that are now urged to pay the tax payment which were not paid.
The company is the Tanzanite One that runs the mining of Tanzanite, Mererani Town, Arusha Province, the gold mine of Geita Gold Mine (GGL) and the Proin Promotion Company (CM-Tanzania Limited).
Those companies have been asked by the current management of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals to pay more than eight billion US dollars (more than eight billion shillings). It is not known "that used the company not to pay taxes which was due to what.
According to the documents that Yoweri Museveni has said that those companies are being faced with pressure to be forced to pay those taxes, blood that is accompanied with symptoms of any restrictions.
Among the restrictions that fight with the blood of saying that those companies pay the money is together with the Tanzanite One company being in a danger of being given a license after its current licenses were beaten.
But the Tanzanite One was arrested with pressure on the way, the gold extraction company of GGL, has said that it can be able to buy licenses for transporting minerals out of the country.
