
Lindi can be the Lanham act of Tanzania Sei 19, 2012.

Many Tanzanians don't know the name of the Lanham act that causes a lot of approximately 30 million American dollars and therefore lead in a total of 390,536 billion US dollars and therefore leading the world be stable although Kenya had a lot of cooking oil, 4200 tons.

However, due to the quality of that product being under little in Kenya, it got 800 million American dollars only, in Tanzania, with a big area of production than all the countries, if we decided to be careful in the issues we have and love to do big things.

These days I would like to know the history of the country in dealing with poverty of their people and the aim is to understand the efforts of various countries in bringing development to people and learn where many countries have been done well and everyone seems to be involved in a good way to know the truth about the life of people's lives.
Many times you use the modern drivers not or a Bajaj in the city like Colombo, while in talks with some of the drivers from the city, I have been doing so much, and that in a period of 10 years ago, their lives have been changed and there was an average of 437 shillings (161 trillion shillings) in day.
I wanted to know what the source of these income change which up to the disabled are benefiting from.

In the year 2002, a total of 2289 percent of all citizens of the Lanham act they live on the line of poverty that was going on well in the rural areas.

I asked himself, why and we 'Foolish Age and we have said that we are investing more money in the villages, why do our colleagues to succeed so that I do not know what I have explained to them because our colleagues can be able to oversee the development process from the village level up to the nation?

We shall talk about these statistics. The Lanham act has a total of 67,888 kilometers per year, Tanzania has a total of 45 million American dollars in the year 2011, Tanzania has a total of 45 million American dollars in Lindi province, a total of 750,000 people in Lindi province has a total of 750,000 people.
The Lanham act that all Tanzania has a budget of nine billion American dollars.
The economy of the Lanham act depends on the testing and tourism for foreign funds.
The Lindi region has a big area of agriculture than the Lanham act especially when considering over 52 million shillings which are estimated to reach 500,000 hectares, which are estimated to reach 500,000 hectares, which have never been touched since the world is the creation of Mogogoro region.

The attempt to have natural gas in Lindi and Mtwara district is the biggest of natural gas here in the country and also a large number of gas that has been discovered here in Lindi province, although many of us are found in Lindi and Mtwara together with the Lanham act of Tanzania.
We can build a economy of 60 billion American dollars to Lindi and Mtwara?
We can do this provinces to have a low level of poverty under three percent of its citizens, we can sell 800 dollars per year and to make sure that every child gets better education but we can make sure that every child gets better education but we can make sure that 97 percent of these residents get health services?

The answers of all the questions is the.

The writer of this article, Zitto Kabwe, is the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, chairman of the Parliamentary Accounts Committee, Deputy Secretary General of CHADEMA and the deputy secretary of the opposition camp in parliament.
