

By OthmanMapara.
While the efforts of getting the national honor continues, there is need to start the process of getting the artists' honor so that they can use them on stage.
I don't have the meaning that those artists do not be tough and put on stage but they should have a fashion win, time to wear, environment and the public that is in the country.
I write this because there are every sign of our artists to reach a step to follow the type of drama involving the Western artists where once every time usually is half-naked stage among them, Robter Msalika (lady FGM) and many others.
These artists have a lot of talents but I think it will be better if your rently using their professions including acting, show the search of different companies that cause a lot of money, but how do they use their voice in a good song but not to follow the type of vegetables they are doing on stage because they don't have any benefits in our areas.
These actors are expected to be announced more by the wearing of half nude pictures when they live on stage and in a half of his real life with lady Gallas.
Despite their relationship, the kind of their game and those who play with them even though they can increase the name but in this can reduce fans and increase it at a time.
Lady Geffi, who was born on March 28, at 6 o'clock at 6 o'clock in the stage, the producer is a reporter, actress, and is involving themselves with the process of giving donations to people with special needs, an artist and is involving themselves with a big part of his body which is not well known by our artists.
Put up, Miss your ability to vote on the keyboard, a musician who was born on November 23rd, 1992, at the Los Angeles city, California, America, is also a reporter of different songs, singer and actress, but he is also a reporter of different songs, singer and actress, but he is also a reporter of different songs, singer and actress, but he is also a reporter of different songs, singer and actress but is not to be followed by our artists.
Beyonce, who was born on September 4th, 1981 which was born in Los Angeles city, despite the musician is a businessman of music producer, actress, Upendo Kilahiro, who is also a business person of clothes that leave or show a big area of his body.
Nicki Minaj has been born on December 8, 1982 at Saint James, the hip-hop musician, R & B and Pop artist, is saying that she is tired of his clothes to be open or show a big area of her body and also not to be bullied.
Sheddy said she has been born on February 20, 1988, in Saint Michael, Barsheba I are a singer, actress and also a model he likes to sing a R & B superstar, Ludacris, hip-hop artist who usually have a habit of putting clothes to be open and show a big part of his body, something that is not good to be followed by our artists.
A short message (MARI), clothes that do you have and show their own kind seen by dancing with dance music which usually have tried to get out of that situation that had been made noise from some of the songs of that music although it has not been done to some of the music stars.
That situation was mentioned to be used by actors of Bongo movies, where some of directors and lovers have claimed that some of the artists used to wear different crimes and therefore he refused to act with the need of the film market.
Now it has gone to our music artists of Bongo Flavor, especially when one on stage, men is believed to have been planted on their clothes and show their foreign clothes, including their children and getting married to make their show.
I have written this article because there are artists from here in the country who started to remove these artists in some of their exhibitions, to wear clothes that are not involved with the star without caring the public that fell in that show.
And as a speed of this period, they believe it will reach the western artists very fast and perhaps we are requesting them to enable them by imitating songs of your songs in your exhibition, will not get an opportunity to be displayed at television stations in the country.
