
City, United and Chelsea are who will die 'gold'?
By John Lukuwi.
Any club that will succeed to be a coach Josep "Pep Guardiola is a player of Bayern Munich will have royalties, many soccer stakeholders have said.
The former coach of Barcelona and the national team of Spain has announced openly his intention to play Bayern Munich and landed in England to sign a contract with one of the big clubs of the English Premier League.
If the truth I will decide to get land in England for his new soccer life, her system is like 'Solo' which is popular in Brazil will increase the sweetness of that league popular as Premier League.
The Barcelona and Bayern Munich are holding back due to their attractive soccer, the type of soccer that makes the opponents be seen for free in the field.
Her news has been received with joy and fans who came up on that league all over the world, and maybe the race for looking for him is expected to continue until the last minute.
The fight to sign him in the war crime will be the coach, Leicester City club, Manchester United, Chelsea and Arsenal will play against him, while the company, Adolph Mkenda while emphasizing that it wants the coach together with the top scorer in the world Lionel Messi will return to Old Trafford on any way.
Bhebey Ndey of Chelsea, Roman Abramovich will be taking away after he was ready to buy the coach so that it can change the life of Stamford Bridge.
Guardiola will leave immediately this season will expire and maybe he has mentioned a big amount of being paid due to his reputation.
Four big clubs in England have shown an intention to sell the coach but Manchester City is the one that had given a great opportunity to sign him after their coach Manuel Pellegrini has announced to leave after the season ended.
However, that coach has emphasized that he will be able to get married after the England team in a period of two years to come, something that many believe is its plan to get in Manchester United since a contract of now Louis Van Gaal is expected to be completed next year. I don't announce a contract, I will release a contract, then I will be a period of two years to be the coach of the England team.
At the moment, I am happy about my work here in Germany and I will put my thoughts in this club until when he started my contract, "the coach said at a press sitting before the first match of this year against Homed.
At now, Pep Guardiola is forced to join all coaches who sell the Premier League due to his success in a short time with Barcelona and Bayern Munich.
His reputation in the Barcelona club is together with the La Liga league for the year 2008-2009 with the 2010-2011-2011-2011-2011-2011-2011-2011-2011 to FIFA Club World Cup, 2009 to 2011.
With Bayern, its success is the victory of Bundesliga league, 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 the championship of DFBBPara of 2013 and FIFA Club World Cup, 2013.
After retiring from Barcelona for a three year contract, he entered Bayern Munich and the system that made that club to continue to attract many players of that club together with Barcelona and they decided to follow.
At this time heading to the end of his period, that coach has continued their differences while getting close to the team the third crown of Bundesliga league in that period of its own kind to be only with Jose Mourinho together with Carlo Ancelotti, who have ever played the champions of the champions league with different clubs.
But its success is great than those who do so that and maybe he can make fans come from those colleagues.
Barcelona and Bayern have ever been over but the opponents did not play soccer to attract if it was the two clubs.
In his first year, Guardiola has enabled Bayern to win the World Cup championship in the European Champions League together with the league cup.
The former champions of the Premier League, Manchester City have already prepared himself to give him a huge salary which will enable him to be the coach that gave a lot of money in the soccer history in England, where he will win Mourinho who has been paid a huge debt with Chelsea.
However, the coming of that coach may be a shame to be the mid-fielder, Yaya Toure, Ivory Coast who left Barcelona after the coach helped me.
Pep Guardiola and Yaya Toure were Barcelona but had Toure to leave and joined Manchester City after continuing to get into the bench.
Guardiola is a coach who don't want jokes in the field which Toure has no reason because of his age of 32 years.
That coach also likes players to sign him, every time and maybe Toure was unable to implement that condition.
Guardiola is not like the players of complaining as Toure has been suffering from Manchester City and they were admitted to give him a cake when celebrating his birthday.
