What is a member of parliament Lema looking at a light of politics?
Hudugu Ng'ombeni, 2013.

In one of my articles in the past, I gave a certain book that for a long time has been trying to guide themselves in different environments of the book called "48 in the Power Breakfast" (48) in a high level.
Robert Kachumu, the author of the book which among the believers' artists' wasanii wa Mitego, who are popular in the United States and the world as a whole, where he seems to have claims that the book is "the Bible."
He says that different from the holy Bible which is expecting more in love and good things, the real situation in the world is different from people with bad luck, the world is different from people with bad luck, the way you will protect themselves from the right way, they will destroy the teeth.
In short, the book gives direction on how to get strength, assess the strength and how to protect themselves against other energy.
Why I have started this article by refusing to clarify about 48 procedures, the answer is that the importance of this article is to discuss the process of looking for power inside the main opposition party in home (Tanzania), that is CHADEMA.
The 4th rule of strength (model of Power Breakfast) has warned that "we have been able to find people with words, that is how it will talk about people with words, as how it will give them a lot of words on how it gives them the possibility of getting a fool."
The regulations is considered as possible by the member of parliament of CHADEMA, God bless Lema who for the recent days has been in huge conflicts with his fellow member of parliament, Zitto Kabwe, about the issue of allowances for members of parliament.
It was about Lema, about Lema, it is true that when he gave a report on the Community Globe at Forums which tomorrow he would have written the article on "hypocrisy when I told me that those conflicts are not beneficial to their party. By bad luck or any decision to stop my advice.
Maybe I ask Lema, after writing the article of "thank you," Zitto Kabwe, CHADEMA has given many voters for the purpose of creating that party at the state house in the year 2015, Lema has decided to serve the public as the deputy secretary general (Zitto), Lema, he decided to serve the public as a party that is ready to be alternative for CCM when the ruling party comes from power?
Recently, there was no doubt for Lema to look for Zitto Kabwe, after the parliamentary sessions or in phone and discuss their differences, "shule yetu" which is together with appreciating its contribution in opposition politics in home, I request to conclude that what he did is is the symptoms of "the political situation" (political parties).
The 9-election regulations (Power Breakfast program) is in the same way, "the victory is available through conflicts and its effects, then it will go through and" the win "which will last for a long time," therefore, "at the cost you have, for the benefit of who the victory is," he said.
Recently after the conflicts of the internet between Lema and Zitto, there is no possibility of those politicians to stand on stage and to protect the candidate of their party?
The 19th rules of strength (model of Power Breakfast) continues, "there are different types of people in the world and never think that every person will do things according to your expectations, then the person will use your enemies keenly, and we should not be careful.
However, who is not the fan of Zitto Kabwe, "he wrote me in the internet that would like him to thank Lema as part of the political life, but there is his fans (Zitto) who may not be" angels "like him, who are not effects on the future of CHADEMA?
And we will expect to do if even to Zitto, it is not "angels" (because he is being interviewed he is proud of me)?
