
More bodies of Ebola has been killed.
By OMR.
The health officers in Sierra Leone have discovered that several bodies of Ebola broke out in the areas of the gold mine in the country and caused fear that Ebola disease is reported as required.
The World Health Organization (WHO) announced that incident in the East African continent, has confirmed that the incident in East Africa has caused a great danger "the bodies were found by the WHO workers who had been sent to investigate the increase of Ebola in the poor areas.
The WHO's report said, "during the 11 days, the bodies were buried including the body of the doctors and the driver, the driver, where Ebola has caused the deaths of 346 people in West Africa, and others are estimated to be affected by the recent statistics.
Sierra Leone has a very big number of one attendant who live picture / AFP in the victims of 97 percent of Ebola since it was reported in danger of the disease last year.
The bodies of people who died from Ebola disease is dangerous to those infections will be buried by a huge number of crime so as to prevent the spread of that disease.
That squad of workers has also got their bodies of 25 people who died in five days ago, has been put in the floor of the main hospital of Kwelukilwa.
"Our workers were forced to doctors with courage together with nurses and fatigue problems being faced with victims of Eucharist at the moment we got it and there is no equipment to attend to patients more, a situation that could destroy the heart," said Doctor Olle Olle, one of the WHO officers.
Those officers explained their fear that there are many cases that they are not allowed in Keto District, a situation that is causing the spread of solar eclipse.
"We see only one of the drug abuse.
Kiboko Yao, "said Doctor Amen Junction, the director of the unit of preventing and controlling the disease in Sierra Leone, giving them a small number of the effects which was reported.
Tunduru District has a total of 350,000 people and until now it is reported to be 119 despite allegedly being faced with a lot of infection.
The government of Sierra Leone has decided to announce the danger of danger in Koke district from December 10 to 23 so as to try to deal with those diseases.
At the same time, there is no one that has been allowed to get into the hospital without approval from the doctors.
Sierra Leone has been preparing to renovate the health services after the fight against them in the 1990s.
Culture is enough and their bodies have been mentioned to have the major cause of fighting Ebola despite the government threatened to arrest those acts.
