The national team, most of the national team God rest safe for a game to qualify for the finals of the world and Ivory Coast team early, but it will leave at five o'clock in the morning when I have spoken to our writer, Christian was accompanied by our writer, Christian was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our reporter Christian Bella was accompanied by our writer, Christian
It is true that we leave at dawn in the morning when they were in the city, but up to date, the plane that was forced to go to him, he has not registered the doors for five o'clock in the morning.
The late Adam and we are trying to look for a way which will enable you to arrive in the areas where they are required to do, so as to make sure that it was flooded because of the national team.
Two and a half hours in the morning, the commission we know here in the same field.
For approximately four hours.
Four are just waiting for another plane that are going on.
There.
This means that it is possible that it is possible, it will arrive players because it is going for the program.
That you will continue to be late.
Because if we agreed to leave five hours here in Kenya or seven o'clock here in Kenya, I would like to play together like the rains in front of that period to be released six hours.
When two hours at three hours you can be different from the previous order where he is believed that the team would have tried for eight o'clock in the East African time to be able to get time to do exercises this evening at Songwe Airport.
The time of banana?
It has been commanded?
First.
That is earlier this morning while this phone was there.
