Elius Maguli who is very happy to leave Simba.
Brightiles 19, 2015.

It has been a normal matter for a big soccer team in the country, every time when the registration period is raising various problems of players including debts or players being left without a procedure.
When the signing of registration is expected to be defeated today by the premier league clubs and the first level, there are no problems that have continued to come out despite the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) to give a warning to the clubs with the system.
Recently talking about the issue of Simba striker, Elias Maguli who suddenly he found himself in a conflict with his team under mysterious circumstances, before being left officially with that squad in a environment that he himself says will not understand well.
The controversy of that star is to be said to start just after that team passed away from Zanzibar, where it stopped the camp to prepare for the peak of Simba's week famous as Simba Day.
That player is saying that he was among the players who were in the camp and he was able to score goals in all friendly games that they played there.
After going back to the player, he was left out on the list of players who were required to play in the match against Sports Club Villa of Uganda.
One of the reasons that were mentioned is that the coach is not satisfied with his level.
Maguli in his interview with this newspaper said that being left in the first squad was not a problem, but there was another news that he had heard of other people, on the left with Simba.
"The left of that squad is not a very big issue because it is normal for the teachers to enter the camp because of making the first squad which is made up of players who have shown the standards they could have, therefore, I was not true.
"But how come even after the end of that game, the player is expected to continue languishing in the home while Simba's leadership used to give him a loan to the team that even me I was not yet known, he has already joined the player who for now has already joined that player of Msimbazi.
Maguli explains that the reason given by the team's leadership be a coach and his level was not true because the player was prepared by the teachers in all the friendly matches played in Zanzibar and was able to score goals in every day.
However, that conflict has reached the end after that player was given a letter to break the contract with that team.
I was very happy when I was told that my contract with Simba then that is what I received since after seeing that there is a certain state of lack of things that have no truth inside.
"The situation shows that there was something that was going on a long time because before the lack of my name in the list of 20 players who were chosen to participate in the Simba soccer game," he says.
Maguli explains that when he was in Zanzibar at the camp he was called a phone by another team's leader (did not want him to be released on loan with Simba team, therefore, requesting him to support their team because they need him.
The star who has the reputation of looking for goals by wedding, when he was in the field said that, it was not a problem to be released on loan, but he wanted to have an agreement and also that every team could not have.
"Things have continued being difficult when one leader of Simba was asked to give him a team when he wanted him to break my contract without being paid anything so that I was not free for one year in my contract of Simba," he explains.
It is reported that among the teams that they are required to go to the group C in Kinondoni, which is participating in the first league with Stand United despite being the leadership of those teams have not seen him.
Therefore, it was a plan that even one day I have never been informed but they were their ability, but they would have said that even if it would have been able to sit and play soccer in Simba, "she told me.
Maguli has left Simba and now he is free to play for any team that he wants him, "I did not want to leave Simba as well as I did not want to play for that team because they don't know why he decided to perform well," said Maguli.
From Elius Maguli, there is still a situation that maybe noted that the big soccer club in the country has not succeeded in growing soccer, more than some of the leaders of that club to put their personal interests through the number of players.
