One of the elections have been cheated.
APR of 18, 2013.

In determining our problem of thinking and planning for a short time, I have been forced to think about, together with many other things, a story we have made as a result of great importance we will be given for our kind of kind and levels.
We put in our movements in the country, we will realize that socialism was abducted by the concept of permanent elections to an extent that we live in elections, we're getting elections, we are waiting for elections and we have changed to be elections.
That is the reason since we completed the round of the general elections of the year 2010, we started just one time to discuss the elections followed up, that is the election for the year 2015.
This elections has been the great talk among the politicians and their aides, each one depends on pain of candidates and how it will be found in the election.
What is heard more is the names of the people and the way they had organized to arrest power in that year and very little is discussed about ideology or philosophy of them, but instead they are expecting to work, even in discussing the race for the year 2015.
This is involving the general elections of the year 2015, but there are extra time in the party, the ruling party is in elections every year after five years, and this means every two years after the general elections, the main opposition party will go into the process of internal elections.
This financial elections of the party takes a great shape more than the general elections because it is a procedure that took the whole year to complete, if it started levels of branches, district and finally the national level that makes them employment (together with lack of fees), are expected to attract them and educate thousands of citizens.
The year of these elections in the ruling party are usually a year that you are up with a lot of time, the celebration of every kind, and sometimes the actions of destroying the peace of this kind, "said that this party is giving employment and many other opportunities to support them.
For good luck, up to now, the ruling party is being faced with network of this kind after five years, but I have sure that it will not take a long time before other parties that have been getting in that culture as the way they get the political strength among the citizens.
If it comes to that step of two other parties or three followers, having many followers and the ones that are supposed to participate in elections, those who are not supposed to participate in elections, those who have been tested and for one year (the end) of the general elections.
It will be a very big loss because we will not be successful like the country to have a copy of a variety of shortage, because every party and his followers will be to make preparations for the election to be completed.
It is this culture to think about struggling with the elections since the next time, together with other things, if our leaders don't recognize them, because many of their plans are aimed at providing them the end of the last term.
In this logic, we prepare people that are owned by the bad results of form four, the answer to me is to decide to bring back home in school so that children do not read it well. I think it is why they are marrying their children because they are doing well as they don't succeed?
We know all of us, that there is a strike of teachers, who were forced to go back the class and they are forced to go back the class and they are forced to ask ourselves, and those teachers who are inside strike and coldness.
(There is a head of one district who had gone up with the habit of teachers being late to arrive at work, and he decided to get married, but by bad luck, he started being sacked from work!
What is supposed to ask here is that the bad results will strengthen the citizens, and there is a danger of citizens to interpret the punishment for the votes that they will move against the leaders.
