
Obama does not have a way to deal with terrorism.
Damascus town, Syria a number of refugees in the Syria conflict now has reached three million, the United Nations has said that President Barack Obama has claimed that he still has no strategies to deal with the Islamic militants who are continuing to unite with Syria and Iraq.
The Head of United Nations Refugees Organization, Antonio Grisham said Syria has now a big disaster after millions of people moved to their homes.
Islamic militants have led to fear of developing disaster and killing more than 160 soldiers in Syria during a few days ago.
Those events have managed to follow another one of the killing of a journalist, James Mtayakingi ley earlier this month.
The conflict that is facing the international community has been added by an average of 43 army men of the United Nations in order to maintain peace in the Mazombe area and the militia group led by Al-Kwizera.
The rebels have also received 75 soldiers and 75 soldiers to maintain peace from Kinyanyiko area.
President Obama has said that he still holds a plan to win the Islamic State group of Iraq and Syria (IS) which is fighting for Islamic State in those two nations.
And AFP in the Indian Ocean has caused deaths of 191000 since it was started in March 2011 when the rebels took the fight against President Bal-Assad.
However, those war have been doing a difference after preventing the gap of leadership and start implementing the killings that have not seen in the world.
"We have no strategies," President Obama said before the meeting with security heads.
But he said he knows the minister of foreign affairs John Kerry in the Central Africa to try to be supported by the area against ISIS rebels.
The fighters have also implemented the killing of citizens from different religious groups in the northern region of Iraq since they started their attacks early this month.
The secretary general of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon added his voice yesterday mentioning those events.
"All the society which were living in many areas in the south of Iraq now are forced to escape or face the death of their religious faith," he said.
The investigation of the United Nations has clarified that events of people were killed in public, have been hands with legs, to be dealt with and depend on a mixture of normal events in areas that are set free by the group in Syria.
