.
APR the year 2013.

On April 10 to 12, this year,.

I write this article to sensitize Tanzanians to come out in large numbers to this festival, it is a shame for a shame for the festival having many people from outside Dar es Salaam and outside Tanzania as well as Tanzania.

Youths of the "Parliament of the United Republic of Kenya," like this festival, they are coming to learn about life and the Mwalimu Nyerere actions, but we think these are the ones that will be our teachers about the life of a person who live with him here in Tanzania.

I urge the University of Dar es Salaam to start the Mwalimu Nyerere Hall with the aim of protecting the thoughts of the teacher that were buried and few people do not have good love to our nation and that are not known as Africa.

Tupendane has died in Sudan, DRC, Burundi, South Africa and elsewhere, Tupendane Group which is ongoing in Somalia, Darassa, Uganda and elsewhere, so as to make sure that our government has passing discrimination on the excuse of illegal immigrants.

.

In addition to congratulations, there is a directive that you will start to register with.

There is a new thing in this teacher's festivals which is a stadium and the platform of scholars and read it or it is a platform for bringing change and make progress in African countries?

We should not understand the song of African Union, we should not understand the song of all human beings who are similar to the song by the field of Arusha, but we will implement this patriotism and he did this matter with actions, but he believed that in Africa it is a must to fully support it in order to open doors for Tanzania for every time of age.

Nyerere did not visit a human being song which is same, Africa is one and Africa is a must to fully support him in order to talk about it, that is why during his leadership, Tanzania was the solution to every human being.

Accord them the freedom to be welcomed in Tanzania and live as their home, they wanted to visit foreign countries like Europe and elsewhere, they used to visit African countries like Europe and elsewhere, used a difficult decision to enter in the fight against Kagera.

We did not know the language of illegal immigrants during the leadership of Mwalimu Nyerere, currently, it is contrary to the current leadership we have started to build a culture of discrimination, there are our brothers who we are connected with blood, some of us have talked with the borders.
