
The police in trouble, blocking the Chinese diminishing, 16.

Police in the new district of Ileje district, Geita province, are accused to protect officers of China's construction company Moran International Group Company Limited.
(RCO) the ones that are accused of looking at their native employee.
The officers of that company, building a farm which is owned by Luseko, Zhang Jiwaj showing a driver together with the driver of the company Yasin Lodhi after being found to give a donation to attract the students that had been destroyed in the park.

That event is on June 29 this year while Twaha Mtengera to the company's camp located in Kipuyo district, a distance for three kilometers to arrive at the camp, at three o'clock in the night, he found a lot of 70 students with four leaders in the area where not in the location.

After seeing that situation he decided to put up with his lorry so as to bring back to citizens at the company's camp for Kidau where they can have more security and get support easily instead of them in the park.
But when he was in the process of working with that Chinese the Chinese were out and started shooting.
"When they arrived at a time to see me when they started using abusive language, I asked me not to know that then I decided to urge them to help these children and their teachers and to stop that here is a danger, they did not understand.
"I had to inform you when I opened his stand that I wanted to attract suddenly I told me when I stopped him," he explains.
He says that after that, they started registering him by shooting down the anger of the teachers who were unable to ask him because he did not have a bad intention.
However, he told them that they should not continue to attack and show them on the pelvic regions that were closed down and said that last year they did not talk to him.

After that they used the vehicle to take the vehicle up to the camp where in problem with pain followed up to the camp, he told the Chinese who have been buried and they've been able to participate in the polling stations where he was going bankrupt.

When I arrived to hand keys, he was very close to him, he told her close to my close back and when I am not aware of what is going on with him, when I got married and breaking my support to the right, "he explains.
He says that according to the security guards there was able to buy and get out of that camp and because outside that camp, there was no support made it up to the area that led to the students and requested them to loose weight.

When they go back to the area of the school, teachers and those students did an effort to prevent vehicles that were passing by the area and be able to get a car that had planned to take him to the Kahama Police Station and later at the District Hospital for treatment.

The teachers and the students decided to show anything with the act of violence by writing the statement of removing that act and has handed over to the leadership of the company and the police station Kahama.

"We are happy with that act to our fellow Tanzanian to help Tanzanian children and be defeated by the Chinese them by having his hand," said the statement by teachers and those students, this newspaper has seen its own kind.

Mke Mwema should partner with one leader who was in that convoy, information officer, culture, and sports of the Bukoba District Council, Marbert Mwinuka, confirmed to witness the shot by the driver and later going back and how he helped him to get transport.

"By the truth, we are happy to know that we are very important things that we are still in this country, they have arrived where the Chinese did not want to speak to us.
"He has explained why he is supposed to help him, but they started shooting like a animal, but we were not very happy," explained Kamerhe.

He added that when he saw it was a little situation but after a time that you had gone down like six o'clock at night they felt it was surprised when he used to see if he used to see if he used to see what he used.
"We are supposed to ask ourselves, we believe that we are helping these Chinese employers, and this is the youth that he is doing an issue to save the lives of Tanzanian children in danger.
That was the wildlife and danger of every way to show that we did not agree with that act, we wrote statement (details) to condemning that incident and to leave the camp to those Chinese and police Kahama, "explained Kamuntu Epharaim.

After their bus listen to the following day, teachers and those students went to return to Kahama District Hospital and they took Twaha Mtengera and the Police Station in Kahama District opening the number plate T / 08 / 2012 which wrote their explanations about the incident.
Later in Kahama District, Kahama District started moving the incident at the Mbahala region in Geita province where is where the incident took place after the transfer window will go to the camp by recognizing the suspects and he was unable to travel.

However, the next day, brothers did a procedure to ask for a car which he had entered into position because he had not registered to know, but when he was explained by the head of investigation of that district, that visitors have their procedures of being arrested and they can be for a half time, thus returning to the tomorrow.

One of the guards who saw the beating at the camp when Twaha Tasilima has said that if they were not supposed to intervene in charge of them to check up on the forms so that they would have been wondering around.

"These people don't know yourself, they ask you to help Tanzanian employees here because they can't know if they were able to kill him and they don't know if you can't know if you can be safe," which has explained the defender.
According to his explanation, after the incident that was reported by them was required to give information that they did so, but later the police who came to request all security guards to change him so as to proceed to the Chinese.

I am my colleague (with his colleague), I refused and I was asked himself, if we are we witnessed why police want to work hard, "said the defender who now has left them after seeing that he will be resolved by refusing to protect its employers.
Another defender, who was also supposed to change his information, police says.
Most of the Chinese in the day you want to see you know your opinion or in prison but even to go to the police eat with them but there is no doubt, but these others are not something, "said the defender.
The police commander of Mbongwe district, who identified himself by only one goal, explains that the police did not want those guards to change their information, maybe it is possible that they were required to change the new explanations in the investigation ways to look for the truth but they should not be able to change their information.

"We are the owners of this case and that is why we are supposed to know the truth, now how will it be able to change the truth," said Commander Mambosasa.

The accusations that have been directed to police are together with that they want to visit the case without caring that the patient was using and he is waiting to go to Muhimbili after being given an appeal to there.

But Commander Mambosasa said that the patient had a normal pain and he didn't use it and that people want to grow that issue.

The "I was surprised by Mister Pengo, those are the words of only people, and he has got an agreement with skin rashes." Said Commander Mambosasa.

When he was asked to explain that he could not get a case to score against him because the rules of work will not be forced to beat up the employee even if they are waiting for the procedures to follow, Commander Mambosasa said.

"It is a must for people to respect their procedures of work with their contracts, now if he violated the procedures when he was asked if he was asked, he was asked to have forgotten the lives of 70 children who were in the park on a dangerous environment, he said that even if it is to give donations the procedures to be followed.

"Even me, I wanted to do something to do so that I can give a report to my leaders even if it is a donation, now if he had promised to thank you on his first leaders," he said.

While the district police commander said that the driver got married, it's just the report of the investigation officer for Kahama District Hospital for further treatment, because his injuries didn't be the ones that were not treated in that hospital.
In their answers through the email letter on this newspaper, the company's spokesperson, who did not introduce himself as the whole song is between the driver Yasin Lodhi (du) because others who were mentioned do not do something and that it is not there in the scene.
He has added that together with that, it is a small offense that the company has taken action against the ones that were involved in their salaries and giving them a stern warning.
"We are an international company there is no doubt that we have been following the law and procedures of this country, but there have been a habit of some workers to get money through illegal ways even if we are saying, this situation is true," says part of the answers.
They have added that already they have gone to the driver and that he is in Muhimbili for the purpose of treatment that they are inspiring.
