The weaknesses of parliamentary leadership contributes to their actions.
May 5, 2013.

We have been talking about many things, about lack of discipline in some of the members of parliament inside the parliamentary sessions, especially abusive language used by some of these, "the honorable."
In this week I decided to explain some of the reasons for this situation that showing some of the members of parliament to do not have inside the building because they did not understand the importance of the citizens who have been involved in our nation as a whole.
The private who I know is that as we're close to the next two years, how situation will continue to be approved if the leadership of parliament will not come out from what I heard as a result of the decision to direct them and give a punishment.
So that the decision by that leadership should be respected, not only inside the parliament but in the community as a whole, there is no reason to be seen as the same logic and that depends on all rights without relying on any other side, but also it has not registered themselves in this leadership of parliament has failed.
The logic of doing justice wants soon as Hamisi Kigwangalla has been arrested for an offense of stealing a chicken, and the offense has been confirmed, and Hamisi Kiiza was given a chance to go to prison for seven days for an offense of stealing a chicken, and the judge who plays in the near future, will be led by the foundation of the punishment he had Hamisi Kigwangalla.
When it comes up that a few weeks after the punishment for Hamisi Nguli, John was arrested by that offense (of stealing a chicken) and was sentenced to three months without details because his punishment has been huge more than Hamisi Kisiwa, many questions will be asked, therefore if the punishment for the mistake was given to Hamisi Kigwangalla.
Other things are a big police when in the same weight it takes place, for example one woman is suffering from chicken but another punishment for a hen, or even maybe a series of chicken is bigger than to be taken to court.
Without an additional information to be given about that situation, it is a must that the community will ask many questions.
Those who use the relationship between Hamis and the judge, and the relationship between John and the judge who will know who is a brother to who is who of the tribe of who, and who are the religious denominations to do so as to change the rights.
Questions of this kind, we know that we are being asked in our community, every step is going to court and then they are offered to the port and then give you about the requirements of the member of parliament they need to direct the parliamentary trend.
As a result of many community members getting displeased with the ban, now I have heard several recommendations that are offered in the context of the new constitution, one of them being the speaker of parliament to be released, in any party with the explanation that they will not continue any party.
I don't believe that so as we are required to build an argument that led to the basis of the logic, when someone says that the speaker who doesn't have any party need to have any party, and we know without doubt that this is not true.
There are many reasons for someone who is capable of favoring one side in the process and it is not a must for someone to make sure that the referee makes a lot of decision to be very much, if we stop those related to the technical capacity or weaknesses in fulfilling the analysis.
At least, in the current state, it is easy to understand that any decision has been done because of referees out of their party, it's no reason not allowed.
And any reason, we know that there is a certain person, before it was elected as a member of parliament, he does not have a party because he does not have a political card and even if he does not want to be a party leader and even if he does not have a card or not to agree with the posters?
