
Mzindakaya, thank you to vote for him.

A veteran politician in the country and a cadre of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Doctor Egid Mubofu has urged religious leaders to vote for fanaticism and he has warned that they were voting for fanaticism so that they sell the nation, thus they are blocking the leader who will represent the country and international.

Mzindakaya said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday, in his meeting with journalists, he said he has decided to come out to give advice to civil servants and also a leader who loves all the candidates who are vying for the presidential seat.

"I urge you to fulfill my voters' votes and to vote for fanaticism especially when they hold the leader of God, a leader who will represent our country national and international, and this I don't have any interests," said Doctor Mzindakaya.

Mzindakaya, he is a retired after serving the nation for a long time, therefore he does not have any personal interests in giving that advice to prevent them, who are voters who will choose a leader.

I am a retired, I don't have any interests in this, I don't need to be a prime minister or any place, but I love my country and that I love me, "said Mzindakaya.

Doctor Mzindakaya congratulated President Jakaya Kikwete to have better plans for improving the nation development and to make great changes, which are supposed to benefit many people.

However, he said there are some people who don't like to see and stop the development of their country, instead they are continuing to be taken from that no one was held.

He said there are people who go to the fanaticism on the excuse of wanting change, he advised youths to know that this country is their property, therefore, even if they want change that they want to give him the country, I will defend change.

"The youth in parliament this country are your property, it's your country to vote for forgiveness from this advice you have no cost, but you do not see if you will be able to see its cost later, we are the Almighty God to serve this nation and now we are now," he said.

Doctor Mzindakaya, he said at the State House it is a great shape because the world's government were identified by God, therefore the president is representing God in the world.
He emphasized that the country needs to have president, who is not only a good ability to lead the country, but also to have a clean hands.

He said he has been a member of parliament for 44 years and all leaders who are looking for presidency, he does not know because he has worked with them, therefore he knows well for their work in details.
Mzindakaya, he said that the authority of the president is very big, a person who doesn't be careful, where he told God, where he said compared to other candidates, in his opinion, he sees the presidential candidate through CCM, Doctor John Magufuli can be a good leader.

"If I appoint you to vote for fanaticism then we should repent and choose a leader who will represent outside the country, and in my opinion I see Magufuli is very happy," said Mzindakaya.

He said in a period of five years to the next ten years, this country will be rich in Africa due to the foundation that was taken by leaders who wanted to bring out things that will increase the economy of the country like the mining of gas, breast cancer and production of snacks.
