Corruption are the disease involved by our leaders.
August 10, 2013.

If you go to Wete District, the child of the Equatorial Guinea team, has a house in California, America, worth more than 30 million American dollars.
Meanwhile, Teya has used an amount of one million and eight hundred thousand dollars to buy some of the things that were given by the singer, Michael Jackson.
The child of another African president who wants them is taking up in the Indian Ocean is Isakya Mtungi ', the late President of Angola, Isabel (40) is proud of poverty and when the same time he cleaned it as the wealth of the value of 500 million American dollars.
Although Isabel is a fashion model from King's College, London City, and he started being involved in business since he will have 24 years old, it is clear that he would have been getting all wealth because it has already been getting the daughter of the president Ekwesame.
As it is in Tanzania and some of the leaders of CCM, corruption in Angola have been more involved in some of the leaders of the party that deals with the scene.
Corruption started not pleased the fees of Angola such as 10 or 15 last week, it has continued to root itself because the administration of the Republican Party depend on corruption so that it can continue.
In Angola that has been facing a lot of oil business which were sunk in the country and sold by the government, for sure, the national oil company, has been accused, is one of the government capital city.
Once again, Manuel Pellegrini has faith, the head of that country has been mentioned to be one of the big political parties in that country, he has been mentioned to be one of the major corrupt people of Angola, others said that he is a retired prime minister together with being the prime minister and general elections.
Those three people are accused of getting wealth worth billions of dollars of American dollars through corruption that they used is to destroy the public agencies for their benefit and not that those organizations were causing losses.
In the middle of its consumers and the corrupt people that are accused of Angola, it is the president of the country, there is a must that she does not lie in the middle of corruption because he and his party like the institution, "its kind and that is the main institution of running the country.
In a total of our African continent having a bad reputation because of corruption that fell in the country against corruption and finally there are good symptoms that institutions of citizens, companies, public institutions and even some of the African countries have been taking legal action against corruption.
All of us are looking to the effects of corruption in our country's development. We know how corruption has contributed to you, our country should make the poor, increase and clean water, electricity, and even the roads.
There are a lot of questions we want to ask ourselves what we think about corruption and for example, what is the history, who are the ones who are most affected by what that is affecting us?
Those are just some of the questions that will be discussed at the new book on corruption in the world through the book ("Global 'Airtel Money, Power Pool East Africa) has been written by Laurence Kabende to be on the front line with those involved in fighting corruption.
Following him, he is one of the founders of the international organization for fighting corruption, YInternational Airport and for a long time was the chairperson of his England branch.
He answered that, he knows it well in Tanzania where he once worked in the age of 1960 and later he has been suffering from several development projects in that country.
The benefits of the book for bewitching him, is that it has different topics of preventing themselves in looking for what makes the strength of corruption, for example, it is the economy that is not unknown "that does not make payments to be paid without being found.
