
Police are used to control the marriage of students to save the 29th education, 2012.

It protects you among the nine districts that form the use of Tanga province which like many other districts in the country, the issue of better education especially for female children is a big challenge to our writer, Hafidh So, visited that district for the purpose of considering the state of education and the following what he found.

It protects the district that deals with Kilindi District on the north, east and in the northern region, on the north of Pangani, where the southern region is the district that was set in the year 2002 and form the district (new) in Kilindi district.

This is the district that I visited that according to the number of people and housing of the year 2002, the number of people had 248,448 shillings in this district, development of education, especially to the female child is a big problem.

In knowing more about this education problem I thanked the office of the community development officer of Handeni district, Julius Mhando, who spoke of absenteeism and pregnant for female students.

Mhando says, "you know twenty years ago, Handeni had only two secondary schools and therefore, I will see it is because of the new generation from the end of the eighteen.

"Parents do not know the importance of education, and it protects the importance of education, it is 75 percent living in poverty and therefore, there are many reports that are going to our office for some of the parents who passed to secondary because they don't have the ability to do.

"Do I think the parent of that kind, his daughter gets a class seven and told me that I want to send my daughter or not me (her mother) she doesn't know the importance of education because she didn't know the importance of education because he did not read it?

Mhando says that the biggest reason for students getting pregnant is not knowing or not knowing or not using their ability together with some of them to pay the responsibilities of parents to raise their businesses from the poverty of the family.

"Statistics of my community development department shows that in the year 2012 up to November, students of primary schools who leave school because of different reasons including pregnant, class six percent, class six percent, while class seven are 52 percent.

On his part, the administration officer of the department, Basil Mramba, speaking on that issue on behalf of the education officer of that district, he says the big problem of dealing with it in the secondary side is a big number of students who come from primary schools to fail to report for form one studies.

"At the moment the district, for secondary, form one until the fourth, has approximately 73 students, but from January up to October, 241 students have not reported, among them girls who have not reported, among them girls who have not reported.

"On the age of pregnancy, this year, we have reports of 23 secondary children who have been cheated in the residents of Handeni residents, they feel it is like their culture affecting their daughters, I think it is because of failing to serve their lives."

Mrinde said he is collaborating with the community development officer in the district about the problem of parents not having education due to the shortage of schools in the past, a situation that increase the problem to the parents of that district not to increase education to their children.

"It is true that this district was very close to education because it had a small number of primary and secondary schools for instance, this district had two secondary schools, but this district has a total of 30 schools for government and private schools," he explains.

While explaining more the problem of pregnancy in school, Mrinde said, "most of the students who receive pregnant while in school, given a good upbringing that they get from the family level and therefore we are requesting the head of the district to make sure that they get the police every young man.

The decision by the police to control media services to control education if I had to meet with the head of the operation to arrest people that are accused of involvement in the students or giving them pregnant, this is the head of investigations and not for the police force, ASP Juma, Tuesday.

In talking to talk about the problem of absenteeism and pregnant women in Handeni district, ASP Tuesday, says Mrs Mkora you have lived for two months ago.
My small research that I have done in that short time, I have discovered that this district does not have great crime, but it's a lot of little money and the big work that is doing is to cooperate with the district commissioner, my brothers to ensure that female children have the right to education without enmity. "

According to ASP Tuesday, a new campaign of "I want to leave, read" that was started by the head of Handeni district, Muhanga Rweyemamu, it never happened in the history of that district.

"The problem is very big than you who we think that in my service inside the police force, I have written many districts, but I have not seen it since we start to manage these cases until now there is 60 cases here," says ASP Tuesday in shock and added.

"And the court there, already there are 20 cases that concern the judgment, thus making a total of 80 cases, in approximately two months, I have been brought here.
These cases are apart from the ones that we got the report, but the involved in these accusations have not arrested four people here, you can't know what this problem is big. "

However, the challenges of the police force are many, from the implementation of the operation, until the suspects were arraigned in court.

For example, it is said that the investigation unit in that district has 13 soldiers only.

"The district has a shortage of investigation, equipment like weapons and vehicles and sometimes we sell oil for a car, although the vehicle need to be in the whole district, but there will be a big problem if we get married," he said on Tuesday.

The other challenge facing the army in that operation to arrest people who gave birth to the students, says it is a law that is like it will protect the "couples."

He says in accordance with the law of the country, section 133 and 134 have said that the child is aged 16 years, therefore anyone who is more than five years is married or participated in love for his consent, then there is no case even when they get pregnant.

But the same time for form two, three and four children, there are 19 years of age up to 20, because when they get pregnant, those who gave them are not supposed to be taken to court because the law of the country says that it is not a child and if he didn't expect that act, there is no case to answer.

My campaign, I commend "Nisubiri" head of Handeni district, Muhanga, is the springboard of controlling the provision of education to students especially female students and a threat in early together with pregnancy.

The Handeni residents especially those who like that culture to get pregnant students is supposed to send my talent on the village to the motorcycle riders, yellow fever, in the market and away with each other in all the areas, they do not meet the campaign "I could leave, let me read it.

My campaign, I wish me "Nisubiri" aims to carry out a female student by giving him the courage to have a voice in order to tell her biological mother or any person who doesn't leave you. "

The foundation of this campaign is to make the girl child to defend him so that he can achieve his goals he made.

Apart from the journalism profession, but I have ever been a member of teachers when I was appointed to be the head of this district, by President Jakaya Kikwete, I met a union of women journalists (TAMWA) doing research on the state of education in the district and where many female children are unable to end their studies because of pregnancy and early marriages, "explained Muhanga.

But when I'm talking to Muhanga, suddenly in the phone of the head of that district, she was giving a report about the head teachers who had a report about the head teachers who had received a short message from the students after receiving a short message that she does not tell you that there is another student in Kabona who is married.

Muhanga, planned for himself and told me, "I think your news continues to be keen on how this problem was big and it has already been ready to cooperate."

He continued with information, "I was not elected in the middle of this year when I was surprised by my fellow heads of this district, the main responsibility of this district is poor development especially at the field of education and even at the market I decided to stop, I decided to stop but they got a lot of information concerning this district."

Explaining more about this campaign, Muhuri says that he has started collaborating with his wife who learns in an honorary doctorate degree in one university in China, the mother for involving the students of the University of Dar es Salaam, he did research and collect enough information about the problem of female children to provide their studies because of pregnancy.

That research revealed that of the difference of other things that parents are forced to see how their daughter got pregnant while in school, but on a large extent the daughter got the right time when he had been stopped by continuing with studies.

Speaking about those challenges and the others that are facing the education sector in Handeni district, the District Commissioner, Muhanga, said that the shortage of girls dormitories in government secondary schools cannot be able to be the main source of female children to get pregnant in school.

He says that the schools can have enough dormitories, again they were told to be free without paying for any cost, but those buildings are not water or enough food because those two things, water and food, says that is the ones that involve students who are in the streets where finally they meet with men "
By recognizing that, Muhanga says that his office in collaboration with some of the social organizations has taken action to ensure they sell wells in every school so as to have a lot of water so that the district will begin a procedure to have enough acres to be able to buy food production.

This issue of praying for agriculture in schools is the idea where students themselves have received well, because we were not speaking with the heads of schools and there are also students who will be used for food and many students have been ready to be happy about this issue, "says DC Mtatura.

He also added that, seven tractors will be spreading in all seven counties that are in the district and every stadium we will give out one tractor, and there will take a driver or the supervisor or the supervisor so that our main aim is to build their ability to build their female students and not to kill them. "

About the conflict between the law of the country, that comes a child as the age of 16 years, DC Muhanga advised the government to rectify those mistakes on the explanation that it gives bad people to destroy the students.

"He will end at the education level or when it comes from the University, they will play themselves," says Muhanga and added, "the situation is very bad, but many of them do not tell me, most of them have already agreed to provide cooperation.
Previously, some of the Sheikhs who believe that they have faith, we said and as we sell it, but I saw some of them and the chairpersons of the villages have talked to them and now they give them enough cooperation.

"On the side of the police force having a shortage of working tools, it's true.
I was forced to know that and already I have not met with the chairmanship, Said Mwema, but I don't want to tell them until that support you came to the villages to inspect the size of this problem to our female children who live in the villages, they used my car to be the truth. "

For sure, this campaign of "I do not see you," was founded by the district of Handeni district, has touched the feelings of many people, including Tanga Provincial Commissioner, Chiku Galawa, who after being impressed with it, it will be made a campaign in Tanga province, and if possible the whole country.
