
There is a threat to a threat, it will die with the threat of 206.

Our brothers if we know if they are doing good healthcare services, they do not have a saying that says, "it was written by soil, you will go back to soil, and God will continue to revive the last day."
These words have been said when he is looking at the way or the pastor leading with soil a three times inside the grave, it is heavy words that include the human being that is in soil and therefore, when we go back to soil.
The soil or land is the father and our mother (in the picture) and that is why there are a few culture, but many culture give birth to the ground, but many culture give birth to the ground.

These words have narrated it so much and the situation that supports the Tanganyika and Zanzibar union, we love so much and to be loved for two years, while, to come to the third generation, they should not understand.
It is a result of everything that she has started (they are not pictured), they have gotten her not knowing his value for him, he insisted and protect themselves from gun to protect themselves and basically the union has no worries at where they started.

One thing is happy to discuss because the union started due to the threat of security of our nations and now you want to have been having a threat to the security of our nation.
At the same time, the world was at a tension between cold drinks and downloading easily from the left with Americans and don't like to be on the left or right, but one out of those who went to the left, but one among them went to the left quickly.
The world gets divided into two parts, East and West, and this division you missed the whole world.
Names were supported, others like cold drinks and others as socialists, later we were waiting for some time they started a union of the countries that can't be avoided, but that is not my subject today in this article.

The New Hampshire state, the islands of Zanzibar under Sultan Kipingo, were an attraction to the Western nations, Russia and Uknga, those who wanted the islands, and American and dentistry.
At the center where I is our elders Abeid Karume and Julius Nyerere, they ask him from the right or on the left) in all two countries, there were many young people who graduated from all the western countries.
As they join the historians request that bill quickly, it is taken to parliament for an emergency certificate, and even on Sunday, the parliament done the bill to be the law.
Most of the history claims that the famous news agency, CIA in America was behind an emergency call.
If we have won or upcoming poets, that is another issue, but the truth is to be a threat to the security that resulted in this union that is headed for now.

The cost of serving this union is very big and so on, the cost of protect up to this, where we are very big and I don't have enabled the union and later protect this union, we should not think of them.
Stem cells have a great secret and that's why they are not doing well and until today there are the from the people of Zanzibar who ask their brothers they went where they can get the answer.
But now it's not possible, and any reason that you want to protect the union because it is wrong, I would end, we should repent and realize that on behalf of its kind they can't understand of many generations to come.

Now it has flourished well about the union in Kaliuna town, by banning people not to discuss the presence of a union of unity and wanted them to discuss its marriages and their hands.
He taught the attackers as if there were two who did not involve someone to talk about the existence of a union of unity, they did not look for someone to talk about the existence of the union.
I hope that people do not lie on the truth, that's when a union will not be allowed me or be true, the authority asked more than marijuana since we build a union by preventing people to join and then we are proud that people did not happen to them?

So as to talk about the truth, by writing the farm, we cannot protect the union.
But the government conducted a gun to the citizens that are the cause of the union, is losing time with our free resources, maybe we ask ourselves what they met?
There are a lot of answers here and there are those who claimed to join our elders Karume and Nyerere.
There are some who are claiming from soil that they joined with the government, that is why dollars are not people and we have seen in our eyes, in history, the president cannot get married then he believes that the government is not a government like the government can become people themselves.
If you have a union of presidents, soil or our dollars, at the end of the day, it is the consent of the people that can cause this union.

There are laziness of the danger that came in behind a little, most of them lose their bed buildings in the State House, they hurt them his bed and then think they have been Kambarage.
If they depend on foot, they believe that the union will inform you and they have gotten themselves in a long time, now they run away from those who went to move in order to protect the coalition.
I would like to thank my advice, again for free, the leaders started with the field of Arusha, where he stopped, followed by her husband, she was in your party that he started in, whose party he was in your party and who came out to leave the buyer and who wanted them to sit down.
Now they want to do a union by forcing the police force to register themselves as they decided to break it, that is the only way to honor.
When they decided to leave a group, they will protect themselves and for renovation.
They won with a gun and he will last a gun and that is a great cost.
We join to avoid the gun and Black Americans, maybe now it is time of separation so that we can watch the gun to each other.
When you go back to say, there is no bad funeral like a Tanzanian that went to sell him at a gun with his fellow Tanzanian, she knows the coalition.
They don't know my, because they do not lie!
His Excellency, Aboud Mwinyi has been cut without those elders because they did a good work for the mistake that took place is to give them very attractive, a union that is preparing to play soccer.
