Muhimbili National Park, a true friend at all times.
October 11, 2014.

The beauty magazine of the United States of the United Republic of the United Republic of the year 2014, with the news reporter, "Snowden?
The article explains that it's only 18 percent of many people in the Central Africa and Africa with accounts to the financial institutions that are officially implemented in the country that are poor people, therefore, it will help them to pay for important needs that is expected like poverty and even fees for children in school.
The article has explained the difficulty of the poor lack of medicine, the biggest reason being the discipline of saving and borrowing (CS) because they want to reach their money to their needs, so as to get affordable loans for different reasons.
However, there is a challenge in laying the availability of poor people, "the poor will give their money within a short time or because of starting a small business, this is according to the research that was done by Nthepheya.
National Social Security Fund (NSSF) has launched a big fund in the East and Central Africa has started a special program to enable citizens who are not involved in the official sector to register and be members.
Some of the farmers use small-scale farmers (economically) through their cooperative parties, every farmer contributes to twenty thousand shillings per month and to benefit from the long-term benefits, health insurance and loans through Saccos and for long-term benefits including the Pension Fund.
Gold farmers in Kigoma province from Mataa villages, Mkonga and Rusimbi, is expected to live in this program through their political party members joined NSSF in the year 2013, starting a loan to buy coffee so as to pay modern farmers (18% up to 9 percent).
Also, they got a private loans to enable them to improve their farms and buy food like drugs and the fertilizer system of the 2014 system has been two times last year, they have paid their debts on time and they are continuing to get free medical services at their health center.
As a result of this great success NSSF decided to start this plan to all farmers in the whole country. NSSF has an aim of registering 400,000 farmers in this country by the year 2016.
If three million people, farmers in the villages will be members of the Social Security Fund to provide health insurance, its meaning it is equivalent to 25 percent of the African Community to reach this level, this is a community service if you will enable the revolution.
The purchase of internal investment (Promoting Quality) system and investment has contributed a lot to the economy of various countries in China, 50% of the economy of Tanzania is set aside because Tanzania is 17% for the growth of the agricultural sector.
