
Lady Jay Z "a day I commend him and Joseph Masikitiko who will not get into my funeral, and their leaders will leave me."

When people were shocked when she spoke about the death, you don't know that everything he will be able to come, on my life and eat a lot of things, difficult, and then.
And yet I will continue that, there are very difficult things as I will start being great.
Recently, I have been a lot of war with people with great ability, age, age and even with the size of the ball in this music industry.
Nasim and said that I will not get up, because their main aim is to see and make sure I fall down and that I am not in the map of the music.
Those people whose war had coldness, ten years, now it continues to be fire after knowing that I am a person with my decision and his stand without being sold.

When talking about everything in order to make sure that every player is able to evade a lot of anything related to the public of Tanzania that there is no artist who is available without their lives.
I am a different artist and those who love you like I think I know since I went to me, I would get married and to get my friend, it will succeed so much, something that has lost and decided to do something to bring down my Band.
I call him through any way of God that allows you to see if we go and because those people do not love them, I believe you will not be able to love me even when I believe I have died.
And this is what I hope for those people.
I recognize that they can use their radio to announce my death and said that the late was a good person and maybe make my songs starting from the morning until evening.
But I request that I will be a woman soon, I commend Clouds FM not to shoot my songs, or shivered because of my death.
Ruge Mutahaba and Joseph Kimwaga who do not get my funeral, and their meetings and their leaders don't know how you will be born after me.
If they have not allowed me, and they do not know if I was born.
I don't have a need to do because I am not their brother, but if you know that they are done, they do not know her and I have sure that their soul wants us.
I decided to avoid with them in many years and do my business, I have been silent but I don't know what I was popular but I have not been popular while I was not popular while I was not popular while she was not known as BISON.
I was impressed about what we believe in this days but I see the fire is still ongoing.
And this is because they fear the artist with a lot, it will be unable to bring him for him, for praising the world.
If you have said that you're very happy, why you don't give your sister to her stomach, so that money can go back home?
In your soul, I don't buy a cookie?
You're supporting artists that any artists who will play for songs and I will not be beaten, four sessions to discuss.
I think how I will have a problem if other artists do not stop working with me?
Then for let me see God is who for human beings who?
I was to say three names i have forgiven the other one after knowing that it was not his intention but he was under the influence of these two people.
Every day I wish all the recent music to listen to him is a strong man, even when the author did not know it.
So, all the money is still two million shillings of Jide discrimination?
I remember that and I wouldn't protect my statement.
Jide.
