Its approximately fifty years since Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO started providing services here in the country.
Those services are accused of rebuking the day up to day.
TANESCO was given the goal by the main government to be by two thousand and five percent of customers to be joined.
However, TANESCO received its efforts in providing better services to all its customers with the aim of being demolished and reached approximately seven and six percent in the beginning of two thousand and ten thousand.
The program of TANESCO and the development this week to move the improvements on services that are being done by the organization to ensure that its customers get reliable services at all times.
For a long period of the customers of TANESCO, they have been paying for the electricity service when you get in the offices of TANESCO and planning.
Or which has been getting a lot of time to the customers.
I saw that.
TANESCO has been holding various systems of electricity production by using different networks to be read, especially to users.
However, the challenge was reduced to the old meters users in which they are still forced to plan for a queue so that they can be able to pay their bills and continue getting medical services.
In solving that challenge of planning.
In the beginning of two hundred and ten thousand, the executive director of TANESCO announced the intention of the organization to start a plan of paying the deal by using the networks we want all the payments for the new generation.
We want customers of TANESCO when they come to pay, you can't make the payments on the bags.
These days the procedure is to come to pay in the offices of TANESCO but we see if the issue has been called by.
And we have no reason to make this income in our offices so as from the month of five.
As a slave we will start praising our customers in bags.
Ready to speak with various banks and these banks they have agreed with us to cooperate to reduce our customers through the banks.
For those customers, they will be paid in the defenders and all the customers who protect 600 millimeters and money customers in the country, they don't have a lot of money and so as from our bank, I will be able to make all their payments to the banks and I am able to do all their payments on the banks and I am able to do all their payments through the bank.
But also when you lead you, our businesses will not be able to contribute to the bank and taxes we will also talk to an extent that the late is.
The Almighty God explain the condition of this account, it shows that this customer has paid itself with a client, in that bank it will reduce our religion.
And he said that you can be able to get in the American?
Since they repeat.
My fellow citizens and listen to the way you look at, we want to start next month of five, our customers can be able to pay their wives to the banks.
And in different banks.
We shall start giving a lot of information to explain the procedure by making payments at the bank and we believe it is a good procedure that doesn't curb disturbances by our customers, "I request I request that the banks to be better than living with financial issues.
Therefore, here is the late?
This responsibility is doing well more than the red carpet but I believe that even in mind that their customers get a good service will be better to give a bad service will start from tomorrow.
In addition to being given customers through the bank, but also customers who use normal sports will be able to pay their bills by using it.
By using Tigo Pesa, by using it.
You will be able to pay their bills directly for the procedure.
And by doing so, those customers will be forced if they were able to go to the bank to go a dangerous bank but if he does not want to see the bank will be able to pay their bills by using Tigo Money to use a situation that I have explained.
