
Mutharika has been announced to be the new president of Malawi.
By OMR.
Blantyre City, Malawi the leader of Democratic Party For Democratic Party, Peter Mutharika said that the winner on Friday at the presidential elections of Malawi that was faced with controversy after winning President Joyce Fissoo.
Mutharika said that it is a surprise for the former president, apart from Mutharika, won 3648 percent of the votes that were scored against 208 when they won the stand, the Electoral Commission said.
Those results were announced to be announced several minutes after the high court denied the attempt to prevent it and allow the time to vote and allow the time to manslaughter, "said the late elected" after the end of the last week after voting, "he said, has already put the" many cases of regulations of election "and" that is not known. "
The third position of the repetition showed that he took the third position after being unable and is causing a fools to destroy the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (MCP), who were collecting 2778th of those votes.
The spokesman of the party, Jilesh Kabudi, explained the journalists that MCP-Square that had presented the request to counted at the again for the votes, it will remove those results in court.
"We have been charged because this is not the right elections.
You will be able to fight by using the legal measures so that we will not accept this without taking any action, "Mutharika has been unable to take action against that nation in the south of Africa while being accompanied by criminal acts.
The old man aged 74 years of the former president, Mutharika led it to try to resolve the death of his brother's home in two years ago in the attempt to prevent him who was the deputy president at that time - to take the authority.
What did not want to take over according to the regulations of the constitution and to keep away from the management of the prime minister for foreign affairs.
Mutharika said, who is the Professor of law and former prime minister, is faced with extra charges of incitement and taking a plot to implement crime and other officers.
Those cases have been affected by the analysts have said that there is a big possibility for those cases and put aside because the presidents of God is proud of the rights reserved against being sentenced for all the time that are in rule.
There is a rumor that when Mutharika ruled out that the authority may put things against their stand and do not meet corruption concerning the scandal of more than 224 billion, popular as Cemetery. "
The stall has claimed to be identified by releasing the corruption where money came back in the pockets of government officials, but they have the hopes including Mutharika, said that those funds were put in the national park, for the funds of the elections.
