
Without knowing the way to prevent it is Never Ending, 2012.

I have seen the importance of making and building things, (the picture) because without making our economy cannot grow.
It is common for usual this days to say that we would make things to compete with the countries that make things like that, at a small cost and a great income.
For example it is married to China, which has been making many types of things and sell them in foreign countries, some of those things are needed, but the truth is that the Chinese have been unable to make the world become a market, and the world has reduced and it has changed and sometimes it has reduced.
See you just that things like skin disability and swords, equipment which are important for our agricultural sector, has authorized from China, while having a memory that we had the manufacturing of us themselves in a period when many people do not remember them are from China and they have bought a foreign money.
The Chinese are now supposed to ignore the clothes, shoes, radio stations, cosmetics and small businesses, capital, capital, capital, capital, radio, radio, television and big machines.
Now, even in Palestine, we are complaining that Chinese have risen up in writing the Quran not known as' pacemaker '(what is known as Figen Yacht) and sells them in Gaza and the Western Region at an affordable price than those are made and ask themselves.
It's not the first time we are witnessing the country that was behind Benichou who has fallen in fighting and try to capture the world's economy after the second high court, Japan found the profile of injuries and destruction of bombs in the world.
At the beginning these products were kidnapped by many people, and using many people, even here in our African countries, "Madoido, Japan" (or debts), it was another way to say "poor quality," finally, Japan built big things that are worth more.
China has learned from Japan, and other African countries (Korea, Malaysia and now India) have benefited so that it is a decrease in these countries in making products and distributing them in the whole world which is enabling some of us to talk like that we cannot compete with those countries.
It is true that there are some of the things that can affect the competitiveness of these countries if we do not want to compete with. One is the energy of these countries, which did not match completely to our culture, and African countries which are very high.
Many African countries that are involved in big economic steps have already been destroyed, in the foundation of culture, if you believe to discover ourselves, to respect and believe in them, it is the foundation that is making Chinese, if they go to them, and others that they agree on their presence, and refused to build them or build them.
He said that they are a human being like other human beings (sometimes, maybe more than others) and that there is no reason that is possible with a human being that they don't know.
This is our country's problem in general, we have already been expelled and then I've not been exploited, then we started to build himself, then we've already taken a lesson to visitors to an extent that we are not aware because we are not aware of us.
Likewise, the colonial history, discrimination of every kind, ownership of our property and suppression of our culture and the minds of our minds, these have been able to believe that we can't understand the whole without informing the visitors.
This is a plain truth, but it did not tell you, "we don't know what we are doing so that they do not know how they are doing so when they meet them when they see them when they meet them when they meet their condition.
Today we do not have a reason to kill someone not to loose even each other.
We do not need to look at how big ways in western countries should be dealt with and cut them so that some of the people have come out because they know that those organizations are tired of the important part of the lives of their people.
We are students and good children of Ulaanga district, we are told, "we will sell it" and we sell it.
Who is she said that if you know what they were their?
We have tried to face our ability and thinking of those people, "flash disk" and we have ever been people to receive as the past, the days for slavery.

This is very different from our colleagues in Asia, who see them and think about them, they refused early to accept the same logic, "that says that our logic, that we can make sure that we will enable us to continue our country.
Therefore, I am saying that among the first things and what we are required to deal with us is to build our ability to believe in themselves and see if a human being is equal to other human beings and believe in everything we can cause another human being.
Let us follow up on how African countries passed away and collapsed in its economy in the year 1997-98, by experts from the World Health Organization (IMF) and the World Bank coming out in the city of Kuala Lumpur to Beijing while stirring and elsewhere, "for treating those problems.
Approximately all of us, they refused the drug abuse of the world, and by going back to their culture on culture, they discussed until when they received a solution to their problems without being forced to follow the advisers that even so they had failed to destroy the economy.
How we are doing?
"I do not know, on the left, we will go to the left.
We should not be avoided if we have been like that we have been similar to them, already it has been admitted and all that wants to meet, especially when his interests meet, not caring about the interests of our people and the ones who came to get quick property quickly.
Three these are going with the lack of good governance in the culture there is no need for us to stop and we are requesting them to make our private interests and the interests of our community.
Remember they have already sent away from our community and put in service to other people and we don't have different direction, direction of caring about their community and see if they unable to serve the law.
This has never been able to help their country and it does not recognize that they can be able to get development and be able to withstand the high level of the world's economy.
When I say it is that we are going on to the sky without knowing if we want to have an airplane or a animal, in culture and our brothers (if you are still remember), he will not remember that he will not know, and nor in-shirts.
When we are required to do, if we can go, it can be able to return to our legs to do a hard land, we need to land.
Surely, we should go to the Chinese, who since the past, they loved the country of Single Customs Territory of a series of noise, but at least you, we should learn afresh (because there was a time we met again (because there are a time we were given).
