He has not been released for free.
Brightiles 21, 2013.

One year old, Shomari Salum, was elected as the best player in the country and the Tanzania Sports Writers Association (TASWA).

In that year, he was elected as the best player of his Simba club that came for the best 16 matches of the CAF cup and managed to play in the match where his team defeated 4-0 goals.

Tanzania is now being faced with a total of approximately three years in the big international competitions Mister Haazu will participate in the African Cup or the world maybe until the year 2018.

The only cup that Tanzania will be participating in every year is the Fiesta Cup, which he has played for two or three years.

A question that soccer fans are supposed to ask about Shomari, it is that what I have remained with in Tanzania's soccer?

The Simba club has agreed to make sure they play with a club of AS Cub of France because it is the only step in his trip which can measure them for now.

It is true that the club plays for the fourth premier league in France but will get more good training, very high competition and care for more better than having Simba or any team of Tanzania.

This is a team that has ever made some of the best stars in the world like Patrick Vierra, and Zinedine Zidane and therefore the aim of the players that was made is to reach a half of those standards.

Cub of Dar es Salaam was not ready to pay a lot of money because it is still a lot of money that you need to be safely cleared to Simba and agreed to make sure they give him through the loan, Dar es Salaam has two great benefits.

First of first, he will get a chance to play twice and two teams of the France Premier League like PSG, PSG, Lyon, and Marist Charles through the big team's system with their normal players or those who had gone against them by low level teams.

This means that he will have the opportunity to prevent and agents of the big team just after being forced to go to a big team where he would like to sit on the bench without any benefits.

The second benefits is that if the end, finally they will get an opportunity to get a big team, Simba soccer club will get sales money which are many and it will also be given the door to send talents to check the Tanzanian market.

It took Simba is to make an environment of increasing the value of the number one in Europe, they look at all problems and all the weaknesses of that player and put it afresh this year from now, he will be the best player in and outside the stadium.

It is possible that Simba could not get money for now, but they will get later on and even if it will get those funds, "he will be the only Tanzanian player to have ever been working with teachers and equipment in the club.

The experience of bringing up players, to promote their talents and other training as to talk about different languages, will help him in the country as a player or coach in front of the journey.

Barcelona, today was forced to have only one Dutch, Brurhan Mlau, that she would have learned from Europe and helped me to see our nation in later?

At the end of a day, money is not everything on the benefits of wanting him to remain in Europe and that is why I am saying that Simba has not paid for free.
