Judge Mutabaleta was surprised by Goldie.
By Richard Mwaikenda.


The case that fell for this year is together with the scandal of Golding, who passed the court for two decades ago but he didn't come out, he refused to enter into the grave in which he had Judge Joseph Mbiku last year and now it has thrown out his case at the case.
The commission to employ servants of the court's department (JSC) requested five judges of the court's court to agree with the president Uhuru Kenyatta to sign a panel of seven members to investigate the reasons for Judge Mutomera, a case against Bhebey Ndey which was last year.
Judge Mutasingwa John was suspended from work but was returned to office by three judges who said that the panel that involved five judges are instead of seven.
The scandal made the government to lose billions of money through the selling of gold and diamonds in the 1990s.
The Golandu International Limited (NBL) that occurred and Mister Pickup, is the former director of the intelligence of the late James Mbuligwe, it was to sell those minerals and to be paid the consent of 35 years and not the national income.
Mister Pickup, and other suspects were arrested and sentenced in the year 1994 to theft and corruption of 558 billion shillings.
This case is Judge Mutabaleta was closed down saying it was lived in court for a long time to be heard and decided.
Those cases have caused the theft of more than 58 billion shillings from the national high level and those of ownership of high level shops in the international airport of Jomo Kenyatta.
The companies that were accused by Mister Pickup, which had already taken the authority of the ownership of the airport (KAA).
The decision by Judge Mutasingwa John of stopping the purchase of the case against Mister Pickup, which led to the case of the scandal of Golding, which led to the senior workers in the government to be arraigned in court.
Some of them were chosen to have been charged with Dinamo Zagreb, the former secretary of the main government of the government, late Karuma Kochanke who was the deputy chairperson of the Central Bank of Kenya (CBB) late Eliona.
Others were criticized by the former assistant manager of Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB Bank, Eliona.
The case has ever been directed by former chief justice Bernard Chunga, who was the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), Virgil Hjelmaker.
That case has ever been heard by Judge Hans van Persie, Judge Aggrey Mlimuka said that the former prime minister Gilbert Kadinde and the Chief Justice Hinda Ndonga and among others in the year 1994.
Judge Mutabaleta was closed down saying he went before being heard and decided for many years and that many witnesses were killed and other judges at Gioia Taqwah Mosque, John Mwaruka.
Mabisa, reading the Quran not in the commission to employ servants in the court's department (JSC) to work hard to help President Kenyatta to make a panel of investigate after receiving ten o'clock and one from the public against the judge.
Those lawyers in order to agree with President Kenyatta to be able to select another panel that is why Judge Mutasingwa John or on the claims against him being jailed or being found guilty, "said President Kenyatta to be a panel of investigate after being found guilty of Junction.
"JSC received the ball in the past and called 30 witnesses to confirm the claims against Judge Mbiso during the claims of 11 percent.
He knew the three claims that the proposal that was presented to President Kenyatta to make the panel, "he said Mister.
"After receiving that evidence, JSC made him to break the death between the 11 against Judge Mutta as there was no need for the girl child accompanied by witnesses," said Mister Alex.
