
Tuesday, September 11, 2012

Best farming.

Their cost of cassava is very important.
For Tanzania.
More than small-income farmers.
Their cost of cassava and other crops is like.
If a man, a human being, live in the same way, have the important things to this kind, to get a person they did not eat.
On other times in business, the southern region of cassava is food.
Which is a total of 75 percent of food in all areas of the coast region.

Spread from cassava bone.
The areas that are there in a 0-0 meter area from Indian Ocean.
Likewise, clean water is done well in the areas that got the average of an average of an average of shillings.
750 and 1200 shillings for a year of cassava leaves.
Well in the small land of the child, Vaquina, the lives of cassava is very popular by being patient.
Drought.

Technology.

Better harvest.
A light of cassava.

Until now.
There are two types of seeds that we have not yet confirmed to farmers, these diseases are not involved with diseases, (EFD).
By Glory Mlay - also give them very well compared to the weather.

I was born.
Give birth.
19 tons of one hectares, and it can be harvested for the 9 months since it is found.

.

Give birth to 25 tons.
30 million for one hour and can be harvested.
Starting from 9 months since it appears.

Better ways.
The farming of salt.

The preparation of the farm.

The farm is found.
It should be remembered before the next season, the preparation of the best farm takes the following day.

.
Bid farewell.

T-corruption and lose hope.

- the air to grow and produce.

.
Elections of the best seedlings.

.
They are supposed to remain with any women with any person, also choose what has affected.
Well.

.
How is separation.
There are three ways of a tree of cassava bone.

.
Look at the ground (SMS)?

.
Stop the bible (VocationalTraining).

.
Why is preparing itself (it is known)?

The length of the stem cells of planting.
It is a must.
The depth of the 30th of the year, but the length of a piece of planting is not so much in the number.
The eyes in that part, is advised that a piece is done by 4-6 percent.

Position.
To rise.

At a tree.
The cassava bone, stem cells are 1 billion and on the front line is 1 meter from the farm and other crops.
It is a terrorist and their thing that gets a distance from line to the line is 2-1 meters.
The stem cells are 1 meters.

.
Complete their completion.

.
Complete the first round be done earlier (1).
The rise in order to avoid the weeds cause loss after the heavy rains.
In four months of the beginning, if you are not supposed to have the weeds so as to avoid the weeds.
To end, it is important for important needs (light, fertilizer, water, and a high level one out of masturbation.
The weed appears.

.
The exercise takes place in a black bikini.
He accused the weeds.

.
Sometimes the control of the weeds take place.
Using the leaves by masturbation.

.
The rebel group takes place a 2-3 until a pose.

.
Citizens do not meet.

How can it mean?
To start being harvested after the 9-12 months since the planting exercise is completed.
In the solar period, there was a period of heavy rainfall suffering from cassava bone.
It happens.

Through the processing.

Processing.
A bag of cassava is taking place for two main reasons.

.
Ease and speed up.

.
To remove flaws in the type of Jide nets in some of the type.
?

.
Increasing the quality of flour made from cassava.

Better ways of processing.

.
By using the Grind.

This is an issue.
The sim card of cassava, which later usually did by using phones.
Another called "mystery" to prevent poison that are located in cassava bone.
It is used especially by a painful truth.

.
By using the type hypothyroidism.

.
The machine.
This gives small pieces of small pieces (dye) and this machine is used especially for.
The purpose of raping and coldness.

The use of cassava.

.
A flour can be buried.
Food or not.

.
The flour made from cassava can make things related?
Dealing with wheat flour as well.
Bhebey Ndey, dough nuts, an indication of the cake being fed a cake.

.
Also a flour can be used in industries to produce products.
Others like masturbation.

Of diseases and pest.

.
Diseases are found.

There are diseases.
Two that are very important.
And where are increasing the production of cassava bone.

A.
What is the disease.
The era of Matemu or the disease of sexual abuse.
.
A light of cassava.
This disease is popular in the areas.
The blood is with a length of 300 meters.
And it is found a little.
There are 500 hundred thousand dollars and continue where there is a normal mistake.
All of them.
The causes of living.
The results of the investigation results.
History shows that the disease was spread by a fox which is white or a mosquito bite?

Symptoms of this.

Sethi.
All of cassava leaves.
The symptoms of which is transmitted by this disease, but these sections of the disease are there.
In which way you depend on the bad condition, the action is to grow.
Compared to the.

.
On the leaves.

Symptoms of us.
First, Miss Chiki the color of the pond here at the outskirts of Dar es Salaam.
You are worth us so much and it can be able to buy a yellow card.

The signs of second?
Color of color which does not depend on well and listen to each other.
You're very disturbing, in the last steps of the disease in a big part.
For sure it can be able to get married, the damage is with the disease in the past.
For a period of several weeks.

.
What does it mean?

It is seen.
In the heart of the stem cells that are usually given, the injury on the net or a sharp object.
To taste the birth outside and getting inside the headlines after being beaten.
Outside.
Probably, from the age of us, the stem cells may be aired from nuts.
Below and causing the death of all.

.
On how?

Why is usual.
What happens after symptoms of vegetables and during the period of which is transmitted.
He has died, where the death of discrimination comes from 5 months since planting of symptoms.
How can it be, they are going outside to root and can be like.
Dizziness is a hole or dies.

How is the issue.
The Catholic church has a lot of color to sell him or black at the other time?
It appears to be with health from outside without having problems that are not open or.
A reduction of a size is the ones that they be able to die or yellow fever.

There is a actor and spread down.

CBB.
You have been infected on ways of studying in plants.
That causes you to say about the symptoms of the disease.

By being demolished.
Normally, it is paid through illegal ways of using this disease is spread.
A new part that are planted in using motorbikes that have been infected.

For a period of time.
They are disappointed so much in the valleys.
Bad signs are there.
What happens when it is found?
In the first stage.

How is the investigation.
It has shown that Bey wa Mitego is a cookie.
And the recent development about relocating the cause of the causes of living as "Masau boasted.
(White House) and due to that situation, the investigation is still ongoing.

Control and control.
A foundation of preventing and controlling the disease.
CBSD is to choose the seedlings from plants which have no signs of disease.

The high quality is need and taken care.
Continuing to choose and lose hope that have been infected.
They love you.

Make sure that you get better seeds of cassava.
What are making a probability of the infections of diseases.

Make sure that during the time of releasing the situation there is a situation.
It allows you to identify the cassava leaves by getting off in order to eradicate that disease.

Understand the symptoms of CBSD for purposes.
To take precaution to eradicate this disease.

Ensure that it is going to care for them.
The ones that are seen to evade a lot of diseases.

Make sure that the farm from cassava is growing very well.
Reduce the uses of CBB.

B).
The sacred disease is drawing and leprosy.
It is a disease that is spread in plenty.
First here, Tanzania, 1894, and later reported having died in other countries.
Many of the south east, East Africa and the Central Africa.
It is known that there are all areas that are set aside from cassava in Africa.

In the level.
The presence of CMSA company and in large numbers.
From CMSA, it is between 15% of 20 percent and this is equivalent to 15 million tons.
According to the estimates of the agricultural and food organization in the world of 85 million in the year 1997.

The causes of.

Since the disease.
CMSA company was the spread for the first time, the causes of goods which were taken to be HIV because of lack.
It does not affect the other.
The results of the previous investigation, shows that the disease is spread by a spirit what is spread by white house (White House).

Also the investigation of time to time has been made.
To change the virus of different types and different as we follow.

.
The sacred disease is caused by the virus.
Africa with the FGM?

So, the Dengue fever disease is caused by the virus.
East Africa (East Africa).
Africa with the FGM virus.

.
The sacred disease is caused by the virus.
India (center).
Symptoms of the disease.
The fact is (Cassin Mosley (CMSA).
Symptoms are there.
What usually happens in only one with the sponsors of the bacteria?
What is seen in the scene.
The fare is usually known in the steps.
Previously the growth of behind only.
A section of
It does not be unable to rise up until the end, therefore the tension depends on.
That is for a result of economic growth that match the past.
Small leaves that were destroyed.
?
The ones that were affected are reduced, the size of a great shape, and they get married and leave it.
Part of.
Yellow fever that are normal as usual.
Mmambe '.
Sexually transmitted infections do not have conflicts.
He does not lie!
Behind only it can be a yellow fever virus, color is very delicious.
What are not little.
Inexhaustible speed than it is normal.
There is a actor and spread!
The leases of cassava leaves.
In signs of stem cells that are normal.
It is used to appreciate yourself.
Also you are spread by the name?
(White House) called Bey of G.
This mosquito to be known (Tina Turner, Hjelmaker.
Day time in Dar es Salaam.
In the country.
Africa and India.
Distribution.
Aspects that you can cause the spread of CMSA company.
.
New.
What does it mean to prevent you?
- Maelezo.
The foundation of preventing throat cancer is by electing leaders.
Mtibua and what is not known.
Any time.
A high-quality quality.
It is needed for continuing to choose and fail to resolve it.
Despite being infected.
It seems to be time of gathering.
- you make sure that during pregnancy?
Due to the ones that were affected by Benedict Liwenga.
It seems to be dealt with.
Fire.
- you make sure that it is care for the farm and be clean so as to reduce.
All (CMSA).
- you make sure you have enough education.
The symptoms of Martti Ahtisari Center in the net.

.
Pests and animals.

.
Cassius Mdami (CMB).

Pest.
They fail to rise in the sharp edges.
It is that the uses of those channels will be collecting together, therefore, reduce the growth of the growth.
The truth is in general.
Among them that could be able to do so that they are very short.

.
Cassin Green Themi Dar es Salaam (CPA).

Pest.
They fail to rise up with the new parts of the poor. Those effects are not great.

.
White FGM?

These are masturbation.
And you have not seen the stem and shivered from the tree of cassava bone.
Likewise, these effects are not important.

.
Mchaga answered me.

These are all?
You cannot get married, it has a flour of cassava especially during a stern warning and drought.

.
Most of the animals.

These are all?
They fail to go down from cassava while on Instagram.
Likewise, prevent it and transporting it, for them.

Control and control.

On the side of the side.
Pest can be controlled through the following.

Using drug abuse.

Using insects and friends of farmers.
On the side of animals, it is to put security guards.
