
The love of SADC in 23 percent of what?
Dec 13, 2012

The heads of countries of the Southern African Community (SADC) have agreed to take the police force to protect the peace of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and control the rebels in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and control the Sunni rebels.

The heads have reached that decision in their two-day session that took place in Dar es Salaam city, in their agreements that have been read by the chairman of the defense and security committee of SADC, President Jakaya Kikwete, have urged the founders of the 23 people from the fight.

But apart from that, according to the Executive Secretary of SADC, Doctor Tresphory Mtibua and SADC countries have condemned the C group of its attacks that they made against citizens who are not guilty.

Doctor Tariq Khdeir is saying that M23 have violated human rights by making them sexual violence against citizens of DRC.
Other groups of people who were giving human support.

On our part, we are supporting this decision of SADC to prevent and use its resources to protect peace in one of the countries, members of the community and even so, we are believed to be surprised by the decision of giving a call on the importance of wanting those founders and President Joseph Kabila of DRC.

It is surprising that to listen to Doctor TKO in a certain way where the rebels of 23 have violated human rights, when they continued with the fight to serve the city of Goma, in DRC.

Now if it is understood in SADC and the international community that M23 have done acts of suppression of human rights, why these rebels get back in Kinshasa because of peace talks instead of being taken to the law on their actions of infringement of human rights.

For the countries that are run through legal basis, depending on the basis of the law but also the violation of human rights because it is a violation of the resolutions of the United Nations (UN).

The question of asking themselves is why the rebels failed in talks instead of being joined by the court judges, to answer the charges he gets to the rebels.
23 years speak to so that they should be given some positions in the government, its meaning is not forgetting or assume the pain of the brutal murder of those rebels and it is considering the pain of victims of the rebels and it is to sell the lives of people who were killed without guilty.

And basically, it is equal to each other in the coming days, people do not want power to look for those power by starting a discussion and eventually enter the government in SADC and not to urge the legal action against the founders of the 23 countries and not to urge the talks to look for peace.
