
Agriculture first, water and ethics.
May 31, 2012

The slogan of agriculture first has increased by every minister when he spoke, even if he gives the sports speech, it is a must he will get a drought of livestock to die, leaders are heard and urged farmers to consider the agricultural policies.
However, fishermen are forced to consider agriculture first, the emphasis is placed on this agriculture policy, is heading into consideration and the whole process of agriculture first.
There is ideas that if you want to thank President Kikwete, it is need to mention President Kikwete, it is a must to mention President Kikwete, there are others that are going far and said that if you want the prime minister, Honorable Mizengo Pinda to listen to them is to mention agriculture.
In a period of singing agriculture first, I did not remember the political parties is agriculture, they did not remember the first rains for desks, they did not remember the good food is on the farm, they did not remember the future of the modern farming to children who were born at different times when they be given names of modern.
Or also you did not remember the farming of age, she didn't remember the farming it is a threat to the economy of our nation.
Agriculture first has been a political song like just after getting married, "CCM 'number One," CCM has it themselves "and etc, there is a time when the attempt failed to continue, that together with the agricultural policy, the crops are not so used.

When we are continuing with the farming song first, there are strategies to improve the coffee price so as to convince the gold prices to go through coffee alone like Kagera, Kilimanjaro, and Mbeya, farmers have been given up with water prices, and they decided to stop vegetables.
Other farmers have decided to shine and climb other crops with the cotton farmers to have been given up with the cotton prices, they have decided to leave cotton and leave him from other crops.
The same way you used other crops like smoke, etc.
Why we have not heard the strategy of improving the crops but at the blood price here in our country, in Uganda the price is high, and that is why some of the farmers of Kagera province have decided to sell home in Uganda.
There is a strategy to convince the farmers to continue selling coffee, the sun and cotton in large numbers?
Agriculture first, it's not new policies as it was, agriculture, the first rains are for desks and agriculture is the back to the economy of our nation.
Maybe a person who is keen he would see why we have opened the agricultural sector, before the water is first.
Our agriculture is depending on the rains without the ongoing rains, we are supposed to bring back, we have witnessed all of us on how that occurred have changed from rains that are not funny when there is heavy rain until time.
Experts say that destruction of the environment is causing disaster of drought.
We continue improving the environment, the activities that destroy the environment is more than the efforts and noise that are used to support agriculture.
Therefore, so as to attract agriculture, it is a must for us to have a big strategy of dealing with water and it is a must for us to have the first water and we cannot say that we continue to help the efforts to look for water and dealing with farmers!

It is a must for our agriculture to be responsible for irrigation.
So, the sales of irrigation system is in the areas that concern well like Karagwe, there are no irrigation projects and plans of starting the irrigation system.
I have heard of any member of parliament from Kagera Province, talking about irrigation projects in the country, that is making the systems of harvesting rain water so that they used them to irrigate our farms during drought and drought.
Heavy rains in the city, a lot of water should be paid for free but we have been the problem of dams to be generated from electricity every year at the moment we're on the same way because water resulted in dams to produce electricity.
We will be able to make sure that the farms which have been started in this agricultural policy is not there to resolve the deaths like dams to produce electricity in IAGRI as we want electricity to produce electricity because they have reduced water.
We do not have a system of poultry farming, care for rain water.
In the year 1997, in Karagwe, I visited my friend from Germany.
It does not understand what they did not affect the water of rains and all the days of us here in Karagwe, he continued to be surprised how we have failed to get water from rains and continue to complain about the water problem.
Apart from being unable to sell water from rains, we are still continuing with the environment and the government is heading back behind in implementing its strategy of controlling this destruction. For example people get married and the government is silent!
Rwanda and Burundi their government got a strategy of preventing fire outbreaks that were started by people started dealing with today, Rwanda and Burundi are if they are trusted.
I remember in the year 1997, in Karagwe, I decided to run a service to ask for rains.
People were struggling to historical, the heavy rainfall has gone down for a long period as they prepared a service to ask for rains and ask you to lead you so as to ask the miracle of God.
I refused to lead that service and urged the believers to stop the habit of controlling the environment that is where the rains are committed, because the government is fulfilling the environment of environment but another person can say the first environment, before agriculture first!
The day before yesterday at the University of Dar es Salaam we were to discuss the agricultural policy first, when I released the water issue instead of agriculture first, Professor Lipumba removed the first ethics.
His motion was that instead of creating Tanzania agriculture and water first, there is a need to start with ethics in the views of Professor Lipumba is that here in Tanzania, we have no ethics ethics, we have no ethics ethics, we have no ethics for caring for things.
We do not have quality standards, we will put up water from tuberculosis so that it can be weight, when we put off the type of coffee so as to get weight that can be paid well.
The results are to give the cotton and drinking water which is under high level, we use poison that inspect them as an aim of protecting many fish by getting income, but its results are affecting the health of many people.
We have made you even the step of making drugs, "Matatizo 'and sells them with the aim of getting income and there are many examples of showing that the standards of the standards is a big problem that I had made in our country.
The Professor of the University gave a challenge on my water argument and that the Kagera province is among the provinces that got lucky to get water infrastructure.
That water were distributed to the whole province, but because we lack ethics, pipelines for buying water was sold to an extent that today the water problem in Kagera province is dangerous.
I, I have witnessed the areas where people who were studying the water catchment areas so as to look for poison that are faced with illegal immigrants, but the people feel it is better to bring water into the hands.
I think this is not a problem of Karagwe and it is the examples of other parts of Tanzania where people are spoiling the infrastructure to bring closer to citizens, services closer.
This is a problem of ethics.
There is a great need to start the process of teaching and spreading good ethics, the national ethics, political ethics in the hearts of the hearts of all.
When a question is who will make this system of improving ethics and our politicians that take every event to political fanaticism and celebrated a good system of improving ethics?
Or maybe a solution is to have a project together with scholars, non-governmental organizations, religious organizations and all people with good love to cooperate, discuss and think together, we can make a good system of national ethics, and in this way we can move forward.
Without building ethics if we see in our country it used, it will be difficult to move forward even if we get the money for the whole world to run the agricultural policy.
The problem of lack of ethics is that what has denied the efforts of Mwalimu Nyerere.
His planning was very difficult, but because it does not form a system of kidney transplantation.
Teacher, he started a big farms in the whole country, like these farms would have been done well and we would not talk about the agricultural policy, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics, ethics
When the teacher started a lot of industries in clothes and skin industries, industries to process meat, industries, industries and many other industries which were destroyed and it would end up of privatization from the country because our industries can be used well, today Tanzania, our economy could be ahead.
Without building ethics, even when we get the agricultural policy first, it is difficult to make action against the teacher.
