The specialist doctors from Geology has insisted that his stand of making demonstrations on Monday's next week came up to oppose what is claimed to be paid by injustice to the profession in the city when they were in the city where they have given information.
While speaking to the press in the city when they met the Secretary General of Casey wa Mitego has said that the demonstrations will start from Muhumbili National Hospital and ended at the health ministry where those complaints will be presented and later followed by the meeting.
Moreover, he has said that matt is ready to sit in one table with the government and made discussions so as to look for a solution to the crisis that has been arriving in one of the citizens.
That if you stay tuned and I am very happy about the table and doctors during his way, the table is to you are a politician to see this one of losing the doctor who is still being taught.
By buying there, but you want to remind me with the thoughts, let me be careful.
In addition, that leader of doctors has said that doctors are disappointed by the decision of the council and doctors that are needed to reach their wealth without caring.
Its members and so on.
Doctors are saying that things are going on to the right.
It is still proud because I would have run.
I commend his call.
Pinda has gone down.
It is in the court we are told by other things to solve.
At the same time, Serengeti's member of parliament who is a member of the parliamentary committee and development of the community, Mosene Nyambabe, has requested the government to stop the wealth of doctors who are in work at work because they have advised the two sides to sit with one table and to look for a solution.
Two or the government and doctors and professionals in health.
My thing is good to sit on the table.
For this week, I seen it is true that the government and doctors are who used to use the citizens a god.
They have given their money through tax.
The late God rest in America, we are grateful for the countries they are self-employed, the deceased is not for free but there are all inheritors', but I were shocked when they were in the status of Bakari again and again.
