
A citizen is getting married every corner of freedom.
Salum Maige (Citizen), annamatinde @ mkito.
Mwanza Province, the head of Mwanza Province, John Mongella has praised the Citizen newspaper for writing a lot of information in the provinces including Mwanza different and other newspapers which have continued to write news from Dar es Salaam.
Mongella who once worked at the Citizen company that supports the Citizen newspaper, Ambassador Seif, and the mwanaspoti newspapers, he said that most of the news are in the village areas where there is where many citizens have been right to give birth to news from Dar es Salaam, but it is not easy to assume the areas of Dar es Salaam.
He gave that statement when he was opening the celebrations of the commemoration of the freedom day of the media that took place in Mwanza Province and attended by various media stakeholders including organizations of the United Nations.
"Some of the newspapers are very good, for example the Citizen newspaper has made great steps and it is growing a daily page of writing news from the lake region different from other newspapers," said Mongella and added.
"There is need to build the ability to journalists in the district and provinces so as to increase the strength of getting information to help the government to fulfill the responsibility of the public."
The statement made a few hours after the Vice Chairperson of Tanzania Editors Forum (TEF), Deodatus Balile said that the media houses are supposed to use the system of MCL Company so as to meet the profession of the industry without bringing conflict.
Balile who is also the executive director of the newspaper of the United Republic said that the system has helped the company to do its work hard without its leaders in the coming of their daily responsibilities.
"The Citizen editors is free because they are working without relations with the chief executive officer who has the responsibility to address the administration of general and business issues, but the news analysis is to remain with the editors and their journalists so that they do their professional work."
He insisted.
In his speech, Mongella said there is a great opportunity for the provinces of the Lake Region including Mwanza which would have been wanted to bring great changes to the national development especially considering the strategy of the fifth term government that helps to bring economic changes in the country.
I request I need to continue to be the head of the province to be shaken before next year as a day like today, so as to cooperate here to help President Magufuli, "he said.
Previously the chairperson of the African Development Institution in South Africa branch, Simon Barege said that the commemorations, have participated with three historical events, the commemoration of 250 years since the establishment of the first law of freedom to get information on the world which its origin are Sweden and Finland.
Also, the commemorations are going on well and they are saying they are going on hand in hand with the end of 25 years of being deposited in the field of Windhoek Dictatorship in this celebrations which is taking place being the first year of 15 years of the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals (SDG s).
