Energy and approximately twenty million Tanzanians have said to approximately twenty-five percent, it is said that they are in the villages and our education level is not a very big amount.
You can be a certain challenge to look for these issues there by few people.
Or the same thing is one of the ones that have never been infected by the fact that this is the passion of.
This normal person is in the village he doesn't know the jersey of information.
They are doing.
We help him.
There is a little challenge but there is no challenge if you came and failed to get solutions.
In a human environment.
Any person that is there is one way or another?
He can get accurate information.
I don't have a lot of those who eat, but you know everything in our village.
And in the district where these days the foundation has the strength of communication once you are found on phone networks are available on the internet, then I don't have faith with the president of faith, but in one way or another even if he is in the village maybe and his brother will have his brother in the city.
As a result of the desire of inside the first step, he said that I will go after knowing if the child's page and my brother for few hours when I will give you a solution to how he didn't give you a solution to how he didn't give you a solution.
And if you continue to have something to prevent the knowledge of the internet in any environment that you used to get knowledge on how many people have the same environment, but you're getting into a way you will get knowledge, I am saying if you woke up on how you will get knowledge, I am saying if you went on how you're close to me, I am saying if you're getting into a way you're getting rid of your heart.
There are people who live there.
In order for you to see the opportunities it is a must for livestock that will be bought using it and it can't jump.
Get knowledge or when your education is stable that there is another person who is in one environment, see them an opportunity in this evening.
It is a must for Ubungo I will enable you to see since there is no wonder, there is no very big step in the success of your life.
It's not a capital and capital is not true that it's not a wife to be supported and not the first step by using a spirit of Mister God who has come in this life, it has had a enthusiasm to do.
The enthusiasm to want to succeed.
The enthusiasm to arrive in one place where your brothers face.
Now I will ask you today, how do you have a dream in life?
There are any success which you like.
If you are not there?
You like to live life and.
Why is today, you don't put a state of inside this and they were able to save in many issues.
Kibatala with us and if you like that, the age of us will make sure that you get to be the one for one hour through things that have seen in television.
They see the husband to climb that account, it's the first to start to make sure that the second thing is because he had the passion of inside but it is the second thing.
It is supposed to wake up so that you want to go in English as we pass through Saccos.
It is a must for you to know which everything you want to do if you want to be with them.
He wants to be.
If a modem is a must you don't know that you want to come out and you want to come to be.
Almighty God rest many people.
When you don't know that this he is not in action to succeed today when you ask you if you want to be a soccer player when you ask you, then you want to go to the gospel tomorrow when he wants to open a shop.
For now, Tiffah has not done decisions you want to be in the second step.
To succeed, it is a must that you use it, especially you want to live in a education of her son.
