To fail is the policies of CCM, the source of land conflicts.
January 26, 2013.

The policies of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) has been unable to have been unable to use good implementation but it has not been unable because it is a bad policy that has changed to be a permanent disaster in the nation.
These policies in general are the cause, the cause of laziness of the development in the country and it is the main cause of poverty in Tanzania and these policies which have only been tested for 50 years and more than now, has confirmed one thing.
The CCM policies about water has been unable to strengthen CCM policies about energy it has been unable to strengthen CCM policies about energy and security has been unable to build CCM policies about security and security has been unable to build CCM policies about security and security has been unable to build CCM policies about security and security has been unable to reduce CCM policies about security and security.

Happy for the new year?
We shall enable you to start knowing and accept the truth that is clear in front of them being a lot of problems and what they are seen in other parts of the country, arising from poor conditions of CCM policies.
It is these policies which are the ones that we are seen in our community. Those results have been seen and they are continuing to stop against their party which for more than 50 years they have been unable to stop against them and to make sure they have decided to decide it.
We're getting involved in Mtwara, it is a confirmation of what others have been saying for now, the policies of CCM is a primary problem in the future of the nation of Mtwara, Lindi, Rukwa, Manyara, Rukwa, Singida and by true the total of all other provinces of CCM have been the cause of development problems.
This problem of the policies of CCM is that its foundation is bad, its recommendations are bad and they have been made up on the basis of the nation.
It depends on investment from outside as a foundation of development.
The big problem of CCM policies is that they have been made as a result of depending on donations from outside and investment of the country, that is being independent, today the word "independent" is not allowed again to speak to the statement of our leaders because they can't leave this issue.
Today, CCM policies is expected to "sponsors" and those who are calling the development partners. "
Hayatou has reported that as a point that CCM leaders can't think about development without thinking of investors to provide outside.
