Citizens have been unable to go back to Musoma has been in the next to complete the construction of ten houses and two classrooms in secondary schools, because they could be forced to continue contributing money for the purpose of completing the construction, a situation that doesn't be forced to continue giving money for the purpose of completing the construction and this is a report.
It is true that what is claimed that parents have shown the source of parents to boycott the construction.
There are several reasons that he will not know.
One of the children claims that there is a result of the government and the idea of the first statement of two people.
It was said that parents follow up so much the government is doing?
While they succeeded in implementing that process, all the buildings were ten and two buildings.
Eight in a result of the statement that parents is the right time to finish.
Therefore, little was removed.
Parents have members of five.
What I don't know the human being resulting from the real meaning but they do not have.
Some of the leaders who will be served by the head of that province, Colonel Issa Machibya.
The executive director of the village and Executive Director of the village.
For then, I have also contributed to parents to refuse to continue contributing.
The topic was hard to get out and get out of those days, because of the resignation of you, you will recognize them because it is looking for classrooms as it needs to be careful.
That stern action is going through a message of argument and check on how to improve on teaching is no success and to find out a place and he is looking for a place and he is looking for a place where he can protect themselves.
Share experiences during the time of Mister showing time.
It's not there or it's difficult for these to be for sure.
It is that when you failed to continue with the very good aim and the provision of education to every Tanzanian, but now it will not be better if it will be better education if the situation will continue to be mentioned in the government.
There is a easy way to be the prime minister of education.
Or to the leaders.
Other wards with a environment like this.
That the ability and second to them did not be given a contribution to our place and I think to stop bias against our shape and I think they should complete all of them, but there are just after getting the windows for all the house, then we are participating in which they are participating.
I can change if we were with us in our film industry and money and the development of the county, the one that is currently expected even though it is difficult to do that, "we said.
