
Somanda Hospital continues to work on pregnant women.
By Lucy Lameck.
Health workers have been encouraged to change their opinion, especially when they serve the pregnant women in order to ensure that they get the services and the concerned help they give, the organization that protects the rights of women.
The director of the Tanzania Education Link Company, Miss Grace Mbani said that workers are supposed to serve all the women without discrimination or check their social condition.
Through his report to the press during the commemoration of the world women's day, Miss Mbijima has congratulated the efforts of his wife President Uhuru Kenyatta, at the Uhuru Kenyatta to strengthen the health of pregnant women and children by participating in the Marathon race for more than seven o'clock.
Miss Kenyatta is vying for a campaign known as "the White House" which is aiming to stop the deaths of pregnant women when they sell the children by being able to have clinics in every corner of the country so as to get services closer to the citizens, "if he would like to be used to get reproductive pain during a long time which made him to get a fistula disease.
And now he is bringing up his child with joy while he has been surrounded by his family.
Instead, it's lives like he was born and was born with his family because of the famous person, we are not aware of the reasons that can be used to arrest the women in life and their status, "the report explained.
That organization has also urged the investors to know or others in the health sector to ensure that women enjoy weight and also to give birth.
"We are also urged doctors who do private jobs to offer their services without payments and to help at least 10 pregnant women to give birth to the year," he said.
Likewise, the organization has insisted on the importance of investing in the reproductive health sector and to deal with those services in the areas and in all fields which include health care for children and family planning.
