Politicians, activists and religious leaders have continued to give reports of condemning acts of killings of the channel, captain David Cason which happened in Iringa region at the end of the week where they have requested the results of the investigation of that incident to make sure that it is true.
The head of the opposition camp in parliament.
Speaking at the headquarters of the party of democracy and development.
He has said his party seems to be announced by the government to investigate the killings of a journalist.
He has said that CHADEMA have no faith used because it's not the main reason because some of the delegates who were chosen to form that commission don't have the reputation while others have a conflict of interests.
The police force have been accused.
The police force.
And his managers can't read it during their differences.
You need to be investigated and inside here which is not good.
Those who are required?
While talking on his part, Mbiku of the church of Restoration Bible Church located in Dar es Salaam city.
Doctor Joseph Kimwaga who joined the public of Tanzanians by telling us of the killings of the news reporter where he wanted the government to take action of protecting the murder like those.
He has said that it is a shame for the country to make sure that it is praised in peace.
Getting into the record to place blood from people who do not have problems.
The two of nine year of nine year and ten thousand.
For sure that it has put our nation in the way of this death of brother David Banda, who is a journalist, captain, we are happy to get to receive this letter and we believe that this act we request the people that did things like.
You miss.
The investigation of women.
Today the legal action should be taken to our country to continue permanent with the journalists, you cannot be able to take a decision to give their properties as well as possible.
Nelly Mwangosi who has been buried yesterday in Mbeya province was on the political violence between the followers of CHADEMA and the police at the Ihanga village, which is in the primary school last Sunday where his body has been destroyed.
From the city of Dar es Salaam?
