
Masanja-Rose Mdami has lived in sports, May 31, 2012.

The death of the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, Charles Masanja, which happened the night before the day before yesterday, can give him for example one example of a candle that are measurable.
Masanja has talked about this world as well as it's not only missing from his family, his brothers and athletes in general, the sports media industry has also been a big challenge.
They are happy to live with sports news, probably you will get a lot for a lot and without doubt each one should remember well when they used to have a great help.

For sure that journalists will probably be a person who was a strong man and a true friend, someone who is due to doing his activities and believe in themselves as a great help in them.
It is as a result of that reputation, that is why Masanja has said in the whole period of the sea where the former Tanzania Football Association (fat), have never been involved with any scandal.
This is a person who was starting in the year 2011 to 1996, he was the assistant secretary for fat Joe, Bonny Mwaitege from the ministry.
Maybe you can think that it could not be easy for him as a government's person getting into the scandal because the government servants of its kind were forced to make sure that, the regional netball party, Netball Association (Chakwama), was also by Chiku Galawa from the ministry that performed well in those days.
Like that time, an issue of Masanja was seen because he was a government employee, then they were going round from the year 2002 to 2004 when he was the assistant secretary general of fat Joe.
But Masanja has said in the government and the ones who had been elected as the one who was elected as the same lady Haazu taking place in groups or doing so even fat and the former chairperson of the party, Muhidin Ndeki.
Even when he got another position in the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) in the year 2005 to be a member of the technical committee, Masanja doesn't change color.
Maybe a person who complained to him popularly known as Ndeki, after listening to the news of his death, the author of the newspapers, TSN when he asked him about how he didn't know if he had the following way to say.
"I cannot inform us that this year I have been known by Charles, but I have been close up since when I got married, I did not have any kind of work together with being the biggest thing in the country, Masanja did not have any kind of money and he was the solution to journalists when they had any problem.
The author of the newspapers, TSN, gives a good example of how that we have been asked by the late in an event that took the last day of his life at Uhuru Stadium (former National Stadium).
"It is this Sunday, October 18 this year, 1002 and 15 in the evening, the vehicle for the government company, Tanzania Standard Chartered Bank, (TRL) was arrived at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam city, security guards from Kuala Lumpur to arrive at the field.
"The Manager of the stadium, Charles Celestine Masanja, arrived at the area a short time later, he urged them to identify the guards that they should not get into the stadium so as to give an opportunity to the journalists to report the match between JKT Ruvu and Simba that took place the day before yesterday.
"He said on a black suit is a black person, he appeared before going round with the pitch to ensure the things are going on well, especially after the tickets of the game ended, many people want to get into the field (to check the match).
"After finishing his responsibilities to ensure the press have gone to the field, Masanja went to the famous people's area and to make sure that each one being able to sit in that area gets the seat.
"The last person gave him for the seat he was the coordinator of Mtibwa Sugar team, Jamal Sasi.
"After that he descended down and went on the side of the left stage where they are believed by Simba fans, he urged the players who attended the fence and endanger their safety and endangering their safety and those of other fans who had flooded the field to witness the game.
He said he shivered to the security of people and property in the area that he was suspended and made sure that fans do not affect the infrastructure of that stadium that was a renovation. "
On the explanation of the writer to know how the late did not be careful with his work and how he used to be able to control the journalists.
It is clear that for those explanations, Masanja was very happy about the health on that last day of his life on October 18th this year.
But as a candle which was affected by the wind, suddenly and when they are measurable, the life of Masanja was played after night on Monday night.
The acting secretary general of the ministry of information, culture, and sports, Gasper Mboya, explained to the journalists that Masanja died after falling on her house of Kimara - Korogwe, Dar es Salaam.
According to his mother, the late, Greyson Mwase, Masanja has said after arriving at his home he was going on behind the fence of houses and it was normal to make sure so as to ensure security.
After doing that, before asking for the announcement of votes he got into the bricks that were scored and parked but he was explained to fall down and he went against him under the bone of the outside.
It was important for Masanja-Masanja to make sure the security before going into inside because it should be remembered that once it was attacked by criminals who had survived, while coming from the Taifa Stars match, Angola, at the event, he returned the computer (top top) and money.
Masanja was born on January 20, 1957, Tabora, Tabora, who graduated from form four in Itiji secondary school in the year 1975.
He continued with secondary school studies for form five and six at Minara Secondary School, Coast in the year 1977.
He got a doctorate degree in Education of Vientiane at the University of Havana Cuba.
After going back to his home from Cuba, he stopped him in soccer and became the coach of the popular African Sports Club of Tanga in the year 1990.
Masanja has died as the manager of Uhuru Stadium and the representative of the technical committee of TFF, and also the Chief Executive Officer of the TFF general meeting representing the Tanzania Football Coaches Association (TAFCA).
The late Masanja has left the widow of four children, God rest his soul in eternal peace, amen.
