
They are preparing to tackle the president's stand.
By OMR.
Blantyre City, Malawi the president of Malawi, Joyce Zakaria is expecting to make sure he won the race that is expected to be held tomorrow, with his responsibility, when you go up with the claims of the heavy scandal of corruption and stop for donations from foreign countries.
The voters will decide if he visited their stand, who was the deputy president before being elected to be the president following the death of President Bey of Mutharika in August, last year.
His intention is to be elected as the president it has reduced and lost 30 million dollars from the lack of national money that were found in last year in that country with a lot of poverty.
The stall who officially launched the fight to deal with corruption, ordered the investigation that followed up the theft, who were written by the name "Cindy," and charges were opened against 68 ministers of the public servants and business people.
The stall denied claims that he was involved in that scandal, and said Cemetery is his success and it will not be successful in the general elections.
"For sure that is my great success," he told the journalists before the end of his campaign meeting to vote for him, and President Joyce Malawi added that corruption had not underway before he came to power.
However, his opponents said that he together with his followers gave the public money to cater for the campaign and bribing the voters before the presidential elections, parliamentary seat were planned to take place on May 20.
The foreign countries are expecting to produce a big level of Malawi that participated the help of 150 million dollars which was required so much in the country, following that scandal of corruption.
This situation has also caused the existence of a big competition in the presidential elections where research conducted for bewitching him who is not easy to realize that the winner won the election.
Although there are 12 points, the senior competitors are the stand and the deaths of three others, among them the president who passed it.
Competition is called "we have never done this kind in elections, where it is difficult to try that the winner will lead," accountant of Actor in Malawi, Boniface Duncan, said.
That president who is 64 years old, who is also the first leader in a woman also may be faced with challenges because of the efforts to improve the economy.
One of his campaigns at the national television station shows the head of International Civil Aviation Organization (IMF) Christine Ishengoma, listening to their stand as the senior leader with the best ability to lead Malawi.
However, its strategies to strengthen the economy is being reduced because of the shares of bye, that affect the highest income in that country.
