Has come at a place.
First, I am very happy because the late God rest his importance.
By checking the positions that we are using to games to different people, but we have seen that this game.
Which is the only game for people with disabilities.
The late God is the first time to be done here in our university and therefore it is only that we have a lot of games that becomes the only game and then they are doing well and that it is going on well and that it is going on well and that it is still doing well and that it will have many things.
First.
We got the leaders that have been taught for a period of one week.
Their expertise.
Not from outside, but with good intentions that they have pledged to come out to study taxes for a period of one week is something to ask God and something to be an issue of happy and that they are able to go for it.
Therefore, to get experts is one way that helps in ensuring that this game is in a high level in the current position after getting experts is human resources and said that.
Various equipment.
We have said that the government disappeared.
In those areas that are not allowed but the equipment are because different stakeholders can contribute to.
Different stakeholders is being found to see that there are schools which need the equipment, the late God is very easy to ensure that they are taking them to those areas.
Being used in developing this game people with mental disabilities, but also those areas have been spoken.
Who are areas they look for areas where you are supposed to sell, although it is not a big part but it shows that there was a big part but it shows that there will be a threat to the school as a result of enough information.
It is a challenge that it will be afraid that they will have a good opportunity to play this game they will agree that if other people see the different games that are being run.
Therefore, it is my call for all the stakeholders together with the government together with various institutions that now the game has started to be taught and now we need to be hard.
In every area to take his position to ensure that this game is continued and is very high.
