The youth of Tanzania should be used badly in the elections.
May 23, 2012

There are signs of using our youth badly in the general elections of this year, there are many reasons and primary schools to get the head in politics.
Poverty and lack of employment is a big reason among the mentioned youths to take advantage of the election period as the time of harvesting and making their lives, the ones that are successful and get strength to run their lives up to another election or things are going on well for the small elections, things are going on well.
There is enough evidence that in a small elections, a lot of money is used and especially if the ruling party is forced to ensure that it endangers the region of money makes us lose the youths who sell themselves from mental disabilities benefit but most of them get into the process of causing violence and make it himself in the community!
The opinion polls of CCM, we have witnessed violence and other areas have refused to agree on the results and they have made demonstrations to return their cards so as to resolve these violence are taking place without relying on media stations which are at the front line in making noise and making demonstrations.
They are doing so with good intentions and with the aim of defending justice and democracy or they are doing so because they are being used by players in this year, youths of CCM and therefore it is important to warned our youths to be loved and try to be used badly in the elections.
Between the year 2005, the third general election under the system of many political parties and this year 2010 we are doing the fourth election of many parties, which have witnessed different small elections of parliament and councilors.
Few elections are happening and there were all of us witnessed how many funds are used in these elections to be used in these elections in the ministers they used the government vehicles and the delegates of the government to run the campaign in a small elections.
It is clear that there is a day to see the misuse of public funds, some of the elections were caused by violence that are caused by violence that are caused by many political parties, one of the elections that had violence in the year 2010.
In the last article I wrote on, 2016, we have met members of CCM and CHADEMA of CHADEMA have died because we were people of one village in many villages of this country, people living in one village or another.
And this is so bad, because the parties do not give birth to permanent hatred and show that people are not one and other political parties to show sure and to solve the economic and social problems that are going on in that province, they have remained to provide incitement words and to increase the truth among people.
The government is thinking of thinking that right now is to add up, Venance Mwakikosa (Tarime) for this time or to involve stakeholders and use of this nation, but as it is normal in this country, the implementation of everything we want to do when they don't know what they do to run the old Taarab campaign.
Today, we can send Tarime forces because it is one region where he said that violence will go back to Tarime because the cause of that violence is also to cause violence, because there will also be a great job of making these politicians like to see Tanzania before having a victory of their parties.
