
After Lulu got a bond of her mother Kanumba a few hours.

The news of the star of the gospel music in the country, Elizabeth Michael 'Lulu, "was released on bail, has encouraged the mother of the late Steven Kanumba, Flora Millinga, so he gave him a message for Lulu was released on, then he took the picture of looking for him and started falling down.
Approximately one hour since the High Court in Dar es Salaam, announced to be left to Lulu on bail, our source in Kagera was awarded by mother, "Mama Kanumba today has been from the poor and all days, when he said that Lulu was set free, he has shot himself well."
After getting those reports, our reporter the officer for the phone, Mama Kanumba, when he came up, the person was heard.

At the same time, Mama Kanumba said Mrs Siwema who was released, I know it is the love for God but I am using a lot because my son had gone down. "
However, those talks were seen after mother Kanumba being unable to find him, despite our writer to use a lot of time when he visited him to leave on the right.

One and a half hours later, Mama Kanumba being attacked by our reporter, explaining that when he is holding the picture of the Kanumba which is reminding the pain that he had started using them.

The talk time.
About what you got more, the mother of the Kanumba, the mother of Lulu did not see Mama Lulu, all of us are parents but even one day he has not seen me, giving me my condolences, though I know what happened is the love of Lulu. "

There are efforts to pray for the peace of the country.
Mama Salma said, "there are people who have called me in Dar es Salaam city that today there will be a great celebration to thank Lulu to get bail."

So, that is a fact that the film star, Mahongo Awadh ", Doctor Cheni" who has been in hand to make sure Lulu gets a bond, "said Mrs Salma," there is no ceremony that we cannot do so, the community can't make sure.

Mother who is Lulu, let me thank God for Lulu to get bail, there is no case that took place so that, it will not be good to do a celebration, it will not be successful.

The charges of Lulu.
Lulu is faced with case of killing of manslaughter, who was a famous film actor, Steven Kanumba.
