21st December 2012

Those who pray for CCM groups to see me-Kalege.

By Lilian Liundi, Morogoro.

The chairman of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) Morogoro Province, Innocent Kalyalya together has promised to eat with one member and any member who will be found to be the head of developing groups inside that party.
He released that statement in Ifakara town at the Kiungani CCM stadium in a public meeting to serve the new leadership of the party in the province to strengthen a political tour that is taking place in all districts in that province.
He said that what has spoilt the CCM right now are groups that are not continued with members who are greedy for power which will be released to the party in the coming elections including the local government 2014, and for the general election 2015.

That chairman ordered the leaders of that party from the level of branches to look for them sweating as they take action against them to eliminate violence before starting the period of that election.

About some of the leaders of the villages that led to the reports of revenue and expenditure, Kalege and urged the concerned parties to follow the procedures of looking for those information and which he will be sent in the air to be patient inside the party is over.

Speaking about the purchase of livestock and farmers in the Kilombero Village, he said it doesn't have bad intentions but to save the valley and making a sustainable and maintain for the various items where he also urged the government to also seek alternative areas for all the people who were in that area.

Moreover, he gave six months to the district councils in that province to remove water problems in the towns including in Ifakara town and nine months to improve the services of the hospital to remove health problems to citizens.

On his part, the head of the Kilombero District, Hassan Masala mentioned various projects that have been implemented as the party's notice and caused a stern warning that is taking place on the Kilombero roads.

"Up to now there are 3 hundred thousand livestock has been removed from the exercise to begin the law and said that there are leaders who are driving campaigns for misleading the citizens that do not use livestock and say that they don't answer those leaders," said Masala.

However, that head of the district said that even if the livestock that are going to be arrested right now was revealed that their leader will not have seven days to have seized by reducing the fine.
