
The ministry was unable to arrest three permits for 67,888 offenders.

The Minister of Labor and Employment, Gaudentia Kabaka has told the parliament during the implementation of the income and use of that ministry that, 668 of the employment permits for visitors to work in various jobs in the country.
While speaking in parliament yesterday, Tuesday, Minister Kabaka said that his ministry has strengthened the procedures of the management, provision of employment permits for visitors with an aim of reviewing and protecting the employment opportunities of visitors' products (TIC) for verification.
He said the request for increasing the time was 1,222, whereby 949 were accepted and 269 votes were prepared for investigations and the verification of the reports of the company in order to make correct decisions.
In addition, a total of 233 loans of employment permits in the bridge "A" from investment companies were presented to the Tanzania Investment Center (TIC) where 2,316 days will be accepted by 113, where it has been accepted by 113, where it has been accepted.
"The ministry has done an inspection of employment permits in 42 companies in the provinces of Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Mwanza and Morogoro with the aim of reviewing and considering the violation of employment procedures for visitors and the companies that were seen to have been directed to implement the plan so as to enable the youths to fill in the visitors' positions," said Kabaka.
He continued to tell members of parliament that the ministry in collaboration with stakeholders is preparing proposals for the bill of law of employment permits for visitors.
"The aim of this bill is to have one law of managing issues of employment permits for visitors, so as to eliminate conflicts and conflicts in the procedure used now whereby there are authorities and regulations of community development in the country for another steps and aims to improve the community services in the country.
He said in addition, the ministry has continued to strengthen the SSRA authority which has started working in October, 2010. The establishment of this authority wants to help them in making a procedure to control the community sector.
"I request that I urge the holy parliament that the Holy Quran not that the current general meeting which took place in June, 2012 was carrying a total of 202 weapons aimed at making direction for members members in expanding the scope and strengthening the community services.
"The ministry is planning well to implement this proposal in the improvement of the social security sector that is going on in the country."
