Then how is it?
It doesn't know the news that I got the late Adam and getting your news on the same, I believe it.
It is no longer.
So, so let me do so much, since how many times you or read, he said.
He said it has come up with twenty people, but he said it has come with twenty people, the late does not tell me when he met the star going to them and now he was told to come to them and then he was told to come to all his friend.
It doesn't be the late God and asked me when I asked me, she has told the Bite words of people.
The late God told us that there are twenty thousand people who don't like people, we will not wait, especially twenty years the late God bless you.
It is very few and he said it has come with twenty people, the Lord will come all of us who did not want to get married then I did not want to go for me when I saw it, then I would like to go there at the office of the office to witness those who go and go or he had to get all.
This is going to there if they are taking his letter.
And I don't know your friend, then you want to be a reason for people because up to February yes, the work starts well.
Mchage and now she had said the main bus will arrive at.
Africa is going on.
It was four o'clock in the morning.
This will be the same as God bless us and now we cannot continue to show that we won't return.
I don't know.
Until now I don't know what I don't know who are especially until now, I have decided to tell me what I was doing so that I don't see me, I would like to tell me what I was doing so that I don't know where I was going to see what I told me.
If you go in, he said that the first lady has refused to look for money that was not supposed to go down, but now I want to look for it again but I told me what I told me, "we know what I asked me when I know what I asked me what I know why I know what I think even when asking questions.
He went to ask you like I told me that I've told me what I told me, "I told me when I asked me when I asked me when I told me when I saw it but I was the first I don't know that here I am not even if he knows it.
I told me what I told it is that I was going to show, she allowed me when I told me, she had told me yesterday that she wants you to leave what every time the late?
It is very delicious.
I give you the Almighty God, yesterday it was told me that you can't know that, when I told me, I told me when I asked me when I saw him, I don't want him to answer you, but I don't know what I was waiting for me when I don't know how I was not happy about me.
Almighty God bless you.
I am saying asking for many questions to someone I think I was looking at it when you came about you and anything or there were other words also known.
How many times you have been keen on another time to zero.
Fear that you are good, let us know that it is good.
All of them is good and when I was people of the game, I've also identified himself, then it was not for instance, the situation was the best to consider when it is.
That is a good striker.
When you did not see next week it has said that next week you miss the same week, the late God bless Tanzania, I wish him to go to the country.
Almighty God rest.
There is no one living in China, they are up to ten years and I have been unable to do it and it's why he told me very much and now the level is living.
Almighty God rest his fellow workers about the employee's workers and others what Kitale gave him from Obama in front of her wife who wanted to go to Nyambo so that his wife did not want him to go back, "the late God bless TANZANIA.
The Almighty God rest.
The late?
Now I don't know!
And in it.
Manufacturing Company has not seen in the country and he has closed down a close line.
Now, he said she hurts me I will make sure that business is now in line.
A delegate or a lot of medicine can't know your Fm s, put the call as he wants to do so much better if you can do there.
Or still they will give you a problem and I have not been talked and I told him that she will give him there.
