The bank of BRS gives the economic changes in the world.
Jide 31, 2014.

The 15th of July, this year, leaders of five nations of BRwana were met in Forogo, that came in Brazil.
Members of the party members in this Bro group are Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa and others who attended that meeting include the heads of Argentina, Chile in the South American countries.

These are countries that are playing in the world that have joined to look for alternative ways of advancing themselves from western countries.
In that meeting, the leaders of Bromwich, they agreed to take action of starting a new economic and financial system in the world, instead of depending on the current system that is dominated by America if they insisted that the system that will not be right for all the countries and they are not living in all nations.

Under this system of East and Central Africa is running and rule the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank (WB), although these financial institutions do not be invited to the listeners or listeners as the heads do not come from rich.
That is where the Coastal Union will decide to start a new development bank for the purpose of countries that are coordinated (New Development Bank - NCAA), this bank, after being deposited in East African countries, it will start with capital to register of five billion American dollars, it will start with capital to register of five billion American dollars.
10 billion US dollars will be given in the seventh period as well as a bond of 40 billion dollars.

The bank will start giving loans by the year 2016 and receive members of other countries that are ongoing and that this bank will help the countries that are ongoing or the South African countries as required.
That was stated by the president in Brazil, he stopped the intention of that bank to help them even the country which is not members of Bromwich.

Despite the Nicrox, the head of Bromwich, has also decided to start a special voluntary contribution fund (they could be aired by Arnautovic and the capital of 100 billion dollars.

The capital of Cibitoke village as a result of Bromwich, depending on their economic ability and that is why China has decided to give 41 billion dollars in India, Brazil and Russia will give 18 billion dollars each and South Africa will contribute to 5 billion dollars.
Although China will give more capital more than others, the leadership will be in the hands of India when their time you enter in Tanzania, the leadership will be discussed instead of their detention with China, different from WB which will be joined by the European Union.
That is why President Putin insisted that South African meeting was very important for the countries that concern them or the ones that are continuing to refuse to be handed over to great nations, by being unable to be informed as it is in his country.
He said his country has given those restrictions to America and they are doing his activities, but Russia will not tolerate and are African countries that will get losses while he added that it is important to have a union like Bromwich, which will face each other instead of suffering from restrictions.

United Nations, Bromwich, in a total of total number of people in the world and takes a quarter of all the production in the world, that is where these countries that are oppressed, but today can stand and compete with the country "rich" is expected to start financial countries for Bro.
A good example is China which has a total of three trillion US dollars and China it claims that it is a rich country to win all over the world. Many money from China have started to advise their country to leave America whose economy is not unyielding.
They are saying that investing in America is equal to save meat in the fridge that does not work hard because it is because the money made to be made for if the dollars are reduced and it's a loss to China.
Joseph Story.'
