The leaders in Kigoma and sexuality.
October 11, 2013.

The acting administrative secretary of Kigoma district, Joshua Mlelwa, has intervened in a long-term conflict now between the director of the Municipal Council of Kigoma and Fisheries Development, Alfred Woiso, and the teachers of the municipality, Raia Mwema, have noted.

That conflict is the one on suspicion of membership fees for the Tanzania teachers' Association (CT) that were cut every month from the salaries of internal teachers of the council while those of 811 teachers have been built inside that party by asking for a letter to the director.

It has been explained that when the teachers of the municipality gave all legal procedures against CT, but the Director of the Municipal Council of Kigoma / entrepreneurship, Bernard Luanda, as the trainer of the teachers, he continued giving their salaries every month so as to contribute to their membership fees.

It has been noted that before Elisha and when that action was unable to continue relying on membership fees (UN), the head of Kigoma district, Ramadhan Mpinga, was already given instructions to the director so as to stop the deductions.

The fees which include the teachers of Kigoma town and secondary schools have been thrown out is two percent of the payment of every teachers, that were cut according to the law of employment and international relations of the year 2004, section 61 (4) and (5).

Mke Mwema have been successful to see the letter of the acting administrative secretary of Kigoma district, on July 29, this year, that deals with the director on suspicion of directions by the head of Kigoma district, through his letter on June 14th this year, with journalists that will be easily read by teachers of Kigoma Municipal Council and secondary schools.
"On 14 June 2013, Kigoma District Commissioner gave a letter concerning the dispute mentioned above and giving instructions that it will implement the instructions of 811 teachers who joined CT in the authority that was given by article 61 (4) of the administrative secretary to the director.

That letter said, together with other things, it continues to be read, "the aim of those instructions was to avoid the government, and especially your council, against the effects that can arise so that those complaints (teachers) are correct according to the law.

On his part, the acting secretary of CT, Ezekia Oliver Wema, speaking about that conflict to the teachers of the Municipal Council of Kigoma and entrepreneurship education, "he said.

"Kigoma / entrepreneurship out of 200 teachers claim to be enough, and if the event made, the speed of the government to pay salaries is not good even at the district commissioner to write a letter of 811 teachers, but these things should be filled with some of the politicians in order to fulfill their goals."

The conflict of teachers in the municipality of Kigoma and Lusilile villages is in conflict and the government wanted to increase their salaries by 65 percent, but there are reports that the government has agreed to increase the salaries by 65 percent, equivalent to an increase of 283,90,070,00 shillings per month.
