Science and technology commission followed, "said the research concerned, including the one, my research has reduced, it makes a capacity to offer eight hundred thousand shillings equivalent to ninety percent, the researchers will partner with the ministry of agriculture and in the religion because they should do the whole exercise.
It makes them joy to be.
I do not have?
These regions we see that this exercise is at least also the government's position seems to now be clear that there is a second position in private sector and we have people that offer research results in private sectors and researchers and ensure that they are received by business people so as to reach small-scale farmers who are those who were affected by time.
A result of six types of entertainment.
And the government has been planned to be the director of research and development in the eastern region, he says there's no challenges facing the researchers and research stations in the country, which sometimes the children of the research should cost them, and the policies failed to reach those thoughts as usual we have several challenges that are doing well and the same speed that is.
In the problems of farm or coming a matter.
Money.
.
This research has been successful.
Non-governmental organizations have been doing this work is Tanzanians looking for many research that we have managed to get money for the purpose of three implementation.
Separate yourself in great challenges together and that I don't have a easy answer to say three but yet I have not seen.
The second challenge is equipment.
Farmers that we use that we are not in the research, instead, these farmers are in the stations to see me which have reduced, where there are no things.
So that we can be able to reach time to know their problems and to give them an opportunity.
There are one assessment, one thing that make it is in research, the needs for a reliable transport which by bad luck, that we have written.
Because we would like to do.
Easily reach farmers because?
There is a challenge.
Challenges which are related?
There was a question.
Who especially in the northern region, researchers and other countries like the claims.
Evidence of several machines are very important so that the partner can be able to work in, I could be able to do a certain way to try to take it even so that he can take even himself to do it.
Therefore, it is not good.
We should not inform you who do not have their people and you don't know why he cannot do a lot of research on himself and to have the thoughts that I had explained.
After his foreign research, to succeed in the year God will open ten thousand young people, will start producing pregnant women and ten thousand farmers so that there will be ten thousand farmers so that the farmers get two days to identify the farmers.
Therefore if they do.
The name Dudumizi.
It is a must.
Most of the parents don't know where three plastic chairs to the Michungwani Market which involves all the three types of fruits, this means that it does not produce as usual so as to know how to know what you remember.
