
Breaking news, James Silas, opens a case in the High Court to prove that it is 3398 shillings from Escrow.

Brother shivered.

The owner of the VIP Engineering who plays for IPTL, Brother Borafya Silima has said there was no case in the main court claiming that a total of 398 shillings which were paid in Escrow account and caused a huge conflict in parliament.

In his claims, the stock of the shares that was paid by the government of the PAP company, since the company did not have legal documents from the registrar of BRELA, (Corefa) and not to be registered in Tanzania Investment Center and not to have the permits for living and work in the country from the management of management.

In his motion, the creditor says that it is the responsibility of government to help investors from outside to protect local investors soon when they enter into partnership with the Huawei company and caused a loss of shillings 56 million shillings since they discovered a loss of Sh. 56 million shillings since they discovered a loss of Sh. 500 shillings since they discovered a loss of Sh.

Therefore, he has asked again the government to pay all the costs that he used to run the case, 3678 billion shillings.
Moreover, he has claimed that they told the government not to pay any payments that were on the Escrow account and if the Libyan would like there is a need to do so, then the VIP or IPTL, the account that he was' Imebaki Story.'

In his speech in the court, the government is not aware or to identify the PAP owner so that the government is required to pay again the claims by the VIP or IPTL, has given the government 14 days only from 1 January 2015 to have paid all the payments.

In those allegations, so as to make sure you have attached it?
1 -.
2 - the senior inspector to confirm that you came out to be given as a taxpayer, or being given to him or given.
3 - a yellow card will be paid by the Sunni rebels to prove that the company that was paid is not registered by Bexhill, and did not have the reputation or validity of any supply work against any business organization.
3 - a forum for parliament as another president of the country through its committee of government accounts and non-governmental organizations not to confirm the legality of the PAP owner, the owner of the PAP company and its performance performance.
4 kilometers from the recommendations of the parliamentary committee on the PAP committee, its property and its owner.
5 - the recommendations of the parliament to the government are being required to confirm the PAP owner was not legal.
6 million.
7 million. Some of the newspapers including the Libyan newspaper caused the head of the country to receive and educate the members of the country.
8 - the newspapers together with the government seems to confirm the government by removing all directors that they did in paying the legal company.
9 -.
10 -.
11 -.

That case goes by the arrest of people about the Escrow account, it's another examination for the government because parliament and citizens are not in a crown after seeing that money being paid again.
