Mbeya City did a vote of elephants.
Brightiles 20, 2014.

Juma Mwambusi, the coach who's popularity last season due to a surprise of, that he made through Mbeya City club, from Mbeya City, has released a level of training that squad due to the beginning of this season.
Speaking to one radio station recently, after announcing to leave the responsibilities, Mwambusi said he has decided to do that after seeing the complaints have been many against him.
In seven matches they played in this season, they have won only one match again with one penalty against JKT Ruvu, have lost four matches and received two weeks.

Until now, there is no one who does the problem is where the players are among the few people who among them are Solly Mahlangu and Eric Mawala, a big percentage are players who were the talk, who helped the team to play 26 matches in the season and lost three matches only.
Rumors continued open that the team defeated the Vodacom Premier League for the first time in the 2013 / 14 season, but the first leg managed to play 13 matches without losing even one match where Coastal Union, Azam FC and Yanga SC are the only team that has succeeded in another team in Mbeya City.
But apart from all, succeeded to take the third position under Azam FC and Yanga, it is not a small thing to fight with the teams that started participating in the league before freedom and emerged winner.

As a result of the success of last season, many companies were taken and requested for controlling them with albinism is a team that is mentioned by many soccer soccer in the country, due to success he got among the thoughts that came out is the residents of Mbeya to be happy and announce that they have a small origin of Mbeya.
However, those who received them many years started trying to return home in that team being involved in Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya town and performed well in the last season.
It was on their issues and they have been changed while suddenly, those who had the same time, the team has been left to their previous matches without considering there are six matches of finishing the first round and 13 matches for the second round.
This is when the leaders of the council of Mbeya town, to sit together and look for the way to develop themselves in the mud found.
I request Mbeya citizens to understand one thing that being beaten in any league, because they started by luck, they won't be beaten, but they think there are no doubt that the team went for last season they got if they are using them now.
Mwambusi is training that team for more than four years, it's impossible for two months to do leadership and fans lost faith in him.
Because the reports are saying that coach has resigned, but there was a mistake of resigning from him.

When Mbeya City had already asked that the problem is a coach or players in the first of the year, but there are many other things including evidence of the opposing team, that they think about the visitors that bothers leaders.
I thank you the other side to shoot the elephants' foolish thing, that is why Mbeya City still young people in the league, other things are bad, even if Mwambusi has decided to leave him for his consent, but the leadership would look for the way to block him so that the wind gets first.

That is not something to dain, because the team is under the council I believe that they have a great opportunity to do professionally and answers were used to inspect them especially considering that the league continues.
Private, Mbeya City is among the clubs that I decided to respect because many people do not benefit from one person or institutions, contrary to another club, where members have the strength more than the leaders.
If there is a possibility of returning Jay to do that as soon as possible, before it was taken by another club because I believe that they will give things that the players who voted for him should be the assistant coach Mighty One FC from Moshi, which is participating in the First Division League.
Still I believe that Mbeya youth have a chance to continue working in soccer, they should not affect soccer, from Mbeya City, their teams do not have a permanent competition but it was not last year but it was not last year but it did not return.
In the beginning of the year 1990, another team of Mbeya City is supposed to rise, but the last season that the previous season will be stopped from Mbeya City, it will be at the process because the ability of those who have these marriages are poor.
