I want to be ready and three things to talk.
First, I would like to talk about the law.
In sports in our country, Tanzanians at these hours seems that we have a leadership that I will perform well but for a long time it does not have power when the time you are run by clubs because if you check the example of Simba SC and Yanga.
You find the club and the registrar and the registrar without doing his tests which this is a mistake.
Another issue I would like to talk about things.
Do our senses be unable to continue to continue our players you find the players are playing.
The level that he is paid is little not like those.
Do do their responsibilities and then another thing.
In clubs are where players are important as food, you find a player who plays the ball and they have failed.
We are not food for giving him a player and I am supposed to do a lot of food different from urine, whoever doesn't know and other things that will help him to speak to another question I would like to talk about.
Investment is available.
What is the issue of investment because we have been behind.
It is very happy in this.
We have been doing tomorrow more in different cities in the villages and also there are many players that are being found including an example in Shinyanga, there are many players who live in the provinces due to fear they have then put in their duties to search for the players who will be able to form the national commission.
It is a wall that when they take over the player, they don't know that if I don't know the amendments to our nation stars or the blast, how will you know if the vehicle.
Instead, the first candidates for small youths who tomorrow the day after tomorrow will be.
Mwasabite said that as he is in a nation because the day after tomorrow, we have changed the name of our country and we will also look for some of the players who were going to play and I thank you for now and I thank you for now.
I think about us that you know that men are their discipline, everything is a permit for a month to listen, it's like to eat the Almighty God?
