
Stakeholders of fish will end up with.

While the government has brought together fishing stakeholders to solve the crisis that emerged between them and the industries about the price of benefits to those two sides, that conflict has caused a heavy secret that caused among those groups.
In their complaints, fishermen and security agents have said that they are ready to tell the minister of livestock and fisheries, Doctor Mathayo asserted the truth about the real income they are paid in industries and how to pay taxes due to the number of tons of the fish they buy.

They have said that in that business there is a dirty game to evade taxes which are involved in industries and some of the fishing officers who lack land to a high level, a lot of food that they buy and that they buy taxes so as to enable them to evade taxes.

"These have decided to do this time and we decided to be open, as we meet the minister, we will inform us to know the truth so that these people do not know," said one of the fishermen who has urged them to know the truth so that we can leave the newspaper for the purpose of safety of his business and the industries.

The Minister of Livestock and Fisheries, is expected to meet with different business stakeholders of the fish, today Wednesday, so as to discuss with the business stakeholders about the conflict that have emerged between the fishermen and the fish, due to the drop in the fish market, which is causing the fishermen from selling industries.

The fishermen and agents who stopped the price of four weeks ago has complained to a reduction in price of the fish that caused them to buy fish from 400 million shillings per hour, a situation that claims to destroy the huge fees because it does not enable them to destroy the fishing activities.

While giving the government's statement in parliament last week, Minister Doctor Mathayo explained the reason for the drop in the price of the fish, a situation that resulted from the whole level of economy in Spain, Italy, Portugal and Ukraine where it is in the market of those industries.

He explained that another reason is as a result of many citizens of those countries to lose their ability of buying products due to the economic problems that caused many people to lack or get employment where they will be more affordable, more than the age of fish from East Africa.
However, agents and fishermen want the government to understand that the price of the fish that are needed to take the use of proper care of the fish, because of fish, the kind of diseases together with bad luck, doughing, stomach, and legal action is sold.
The Spokesperson of the Who Lives Forever, has said that the government is required to follow up with the procedure they don't know whether to the fish that is very fast, because of the industries they buy fish that they buy.

The investigation of Raia Mwema has shown that at the Julius Nyerere International Airport, a price of one hundred thousand shillings per liter is 20,000 shillings per hour and therefore, the price has been affected by the fish, equivalent to 10 tons according to the size of the fish.

More investigation has shown that the headlines on the type CAN in the past were dashed after being approved, it has now been a big market in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), all of them are contributing to increase the benefits of industries.

"Here we are getting a lot of money to sell fish, the type hypothyroidism, but in that country you will be approved, unfortunately, it has great benefits and many for the industries and the government should be careful," said Matemu.

Fishermen also claim that the government should stop industries in the whole issue of loans which claims instead of having a donation to the fishermen now is used as a way to make the fishermen from industries' workers.
"This system of loans looking at the way you can think that you have benefits to the fishermen, but in this real situation, and how they think it is like the industries that are causing you as a worker at a factory that has been forced to inspect them," said the spokesperson.

According to the procedures and fishing laws, those with industries are not supposed to inspect the fish themselves but they can enable the fishermen from fishing equipment so as to ease the fishing tools such as a bomb.

In another step, the government of Mwanza province has said that it will protect all the fishermen who agreed to go back to the lake and inspect them but their colleagues claimed that the action is used by the industries involving themselves and the government has entered into that process instead of managing their interests.

The Provincial Commissioner of Mwanza, Evarist Ndikilo, was quoted last week saying that the government in the province is ready to protect fishermen who agree to go back to the lake regions and if there are those who want to continue with the strike that they should not accept.

Speaking about that conflict, Bakari Shime has said that he is an agent of the disease, he said that the party of the community with industries to recognize their party and will improve their partnership with the party to reduce that conflict.

"Together with that, but it is also important for their balances for their menstrual periods and the lack of the factory is not supposed to be removed anything, if it is the truth in reclaiming their fish," he insisted.

Speaking to Good Citizen, chairman of the Union of Industry and Industry, Alfred Xia, said that as a business person or another person, the one do not have the ability to decide the price of fish because it was decided and organized by the power of the market.

"This is a business, and between us not to decide to plan the price, because in this business system, all stakeholders want benefits and that's why I would not want to be even more than what I was not involved with the will of the way," he said.

He added that as business people have been able to help them in giving good prices to fishermen compared to Kenya and Uganda where they have also been faced with a knee injury.

He said that they have left out the doors of their industries being open by fishermen and agents who will want to go to sell their fish, and warned that if the condition of the strike is on how this economy will be bad.

He explained that the tons of 250 to 300 tons were being faced by all fish industries in a day, while the industries being employed for the permanent employees 2000 and its spherical workers.
"You can see that because our provinces will be affected economically if these things have not taken place, this can have a lot of effects to the citizens and the nation as a whole," he said.

This strike of fishermen and agents who have the industries has come at the time the sector has already reduced due to the reduction of speed by fish, the type CAN in Lake Victoria and now the fish industries have caused 30 percent of its ability to remove it and it was in the year 2005-2008, a situation that has affected by a large extent in the economy of the Lake Region and the national income.

According to the government's statement in parliament last week, the type of Sangara that were burnt in Lake Victoria in 1950, the year 1999 was affected by 227 tons, 305 and they increased in the year 2011 to 324 4 tons.

Approximately one million people in Mwanza Province alone it depends on Lake Victoria to run their lives on fishing, selling fish and processing.

This sector was also contributes up to seven percent of the regional income from seven factories of the fish that are in Mwanza province that were providing 2800 workers.
In the year 2010 / 2011, 208 tons of fish were sold outside and paid 212,150 billion shillings.
