
I will be elected as the prime minister, Japan.
Prime Minister Shangani, is preparing to start implementing his responsibilities for the second term following a landslide victory in the general elections of Sunday.
The analysts of the economic issues have warned that Mister Aqsa in implementing the promise to revive the economy of the country, how he promised during his campaign.
His party of Libyan Democratic Party (LSE's) together with his colleague, the commando party on Sunday will receive two-thirds of the parliamentary seats.
The union of Lesse Bercy who was awarded 326 seats out of 475 candidates in parliament and won the main opposition party, Democratic Party of Japan which got 73 seats only.
According to the report, Banuelia Bryton, who is the leader of the Democratic Party of Japan is expected to resign today.
AE, 60 is expected to select his former council of ministers just after being announced officially by the parliament to be the leader of that nation on December 24.
Speaking about his victory, AK said that his government will ensure that the constitution is being renovated so as to improve the lives of citizens of that country.
"Renovations of the constitution have been the first agenda of the LSE's party," Amaso told the journalists this Sunday.
"I wants to make efforts to educate the public about the importance of improving the constitution," he said.
Elsewhere, a man is expected to be returned home from England after the court decided that the income of his wife is little so as to meet the needs of their family.
Michael Enoch Osei, South African citizen, even so, he clarified that decision while saying that he intended to suspend him.
Mister Eneray, 31, who is the engineer and a resident of Correa scored, he said that he and his wife I hope that together with their daughter of 18 months, Nyanga said the Prime Minister Shangani will be able to return to South Africa following that decision to the court.
The Spokesperson of the Department of Immigration said that new laws are required to start a foreign citizen who are depending on the tax of tax in England without working.
