The speaker is not the one, CCM is not one and CHADEMA is not the NCCR - CUF.
May 5, 2013.

The trend of the parliamentary debates in the budget of budget that is ongoing in Dodoma has a lot of taught us.
For reasons that are not openly known, every time when the deputy speaker Job Ndugai has been forced to rule instead of issues of interests to the nation, acts of protecting and outside the opposition members have ever happened under the leadership of Job Ndugai and stop the major mistakes in honor of our parliament.

The referral hospital in parliament has caused some of the directors of the government and the cadres of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), to come from the explosion and the fate of the opposition here in the country.
Those bacteria is led by Stephen Wassira, Mwigulu Nchemba, Job Ndugai and Nape Nnauye have claimed that at different times that CHADEMA does not have anything and will destroy the NCCR-Mageuzi Party (TLP) and CUF.
He claims that those parties are supposed to lead the true opposition in parliament and which were questioning the regulations and procedures of the parliament and their differences which were presented by CUF as the official opposition camp in parliament, issues of interests were presented to the government as a result of such actions as it is now.
These directors and leaders of CCM are hopeful that CHADEMA will fall before the year 2015. Before I am not able to change, on these allegations, I put up early the weaknesses of this CCM party against the opposition.

This argument is so cunning, together with the fact that, they are alleged to have faith in the NCCR-Mageuzi Party (TLP) and CUF inside the parliament, still those parties have stolen many seats in parliament and councilors seats in various councils in the country.
That, as a result of being accused by CCM that those parties were waiting for good regulations inside the parliament and that they were unable to build good issues and of interests to the nation, CCM should not accept that the parties at the moment have reduced its energy in the political sector.
This means that they should be highly commended by CCM while his opponent is not supposed to be proud of especially the reputation they have forgotten in CCM is the victory against the opponents for all their opponents and to be able to receive him in the topic of this week.

There are big changes in parliament and they can be bad changes and positive changes in the third place, that is the deputy speaker, CCM and opposition parties have been faced with great changes in parliament, the government and even the leader of government activities in parliament, there are great changes.

CCM that was disrupting the NCCR-Revolution from the year 1995, or TLP in the next year is different from CCM, the current CCM party was different from the current CCM party and the current CCM party was different from the interests of citizens like bribery, corruption, not responsible and even collecting taxes.
CCM that had the fear of seeing that government officials and even questioned him without caring about the allegations against them have been issued by who the CCM party had the courage to agree that his election manifesto is not real.
This means that CCM had the ability to accept the mistake and self-criticism as a way to prepare themselves as CCM and if they were waiting for some people even if they were unable to fill in different positions within the party.
CCM's not supposed to see the sponsors for the sponsors if the way to bring development to the nation of CCM that he insisted, several times, that development will come through an independent way, not to walk with some of the whole world to ask for donations.
CCM that had members of parliament who were contributing in parliament being involved the new ways of getting revenue by starting new sources.
Today's different, as CCM's different, it gives the government to be responsible for revenue sources so that the leaders can get into business without paying tax without paying taxes, therefore it seems to be emphasized that CCM that had been able to fight with the opponents such as NCCR-CUF and be able to break up with opposition parties at that time.

CHADEMA is the main opposition party for this time.
