
We shouldn't wait for Man United for lack of qualify.
Manchester United Kingdom has dropped by Manchester United to bring in the 17 billion Tanzanian shillings this year, her bosses have confessed and they had a loss of 44 billion shillings after the team failed to qualify for the next season.
The coach who was beaten, David Moyes has been only three matches in the season to be completed, it is the accused that accused of causing a loss after leading the team and making sure it starts in a bad position in the period of 24 years old.
According to the report of revenue issues, United Arab Emirates was alleged to have increased by 26 percent this year despite falling for votes, it was caused by the money that they got through the sponsors and other business agreements, but there is a big loss of more than four billion shillings that they wait for next season.
The deputy chairperson of that club to get married, Stewart Hall has said that they fell in a lot by Coach Moyes, because he was unable to fulfill the goal of the club to qualify for the European Champions League and now that step will have a loss.
"Moyes was unable to make sure the aim of ensuring we are participating in the European Champions League and due to that we affect the loss of 37 million shillings.
The intention of the club is to return to the champions league by increasing the strength of the registration before the beginning of the next season, "the player is 12645th of the location.
At the same time, United will be forced to sign up millions of money from his six-year contract that had been told when this was according to the former coach to get married when she was taken to September this year.
Moyes was sacked after losing 10 months when he resigned from Everton in order to sign a six-year contract with United, as the successor to Sir Alex Ferguson who has served for 26 years before retiring from the last season.
Under the leadership of a long time coach Ryan Giggs, Manchester United finished in the seventh position in the league and lack of qualify for Europe for the next season.
