
The series of promises of Uhuru is.
And how about her birthday.
The Diamond's government entered the new year by giving his promise to improve the important development projects in order to attain his trip before the general elections of 2013.
Through his new year speech, the President Uhuru Kenyatta said that the important projects like the construction of modern railway (SGS), Hanne-T) has shined in court.
He said that his government has already made everything to reduce the cost of doing business as one way of attracting investors in the country and international investors.
President Kenyatta said that the government has completed some of the projects in electricity production which has caused the cost of electricity to reduce by 30 percent.
"We have been suspended and expanding the international airport of Jomo Kenyatta, to launch the construction of Kunzugu Ward, moreover, we are continuing with the construction of criminal activities," he said.
He said that last year there was an increase of international investors in the country.
The country's leader said the government will continue with the improvement of important projects like the service centers while adding that those stations will be distributed in all areas in the country.
Likewise, he promised that the government is improving the improvement of the health sector, education and agriculture.
"My government also continues to make important changes in order to ensure that more than the working positions are preventing and reduce the cost of life as one way of improving the life of the Kenyans," he said.
Farmers "the government will do everything to make sure that the big number of farmers get access to agriculture and other services so as to increase food in the country.
Every primary school will get electricity, "he added.
President said that they will be taken so as to create policies that will protect the oil industry, gas and minerals for the purpose of doing those resources to be among the universities for generating revenue in the country.
We are continuing to have discovered oil, gas, coal and lies among the others in various parts of the country, the government will ensure that those resources have increased the income of the current and future generations, "he explained.
He continued, "in living with that, we have completed the policies that will help control the mining and use of these resources and these policies will help ensure that the resources were given by God and not a curse.
He clarified that the government is continuing to bring changes in the Institute of Youth Services to the nation (NRF) while saying that the step is intended to give them youth skills and values them.
