
Mbo-hop, it will not sell it.
And Anne Kilango.
The shareholders of the Mbo-Square company, has requested the government of Jihadist company to stop the selling of all property of that company so as to prevent them get married.
Speaking in Kiroreli village, the chairperson of shareholders, Felican Mkude, said that there was a group of people who were involved in the company's farm on behalf of shareholders, but those were stolen.
He added that the Governor William Kabogo has assured that the rights of shareholders will be careful, and he will ensure that under his leadership, those of the fact that they will be given that property to the procedure.
"The company has billions of money to wealth and the few people can't read one day and said that the company has already been called on how the company is supposed to be read," said Mister Thiago.
Last week, there was a report on the radio and newspapers that the Mbo-Square company has dropped from the last farm to cater for the report that we are blamed and said that it is not true.
"We request that Governor Kabogo and President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is the Kiango, who is the Kihamia to intervene and stop the sold for all the property of the company until these issues are being done with more transparency," he added.
The shareholders said they don't want to demonstrate to the road because they are old but they would have requested the government to help them.
The shareholders said the certificates of the real company were breast cancer but the buses were used and they were affected by desks.
That company had some of the property that are in nine farm, Twiga, Twiga and Bompunga Padou (Gogo) and Antwerpen.
The chairperson of Rose Njeza, urged the government of Mkimbii Village to send a land committee to check their issues and stop the selling of their farm.
"There is no farm that is supposed to be sold without the sponsorship of shareholders like we not less in the media the day before yesterday," said Mrs Njegere.
Miss Njegere added that the company had a lot of property in the country, land, vehicles, and small industries' industries like members of shareholders want to benefit themselves.
