Also, we are still going on in parliament in Dodoma where the writer also said Mhando has taken place at the parliament grounds to continue following up what happened at the parliamentary sessions.
That is why you love the other that you can't know what they got to try.
For war?
I have been asked to give me a lot of viewers to stop yourself the same time after that budget.
The ministry of office of the Vice President together with the environment.
Previously responding to the topics of members of parliament who were able to contribute to the budget for the financial year for two days and two and ten thousand shillings.
You miss.
Minister of defense and the army for building a nation, two-old captain, was just the advice at the end of the weekend and said that the debate of the union.
Despite planning through a big offence but sometimes you can bring effects.
Tanzanians are good during their ideas and views keenly.
But also the attorney general of the government.
Frederick Werema, said that someone is no one who does not be from the union and that is needed is to set.
And revealed that it is unacceptable, especially the rights and responsibility of the revolutionary government of Zanzibar and the United Republic of Congo DRC, but he said the council of representatives planned to break the law to say that Zanzibar is not correct to say that Zanzibar is not correct to say that Zanzibar is not right.
But also, Charles Kitwanga is the deputy minister office of the vice president in selling them.
The truth.
The great management of the environment is one person to be responsible, to fulfill the responsibility of his position and that the issue of the environment of the environment in general started from the level of family.
And he said that it's also refusing to sell the whole issue of dirty.
It's not true that there will be no place where there will be no research of every person that is responsible for enough opportunity, that he is forcing the environment to be the sources of water but the environment in general.
In selling is also an issue on the new system of the Geneva, Kilimanjaro, if you use phones?
Research is needed before we expect to get into these questions, but he said before doing this decisions are good experts in the country, we are happy that we can get there but we can be able to reach these decisions so that we can use its expertise.
But the same, Doctor Mengi while listening to that way is the minister of the country, the office of the vice president is dealing with the environment.
He said his office is organizing a bill for law.
The environment after seeing that the environment of the environment has been a must.
