
14 / 2013.

Ponda at the court.
By Rachel George.
The court's court.
The central region of Dar es Salaam, is expecting the review of the decision to raise us.
Apart from the request of the defense force, he wanted to be removed from the charge of not obey God.
The legal of the court that faced Sheikh Ponda Issa Ponda.
The request was done.
It was reported apart from Resident Magistrate's Court in Morogoro, Richard Mwaikenda.
Kabigiri ends the appeal that is expected to take place on November 18th, this year.
The lawyers of Ponda was led by Juma.
Nassoro, requested the court through that decision that was given on October first.
This year and the judge.
Judge Mkomagu led his request.
The defense that had asked the court to remove that charge of not knowing the legal command he is facing.
His client or it is ending up claiming that it was given by the Kisitu court.
Lawyer Nassoro has claimed that he will do.
That request after realizing that the court was found.
Morogoro does not have a legal ability to listen to that charge, otherwise it was not appointed.
The resident magistrate court that gave that judgment.
However, Judge Kibiga.
That request was said to say that according to the provisions.
Different of the legal laws of criminal cases, the charge against Ponda was claimed to not obey God.
The legal of the court has been extended to be heard in that court and not.
To be transferred to Kisutu.
He mentioned the reasons for the charge.
Continuing to be heard in that court that it is the defendant to do that offense.
The aircraft of Morogoro Municipality.
Judge emphasized that there is no reason.
To be transferred to that charge in the High Court, Kisimba and another one is the defendant.
That broke the legal order given by the Kisitu court and is not a must.
On the side of defense, he explained and explanation that even as the court.
It gave a must that the legal action was built by any court is an order.
Shela Mboto is being faced with.
Three charges were claimed to get into that public as it was claimed.
He told Muslims the creation of defense and security committee.
The mosques are made up of 6 percent of CCM and Libeneke.
