
We are disappointed together with Mwananchi, Tanzanian.
October 2nd, 2013.

The decision by the government through the department of information (details) of September 27th, this year, 2013, for closing up for a short time, the Citizen's newspaper that was banned for 14 days and a Tanzanian that was banned for 90 days, have been banned for 90 days.

Although it is a decision that took place inside the scope of law of the year 1976 and announced as the government's newspaper (government) number 333) of September 27 this year, we believe this law is not correct because they are the old problem of the United Nations and Zanzibar, which was mentioned by the government officials every day.

It is an important thing that is not recognized by the same logic, that the government that is true against the media that was forced to do a mistake, for the court and the judge and then given judgment that is not affected by the relevant agencies, but also a normal life of some citizens that they did in power.

For the reports that the government has complained, it is planning to give a judgment and even without listening to the side that situation has been condemned and what we believe is not right.

That action is contrary to the requirements of the authority of the authority in the country, the division that was been identified by the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania we know, again according to the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania we know, again according to the constitution of the country, the court is the main objective of listening to Mtanzania newspaper and the Citizen is not supposed to be about the requirements of the Tanzanian constitution.

If he did not tell you, the chief justice of Tanzania, Francis Ntalazi, this is the law to be removed and it's true that the government is headed by some people that, the country is headed by some people that, the country is headed by some people that, the country is being led by some people that, the country is being led by some people that, the country is being led by some people that, the country is headed by itself by itself.

On our part, the newspaper of Raia Mwema, we believe it is not correct for the government to listen and marry off other stakeholders directly, through a shadow of the law that it cannot be accepted by various stakeholders, including the other industry.

Newspaper of Mwema, we join all our colleagues that are good and the media industry to measure the law of the year 1976 and other other laws that are available in the country, but we believe there is no newspaper or any news agency in the country and we believe that there is a legal responsibility of making laws, considering that the voice of many is the voice of God.
