
Sunday, August 24, 2014.

The important things to consider when you go to the letter of ethics.

The letter to ask for work is a document that has often been read before another document that is unacceptable, to ask for work it is good to ask for work hard and to try to follow keenly the things that were seen in the private parts of the employer.

By considering the normal regulations of writing the official letter, as a place when I speak about the signing of the stomach, the end, on the signing, and so on, the following issues are important to put up, when I write a letter to ask for jobs.

1 - the head of the news (letter)?

Make sure that the news analysis is expected to last within and use the concerned positions that is requested to be open so that it can help the reader to know what you want.

For example.
G is asking for work of assistant superintendent of your company.

There is impossible so that you want to do directly.

2 - a taste of work is enough.

After being satisfied with the head of information, it is very important at least starting from him, to return to the date of the announcement of borrowed finances together with a historical number as it is or explained the presence of a working position.

For example, "go back to your announcement of work performance with a car which has won the Tanzanian newspaper on 24 August 2014."

Others like to write very few languages that are not a must, "the red news above," is only a desire but you are not only to start that way.

3 - say open is requesting for work.

After saying that he got the news of money that you pay, use very few sentences I explain your intention to ask for that work. I remember the reader of the letter has no time to read your information, it is important to write everything in short and with transparency.

For example, "I write this letter to ask for the operations of the company / the organization / your institution as it was directed at the announcement I mentioned."

4 kilometers. I provide the responsibilities of work and skills?

That comes out in these issues that follow it is to show how it can be able to afford responsibilities that will be mentioned in that announcement by urging them and skills of professional skills, because of work, therefore, it is very important that you do not meet their responsibilities directly.

If those responsibilities have not been shown to the announcement of work, it is good to do research to know the responsibilities, but the employer is in order to make sure that you have written the letter.

For example, "I have the ability to look for accurate data for your company, because apart from learning certificates at the Buguruni Institute of Buguruni, I have great experience in 13 months, I have given her accounting job on the internet thus, can be able to maintain those responsibilities as required."

5 - I conclude by really appropriate.

It is good to conclude your letter by showing that you are not fit for work, you will give you an important election on the words they will give you an additional information and that you know you are supposed to communicate well.

For example, you can say it is given your condolences message and explained that you are ready to interview him and you can end by touching the documents you have attached it together with that letter.

How are things to avoid.

When you talk about an important letter like work, use words, what is happening in the picture of a person who's honor, with understanding and understanding, it is able to explain his ability well without showing any words that are not satisfied with other factors that are not official.

You have no reason to mention the name of the person who gave those applications even if you know her position being a must, but using words like brothers, Dear Sir / Madam is an appropriate time.

Likewise, make sure the language that you use in Swahili which it's true and does not have mistakes of writing so as to destroy the mistake of laziness and that you remember, not even if the professional reputation is used to make efforts to employ or not to employ.

In addition, you have no need to introduce himself and to give information that are not a must and what you mentioned in the biography you will have attached it.

For example, he is not supposed to fill in front of information like, "I am a young man with 24 years who I was born in Kibaoni Primary School, Kondoa District, Dodoma province. I have read several primary school in Rorya District, and then I get married, and believe that you have no creativity or programs to communicate.

At the end of a very important thing, it's a mistake to convince the court to give a false information in the efforts of wanting to build a positive news that it doesn't increase.

By ending, the letter of request for work is to the employer for the employer is to show the way you are leading and with the ability to communicate as required by Itusing that opportunity.

It is easy to understand that for work is not for work and it's part of the journey where sometimes it takes a long time to get answers while waiting for activities that can be able to grow and grow their skills without stopping.
The writer of this article is the psychology lecturer at the Catholic University of Mwenge (La Liga). It is available on email support @ mkito.

Twitter, annamatinde @ gmail.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
