
Those who missed M / 2017.
The High Court of Mbeya had no judgment.
The death of two people who were facing a case of murder.
The former chairman of the District Council of Rungwe, John Mwangobola.
The two suspects are.
Among four suspects who were facing that case.
That judgment was given yesterday.
In the High Court of Mbeya, that was running its sessions.
The Rungwe District Court under Judge Samuel Karoli.
Previously before being read.
That judgment of the government of government, Maximilian Arnold, he mentioned.
The four suspects are Judge Mwakalinga, David Mwasumilwe.
And Kelvin Myovela, who are accused of killing her boyfriend.
The District Council of Rungwe, John Mwangobola.
He said the suspects were found.
The ones that were facing a case number increased / 2012 got the offense on May 19, 2011 in the village.
When he went up, Ukonga County, Rungwe District, Mbeya Region.
Ayo TV.
Being assisted by his government lawyer Lugiko thanked the charges of the charges.
Suspects have been defended by two lawyers who are Victor Mkunde and Simon.
This year Solo.
He said in defending.
Their motion on the charges brought the 11 witnesses who all of them.
Being led by the one witness, they accused the accused accused of being involved in that incident.
Judge Karima said.
And the advice to the elderly of the council of the court who also have a big accused.
Being involved with the incident.
And he met with them but not for all the suspects.
He was sentenced.
Up to, he is Judge Mwakalinga, David Mwasumilwe, while others were sentenced.
The punishment for going to prison for seven years of the suspect was the incident.
When he was found and the mistake of blocking the suspect was involved in making those killings.
On the side of the suspect.
Myovela, was known as an offense of removing the weapons that were used in the killings.
Those, although he was not involved with that action directly.
He said.
Due to that offense.
That suspect would serve his sentence of seven years although he was also ready.
A sentence of 20 years for allegedly being found with weapons contrary to the law.
