Sengerema District depends on the law of purchase?
APR, 03 / 2013.

While the law of public purchasing and 21 of the year 2004 to the regulations of the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority of the year 2005, together with the regulations of the executive committee of local governments, they are giving authority to the executive committee of the councils to inspect the implementation of projects and property which are received inside the concerned council, in Sengerema District Council, a situation is different.
The investigation of several days now that was done by Good Citizen, has revealed that the inspection of inspection and visiting projects in that council of Sengerema is being done by all the committee, a situation that is explained is a violation of the regulations and procedures of the laws that are leading in all councils in the country.
As a result of that situation, already the committees have visited all projects being implemented inside the council in two consecutive years of October and December last year, and January to March this year.
According to our investigation, the committee on education, health and water visited the projects on March 14th and 15 this year, the economy committee, construction and environment visited the projects on March 16th and 17 this year, at the time of finance, leadership and planning are in a inspection tour of March 18 and 19 this year.
The 17 (C) of the regulations of the Local Government Authorities, is giving authority to the finance committee, leadership and planning to visit and inspect the development projects in the concerned councils, but that regulations did not state anything in another committee.
While those on going on, the executive committee of the department of internal auditors which have the legal responsibility to inspect the projects before the committee of councilors to conduct inspections and provide information every year, it is claimed that for more than ten months now, it is claimed that for more than ten months now, it is claimed that for more than ten months now.
The comptroller of internal affairs and the executive committee of the department, who have a legal responsibility to visit development projects that are being implemented inside the council of public funds, they have not done this for 10 months now, and these are important for the presence of every quarter year, "explained our source that we have written in inside the Council of Sengerema District.
According to our source, the action of the executive committee of the department without inspection of projects conducted by the government's office that was given by the office of the prime minister, on October 30, 2009 to all councils in the country, a document that has insisted on the issue of inspection of projects in the councils of local governments, where together with other things, it explains that the inspection in the level of the council is to understand and the institutions involved.
That document has mentioned institutions that were approved to conduct inspections in development projects as well as the executive committee of projects that should be directed by the planning officer and the internal auditors of those institutions, according to the document, are supposed to inspect and prepare reports of inspection of those projects every year.
In addition, the document mentioned also the committee of finance, leadership and planning, which is supposed to do the inspection of projects on behalf of the councilors committee immediately after they get the reports of the councilors, before they get in the ministry, because of Tamisemi.
That document is also urged the heads of all districts in the country, to make inspection of projects in their districts, and therefore making institutions with legal authority to make inspection of development projects in the concerned council to be four, a procedure that are required to be dealt with as possible inside the council of Sengerema.
When he was asked by this newspaper, why the council of Sengerema is involving the committees that are not involved in inspection of projects in accordance with the law and that document, the acting director of that council, Juma Mwajua, claimed that even the procedure has been used by that council.
I have come here, I will not accept this process, they are saying that the council of councilors passed it in its sessions of the council's budget, when I asked where in the meeting, I was told the council of councilors has called "Masau boasted.
