Therefore, and also my position is heading to today I would not tell you tomorrow and you are doing well at all stations because they don't told me in me and to be satisfied with the use of drugs for the end, I request you to control you so that we can be able to control the use of drugs for the end.
To believe ninety seven percent of second party members are not a high level.
It has also been said.
It is led.
When you go to Dar es Salaam, we will make the property to do for all citizens when I was diggers.
The way of fighting.
The drugs are there.
There are there that there is a game that they want to win.
Other people have been asked but the things to participate in this level in which part which has made what is tomorrow to reach the level.
Truly you can use too.
Not easy to get who work even to get the third team.
Others only are two percent to help when we look at without getting pregnant, which have 60 percent.
Now it is not for us to join seven percent.
And that work of doing or not the small work is supposed to be successful.
We can be able to reach seven percent because of things get still continuing to partner in a very good cooperation between the internet.
Director and media together with my citizens in general and said new to be without a great help.
However, the leaders of a good team like this, cannot do anything related to the councilors' victory they are in great cooperation between those councilors who are competing every one can make them live but also other leaders have been a great danger in paying the ability to give them.
They give him a partnership with them.
Their positions is growing rapidly, we ask you to support him but what is in large so that we can make great progress of drugs to be rich and be rich.
It's like a rich but the spread of the poor is a very easy thing, this is why we are supposed to continue being the first one.
We know more or the way you read what the whole issue is proud to learn about me.
And those who are among the districts that come to us to learn well and love those who come to learn from us because it is not where we started in Igunga District also in everything in Igunga, we have been found.
Therefore, that is the great secret of success to partner together with each one to fulfill his responsibilities in Europe, something that is expecting to fulfill their obligations or problems after workers are paid for a long time and I have been able to pay their positions on Monday, my congratulations were given all foreign information in their department.
This is a big offence if you look at vegetables, every department has health effects, I know it is rumored that we are doing well because there are very small problems but we cannot say it is great problems if you are doing well by our region but an incident.
They are getting experience.
Do a friendship with the state of drugs.
Fire stations.
There is a question that makes them lose the company as the first to go to get drugs but also the contributions were given but the week through the use of its drugs, but it will be a terrorist.
He is prepared professionally to find you that there is no drugs.
Therefore, improving the customer can be even new servants do?
At other occasions, they provide documents.
And even in bringing about how you want to know that the heart can be used to know that the situation is so much and that the situation is so much and that if you get to you, it should not be easy to hear that you are not easy to hear that you.
Also, it is true and we had already met?
