It is enough!
December 31st, 2013.

The project of building a pipeline to transporting natural gas from Mtwara and Songo to Dar es Salaam, is divided into two groups. First is the construction of the two machines to be safe in Kilwa and Madimba and Mtwara villages.
Secondly, the construction of a pipeline to distribute that gas with three sections, are from Madimba and Mtwara villages up to Egypt in Dar es Salaam with the size of 487 kilometers and a length of 487 kilometers.
The second section is from the Island of LSongo through the Indian Ocean and joining the pipeline that came in Mtwara at Somanga Fungu, a total of 25 kilometers, a total of 30 kilometers and a total of 30 kilometers.
The machines to be safe for natural gas.
The cost of this project takes-one of the pipes for transporting gas from wells to the machines to be safely together with stations to collect the gas (UDART) and the construction of the main pipeline to take gas to Dar es Salaam.
Secondly, the cost of the project involve the construction of two machines to be safely on gas and three is about the construction of the camp to live in the employees of the machines to be safely on gas and offices to run the machines.
In the construction of pipelines for transporting gas from wells to the machines to be safely together with stations to collect the gas (dye), its cost is 239 billion American dollars.
But in the construction of a two to be safely on gas (Saiwa) a total of 140 million American dollars, 21267,888 trillion shillings, a total of its cost is more than 27,356 American dollars.
Therefore, you will discover that the cost of a total in the construction of clean water equipment is 49,00 American dollars.
Pipeline to transporting gas.
Here there is construction in four areas where the first is the construction of transporting gas from Mtwara to Somanga Fungu that is second in the construction of a gas pipeline from Somanga Fungu, in Kinyagigi.
Third, it is the construction of a pipeline from Solo Songo through the sea and joining the project that came from Mtwara at Somanga Fungu and four areas as a construction of a pipeline to transporting gas from Ubungo to Tegeta to Tegeta.
In order to start with the cost of building a pipeline to transporting gas from Mtwara to Somanga Fungu (5 kilometers), in this construction, the cost is 3769 998 shillings.
But on the side of the construction of a pipeline from Solo Songo through the sea and joining the project that is from Mtwara at Somanga area (25 kilometers), the construction is 164,162 shillings.
In the third area of construction, that is the construction of a high pipeline to transporting gas from Somanga Fungu that is 4 kilometers, 197, this cost is 30 million American dollars, this cost of its construction is 467,888 trillion shillings.
But there are other factors associated with this construction which include the construction of Somanga Fungu station, affordable housing centers, Kinyerezi and Tegeta Thermal Power Station, Kinyerezi and Tegeta Thermal Power Station, Kinyerezi and Tegeta Thermal Power Station, Msasani and Tegeta Thermal Power Station and the cost of building a pipeline to transporting gas is 455,731.
The cost of a gas pipeline.
