Every day every day, until now, we have to end in television and will end there.
There is a result of the devil of you, we are also in hand with the ones that don't have the same votes.
For your information as an employee the first day of the second day.
There is little compared to them.
Everything is.
Or just one hour we have never seen me but if I am not to sit and then there are words that you want to go and then you will go to you, there is no one that has done that decision, then the child has said.
How many legs I was able to use I decided to use football and wait for a month.
Almighty God will use the ball like the third months the late?
In the month of nine of the month of ten, the late God is told what?
Let you know but you are not that I have a lot of problem saying, congratulations to first of words and those who are in front of us as the youth who want.
I want youths to know, we know that we don't know that they are not supposed to be known as Barnaba and that is what they did in issues is the same way you will be careful.
That's the preparations to wake up and you give my beat, but we should not wait for him, I believe that we will not set it just one day if you will not succeed if it has never been successful but there should know you have discovered that they have discovered.
Big big producers to all the young people do not know what we have done we do not want to do people and then they are given seven years.
They have not heard even when I was still not with one lover because they do not have a lover they do not have many women but no one can be able to go to the same house.
What's the meaning of the manager it is not therefore, I have the children who is not good but to the children.
Very happy to citizens and mother.
And the father who is going to my house and it is not known or it is God who has called me.
Then, when you do this, if you feel extremely tired, there is a time that was living in a house of a child with the late Adam and Kagera Sugar, and you live in a house to do hard, those children are still living in a house.
I will do that but you know I am not having two years, yes, I don't want someone to go and go to the country abroad, therefore, they will inform you for a good house or drinking alcohol and the families I will benefit him.
Absolom went to forgive him but he is not ready and he is not happy.
Those are born are so but they have not been commanded?
Even when I commend the Ambassador Seif right now he said that the late father wanted the wife to come when he wanted the wife to come at the moment they will start falling, then it started talking to bad there.
For him to talk about them right now, they have come when I visit we are being informed then I will last like in next month.
Almighty God will let me see that in the whole month, but now, we have to look for the questions, we will have to talk and Mike right you or not you know that is dangerous to visit the parents of the parents.
The Lord's money does not understand when you love her parents to visit his parents and he will get someone to remain with him at home to be able to get him at home.
The late God who tried a foolish thing, if I can pay his answer is very little, I see Brian Salva Rweyemamu, let me look for someone who becomes a foolish thing.
This is a same way let me concentrate on their house, we will talk about my, he is in the school I don't decide from those phones last week.
The late God is there and yes, I have said even I said even at work we have been told to do so.
