
We have been "this disease of East Africa"!
Sep 19, 2012

In the end of September 5, 2012 of the Citizen newspaper, the 9th page, there is news that spread my feelings with the head that is to be sold at the farm, how our country has been sold at the farm, and even if we are not being called a little country, the country for small people go back to the article of general.
257 million.

It has taken me for allowing the Citizen newspaper here on my platform that has been reported by this newspaper.

Tanga Provincial Commissioner, Chiku Gallawa, has witnessed an incident that was done by visitors of abduction and coldness.

Chiku Gallawa accompanied by delegates of the defense and security committee of Tanga province, she witnessed how that forest was found and ran away by being harvested in the type of History.

During the time of Tanzania that forest this year, I have remained as a park located in trees and taken to Kenya for stopping.

While on the side of Kenya, citizens told him that head of the province that the forest that Kenya has remained as it is because of the presence of great law to protect resources.

One of the citizens of Kenya who is an agent of witchcraft being harvested in the forest of this year, under Tanzania's side, the Rumba Duncan, told BBC that the success has resulted in a large extent and the leaders of the villages that are in the northern region have no permits.

"Here in Kenya (Kenya) there is a great law to prevent diabetes, that is why there is no one who plays for trees, but because of Tanzania there is no law, that is why many are rushing to there," said the citizen of Kenya.

However, the big job of buying trees in the forest of this year, do not be done by the Tanzanian citizens who after harvesting time, they will educate the business people of Mombasa to take a cargo, "said Naomi Godson and a resident of Kitanzini ward in Kenya.

That is the news that spread my feelings on September 9, on the Citizen newspaper, maybe I think it is why the news broke out my feelings.

Four years ago (2008), was one of the journalists from the association of environmental journalists in Tanzania (JET) who visited several villages of Tanga province neighboring Kenya in order to check the activities of the environment.

During that tour, we also mentioned in several villages in that village of this year, I have been able to witness the problem - a problem that has been charged with a lot of trees in different parts of Kenya.

As she witnessed RC, and his delegation at the recent tour, the delegation of JET, 2008, and also witnessed the forest that Kenya has caused many traditional trees when Tanzania was all close to all.

The argument that were given were given are those who had been given by the Provincial Commissioner (Chiku) and his delegation, recently, that small business people in Kenya are vying for Tanzania to get pregnant women because the control is from.

When we go back to Dar es Salaam, I am my colleagues who have written several articles as we cautioned the government that if not took action against them, Kenyans have changed our forests in the villages of Tanga province neighboring the neighboring country.

But as usual, our government raised those reports, and its results are that four years later RC, the new manager of that province has found that situation in front of four years ago.

My feelings are that the situation will be very bad than what we witnessed in four years ago, if there is no any action taken for controlling the situation, four years for forests have been finished by Kenyans.

By bad luck, the head of that province, as it was for the previous person, she does not have a lasting solution to deal with the problem, therefore, things will continue to be very bad.

And I can't accept to be careful, another new provincial head of Tanga Province who visit the next five or six years, he will not loose a tree even one side of Tanzania, though the other side of Kenya will also benefit us!

This situation that resembles that of this year, don't know that, our resources including people of the neighboring countries, we found it last year in the Mtwara province of Mtwara.

During that tour of JET, visiting fishing villages from Mtwara Province, we were told that illegal fishing using dynamite is run in Tanzania and fishermen from Pemba District of the neighboring country of Mozambique.

We were told by various senior officials in Mtwara province that those fishermen were tested for fishing using dynamite, their side of Mozambique, because their laws are stable and their offices are stable, different from the side of Tanzania where the concerned parties are still unknown.

The results of continuing "sleep" to our leaders in the coast region is that for many years that are measurable.

At the other time, I was trying to talk about this issue, I agree that we are a curse from a certain kind, otherwise, it give you the condition of "request" to visitors every sector even to our neighbors?

We deal with great laws of protecting the environment and our resources if they are and neighboring countries, but we are unable to managing well in the way they are and our colleagues.

Why do we know that we know that?

Why our country has been sold to be sold in the farm, why do not have any information from the Kenya, to be cut and put in Tanzania to make sure, we are just to transport outside, and instead you are just the reports of Kenyans have come to Tanzania to carry through our fellows?

Why doesn't you know the reports of Tanzanian fishermen if they go and illegal fishing using dynamite in the sea in Mozambique, and instead the fishing of these kind are done by the fishermen in our country in our sea.

Why do not be able to prevent us with minerals and they will not give information from the mountains in Kenya and to be brought in Tanzania so that we encourage us to sell, and instead we look at our mountains in Shengena (Same) and being transported to Mombasa, Kenya so they cannot be removed from Mombasa, Kenya.

Why doesn't you inform us from outside the country to have a popular park in Kenya, Maasais' which is in Tanzania, and instead it is Kenyans who are claiming that our Kilimanjaro Marathon is in Kenya?

Why doesn't you do information about the minerals of Kenya the shivered and put in Tanzania, and instead the news I think about us are of our minerals (example the Tanzanite) that is believed out of the country through Kenya?

Why we don't know Twiga Stars of Kenya being eliminated from being sold, and instead you are of Twiga Stars only, those who are believed to have been killed while one event involved in Kenyan?

Why we have agreed to our country to be sold to be "Africa disease of East Africa" (back to Turkey.

My brothers, why we should not be sold to sharp teeth.

"Here in Kenya (Kenya) there is a great law to prevent diabetes, that is why there is no one who plays for trees, but because of Tanzania there is no law, that is why many are rushing to there."

Therefore, that is a Kenyan who was surprised by told our head of Tanga Province, Chiku Gallawa, again, the officer told him for being satisfied with him, he was involved with happy with him only when he was caught with joy and others who attacked him before being comforted by deception.

Truly we have been "this disease of East Africa" only, "patients" to an extent that even our resources we are unable to fight itself against visitors in Manyara Province or!
It depends on.
