Towards the 2015 general elections, we have a lot of learn.
December 11, 2014.

When we listen to the general elections of 2015 and the great job that is in our country to build a new constitution of our nation, Almighty God, we have a lot of things to learn.
How we are looking for economy experts, the main market of globalization, to help us us, that is why we are forced to look for experts of democracy, many parties and citizenship to come here in the country and to make us taught.
Many things that are in building and involved in our village living in today's 19th century, "we said that at the moment it is only one village but therefore we cannot make sure you learn keenly, and especially if some of the new issues will follow the name of conmen.

I've heard of people giving opinions that we can have a union of our kind without considering the other countries that run the coalition government and added that it is not a must for our constitution to succeed in another constitution.
Others are saying that we go through the blood pressure to be blood from outside or from inside, that we should build a union according to our requirements and those with these thoughts, they fear illegal immigrants.

We have an example of stem cells who have refused to reduce the foreign religion as until today we have natural resources, but not Muslims do not inform God, what should not prevent God, or not using abusive language, professionally as stew. "
In the opinion of foreign religion, fraud and injured are brought and fraudsters who are offered to explain the various religious leaders, there was no longer a person in the middle and there was no doubt in the middle and there was no doubt in the middle and there was no doubt in the middle.
People affected, eat and drinking alcohol, in eternal peace, every family's house was among them, I also have the ability to talk to God, one thing, to change names, to change names, because of other religious leaders do not be there.
White men and physically challenged have never been praising God, who was very close to the people and take him apart from churches, the sun, peace, peace and blessings, and the ones that were sold to be the Almighty God, power, war and discrimination.
Heaven is speaking with you and if they tell you that if they get married and Muslims are fraudsters and they advise that the light of crime, to sit down or stop your eyes so that they do not listen to conmen.
