
How will it mean that a Christian does not represent 22, 2012.

This article was published on the website of the England Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) on November 6th, this year, "we have sworn in here by considering that, a union between men and Christians in the country is big, but the union can't be shaken by skin rashes.

Boko Haram has said that his name means that the western education has been approved, it is a group that has been forced to bring down the government and form the Islamic nation.

On November 4th this year, one day on Sunday, one church was attacked and caused the deaths of four people in town Kadama, one of the towns that has been affected due to the ongoing conflict between the government and Boko Haram.

Although they have not confirmed to make those attacks, that group has been responsible at the time they performed in North and middle of Nigeria.

Rufaro Chatora speaking at state, one leader of the Christian youth in the city, Kadama, told the writer of the England Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) on how the lives have been changed while in that town.

In his story, Oberlin says, "the people fear even from outside the night or even to sit outside the night or even going outside of alcohol or even eating fish.

"I have lived in town, you're close to my life and I have written with me, I believe that town is divided into religious foundations.

Muslims live where their number are big, Christian and as well as well as those two groups of people are living a lot of their lives or not because of a union that can arise here. "

Even though there was a scandal, Christian and he has been living in together.
We were participating with our children to go to one school, they learn from each one about the religion and their culture.

Most of the people who are despite their religion, my mother, while he invented religion and became a Muslim and then he was married and a Muslim.

My sister also was married and a Muslim although he likes to be a Christian, there is a lot of marriage like those in town Kadama have never been causing any problem if people were tested and found himself, not hatred and violence.

Things explained that in the year 2000, when Kadama has already been identified for the first time with religious conflict, that you should partner with groups that want Islamic laws.

There is where groups that were affected by people came out to their homes because of violence, Christian found themselves living in their area, Kadinda province and he has been found living in their areas.

I have been looking at the affected areas of one community and that is why we are still living with my wife together with our four children in the area which is the most big one, "he says.

Women in several meetings in the northern regions have been banned to carry the animals from the church of churches, now, they have loss of hating people that are in the church if they have any weapon or not.

Women who were blocked to carry the stem cells because the striker can get into the church showing people that it is a believer in a weapon.

Therefore, our religious life has been so much together with even the community life, for now, we live a private life for all when we get home.

But the violence have made people to have a lot of faith that they are getting that faith as a result of urine which says we will go through affliction like what he did of Jesus.

The message that we Christians we are spreading is that he has been good people and it's a few among them who are causing violence, we are not supposed to disrupt the relationship between those two communities.

At the time he has arrested the Eid el-Kabir, we joined with them in one road in town, we went together with celebrating so as to strengthen the agreement of peace and unity.

At this time, even the political conflict has changed and the religious and two days later, the church has been attacked with bombs, but the church has never made our efforts to agree.

Christians and he has been seen here and they are why we depend on for our future.

We hope they will be able to study together and know that we can be people of different religion but still we can live together.

The attackers of Bongo Fleva, have been suffering from churches in the northern region of Nigeria so as to reduce violence in the community must affect the system of our politics.

We need to ask, so, Nigeria was at the right time to start using the western democracy system and even we did not see the level of violence during the army administration.

And this is not saying that the must that we have the army authorities in the force, instead, it is a must to look at the crime system before they come to the colonialist.

We can learn from this system and change the way, we are dominated by corruption, the standards of poverty you may go and then the violence may not affect the modern system of life has caused the effects more than the benefit.

And today it is the western government together with the companies that are the source of deaths of our people, those companies are making weapons and sell in our nations that use the war, Nigeria and elsewhere.
