Livestock is dug in rearing livestock.

It has been written by John Ndonga, Morogoro.

It has been published yesterday / 03 / 2016.

The farmers of the Maasais' in Mvomero, Morogoro province, have requested experts in livestock sector, to direct their energy to their areas in providing appropriate education that concern benefits of understanding and selling of livestock in order to attain the fear that he had and their traditional faith.

That call was made by the breeder of community, who is also a member of the government of Mela Ward, Melela Kololo, in the district, Adam Mayingu, while contributing to a topic at the debate that was held recently in Morogoro.
That debate that was organized by the Network of non-governmental organizations that work with farmers and small farmers in Tanzania (PEM), which was sponsored by the United Nations Development Corporation (USAID), and involving 80 members of the land councils, the leaders of the villages and land stakeholders, the decision and the leaders of Mvomero County.
He said that the community of farmers should be given higher education about various changes concerning how to make better treatment that will bring productivity to the moment whereby many of them have no understanding about making livestock and making calls.
Therefore, he said it is being implemented by the government, and it has its benefit, because there is no country which is needed to get a loss, therefore it is good for the officers of the sector to go to the villages especially to the community of farmers to provide the education so that they have been able to do things easily.
In addition to that, he said that many farmers have been making many employers of their livestock from other farmers, a situation that contributes to be keen in monitoring, a situation that causes livestock to be left roofless and went to eat the produce of farmers on the farm.
The PEN Tanzania Communications Officer, Clint Williamson, said the research that took place in the year 2014 at the SB Primary School, Mlandizi, Kibaoni Primary School, Mela and Melela Kololo, revealed that the sources of land conflicts is an increase in livestock, increase investors and good understanding of the management.
The Executive Officer said that the debate intended to provide education about land rights and administration to increase the understanding of the land law of the year 1999 and the land law of the year 1999.
