
We have arrested?
Likewise, he said that he could have taken actions in efforts to arrest people who have written the information of incitement.
There's on the way of giving information that were involved with threats that they want the residents of Kilimba and not the host to move forward.
Insults cannot go back in December last year, just a few days before the Kenyans started fighting for Christmas day.
While speaking to Muhimbili National Stadium last year, the police officer (OCPD) of Kilongo, Mister Justine Nyanga, said on the village, to go against those who were born with the Coastal Province who live in that country.
In addition, he said that the location of those accusations were unable to resolve the month of January to be the end of people who are not the hosts of Kilongo to leave the same time or else they do not die hard.
"Madee has reached the two that was found in various parts of the city of Kilimba, although all were a message that looks like each other, but another one was written by support, though another one had been sent by using a computer.
Already we got an important news to get to get who were involved in the village.
According to Mister Nyato, on the 43rd minute, the sitting was written between December 20 and 24 this year in different estates of being involved with the message that they have been expelled from January this year, the cities of Kilimba, give them the beneficiaries that had been built on events.
OCPD 'said that what has been taken to be written by support was found on an envelop that had been closed down and left in one club in the area of the banks and the club is a area which was being used by the continent, "he said that it was a mistake which was written by how the patient was written by him.
"On the eve of Christmas celebrations, a story which was played by using computers were found outside a house of one resident of the continent at the Misango, and the Eastleigh road heading to Kilumbi.
According to Mister Nyato, who is a house, she woke up and met with a letter said that she had read her so much when he read the letter was by the head, "a stern warning to you who is not a joke."
However, he did not give more information about information that were in the village to go to, although he said they were not good.
