
Wanene Bango and her husband, are happy to do that she had conned 15 people, 2012.

To the minister of Mwenge and Ndeki.

My lover,?
You know what?

It is not true that you are not forever when it's not there and let us believe that it is not good because it does not understand the problems but it is not aware that you are not true but you should not tell me what is not there while I am not supposed to leave the darkness.

The ones that spread very close to her lover.

But the best, even if you are supposed to protect yourself in mind, we're very close to each other or how we're very close to each other or even when we continue to grow our schools even up to the villages, every place.

When a mother told me that the day before yesterday tried to give a thought on the village's meeting he violated all leaders, "CHADEMA said that anyone wants to know the income and use of the village," CHADEMA "!
At the end of that house, he wanted to join the VICOBA group.
"CHADEMA" or Chidi Mapenzi '!

Bad, now, this is these religious issues and even in school, even at the school leadership!

"The elders like my colleagues where the ones that cause us know that there is a shortage of teachers and it's a problem in the whole country."

The chairperson of that board was shot in bitterness.

"You're not worried about Honorable, we have opened up on that and we know where there are no teachers, there are no books, there are no education loans.

"It is not so."

"That is how Honorable we know that we are people from the ward levels, we have been released all responsibilities as a person who is given a solution to the Almighty God, but all the doors are usually given, it does not give you a solution to the Almighty God and therefore it does not get a solution.

Lo, there was a lover I wanted to go down, because his boss has not been used to be given words at each other, she has used to people to listen to him because I didn't change so I wanted an outbreak at any time.

"Right you have come here to find the government's plans or the same way.

The chairperson gave you know that he was carrying his colleagues.

'No Honorable I was explained to say that we themselves and we are doing so that we can do our school to do so that we find youths who finished form six to help them here and when we are leading others to save those books even if they are not present to the work. "

The boss at the picture with an eye for raising his wards, but he continued.

"Our problem is division in the school."

"Division?

"Yes, that is why we come from our leader, we are searching for our ethics, and its ability to stimulate development in our community. But now people have started looking for religion or only person, we are searching in a cap or the Holy Quran.

The boss, he started to listen to more keenly.

What have you mean?

"That is this religious day you missed him, we've ever told me but I think I think you are supposed to hear.
In our place, people can't use tribe because all of us are tribe, but wants that he sees no easy way to use religion so that his religion can be just after looking for another thing. "

"Lo, this danger.

"Now each other things have died in that school.

The boss saw the head.

"Why I am when I was to school, he has been with Christians we should partner everything.
Even during the month of honorable Christians we died in order to support their colleagues in Christmas and Easter holidays, Muslims were invited to come to watch the Bible.

"Sorry, Honorable, those are your days, even we should benefit from the fact, the leadership decided to encourage people to follow their religion in actions but not therefore, this problem didn't go down here and therefore, this problem didn't go down here and therefore, it needs to look for drug abuse."
"It is not you to ask all the students that have shown the problem."

"We have done so, but this is equal to me in you, why others will take their opportunity for medicine for those things, is to you and to my fellow members."

What does it mean?

"I have a meaning that people who are greedy for power has brought all the all over.

"Say you started."

The chairperson said she was surprised by the boss when he used to do his card, without doubt, he went together.

"Honorable why is it that, I do not show about illegal immigrants.

For another time I visited the boss where he didn't go back but later on laughing.

"Lo, we are continuing to speak, instead of peace themselves and to bring development, the work is just about the people only."

Chairperson refused due to a lot of success.

"Yellow has been able to be identified himself, quills, let me tell Honorable the British said that" they pass the wind, there will be a lot of mix up between people from different religious, things will be very bad.

The boss was forced to get tired and I think he wanted to have played 74 matches but due to lack of him did not want to welcome visitors.

"This is giving me what I ask you.

Visitors went on but it was clear that they were not satisfied and they are confirmed to buy fire at their home while others continuing to sign up there, where and where his lover.

Therefore, TANESCO's my life, when you will bring the equal share.

They see you forever.
