That operation is normal, and a human being?
Jide 24, 2014.

In short, my advice is that we have no reason to inspect our movements, by introducing himself as we believe it will have bad behavior, hypocrisy and corruption.
Earlier when I have seen him, and I would like to repeat, that we are supposed to check up like people living in a country where we are playing with the future of development, peace and honor in the world.
That is a view that you cannot be able to deal with those creatures that we are doing for now.
Opinion of the range of shortages, which is why you can give birth as a situation that makes me, cannot agree with the quick movements, or the steps of passing the whole issue or the action is due to us, it has become a big amount.
If I have explained in the last article, claims you don't have an operation of all kind, because it is an issue of theft like other issues of theft, it is an issue of lack of faith in other areas of performance in the government.
For instance, we know that our court, together with the judge and other executives who are running, are at bribery, corruption and business stations have been sold for many years ago, every time when I was written about bribery, corruption, and the police have been getting high positions in pain.
Having an important institutions and important institutions like these, they are recognized as the institutions that are leading in denying citizens their rights and freedom of their citizens, one and their administration has failed to rule.
Now, if it is true (me I have no doubt about his truth), is why we are not heard about the operation to eradicate corruption, corruption and lack of rights in the court's department and the citizens are where we are able to put more weight.

I have written the issue and got several thoughts first, it is true that many directors in the government, together with their political leaders, they don't have their work as required.
Most of the people now know that most of the government workers are business people who are in their projects, especially with priority, government work comes later.
Office of the government, together with house furniture, and a long time that is not known through the salaries and payment of fees, and other factors that have been important for all reasons (or approximately all signs) are responsible for those actions, from the top.
In that state, it is an accident to look and investigate on the theft of wildlife who are involved in the theft and those murder are those who are faithful or not otherwise, they know what is happening at the Kicheere. "
We're getting tired of dealing with urine, it is that sponsors are noise so about that action will be taken to the wildlife because the elephants have been looking at a high speed up to the current nations, and our government is proud of being operated on the donations of those sponsors, not another.

If we want to say the truth, we will agree that it's a very few people that they know or are involved in an accident about the killing of the elephants, these are very happy, like they have been source of destruction of their farms.
This is different from the hearts of the researchers, tourists and the elderly of Europe, who are supposed to see these animals which have already lost a long time, and we are happy to see if they are not aware if we have no direction to take action against them.
But they know how to raise us, because these people are happy and asked, the only way to make them feel what we want to make them feel what we want to make sure they have condemned the operation!
