
Wednesday, August 13th, 2014.

Students showing how easy technology it can make sure they vote without getting.

I have arrived here Diamond Jubilee as a citizen who want to see the especially the ones who have upcoming stars to show their good work.

For sure that are the big number of students we have committed to sexual excitement since the beginning of this year's results have been impressed by hope, especially because of the opening words that was stated by the Director of Yaredi, Doctor Kamugisha while welcoming him today morning.

"We are putting the request to participate from more than 200 schools, but it's only 100 request to be used in the primaries until you are saying that your work will go through, you would like to confirm if you know," he urged the students and 300 teachers from 20 provinces in the country.

Most of the challenges that happened this morning, are technology that they started with the students of St. Jude Secondary School located in Arusha province, Ntapata Wapi 'and Hashim Nyasaka.

These students have come up with a easy system of voting through a short message (SMS) that is happening, is that the voter is using his mobile phone to send a name or the number that represents his candidate to go and give a full number of votes that Jokate got in that time.

Its meaning is that as the time you are going, the voters can be able to know the votes which he continues to get that candidate by comparing to other candidates.

These students are saying that they have decided to use this system because, first, you do not need big technology and second from the fact that right now phone is a easy device that is owned by many voters.

"An act of elections or the opinion polls need to have a mobile phone only so that he can be able to know that the number is required to use a name or a number that deals with his candidate," says Ntachoma, while showing several trials on how people were present at the phone number that he showed.

I ask you so as they get this idea here, Hashim Nyasaka says that there are clean water, "the school we do not have time to vote and even if they want to do so, therefore we want to use this problem."

Explaining the meaning of the technology in our community, these upcoming stars are saying, "this equipment is used and to improve the problem of people failing to come out and vote, because the voter's problem is only, but it will also make progress of results."

There is no possibility of a person to vote more than one time as' Ntwa Mitego says, "it's impossible for this system to make it more than just one hour, but you've not been allowed to vote for just one day, but never he cannot increase the number of votes."

That is an example of one of the research activities that are done by the secondary school in the country that was started by Young Africans, the others that I met include Tanzania.

"Another way to stop smoking cigarettes in people" met with Baranaba and Aggrey Boniface of St Peter's secondary school in Kilimanjaro Province.

"Deal with the shortage of water in the Tawaf area by using a dirty water" that was done by Michael Laurent by Robin van Gaal of Arusha.

"In which way the purpose of natural gas is affecting the economic development in Mtwara Province" that was written by Mwaura will be released by Hassan Issa of the United Nations, Mtwara.

The analysis of the acids use times in Zanzibar "met with Salute Said Abubakya Mohamed from Hauston Texas, a lot of money that is to 100 percent.

This Young Africans' exhibition continues at the Diamond Jubilee Hall in Dar es Salaam, and will complete his peak tomorrow evening where three winners in every group groups will be known.

The spider plant and Allied Sciences, Science, chemistry and mathematics (sponsored by COSTECH), Social Welfare and Licensing Agency (sponsored by Karimjee Jivanjee Foundation).

In addition to those, there will be two overall winner, which all of them is determined by discussion that was done by climate change in those four areas.

The competition takes place every year between the month of August and September followed by students from the whole country, this year being had a huge sponsorship of BG Tanzania and Irish Aid.

Twitter, annamatinde @ gmail.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
