It is good.
Church fulfill Mary again, I was not true if we will not see life is good but if we do not know that America has a lot of development that has reached another?
There are still a lot of opportunities, I have a lot of opportunities for me, about this, look for and eating where they were where we can do.
.
We will start opportunities for the development of our country.
Truly the mental spokesperson of America is a rich country in the meaning of a rich country with sharp teeth in all things, the Almighty God can be able to produce and produce enough medicine as enough, they can watch the fish.
At all times we are happy to get.
The dangers of the lese that will even watch the truth between them and in this conference.
Mselem stated that it has been stolen from this first conference, where in Dar es Salaam, maybe it is very little, it's just a little, but this will be the first conference but it will be a forum for every year.
He will know that every year we will have a conference of this kind and interest, and the purpose did, Masalu which we are doing so much more.
Take over the investments that are available in investment, in the country, we will be able to take advantage of the opportunities available in development and building the country.
The late does not bring together the people that live outside the country.
First President themselves by themselves because of the country there are a lot of community business, I have heard that there is a lot of all Tanzanians at Garagara Mtoni after tobacco.
Communicate or also is an important thing but he also wants to communicate with.
Investors and different companies in urine are available here in the country.
That are communicating with Almighty God and those who are outside the country to tell them that they are very humiliating.
Your success of tax and one of the things that there will be discussed at that conference.
That looking at Crystal Palace will have come out with challenges which have been able to deal with the challenges that are there and they have been able to deal with them and make sure they have reached them so that they can be able to come out of such a phone and so as to give them a lot of phones.
