
Appearance of education, strong winds.
After completing their first class in the subject of statistics from the University of Jomo Kenyatta, his family Eric Mini has expected to visit the city to look for work in a big office.
But his dreams, Mister M29, was different from have never seen the need to be employed, instead he got to be self-employed and to employ others in its investment project in agriculture.
After leaving, AT got an award of employment.
He refused and instead he decided to maintain his hands because of being involved in agriculture.
He had his expectation and noise from friends or his parents should not tolerate its goal of success in life by participating in agriculture.
More than that he has been identified as a nation following its purpose and its agricultural business, Mister it is a big donation to the family and its community because they produce livestock and plants, a situation that has helped many people in his area to fight the cost of hunger.
Instead of visiting the city to look for the work of the office, he started a business of rearing fish, chicken and milk related to them, in the area that is was known as' Fulfill Your Goals and recently, his business has a value of more than 16 million shillings.
He has self-employed for the 12 acres of that farm on 15 acres of the farm as a result of its efforts, he won several awards for the national and international awards.
Earlier on the family and friends they refused to support him because his efforts were able to run the wind.
They wanted to look for employment because they did not have faith in that farming and further considering that he had done well in his studies.
But as a result of faith, he does not know her, by using a little money that he had bought a cows.
"I talked about the first time in the year 2009 to get two others after a long time, I started selling milk in the market and in restaurants which he explained during an interview.
At the same time, each household was giving approximately 14 hundred thousand shillings every day, he was selling up to 60 million shillings per liter and per day they will not get 2 million shillings per month, she was getting 75 million shillings.
Not when the borders with the income that he was getting married and approximately 30 years of milk, but he explains that due to challenges of getting food in their area, he described the cows and focus in farming, poultry farming and fish.
He disappeared from plants like the use of water and tomatoes.
Mister that is given out the well and started the sprinkling of water for the whole 15 acres.
He has been looking for teachers and provide training to small-scale farmers about how to avoid livestock and strong winds of plants.
Mister Mpozi from the World Food Program (WFP) and the World Health Organization (child) due to its purpose and strengthening the availability of food in his area in the country, has been identified as a barley farmer with the main ability to have discovered.
He joined yesterday, the youths project have been directed by President Barack Obama of America so that he can receive more training about leadership.
Many times you can get more than 500 shillings, every month due to sales of chicken, fish, milk and crops.
