Majaliwa, even while there is not TRA.
Dec 80, 2015.

Four weeks of the life of the government of President John Magufuli, have changed the shape and direction of issues in our nation, but what we used we do is normal and we have to live with it, now are proud to live.
In the country we used we think we are saying it is good people who are brothers and our neighbors, suddenly we are doing well and believe that what is seen, they believe in Tanzania is more than what they believe in Tanzania.
But without doubt, I don't have been saying that the government of Magufuli is more than how it does not recognize that, it is why you know her people with reputation, behavior of their movements, and that is why a few hours at the port was enough to take the farm that we witnessed in the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA).
The wall is like that, it is supposed to be very much in our systems that are leading and managing sports here in the country.
In this world's world which sports is among the mining industry and attracting more investment in the whole world, we cannot talk about the development of our nation in Tanzania without putting good systems, discipline and investment on the meaning of sports.
In the whole past, we were popular in the world by selling and selling of cotton, bird feathers and coldness, but on the blood stream of our farms not to be careful, we can be able to invest in the field to the talents of our youth.
The Tupse has done our youth in sports, female and male football, running a bicycle, and many other games that have been presented their infrastructure, will attract many youths, and this will enable us to reduce by a huge level so as to evade a bomb that is waiting for the time to explode.
In a nation that youth is a big group than another one, to fear and give names of the bomb which is waiting for violence in our nation, is an illustration of the poor ability of our thinking.
As it is on the bail of public service, that is the way it is on the bail of sports leadership, we need discipline, patriotism and the heart of being unable to use our development as a nation, therefore, what are the effects of our development in the country.
I recognizes that the third assistant minister of President Magufuli, the Prime Minister Majaliwa Kassim Majaliwa, is the best player to be the best player, he is the coach of soccer fans of Simba know his competence like their coach, if there is something "he didn't give me the coach.
With the best, he knows that there is a lot that led in games from clubs to sports parties recently, they have been sold to be trusted by people for personal interests, in our soccer clubs.
For you to have a good national team, it is a must that you have a strong clubs, a situation that is not available here for us, all these things like it was in TRA before November 5, this year, things were going on if we are used to know after the short tour of the Prime Minister.
We need the discipline of that way in our games, that is why the prime minister should stop an eye on the sports sector with the speed that he has started with a reduction on a club of revenue authority.
One thing that we have sure it is sure that there is no doubt that it is impossible so that it is impossible so that the leadership of the fifth term government has shown that there is a good intention.
If the taxes now will start to be used fully, and the positions start being the real bail and good service, without doubt that the games can come up and one day all the national teams must be happy and for a long time.
