27th December 2012

Local investors to be given priority to speed up development.

By Eliasa Ally.


So that the country can benefit from resources that are used in the wealth, there is a need to use local investors or the system of partnership with those resources.
All the local days do not have a problem of their property, therefore they can be able to fight itself and use them by crime.

Investment helps to increase employment because as anything, they have benefited from them is a close person to the area for being the first winner.

The department of natural resources and tourism in the district council of Iringa rural, Iringa province now has begun to attract the native investor from that province in Ruaha National Park by giving them unholiness and making various projects in the rural areas.

That investor has signed a shop that is owned by Ahmed Olotu, who was given a goalless draw in Kinyagutwa, under Mbengalo admitted to ensure he is visiting various problems that citizens have been waiting for a long time, a situation that many investors had not qualified for the citizens of those areas.

The writer of this article, who visited 21 villages in Paraa Mwanga region, accompanied by the park, has met with citizens of those villages together with them and giving their views concerning the issue, they said that for now the benefits of the park are not clear.

Speaking about some of the development of the villages due to investment, those citizens said that previously they were involved in any development or any benefit from the villages that surrounds the park.

They are saying that for now, they have started to benefit from investment that he has set aside more than 190 youths who for now have been able to do development activities because they ask the citizens need.

Laurent Matindealisema, a resident of Iyanja has said that inflation in Paraa Mwanga and if the efforts will continue to get investors like that will enable people to deal with poverty.

"For now, we are witnessing the development that he continues to do this investor which has done the meeting with the citizens of 21 villages in order to get ideas of every village they want to do so in the development of this village," he says.

He says that for a long time now, there are no development that they are required to be in areas of their villages including improving the clinic by bringing enough medicine, water, contributing in education by getting enough desks if its contract is speaking so that citizens can benefit from one.

The chairman of Ihanga village, Mussa Kigomba says the investor is the first one who has brought hope to the citizens and added that they were given to a goalless draw in Somalia.

He says the first investor who has failed to reach the income of paying money for the purpose of contributing to development was to provide a little money, an issue that made them to pay the security guards and development activities to stop where the investor had a good relationship with the citizens.

The investor who was given the shop Hovind, says that he will make sure he is doing great progress to citizens living in that habitat to contribute to development activities including water, clinic, where he said that he will visit the citizens in their 21 villages in order to talk to them and know their problems.

"First I am at home, therefore, I will make sure I help with my family, for my heart and I will partner with very close to the citizens of the relevant villages, what I believe is that citizens are involved in everything that we can discuss with more transparency and to reach development that is expected," says, Ahmed Hjelmaker.

He says that one of the reputation of the investor is to know the problems and various problems of the citizens, and added that the issue is what compelled him to start a tour to visit the citizens in every village of 21 villages which they sell the reserve and discuss with them concerning the development activities that they want to be done.

"Citizens to give their views concerning development activities that want to be done to be part of the rights and it's a good foundation because the development that will be done will have different meanings in which the community did not need or not at right time and development that you do," he explains.

He added that as the native language of Iringa it has been required to ensure that he is doing regular activities that are ongoing with citizens in which citizens themselves have increased in their villages, where visitors arriving to visit their villages, where visitors arriving to visit their villages, where visitors arriving to visit their villages and at the last time.

The chairman of Kishapu District Council, Philipo Mkulabi and speaking about the transfer of the investor says that, the officer given a ring to the investor said that, the officer shot him through the names of all the people in accordance with the vehicles where the company won and other companies were not able to win.

He says that the committee had not accepted the investor because of fulfilling all the criteria, a situation that enabled the whole committee organized to accept to reach 80 percent where he has announced it has won and got a goalless draw in Kinyagigi.

Local investors shall also care for the first citizens more that those who like to take benefits instead of serving the citizens.
