
Some of the religious leaders have condemned the nation - Doctor Mwakyembe.
Brightiles 15, 2013.

The Minister for Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has said on a certain extent, some senior officials of religious leaders in the country have not seen the nation, for allowing the houses to receive money that are provided through the fundraising.
Doctor Mwakyembe has given that warning while the news reports continue to eliminate the reports of some of the leaders in the country being involved in illegal drug trafficking, while some people are used to transporting those drugs on behalf of those leaders being mentioned to cooperate with drug abuse by strength.
According to Doctor Mwakyembe, the habit of some religious leaders receiving donations of money from different people without caring or when the funds have been obtained, contributes up to the community ethics and threatening peace and security of the country in general.
Speaking at the an international day festival that took place at the Nyamagana National Stadium in Mwanza town, Doctor Mwakyembe said that in that trend, some of the religious leaders have not seen the nation.
In that festival that was organized by the youth institution, separate yourself from Foundation, which the nation's slogan was "we pray for the future generations," Minister Mwakyembe said that the nation is heading to prevent it because it is now when a person is tested for money, instead of work as it was at the Mwalimu Nyerere.
In the past, the job was normal, but these days, money is the right amount of people who use money without caring what have been sent away or then he is received as a man, a penalty seems to be a person of our nation, "he said.
He emphasized that the action of the religious leaders to allow churches, and mosques are used to clean water money is a series of events that arise in the basis of peace and stability that was done by the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.
He warned that although Tanzania still has a stable foundation of peace and solidarity that was set by Mwalimu Nyerere, there are foreign people not like in Tanzania to have peace and make sure they do every way to disrupt the peace in Africa, with a lot of resources in the country.
History shows that many African countries with the wealth of many resources have been having enough peace due to the conflicts facing the concerned countries, the example of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) which has not been unable to join the concerned country under the killing of former prime minister, Patrice Lumumba.
Since the time Africa has also witnessed a non-governmental organization in its 10 years ago and even so, Tanzania is not among the countries that are available in the list of non-governmental institutions that had reduced, a situation that prove that it is a country with a stable foundation of peace.
Speaking about that, Doctor Mwakyembe said Tanzania did not be safe soon because it is a good intention of the teacher Nyerere, to take a great action to form Tanzania as a nation instead of having the boundaries for protecting themselves as a result of the will of the citizens themselves.
"The teacher did something that others did not do, he announced land as public property, we will solve the great problem, otherwise all the land would have only three families but also the system will enable us to help as the new nation of Tanzania," said Mwakyembe.
The spokesman of that festival, the chairperson of the Constitutional Forum, Deus Kibamba said that those youths have different from many they believe that peace is being requested for God, he wanted to know that peace being built with its construction is not easy.
