
The conflict between the workers and the Social Security is lack of natural vegetation.

We see the witnesses right now about the conflict that aims at hiding the workers and the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) is the signs of lack of creativity to our leaders.
We have been used to do things to follow up to an extent that we are unable to think about us or to look for a solution to do something in a better way.
The decision by NSSF to remove the procedure of employees to get their money that they went before starting to arrive at the time of retiring from them, causing many words at some of the workers feel.
"Their" will be like the government's money, that can't receive when they need.
I believe all these are the results of the people who are capable of encouraging things and those who are used to follow ups in other countries. I believe NSSF can't know what they were done in other countries. I believe NSSF can't know that they had a good system and I decided to give my few ideas.
National park like one of the very big organization of our community system "is to have a organization (fund) of the Social Security Fund which is run as public agencies and together with those, there are many other organizations of the pension issues that are needed to do what is in the community development."
I believe that the big offence that we have done during the form of NSSF from Nicrox, (under the law number 28 of 1997) is to make an instrument that does not have a lot of joy by Nthepheya.
I believe that we are required to do is to form the National Social Security Fund (National Social Security Fund) and to make sure that the instrument has its great responsibility and of its own kind in providing social security (social welfare).
That instrument has been used to have responsibilities of health insurance or other things but it would have been using every Tanzanian employee. That is, every person who works in Tanzania (for a long time or shortly) plays in a long time or a short time, he is participating in an amount of money in this authority.
It would be able to have only one authority of the real community service, that is related to accidents, the death during service and reliable income during the arrival of other things that he would have been left to be done by other private organizations or different professions.
Many bags of the park, has not shown the highest way, the workers can choose the fund that they want to use since together with NSSF, the Public Servants Pension Fund (PSPF) and all these funds will see that even the benefits that are required to be like at least names!
Now because of these bags, all of us wants to give birth to a community employee what I have said bags are not to be used, look for some benefits from this website (because it I would be able to collect information from their website (because it is in PSPF) together with the benefits of education and the support of thanks.
Now if this bags are like to be very much because of the benefits that we get is why then they can have a few things (additional benefits), the benefits of death, the benefits that remain, lost work and accident at work.
Among the five things I believe it is primary and it is the right for every Tanzanian to know where he is safe and that is why the park on health, accidents, houses or vehicles, the employee would decide to buy insurance that he wants to pay for how the workers are doing.
Social security agencies should not make the insurance organizations that can be available to private organizations.
After retiring from pension funds (pension) or social security?
I think one of the issues that we need to think about how to do well is this issue of retiring from pension funds, and look at how it associated with the community system "to a person who has not yet returned to his retirement.
Any person who is looking on issues of social media is about the biggest challenge in the community system and among the important questions to think about it is that there are enough workers to be able to contribute to the retirees in the country?
European countries and some of the countries that many people living a lot of life have found themselves having a lot of work to be able to serve his retirees because of the new generation.
For example, a place where people are believed to have 55 or 60 years but they still live and reached 80 years or 90, and that it is clear that the pension fund of those people needs a lot of people to be able to improve.
For someone who are following up in Tanzania - although we can see that now the retired generation continues to increase (from public service) and these retirees are starting to live for a long time.
I believe a big question will be in order to answer this, especially if this bags have been left to enter on a big investment.
Investment in the community will bring problems where others have already seen the symptoms of these problems and their condolences to other people have started to see them on political projects it is being left to invest in political projects but it's a threat to the community.
Private I believe that there will be an authority of the community fund that if it is doing any thing on investment then it would have been done by another free agent from the performance of that authority.
My main problem of investment of this fund - and has been shown by the others because it is that investment of some organizations have been done by being implemented, search and even political.
The danger is that some of the bags, although it has a lot of money that seems to have a quick way for the politicians than to test for a big extent if the projects can be able to return money or that is why it's to start them or again.
That is why together with all that I believe at time you will start to think how to do these things in a better way and not for those things.
We have people with the ability of wanting this system change?
