In the event a report today we consider the communication of communication has discovered that there will be built for communication with a length of kilometers like which they have started to provide all seven services since the ten year, why should I advise that, the support from Tanzania Electric Supply Company is explaining more about the mobile phone network including the source of the shortage.
These things which the basis for now I cannot be approved by speed through the internet users has increased different from three years in the past, and what seems to know that there is a high level that it is not easy to be used in a very high level and infrastructure is the past.
Here it had small standards, you will know this week which was coming from customers so that it is little, you know what is the benefits.
Basically the nation has brought a great benefits in the communication sector and warned that a total for example is an example.
The band of making calls in one hour and nine thousand shillings was one hundred and fifty shillings for a minutes.
Two thousand and ten thousand the price of making phone in one minutes.
It was a recent shilling that has three times.
And the third sign of five, it depends on a person in Uganda is using for one minutes.
There are this we are talking!
If he bought one package for example, it is also a lot of information and he was able to change one package for example three hundred days ago and nine of them are getting six hundred thousand shillings and you get fake hundred thousand shillings.
And that for a whole week and you can make this network.
And I believe that the price has come up a day after day.
On the internet side, two thousand a year.
Before building a house.
It was at a free package in the city.
It was one hundred thousand shillings.
Only two thousand and ten thousand, the package were only two.
In two hundred and ten thousand, at night, it was six hundred thousand shillings, this year we will talk about the package of five days not only two weeks ago to win.
On behalf of Mo Blog.
The package will have two hours and you can buy ourselves who are happy to don't know more than two because it depends on it is going through a good service provider to me on the left, Issack er Makame Mbarawa the minister of communication, science and technology explaining the benefits of God.
That's not this among the companies that you use God.
Tigo has started using the national network from two thousand in one year and only after the national network, it is completed anyone else.
Later, two hundred and ten thousand in Tigo, we should leave a ten-five year contract in Kongwa, the nation decided to buy communication services to ten and seven provinces in the district.
We have managed to unite our nation's plan by cooperating with other networks and the solution to using ways.
If it is true that if you don't know, so if you check the communication to use when you go through the same way, they will be an indication of the past people with a loan of the nation.
This will help to strengthen our network to the provinces to get alternative ways instead of using the internet.
.
Witness all the days we have.
It is obvious that he is wrong if you have no need to see and be accountable because they did not reach their brother I'm in doing so that can be able to buy the song with talents as people we would like.
And where to be written in time.
