When you go to press you're not aware of the things you understand by things.
Absolom went to now right now for the journalists that the ship started making action from when waiting to be told.
There is a problem.
What is going on now like what he said here is my friend.
You want to know the parts of the sun.
A journalist has gone up to ten o'clock in the city that for now, due to being chairman Damiano Mkumbo because we are her.
Now I wish you.
Even the phone and write news like these which have emerged but the others where they are.
They are self-employed we are continuing to maintain everything that is going on and to ensure that one out of the media is together with and looking at this news, I would like to talk about this news, but when we get there, no news like us should not fail.
Therefore, when he took the time he gets their lives and they know but the time you were.
And the newspaper together with the newspaper analysis, if you're heard of a child because there were not a place not to do but all the two who received news keenly, that they need the constitution of the constitution but also more decided to never come.
There are demonstrations.
While there is also a rumor, they have been able to see how these people have been able to see how these people have been able to report on how they are doing so that it can talk about how the situation is good because they can be a good thing.
There is one of the something that I was asked if I got into me, then they got it.
If you are news.
It is a must.
In a week.
Speaking to the press.
Those of the delegates of the special parliament of the constitution.
Some people who follow the ones that follow the blood of many members from inside the Revolutionary Party was sitting on a seven page but speaking to those who support the Ukawa group get a joke to me.
One day I was looking at it there are two people providing me, I saw Makonda has spoken to Paul Makonda.
He feels he will serve the same, then leave this daughter.
It does not lie!
While talking to travel when you are going on in parliament, Teddy Mapunda was looking at the news headlines on the front of the page, because he went to the ones then he asked the government to put up a six page.
They have said that what this cross is not in Ukawa, it starts the sixth page but their lives of us that we have in the parliament are claiming that we can be able to put the first page.
You don't understand the importation of killing others due to how the desks is found?
What should I do?
Same as a way.
When we read it or he said that not in these business times, there are many delegates of the revolutionary party that they had bought for me.
And there are there and especially the newspapers now so that people do not think what to look at the market there are people who are involved in commemoration, but what I don't know how many people were given here and those who don't know how we can get opinions and for example that you want.
It is still enough that if the person spoke to a human being and he will end the first page, but he spoke to Ukawa.
He got a six wind power.
What concern do we do.
In a pose.
It is Mihayo that it has no great joy in what is being paid for normal and something.
I love you.
The late?
You're the decision of the board's decision in making the page.
It is no one that agreed to be in Dodoma when they talk.
As a bad article I am saying there is a period of service providers and those coming from Dar in Dodoma for the meaning of drinking alcohol when I speak it is needed then Jerry something is needed for the project.
For what thing is that, that is people who are waiting to hear something from him in Dodoma before they want to know Dodoma what is causing you are facing and not.
And and feelings!
There is a meaning that I have written the first page on the view of buying what should be in good environment, what is not aware I think about my view, is that it is a must.
The ones that had a lot of people their greatest one are coming and that they are being discussed there.
Therefore, those who see they are doing their lives or get the eyes try to change their voice so that their female children are female children.
With the press something that they are doing.
Something that had one thing, you are looking for you for you.
Most of them are making these noise like they do in the factory they do not know that today we enable us to be.
We have met here one two sides are going well well in the real situation so that Mister can come here in the land.
If you are not yet, we see that these people are trusted so that we can get the fourth picture because those who have written the opportunity, but also there is news that we have been given a chance, but there is also news that why Paul Makonda has been given a chance then before doing their responsibilities.
When the sister did you know that if you are not aware that maybe he is inside the parliament or this is the foundation stone is that why we are doing inside here is not a sin because we are doing inside here is not a sin?
And there is one thing that we are doing to give a prey in the country, they want to give them the end of the president when we decided to inform them that we are trying to avoid problems, I make you are searching in all the sides.
And here very much.
