
Strikes among teachers and doctors.
The senior leaders of KNsoka (from the left), Alagumu.' (the left), Mujahideen (in the right), at the party's headquarters, after announcing the donation of teachers from January 5. Photo.
The government is supposed to take quick action to prevent conflicts which teachers and doctors have started to do this year so as to avoid losses that are caused by strikes.
There is a big possibility of the public schools in the country to lack of be opened next week after teachers emphasized on if the government will not fulfill their requirements.
And doctors have decided to join with their fellow colleagues, he from Kiroboto has said that the government can pay their allowances for their allowances in addition, doctors want them to pay their fees paid by 600 percent saying they are doing an important job that takes a lot of time more than the employees of the other sectors that are in Donge County.
If the teachers and doctors will stop, they will sign many Kenyans in huge affliction and affecting the country.
If you go to Italy, it means that thousands of students in public schools did not go to school for the first time this year and this will not affect the school.
This is an issue, the lives of those students will be affected by the country will get losses.
There is an importance of discussions between the government and those workers, who are not important to make important responsibilities in the construction of the nation, the truth of issues is that teachers and doctors have agreed for a long time and results have been trying every year to defend their interests.
Those workers have been encouraging the government to lack good intentions in high table despite the concerned ministers so as to continue with discussions, this has been a normal matter every time the workers are blaming the government to resolve it, it has accused the government to threaten, Eboue managed to prevent them in high table charges.
Parties for defending teachers at the red carpet have said despite meeting with the government soon after meeting with the government on 26 times last year, to listen about the payment of their skills, no one has not been reached with another person but being unable.
The leaders of those parties are saying that the government has been doing that they agree with this that those doctors came too.
Already the government has communicated with the seven-day notice to the government about the strike that is expected to start on Monday and maybe that party does not turn back, if the government will not fulfill the requirements of the teachers.
Officials of the party to defend doctors have also given a five days notice to the government to accumulating the requirements or to keep them, it is clear that the losses being caused by the doctors is very high and it cannot be avoided.
It will be remembered that doctors came out in August this year, patients have died from lack of services in public hospitals.
There is need for the government to look into a goalless draw in time which has been very expensive to the nation than the requirements of those workers.
As other Kenyans, those workers have the right to appeal but it is easy to prevent this which has been taking place every year. The government does not affect the teachers and doctors as other workers so as to bring success to their work.
Talks between them, those workers are not supposed to boycott the work while open doors are open and they are not able to fulfill their stand because there is a great benefits to the country, to fulfill the complaints of all employees and take action instead of waiting for them.
The government is supposed to understand that if teachers are forced to learn that, children do not use their rights to get education and Kenyans do not miss their constitutional rights to get medical services from those doctors.
