Lorry owners have started the strike.

By Adhanom on November 10, 2013 used 0 percent.

He shared with us.

Facebook.
Twitter.

Lorry owners in the country have announced their vehicles to start yesterday for some time for what they claim is to avoid sexual violence by the minister of construction, Doctor John Magufuli, until the SELEKT program of 5 percent.
That step aims to officially start with the arrest of motorbike riders to stop transporting different products within and outside, a step that has been explained by lorry owners, will contribute to the cost of life.
That decision was announced yesterday in Dar es Salaam yesterday by media owners, while speaking to journalists at the conference hall of information (details). Speaking on behalf of their colleagues, Karineli at work, but they have decided to release their arrest, but they have decided to sign their series of fees for 5 percent from now it's not there again.
He said they don't have a reason to go back to court because their intention is to continue doing business because they see the issue that will be discussed if they will be unable to give a statement.
"Minister decided to revoke his rule by himself as a result of that law on 5 percent have been used for more than 40 years since the year 1973, and used all countries that are available in the SADC region, and if he wants to take that issue in parliament and not otherwise," he said.
"The law is required to remain like the law on Wednesday, he knows how to beseech all expectations of not knowing what they are doing so that they do not be careful so that they can be careful so that they can be taught.
On his part, the owner of the Zdravko Logarusic will be availed to Doctor Magufuli that he is doing that for his own interest without considering the effects of his results.
"We have no problem with the government but we have a problem with the leading leader in this ministry (construction), so we have decided to sell our vehicles, we should have a result of violence that we do, because this issue will benefit the citizens including the prices of transportation in the country," he said, "
On the side of the owner of Otieno.
The owner of Delhi company, David Mosha said that the stern legal action would have been able to solve the issue early so that they can continue with their activities.
He said the port would have been involved in the areas that they get cargo so that they can be able to test before they begin the journey, since the kilometers is available from the port up to Kibaha.
And the chairman of the union of drivers of Malmo, Tanzania (Chakwama), Clement Masanja said that the government does not have a problem but executives who are the ones who cause the laws of the country when the disciples of them want.
He said that the government was forced to use wisdom to be given their honor as cargo comes out, when it reached here it has been closed and are required to sell as it is without opening, therefore it is difficult to know if they were.
