Mangula has told Doctor Slaa.
Brightiles 29, 2012

While the secretary general of the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CHADEMA), Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, saying there is no one with the Adam's Management in the Revolutionary Party, the vice chairperson (new) of CCM, Philip Mangula, has answered him from Slaa and asked his colleagues when he exposed his new secret.

The secret that he exposed Mangula is facing a time when he was the secretary general of CCM, I will now mention you by names of the tickets to vie for the parliamentary seat in the year 2005 with bribery and being married.

It is clear that those answers are being directed to Doctor Slaa who has been on a tour to inspect the life of his party in Dar es Salaam for several days now, Doctor Slaa has been announcing the new leaders of CCM that form the new constitution of the party that they don't have the ambassador to deal with corruption and not only in their party but also in other institutions in the country.

Apart from Doctor Slaa on various other issues of political issues, including Doctor Kitila Mkumbo, who is the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), have been questioning the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), who been questioning the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), who been questioning the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), have been questioning the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), who were questioning the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), have been questioning the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), who were questioning the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), who been questioning the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), have been questioning the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), who were questioning the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), who been questioning the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), have been questioning the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), who were questioning the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), have been questioning

It is as a result of those attacks, our writer did an interview with Mangula.
He mentioned these examples to prove as the secretary general of CCM, in collaboration with the party's sessions, Virgil Hunter, people with money on allegations of bribery in the contest for parliamentary seat in the year 2005.

Mangula who before taking that position in his new position was putting off the tomatoes in his village, Njombe, found himself in attacks and criticized after promising to deal with bribery at the leadership positions of CCM, he promised to deal with them in six months.

We saw Manji, Thomas Nyari.
Mangula who made an interview with our writer recently, the small office of CCM, Lumumba in Dar es Salaam city said his party has a record of signing up with bribery, now you will now mention you by names.

In that interview, Mangula.
He is the famous businessman in Dar es Salaam city, Yusuf Manji and the former member of parliament for Njombe West, Thomas Nyato, as part of those who received him to vie for the parliamentary seat on allegations of bribery.

"In the general election of 2000, 32 members who had been confirmed without doubt that their victory in the process of opinion polls will be given through bribery for venturing their delegates so that they do to vote for me.

"This year, the results of one region were canceled, there were seven party members who came out to vie for the parliamentary seat, and all of them will be confirmed that they used money to different levels, all of them were given results by the elections to move afresh.

"Mama Cushbert Maendaenda (minister of state, office of Raqqa, public service management, in Mahenge and Richard Ndimbe (right now a member of parliament) in which he is among the victims of that election.

"The year 2000, during the opinion polls, Kona was competing with one rich one with albinism.
Apart from rumors, the rich and even leaders of the party in Mahenge (Morogoro), have got complaints, and it was confirmed to say that the winner who led the opinion polls in the Mahenge region gave bribery, his position was taken by Kwelukilwa.

"In Ifakara Town, we had our district chairman and his district had two constituencies as well as a member of parliament in one of his regions, and after his meeting with citizens, he had a meeting with leaders of the political committee to unite them by giving them five thousand shillings.

"There was at a time of people to announce intention, he wanted to vie for a parliamentary seat in Lushoto region, the opinion polls will be defeated in a lot of votes, but through bribery, the party was surprised that.
He did not give bribery, but he started the campaign early.

"The chairman of CCM in the district, close days of elections are doing a long time to time in one province, it will have managed to make a lot of work tour even in another region at another time or when they stopped him, they got married, Ndeki.

"The year 2005, Kigamboni region, that won with a lot of votes only had Yusuf Manji and they are following the complaints that his victory is due to bribing the voters together with some of the leaders of our party, Kigamboni region.
