When you go to the press here we expect the issue of a special constitutional process that is ongoing in Dodoma town, the chairperson of the Special Constitutional Review Commission, has also taken many complaints from both sides of the union because it did not have many complaints from both sides of the union that is Mainland Tanzania and even after a ring.
African countries.
Or one in one.
Or to look for you the love they did in charge.
Also getting the late I did not accept this time.
He gets a lot.
The council of representatives.
Many laws that are being supported by the parliament.
I don't have about all the things here now know?
Questions of members of parliament.
Issues of maize.
However,?
And also it is not even the members of parliament to decide for many development projects.
We have about?
Inside the parliament.
These issues are there.
Yesterday I was supervised by the attorney general of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Who does not happen?
It does not see any authority about the late father of the United Republic of Tanzania, Honorable Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, made a brief statement to the citizens by congratulating them because he has been looking at the process of making sure that the new constitution did not pollute the views of the new constitution.
It's like Kikwete is in politics and therefore on the constitution of the nation and Tanzanians.
Because previously we had to know that it starts not easy for the parliament to come up if it is called the constitution draft but it will be seen that when they are not doing in accordance to the draft constitution, while President Kikwete opens it to be a speech by the president will have to be sold.
It was my first president in the second week of the second week, even if you were told to parliament there should not be told in parliament there should not return.
He was accompanied by the draft constitution even the child of the commission of constitution is complete not in the picture.
And every time, let us start with one of the criminals in the finger we will have that it will go to the constitution of citizens so as to see that, when I take it to me, I saw it to remind me of my speech and to also allow me to remind me of us, all of them get married.
I think for a speech.
So, about Masasi, a good speech of contraception which will give them the direction and it will give our direction and you will give our discussions so that they will be able to serve Tanzanians because it is a speech by the president that has done issues of politics.
It was not in the area where we need us.
Therefore for the shop I went to as a speech he has prepared himself to forgive him if the foundation of his party.
It's not for the foundation of Tanzanians to indicate that me I am his statement saying that the third government claims that two government is something such as two governments or everything.
On the picture of Tanzanians.
Joseph Sinde Warioba also explained the statistics since starting from the low level up to know that he will not be heard, Honorable president comes to land for the citizens of the United States and the Zanzibar Islands, and he is waiting for you to remain in the islands of Judge Warioba and he is waiting for the changes and interests of the nation.
We are looking for the interests of the citizens.
And that is why we see we are playing for all the time to ensure that it is the republic of United Republic of Zanzibar and the revolutionary government of Zanzibar.
Because of that meaning?
It is Zanzibar.
Many believers.
We shouldn't read it.
Following that situation, some of the delegates of the special constitutional parliament have requested the former chairperson of the commission of constitutional changes, Judge Joseph Warioba heading to parliament for giving an explanation of various issues that are given by President Jakaya Kikwete when he was addressing the parliament.
Honorable chairman Cargo for now because the topic giver was made as the chairperson of the commission on constitutional changes and because the president he was welcomed at the time of honor and now he will not see if there was a need to build a procedure and to give him a motion on issues of issues explained to the honorable president.
On the top of the chief justice of the special parliamentary parliament, Samuel Sitta made the absence of that possibility but promised the delegates that he will give them an opportunity for them to contribute to the parliamentary reports so as to remove the words that have emerged with him.
All the two that were quoted by Jesus.
Then we should know that we are ready to claim that he is already the name.
If there is any argument of talks to cheer their time before.
Secondly, we can be clear that it is same without any problems and there is a sure what we are.
The late God talked about life on another side, they still have long distances to members of parliament in special seats of the constitution that is delaying more of their parties but it's not pleased with the members of parliament according to their interests according to their interests.
They respect the decision of the draft constitution that has been organized by the elder of Bayport Financial Services.
Do you know what the primary things that you will help us Tanzanians.
Have been reported on behalf of Forward America, I have been read.
