

By OthmanMapara.
One of the big work of musician, Elias Kiyemba (Barnaba) has a great ability to use music services to help youths with music talents so as to have their permanent employment as it is, he is doing.
The biggest way to reach many youths is its plan to open a class of music through the internet that will enable any person wherever he is to learn from music as he is.
The idea of doing that was a long time, but it was said after knowing that there are many youths who came out where there are many youths who came out and go to big provinces with many artists believing that they can get them but they cannot get them but they cannot get them.
A good example is a youth, Isaya Mwende (Mulago), who attacked them in Njombe District to come for a music life in Dar es Salaam.
While explaining the history of that youth, Barsheba he is saying his history is preparing to continue with the strength of helping many youths as the same time.
"Mulago has died in Njombe with his fellow person who came to Dar to look for life, who came to Dar for three hundred thousand shillings, their main objective is to look for the producer so that when they arrived in Ubungo I met and had conned Doe that they took for pregnant women with sharp teeth.
"When he went to him there, he urged them to look for him so that he will play against the water after bringing them back again, so that I will play for food, the reason they were forced to make food and their clothes have had lost again," says Barnaba, a history of Mulago.
Barnaba explains that those youths continued to give him a heart, they went up to darkness, when they believe that they were stolen, but they were being beaten, but they are in the process of looking for a long time so that they can meet and say it would take them up to him.
In the morning when they left all they showed interest in doing music, he decided to continue living with them while looking for a way to help more than any music life, but his fellow person did not agree with him, on Monday when it got to leave depressed.
Mulago is telling him that his mother who lives with him in the way she sang by himself, he continued to live there and do business activities in the country but later the mother did not want me to join Barnaba.
"Mother gave us all about Mulago area, I took him and live with him in my home, but at the first I explained as an employee that he affects my house and went for my family when I went to my family and went up with my family.
When I was surprised when I got time to talk with him, he said he wants to be a lot of 15-16 years, I met me so much to go and go back to me, then I told him to be close to me, then I told me that I want him to be close to me, then I told me.
He says he was living with those artists for three years, later one day before yesterday was in Kinondoni areas as forced to close him and without expecting that he met with his brother who had a three years, all of them found themselves insulting each other with a long time.
