You can check on ways.
Dec 5, 2013.

Some of the Asian countries have already gone into investment in one of the gas sector in the country, with Sinyati Enterprises LTD, it has been among the first companies to include local investors.
In that company, stem cells that own 35 percent while Snor Energy Australia, which have been registered in the stock market.
Australia (EABC), is worth 65 percent and among the local tourists in that company include the famous businessman in the country, Reginald Mengi.
Many, who is also the chairman of the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) has told them recently part of the shares given by the procedure of "it is a solution," the procedure seems to enable the buyer of the shares to be part of the owners of the concerned company.
On that foundation, Reginald Mengi has now be one of the owners of the Sinyati Enterprises Company, which owns 33 percent of that company.
Step of Mengi has bought those shares that are doing natives to own 383 percent of all the shares of the Sor Energy company.
On November 13, this year, the Saso and the completion of its strategy to sell 195 million shillings to two business people, the aim being to collect trillion American dollars.
That confirmation is in a letter with the news reporter, "Snowden?
Plate of Bongo Fleva, "it is available on a network (a link) through a link (a link), will make sure he had a fox which was a series of 136th, not known as 340,546.
Those business people have bought those shares in the procedure they are making them to be part of the owners of the Sor Energy company, being different from the ordinary citizens' plan to be an offer, but it is not part of the owners.
In those shares, 195, Mengi has bought five million shares worth 11 million American dollars (more than one billion shillings) and that remain, approximately 145 million shillings.
Having a value of 33 million American dollars being taken by Proin Promotion Company which is at Abu Dhabi's headquarters in Abu Dhabi, therefore, making the company to own 94 percent of the Sand Energy Company, and will also appointed one director to represent in the company's board.
The chief executive officer of SMEs and Energy Company, Doctor David Mwale, together with speaking about one of the sale and purchase of those shares, he said the company has a plan to join the shares of that company under the current procedure.
Doctor David, in his answers through the internet to Raia Mwema, he says that those shares will be sold at 500 billion shillings every year and that the aim is to own 50 percent of the company's shares.
The energy company is the first company for oil and gas to have listed in the stock market of Dar es Salaam, a step that made it to fulfill its goal of enabling the Tanzanians to invest in that sector that has very fast in the country.
However, together with vying for phone and sending a short message of the phone to talk about those achievements, Mengi, who is the Chairperson of the IPP Company, he was not ready to explain more about his decision of buying shares from Sor Energy.
According to the executive director of the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), Yona Killagane, said that they can participate in investment in the gas sector in the country and to get aroused.
Their companies have been registered in the law of the United Republic of Tanzania, compared to those natives by not less than 50 percent, but more than that, it will fulfill the criteria that had been put in place.
In addition to making sure that the government is expected to give more opportunity to the local companies that get into partnership with the foreign companies, where that partnership is getting tired of fulfilling the criteria that had been set aside because of other things, they will get a loan not less than 20 percent of every benefits that will be available.
The Sinyati Enterprises LTD company that is owning in the country for the purpose of exploration of gas and oil in Pangani-Tanga area, with a total of 9705 kilometers and Kilosa Kilombero District, Morogoro Province, with a size of 267,888 kilometers.
