
There will be no end to the fare.

It has been written by Hanscana.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

The passengers of air travel in the country not to leave recently, the government to put aside the fare costs, because the competition is controlling the cost of air travel because Tanzania is a member of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ITU), parliament has been told.

By using the electronic law which is international, competition is ending the price of air transportation in the air crafts and the government can set aside an increase in prices when the port is when it does not have competition because of having one company that gives the service.
The Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Doctor Charles Tizeba has issued the statement while asking to answer the questions of registration of CCM Asha Abdullah Juma (nominated), member of parliament, Grace Kiwelu (CCM) and the nominated member of parliament, Grace Kiwelu (CCM) and asked him at different times the government is doing an effort to put aside the price of the aircraft.
Responding to the questions, increase, Doctor Tizeba said Tanzania is a member who is a member of Tanzania and there is an international procedures in the competition that is controlling the price of air travel and for now competition is in its various planes of aircraft.
Giving an example of the port of Dar es Salaam to Mwanza, there are competition between Precision Air and Fastjet together with Fastjet, it seems to have a high cost, maybe if the company will enable you to offer services from the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA), will have the legal ability to set free prices.
Similarly, Doctor Tizeba who was the deputy minister for transport in the fourth government, gave an example of Dar es Salaam city to Dodoma, he said that there is small and its price is big than a big plane, but if the airport will be complete, the prices will reduce and provide services.
He said that all that will be made when Tanzania Airports Authority will improve private organizations that will face their standards.
In a primary question, Juma said the cost of transport services in the sea and air for the journey from Zanzibar and Dar es Salaam are very high despite the price of oil is reduced, so the government takes a step to help the citizens.
Responding to the primary question, the Deputy Minister of Works Transport and Communication, Edwin Ngonyani, said that when he is in competition in one way, there is a result of fare arising from the market.
About the air transport agencies for the journey of Zanzibar and Dar es Salaam, he said that there is a total of six media houses that provide services and that the ministry through the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA) and the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (ZTC) have been approved as required by considering the procedures of the registration authority of those stations.
