
Yes, there is a conspiracy for switching off the leader.
Several groups of women in Nyamkazi Primary School yesterday claimed that there is a plot to fulfill the political representative to parliament, Sabina Kaphipa.
Those women claimed to be, they are happy with the news that some of the veteran players of the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (Tansort) and they have an eye on a member of parliament of East African Community through Democracy and Download Lungangira who was vying for his position.
Speaking with the journalists in Ilemi ward, leaders of those groups that involve women development, scholars and female business people from he said that he said that the conspiracy was revealed at the funeral of former secretary general of Kanu Mister Joseph Kamenya.
They said that, Miss Chege has taken out a chance to address the mourners of that he said on behalf of women, but Miss Ng'ula and given a long time to represent women in the burial.
The spokesman of those groups, Miss Jennifer Lawrence, said that for a long time the leaders of Tembela, he said that they have been communicating with Miss Chege, they are told politics and they went to protect him in state and property.
However, Miss Ng'ula told the nation today that he did not attend the burial like a politician, but he came out as a thorough beating from the late Sajuki.
"We were playing with that family of Mister Kamotho starting in the year 1982 and until now, it is the family of the community of going back to South Africa, where he is hospitalized before farewell to the world and also to follow up on the funeral event a day after another in his house in Nairobi, Kitwiru," he said.
He said that he has no information that there are those who are mocking him to inherit the position of Miss Chege, saying that he is still in the left wing of Cord and he decided not otherwise to take his political course.
He said women of Ilemi ward will not affect the political impasse that is supposed to address their decision to stop the political course, as well as summoning demons.
