We have an expert on fire.
December 31st, 2013.

Previously I had gone to write this column that I saw different steps of the government of CCM in addressing various issues, especially the volatile situation.
I said at the time that, this government recognizes everything that happened in the whole issue, or it's not silent, is supposed to go down, again by saying, our government is to be heard by saying, our government is to be like the same person using petrol products.
In order to answer together with those with ideas like my government, this government has been satisfied by the advisers of the president, claimed that it is very happy and didn't expect to repeat the slogan that made our country to recognize the country.
The violence of Mtwara and the Southern Highlands.
In addition to the silence of the government and its control to the media not explaining the real situation of these violence, still the popular area is continuing to sing the Tanzanian song is a well in peace and it is one of the whole issue and it is one of the whole issue and is one of the whole issue.
Government claims that there is incitement among politicians who claim that there are support of the West African countries because I believe that violence are the results of the leadership and the residents of the Southern Province, the citizens of the Southern Province have claimed to have gotten tired with the injustice of the government and its institutions especially the police and the court.
Others are saying that the first gas will be future, later all of them can be correct to depending on the person standing so as to look for violence in South Africa.
Basically, you are not true that in this scandal, it is the one that will involve the country's leader to see the real truth about this issue because the symptoms of the president should be noted here.
Last week, there was a fire accident at the music club in Santa Maria in Brazil. The president of that country was in his tour outside the country, but he completed the tour and came back to his office during the national disaster.
Our neighbors Burundi got a tragedy in a fire accident last week, shops and business persons involved in Ethiopia to attend the meeting.
At the time people have died in Mtwara and Lindi (in the number), and wealth of millions of shillings and later, President Jakaya Kikwete was in the tour of France and later, he continued to say that our president did not go down and therefore our president did not lie!
A government without religion, is doing religion to get away from stew.
During the violence that came out in the Southern Region, the State House moved to the Lake Region, the conflict of encouraging and you were seen to have weight than the dispute between violence in Mtwara and Lindi.
In Mtwara people have died, Mwanza they have died from the chicken, cows and goats, the government wants the animals to go down but they are trusted by many people more than Mtwara people who are playing yesterday to them.
