The condition of the leader of the union of doctors in the country, doctor Stephen Magani who was abducted by unknown people continues well while the community wanted the government to form a free commission to investigate that scandal and put it openly that they don't have faith in the state of the police that caused a lesson to the doctor David Ramadhani for a report.
Doctor Stephen Wasira while in the foundation stone in a critical condition at bones presumed in the city while he spoke with the journalists you want to do about the health.
Why is why?
There is a point that doctors from inside here in the country wants to intervene in their holiday due to the strike that did not mention the doctors from Mbeya to continue receiving threats from their phones and not like to take advantage of this opportunity.
Warned and rebuke all pictures.
If they could be produced by doctors.
There is no one doctors have continued to get anything.
But there are also threats that were donated by various institutions to doctors.
And especially in the referral hospital.
The Provincial Hospital of Dodoma.
We see that threats of that type can I get into the crisis.
To continue being the biggest thing in the country when it comes to the Federation of political parties in TUCTA who has called on the government to form a free commission which also makes these security options, where some of the specialist doctors from the Ocean Road organization found in the session to explain the action taken to join their colleagues in an accident.
Thousand, it revealed at the Mwananyamala hospital not to be used by the meaning that there has been a little rate of patients as seen earlier, the management Sospeter Muhongo was involved in the meeting to discuss the performance in the hospital.
Meanwhile, when I wanted to know that we cannot get a short time in the hospital, we were able to send an appeal after the strike has been said, the government has already given guidance for the hospitals to take them to the private hospitals that concern them and needed to appeal by the government to cater for treatment.
The coming of.
The government has given God?
You miss.
The private sugar, the late.
You are expected to enter the contract with Africa.
Welcome to be a big one.
It depends to you.
If a refugee will not be taxed.
Therefore, when he was greeted by the procedure.
From the ones that are not praising God?
