
At the time of having spongers that are ended up on May 23, 2012.

To the minister of Mwenge and Ndeki.
His lover Frank Kibiki who has failed to come up my lover?
I am not supposed to see that it will convince the court to come and check the candidate of new hope, but they have forgotten that the ones for looking at it comes there.
Maybe it is possible that I would like to come up because I would like to tell me this one by seeing you have a desire to see him more than me, Tetteh Zillax.
I am a whole and now I see this election will continue to deal with the first time, when I wanted to go back to see what he gets in the seat or his boss, I wanted to go back to see what I got into the boss or his boss I have already been able to get a picture.
If they have shown that, I think they were welcomed by three people with their dog, but other visitors of the boss came here to receive him that the first time since 1995, there is the true opposition and hope of change (although this was not saying in front of the boss).
But in addition to depressed, I was not able to say the word, I saw the boss when he was just on a way to send himself as required.
"Newspaper, without the media, the relatives of this news will be able to make it true and should know that he cannot get our system!" I urge you to listen to what I met with the guest.
"Although the government is surprised by I see the extra work on these days."
"Eme, this campaign is a very big problem and I don't know why we are big leaders can be allowed to pass without being independent."
"Lo, Honorable I did not depend on the words like that from you and if you are," the boss I went up until he started falling on her with the dangerous parasites of meat that remained in his mouth.
"We have called me first, we the ministers still have the work of the nation not to be for all the months without the government."
"But the workers are there and even if you don't know their votes," the boss at the guest of honor at the official guest, therefore the guest he continued to fall down.
"I love you only, but the workers are there up to the secretary general if he is not the candidate," the boss said.
"Also, our democracy is democracy of money so that we can be able to work on behalf of the citizens to give a lot of money to the citizens," the guest of honor does not want even to answer this question.
"But I see you, especially you have the extra work because the election is during a bad condition and" the boss did not play again.
What does it mean?
"One of your colleagues have bad luck and to make sure that they get married and another one, you are forced to use abusive language of your opponents."
What does it mean?
"Yesterday I went to see your opponent, not because it is a member but I wanted to see what's a crowd that was huge!
Therefore, I expected that at least the news reports they would have been shown, if it is being shown to your meetings, it's not a foolish thing. "He said.
"
"Then you are supposed to intervene in order to make sure that right be done,. I remember the father of the nation even when I did not want him to see if you get the reputation, even if you feel it is wrong, you will remain with the fight.
"The ones that fight against sexual language here.
"Honorable Honorable I am saying, I know what many people know how many people want to cheer this one, but not the foundation of democracy and not the foundation of democracy and not the right to listen to your meetings, and they have the right to listen to other meetings.
Otherwise there is no need to bring in the people that our country is a country of democracy, a modem.
"It is not a bad truth when we know what we know what we know and we don't like, we don't like looking at the fire by the chief guest when he was moving to his boss, but when he is moving to his boss.
"Honorable, we went to school and fight with life together until you will decide that politics is a foundation of private development when I have I don't have a party.
"But I urge you that you are very disturbing when you're blocking all rights just because of their exhibition, and by refusing to make sure that we like to join one party, and by refusing to say the word" the guest was made to leave.
"You don't have a lot of mind and even if others are themselves and even if others are annoyed if we know whether you are like the boss, but this is why I don't know whether you are like the boss, but it is why I don't know if I don't know whether you are like the boss, but you're very happy about what I don't know if we are just one hundred thousand shillings per day, that is more than one hundred thousand shillings for every day they live in.
Again, I remember another guest, complained that together with all those who still claim to be paid again, they are forced to attend another meeting which usually happens there.
And then fifty million and five million when they end is nine million shillings per year, there are seven hundred thousand shillings and more for every month.
I urge you that his lover came out for those accusations when the workers are trying to keep off their accounts and the first work of the new government should be able to change this situation, but when they return it, the changes will we get.
They have changed very much and they are continuing to invest, therefore we must be able to change capital and get benefits, but it is true that one side people have contributed to his presidential candidate.
It is not funny!
They are requesting my private candidate to send a lasting solution.
