
Namtumbo District makes a tour of Mafia District.

Rashid Mkonga.

24 councilors of Namtumbo District Council in Ruvuma province are doing a four day tour in Mbozi district in Mbeya province with an intention to learn various issues including providing health services (CHF), Masala location and the success of tax collection in the villages, districts and district.

Speaking on the phone on that tour, the Executive Director of Namtumbo District Council, Mister Mussa Zohra Moore (pictured), said that the tour will be led by the chairman of the council, Mister Mkumbwa Ally which will continue to learn various achievements which the Mbozi district council is getting enough because of caring for good governance between the citizens and the government officials.

Mister Zindzi said that the Namtumbo District Council has a lot of economic opportunities including those that come from business produce and food such as tobacco, sunflower and rice bran when they use well and avoid poverty.

"These districts are similar to every situation from crops being done on how to pass through it, it is important to know the alternative means of experience so as to improve social and economic services in our council," he said.
"We have condemned the Mbozi success in many areas.

Even if the collection of taxes in the village levels, ward and district, the creation of small towns and traditional weapons which citizens are given loans due to their natural land, "said Mister Zito.

He clarified that Mbozi district has succeeded in the management of projects from the ward levels and villages, an issue that shows that there is a great involvement between the directors of the government and citizens.

Mister.
Zindzi said that the tour starts today and completed on January 20 where also the councilors will get an opportunity to visit Njombe District which is in Iringa province where it has different scenery surrounding the Namtumbo district.
"These districts are similar to every situation from crops being done on how to pass through it, it is important to know the alternative means of experience so as to improve social and economic services in our council," he said.
On his part, the Director of the Mbozi district council, Hasheem Mkingie has said that, the success of the council comes from the involvement of the directors of the government and the citizens where the ones that are caused by citizens decided to attend the meetings of villages and wards and that the government leaders have been encouraged to have a procedure in reading the revenue and expenditure to the citizens.
