In this large numbers he did not speak to Judge Warioba and he will not give it?
On the 20th of 20th, 2014.

Finally, the constitutional parliament has been announced and started working with 3,636 citizens who were vying for position after being recommended by organizations, institutions and representatives from Zanzibar and therefore their total will be 640.
If the boxers include 640, there will be satisfied with the effects that will help them that the ones that are being paid for 70 days or 90, together with other cost like transport, equivalent, accommodation, and so on.
Others are saying these are the cost of democracy, "and others they love" the cost of the analysts. "
In addition to that, there are issues that are asked about getting in the parliamentarians, 357, and 80 representatives, without the one who was chosen by the president they will be satisfied by the president they will be identified by members of parliament who will be sent in this special parliamentary parliament.
And even the year 201 is one of the politicians who will participate with the ordinary members of this year, it will bring back the politicians (parties) against community groups. We can say politicians in general they will reach 70 percent.
On the second side, we can say that, members of parliament and representatives who have been selected to vote for citizens, different from the community institutions have been requested for their sponsors instead of voters, if we need them, in good country, we are expected to start a grant from foreign sponsors who are the ones who choose the song. "
About this bill the constitutional bill will be discussed, Judge Warioba has been insisting that they will give them the views of citizens and that the draft constitution is the requirements of many citizens, especially the issue of three government system.
This stand is led by a lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam, Teacher Benald Ngonzie. He is not a must for any commission to give recommendations at the number of citizens who spoke to many parties although approximately 80 percent of opinion polls continue to continue with the system of one party.
It is because it was not wise to continue with one party even if it is the requirements of many of the electoral commission that contributes to the procedures and cause many parties.
The commission of Nyamohanga made the union of three governments despite having many opinion polls they wanted to continue with the two governments.
If we return to the commission of Warioba, in Tanzania Mainland, who talked with a union of 39,000 for them, 21,470 people, who wanted the three governments to Tanzania Islands, who talked about a total of 8 people, 4400 people (60%) they wanted the government of the contract.
MSabatama has said that you can break the number of people who did not have done in the structure of the union, mainland and in the islands, 291 whereby these are many than 470 people who wanted to three governments.
As a total of those who wanted the contract with three governments, 21,470 people, and these are 36 percent of the total of people who met the union.
In other words, the ones who wanted the contract or three governments were only eight percent of giving their views, will also give 27,537 percent equivalent to 86 percent not in the union or its structure.
That is Karrima Carter, "now how can 1665 people get opinions from 45 million people?
And then there is an issue of every country participate in having the authority to participate in international relations with one day in Tanganyika and Zanzibar that will face international organizations, daily working together and arriving where they started to fight.
Again we can fight even to the small things if it is a president that you should wait for a Mizinga squad or who will be the first to be mentioned between the Tanganyika and Zanzibar president!
In protocol will increase the president, the vice president, the prime minister, the chief justice, together with the involvement of vehicles with low-speed buses, all levels will be carried out by the ordinary citizens, the analysts have the increase.
