
Is an army that doesn't go to the commander of the commander?
Jide 19, 2012

Since Doctor Steven attacked them as being attacked by people alleged to not be known, they have emerged with the lot of challenges of raging water.
Many of those drugs have been involved in the Department of National Security.
Some of the ones that want you even to read it alone, and others make a bad state of professionalism from that department.
The sections of the privacy of that department and its activities have reached an end and free advice to the directors of that department is to put open some of their activities in order to avoid the danger of few directors to use the department to protect the security of the nation.
The answers of the view that were given by the chief secretary general Ambassador Ombeni Sefue and the Deputy Executive Director of the department Jack Ogano that the department does not deal with the political issues.
This is because for approximately 15 years, the great job of the department to the public, has been a political strategies to protect the ruling party with his politicians, and enable the crime of dollars in sabotaging the national resources.
His primary work of protecting the security of the nation has been extra.
It will be remembered that a few years ago, billions of shillings paying tax were stolen from the Central Bank on the excuse of national security.
It is looking at this issue of ransom payments, Doctor Ulbrahim and the bad use of this department is very important to the security of our nation.

The good analyst on security issues in this newspaper, last week he noted the concept of "couples," that is a probability of some officers of the department to be unable to do some issues without a permit for departments and he would end to do a crime of crime.
This means that when the department in general, when it is about the existence of a lot of conflicts in the community that can endanger the security of the nation at that situation, the department can't make sure that this step should be taken or do not have information about the conflicts.
The situation can produce the loopholes (request) and the officers of the department can use the body and the departments can do things that do not have a permit for directly from their heads.
In our country, our nation that deals with bribery and evil deeds for the officers involved, there is a big possibility of doing crime like that was done by Doctor Ulbrahim.
I will be the end of not knowing if this was given an accident which occurred in this scandal.

In that context, the security officers are able to form the security forces that drive out of ransom acts that are faced with great benefits to the security of the nation because such actions are needed to fulfill the private interests of the security people.
"That took their stand.
Those interests can be in a private system, can be used by the rich, regarding the expenditure of the department's funds and sometimes to change the direction (center) or change the agenda which are discussed with great feelings of the community.
This week has been going on in discussing the ractory sides of Doctor Ulbrahim and we have witnessed other ransom guidelines and also we have witnessed.
"Know of counterfeit drugs" of Doctor Ulbrahim and this concept of "milk" can be at work so as to resolve the hearts of the government, or to fulfill the private interests of our security people feared to marry off their dreams and politicians in their camp.

If I have ever said on this column, our security officers like those of our judges, they don't have the vaccination to be used politically.
We have witnessed these security officers vying for political positions as parliamentary, councilors, and fees of political parties, especially the ruling party, and we have also been looking for some time when the person has called for some candidates.
In addition, we have witnessed these officers being appointed as the district heads, provinces, the ruling officers of the provinces and district and even others associated to them as big business people.
These changes are concerned with the concerned officers in the sectors of politics and their private economy and their families, it is the source of crime that has ever been done by this department on the excuse of protecting the security of the nation.
If they appear and vie for political positions whose basis is to be members of the political party, we think they started when the members of any party members do not expect it to get their daily work.

This department made up of the father of the nation had a good foundation of involving themselves in politics even if that time we had one party as the father of the nation, he was quoted in the internal meetings explaining the freedom, unholiness and not understood to the department.
In addition to that he was the chief commander of this department, but he encouraged the people of his family and her friends not to intervene in the department without needing talks or permission, but its a few times asked the legality of the operation.
This is because the department itself did not stop any doubt and to the community that it is implementing the broader interests of the public and the future of the nation is young of Tanzania at that time.
Part of the big national events like the economic growth, the liberation of South, Arusha city, chemistry and patriotism of the father of the nation was not satisfied and the performance of the security department did not be blamed and all enemies to the friends of our nation.

It seems that it can be taxed against Doctor Ulbrahim and the operations director of the department that gave birth to the concept of not making it. "
As I said last week, if the security department does not know that who defeated Doctor Binilith Mahenge was not supposed to be trusted, and if it shows that truth, then they are involved in raging water.
This is a probability that can be able to be dealt with and spread of a free commission for investigation so that he cleaned it in the security department of the nation.

We have talked about our security people suffering following the truth of what happened. If the ones that happened.
There are environment that shows that the department can be able to have talked about her fellow doctors and relatives of patients after doing so, the department can pay that ransom payments that would be done by other people outside the department.
Through their empowerment, the department can be financial, equipment, and even the educative seminar of how to run the exercise is here, that's when he entered the State House, who has been mentioned by the name Abeid.
Still up to this step, it is a free commission that is able to break this topic, to continue considering the creation of this commission that can enable a rebellion like rebellion, inside the department of security because the clean officers and integrity can't like they don't like being dealt with by starting that crime.
