
17 December 2012

TASAF will continue to increase their hopes in reducing poverty.

By Eliasa Ally, Iringa.

The development projects in urban and the villages is to compete between the government and its citizens as a result of its importance in their daily lives.
Its implementation fail to have some of the directors to use money for private interests instead of helping the beneficiaries.

The good management of development projects is a pillar for development in the community because it also provide employment opportunities during its implementation.

Development which are currently in Iringa District Council have happened and are continuing to take place from projects of the Social Development Fund (TASAF), that will reach out to the citizens themselves in the rural areas due to TASAF involving the citizens in raising those projects that help them to promote their activities.

The projects being done by the citizens makes the concept of citizens themselves with the situation now, citizens do not see the government is for their purpose, as a result of involving projects that will take place on TASAF, to form the executive committee that give reports every month.

That situation has requested the residents of the villages to see that one projects in one of the government through TASAF are providing money to enable them to build projects.

The Majira newspaper in some of the villages of Iringa Rural district, in Kiroreli village, Ighombwe Village and Mtera wards, to identify the projects that has been done by the government through TASAF, where major issues are facing them and the whole activities of making them out of those projects.

In Ihenga town, it has been able to cooperate directly and the citizens by educating the water project for irrigation farming for rice arising from the area of that ward being attacked from time to time with the shortage of enough rains, whereby three villages have been caused by normal farming projects and now they have a reliable farming projects.

Some of the citizens of Ighombwe Village, Benoni, Benoni, a veteran player, Lungangira who has confirmed that the projects that was carried out by the government through Tasaf, has been having numerous success and citizens now get numerous success and citizens now get numerous success and citizens now get rid of projects that are ongoing in the villages.

"We have cautioned our projects but the government through its development fund, we have been able to get money to complete and build a lot of production and our economy to grow by 50 percent, we are expecting to benefit from getting good houses, educating our children and stop life," said Abutalebi, a resident of the village.

In Mkonkole area, Kiroboto has said that they had gone into the agricultural project of the economy where they started the rearing of diabetes so that the total of cooking oil is set aside for the sake of the citizens involved in groups and they have started getting married and get income.

Speaking about the rearing of bees for some of the citizens, the citizens have gone down, Marko Kilongo and Thomas Mhere they are saying that the project for now involves a lot of income and they have been able to avoid poverty in their villages different from before they were forced to help them to buy a bomb.

"Stem cells and wax company have the market because many citizens know the heart can't be added or be reduced, its customers are at the moment we have sell for six times more so that we're having more than ten commandments," says councilor of Kiroreli village, Pascal Ngozi.

The residents of Mtera ward, speaking about the projects of Tasaf, they are saying that the government through the projects is requesting one of the projects to identify and make sure that the citizens of villages are forced to produce their lives, they had flooded the areas of rural areas so as to improve the environment of the environment.

The projects are together with participating in development activities for the residents of Mtera, and Migungani Bunda District, Mohamed Nyengi, have been able to achieve the construction of stalls in collecting a hard environment and Mtera, now having a clean environment and better environment for the citizens themselves.

"We believe that the cleaning exercise for citizens especially the residents of rural areas are important, we citizens in the district, we have caused the project to deal with cleanliness, later we are participating in 10 provinces with a matter together with being given 'Power Breakfast program," he says, Alam Mbilinyi's chairperson of Mtera village.

The Director of Iringa District Council, Pancras Ndejembi says projects that were unblocked by the citizens who are supposed to be given money and Tasaf, as a construction of three major repairs for irrigation farming in Mtera village, Msasani ward, Mtera ward, Mtera ward, Mtera village, Mtera ward, Mtera village, Mtera ward, Mtera ward, Mtera village, Mtera village, Mtera village, Mtera village, Mtera village, Mtera Ward and later taking them to the high table.

He also explains that in the construction of three major shortcomings in the village of Itofali Emmanuel and has been built in three villages which has approximately 390,67,888 trillion shillings and that in Ihanga village, 340,52,589, whereby in Ihenga town, has costed 340,55,731.


Speaking about the breast cancer project, he says that a total of cooking oil is caused by receiving donations to citizens who formed their groups and raising the project, he added that in order to make the whole activities of the appellant, he added that in order to make the whole activity of the blast, that a total of 9,810 million shillings.

He added that in the project of construction of dealing with difficult conditions, in Mtera ward, Mtera village in Mtera village, citizens have been able to be paid five million dollars which have cost five million dollars which will be used to entertain all crops and expanded them.
