
The conflict between Tanzania and Malawi, Kikwete will ask the fight against Rayo Vallecano.

In what they can be interpreted as well as well as their dreams of taking over by the year 2015, President Jakaya Kikwete has announced that there is no plan of war between Malawi and Tanzania.

The statement by President Kikwete has come a few days since some of the politicians gave an issue of politicians to go for war as the only way of the solution about huge conflict between Tanzania and Malawi in Lake Nyasa.

That statement by President Kikwete, on one side affects the fear of war between those countries, therefore, they should be one of the war directly, but at that time it deserves the politicians who wanted to use that conflict like Karimjee in the year 2015.

Mke Mwema has a confirmation that causes the business agreements that are there between the citizens of those two countries is the high level of more than what is believed to be identified, whereby we can invest more in Malawi.
Stem cells that do not invest in that country have increased in all big cities, starting from Kalunga together with Tanzania to Blantyre City in South Africa and in some towns they have their markets.
For instance, in Lilongwe town, the capital city of that country is a area that is known by the name Nimlaumu street, "the popular area for Tanzanian business people, but the condition is different from Tanzania, because, the condition is different, they may be in Tanzania to look for more employment.
It is clear that, the step by President Kikwete wants the fight between these two nations and the neighboring country is improving the economic relationship and can benefit more than many as you like to believe.
The fights of these two nations is explained that he would have put history of its kind, because he would have happened after one month since the two countries came, but if a mother from Mbeya province, they saw President Joyce Fissoo to thank his fellow woman to end 100 days of his presidency.

In their group meeting that took place in the New York City in Mozambique recently, President Kikwete together with President's stand explained their stand as a solution of controversy of the boundary which is still underway.
President Kikwete said that all that were published on the internet and different media stations about Tanzania to increase the army to deal with Malawi is a lasting solution.
"I am the commander in general and I have not given any order to announce the war, therefore I want to confirm to our citizens that we do not have any plan to fight with our neighborhood about this or any thing that can be taken through normal ways," said President Kikwete.
Some of the citizens who live in land, especially the health centers have put in the speech by President Kikwete, a step that shows that it is a speech that gave them more advice after some of the politicians that are accused of supporting President Kikwete by the year 2015.
Fear of war to Malawi has been confirmed by President Joyce Fissoo in his meeting with President Kikwete when he was telling him that the citizens of Malawi that he got in fear due to rumors of the preparation of the war on the side of Tanzania.
Fear among the citizens who live in the provinces of the south of this two countries are estimated to have clashes between them in all levels of life including economic, community, political and culture.
It is common to stop the citizens of these two countries whose residence is in the neighboring provinces and their countries, while they continue with their social and economic activities as usual, therefore the war can't know you.
In the budget of the budget that happened recently in Dodoma town, it was given a statement of war crimes thus causing fear and fear among the citizens of those two countries.
The Minister of East African Cooperation, Samuel Sitta was forced to give information on behalf of the prime minister after members of parliament wanted the government's statement on the reports of Malawi to conduct a research on oil in Lake Nyasa to the area of Tanzania.
However, he explained shortly and urged the members of parliament to wait for the official statement of the government from the minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation, Senior Membe who released his speech for the budget.
The statement made further the citizens is the one that was given by the member of parliament of Monduli, Edward Lowassa wants the army to prepare a mental ability to deal with Malawi due to his action of starting the oil research while claiming that the whole lake is their property.
The step of the three leaders led by talking about the crisis that caused questions among the citizens, some make them been successful by some of the politicians with an aim of improving politics due to some asking them to vie for President Kikwete in the year 2015.
This column in the previous edition written about the statements of the politicians talking about that issue as already there were an order of the army to go for war, a situation that led a misunderstanding among the citizens living in border together with leaders of those two countries.

The conflict between the lake region between these two nations are very historic, where there is the first President of that country, Doctor Ngolly Mbani who succeeded to bring about fear as soon claiming that the whole event is between Mbeya and Ruvuma provinces.
Different from the stand during the stand where he claimed that the land of Tanzania has been found in Tanzania because of the two provinces and areas of Iringa province, it's property of Malawi, this journey has gone up for Malawi, to start research on oil while continuing to claim the whole world is its property.
Malawi in his claims about the lake region that their cost is 100 percent, use an agreement of Helman and, but at that time the international law are giving equality to the water ownership because the countries that are touched by, the truth that even in the normal logic or not to identify themselves.
But the problem that came up during the recent tension, is a step of some politicians to fail to show their ability of war in an issue that they were required to defend their motion.
In conflicts of this kind, if the concerned countries are unable to agree on political ways, it is used to court, and here is where some of the contributes to the court to enable them to use the war to claim that it is his right?
