There is a discussion with the future of the citizens of Modewjiblog.
December 23, 2014.

When I get a former name (not the real name) is an popular artist in Liunda village, Namtumbo District, Ruvuma province, his popularity resulted from the habit of blocking us, even so far spent it to be found with the infection of AIDS (HIV).
Speaking about some of the citizens of that village, including mothers, in one of the restaurants in the village animator and clinic, they believed that the elder was able to have more than 50 percent more than 50 percent in that village, including those of people, but they still not be infected.
"When I am an old man, I don't know if there is a woman who is safe here to the village, he was dirty especially, he is called the old man, narrating a girl, narrates one woman who arrived at the field while Mzee Nangumbu Village, while Mzee Nangumbu Village.
One thing will not tell you about the old man, it is that she didn't agree with the story about her life, he also attended the contribution while showing him and sometimes when I was born, "says the old man.
At that time, elder Nangumbu Village is safe, to the citizens of that village, the news about the infection of HIV which were not part of their lives, and if they've heard that, their lives were similar to which they don't know.
Health experts together with those of the social relationship have explained the situation as a result of the fact that the community was safe against VVU because of the absence of clashes and other communities, that are people who live as you are in the Island.
The chief physician in charge, Liunda Ward, Sendo led that until the year 2002, there were two people who were found to have the infection of HIV in that village.
However, the physician in charge of that officer reveals the existence of the increase of HIV infection in the recent years, where for the financial statistics yesterday, 2013, until November there were 22 people who were found to have the infection of the disease.
Joseph says that these are 48 percent of all the people who were tested in that period, who however did not mention their number.
According to the senior health officer, the increase of HIV infection in that village, to a big level, is as a result of an increase in visitors, thus expanding the scope of clashes between the hosts and visitors.
"The increase in speed of infection is caused by the increase of clashes and visitors, and we are expecting to increase more than speed of infection, we need to support," says the chief physician in charge, Liunda Ward.
The big increase of visitors in that village as well as other neighboring countries is accused of preventing and starting with the increase of diseases including HIV and those involved in the increase of diseases including AIDS and the ones that are produced by the mining of minerals itself.
Another disease is intended to start a high speed in that village, it is chest (TAHA), where the health reports show that ten years ago it was not affected by the disease in that village.
Health professionals are clear that together with the lack of research research, the increase of diseases including coughing, has contributed to the existence of that disease in robbery, saying those who have continued without posing for a long time comes from suffering from Kinyanyiko area.
According to the acting executive officer of Liunda Ward, Bakari Shime has said that village has 1,339 households of 15,559 boys and 4200 children with the age of zero and five years.
Liunda Ward was made up of three villages which include Liunda village, Mtibua and Mandela, all of them being the close relatives of the river Mkundi river which is running the activities of exploration of minerals of the Selous National Park.
The acting executive officer of the county claiming that one primary issue, and the issue is the citizens of that county not to be given education about the effects that are brought by the minerals of those minerals.
"We are given education about the benefits of minerals of drugs, we do not know anything about its effects," says Changu from his interview with Raia Mwema, that village recently.
One of the companies that run its activities of looking for minerals in Namtumbo District is the District of TRA Limited that is said to run education to the public about the infection of HIV, the benefits of the project of mining minerals and also to help in those villages.
