We feel that it would have been improved on that country from Dodoma province, non-governmental organizations are involving themselves with the defense of the community of pastoralists and pastoralists, fruit juices, has launched a new constitution and provide views of the new constitution and to give several recommendations including the new constitution, farmers and pastoralists and the public from Mwanza province in a report.
While speaking at the occasion to launch the agency for coordinating the views of farmers and pastoralists and fruits in the city.
The coordinator of the households, William Haule congratulating the director of the gap with the SEdward in the country said that in a new constitution they need rights for breeders and make sure that we proceed.
A new constitution should have sections if you talk to land and resources that other national property will be identifying.
Almighty God communicate with sharp teeth.
She has identified himself and we have already been ready for their lives and the historic people now have lost many effects on that, because they need security services because it is found in making a great constitution in developing breeders so as to make fruits in general.
And our needs.
Let it be made by a total number of students that because we need the nation then we need.
This week the country is under the public and they don't like having a lot of it without having these breeders.
And the chairperson of the platform of the constitutional platform, Felican Mkude, speaking at the launch, he has urged the farmers and local investors to use well that is available now by coming out in giving their views.
In relation to the constitution issue, I would like to be so much to have many more people even if all of them will not participate fully.
Others people should not participate by not knowing in our five constitution, where he did not know for now.
Statements by three days that have been there here are groups that have never come out even so once in the community of farmers.
Still the society is their father's participation.
Or the poor women, their participation is poor, more that their participation is poor, more that their participation are very high every day things can be available soon in the field.
My opinion in the process of the new constitution.
That commission of constitution are not available especially in the social media.
Women we have no voice and we are not aware that we will also have a area like the condition of the previous year, I urge the government to discuss and give our recommendations at the process of the constitution if you see livestock have a great wealth of culture but we do not want the next constitution.
To protect our culture.
We can have 60 million shillings that is where the Property International traditions.
Organizations who has constituted a bridge in order to collect the opinions of the farmers of natural resources and fruits is like the poor clothes in the near future.
It is nothing.
The best leaders of.
When they were closed down today.
The late God bless you and.
Lukaza Blog is Jamila.
