
24 December 2012

Mathew 'TBS has been released as the hip-hop artist who turned to check the grave when he had planned to reach far, to help others.

By Victor Mkumbo.

Years is growing up, the wave of artists continues to be great and there is no objection in the past, since the 1990s was there artists but many were in groups.
The increase of artists does not mean that many youths are vying to the music industry or another because of poverty, although there are several percent of youths who do that work because of the difficulty of life.

In 1998, a youth who is recognized by the name Mathew Selestine Mwesigwa, popularly known as Mathew Mtigumwe, has decided to start doing music, but the years he didn't have a lot to work in that profession because he did not announce and be known by different stakeholders of that industry.

After seeing his talent in writing film is making well, he decided to be silent because that can be outside his ability, but stakeholders continued to sign him in order to do music.

In that period he was in the process of looking for life, but in 2012 he was appointed officially in the music industry, where his new song 'Mchwaa will not be avoided, it has started to be heard and do well in different radio stations in the country.


From that work, there is a person that artist returned to the feelings of stakeholders who were forced to know the youth as a film writer, and to remember that she started doing music and that was his great dream.

He is saying that previously in the past years when he was a film journalist he noted that he likes to do music, although his mother was a player of netball soccer in that period.

He says that now he has decided to pay for music to show the stakeholders of the industry, how the music is required to be done since many artists in the country are the ones they provide even though there are different issues that Tanzanians are required to be given education and solve their problems.

The other reason that made him should not depend on that music is to enable them to educate Tanzanians who are not happy about the best foundations of life, including ignorance, Pickup, and diseases that bothers many.

"I know some of the artists are able to work with more information but on my part I come as a savior of the poor and opening way for success but the message that was found in my work is the answer," said Mathew.

He said that together with the first, we need to make sure that all Tanzanians want to make sure that all Tanzanians know where they will start.

However he is insisting that in his music he will protect themselves with other youths who like to do music so that they can perform their goals.

"Malcom Company is a lot, but this is not first Tanzanians to recognize him and after that I will be in the process of crossing borders, because you cannot say you want to reach you, then you don't know it," he says.

He added that doing work with international artists is the one who will make sure he meets with artists who are already known, so they can give ideas and advice on how to enable them to fulfill its goals.

He is saying that when he met with different challenges but that forced him to be patient and to fail is that he has done this until today.

He says that in his business life he believes that in his life of art he believes that in a difficult time to make sure he can perform well because those who have a difficult time is that people give them more ways of putting to be completed and not to be known through the theft of art.

He says that everything is difficult if it is not ready, but on his part he is ready for everything because victory comes after a heavy work.

"The difficulty of the market is but I believe if you are doing good work is not good and if you will be hard, I would like to say that hip-hop music is not in singing love and I know it's planning to go back to the market," he says.

He says that the behavior of someone does not have at their disposal and use drug abuse, but there are others who are coming to use those drugs after seeing a certain person, although he can do the drugs, whereby it reaches the lives of many youths in the whole world.

However, on his part, he gave advice to other artists that the action of using drugs can endanger their lives, because those use should be defeated by the government every day.

That artist, different from music issues is also a big writer of film and business person.

He said that he knows his studies after a mosquito bite of the disease he dies with bones presuming not to see well, where he died three years in bed, while some of his friends got up and she didn't know again.

I'm in suddenly and lived for three years without seeing the sun, therefore some people got up and know that I will go back any time but the ability of God is why I am in a good state, "he says.
