
History will do the judgment about Zimbabwe's judgment on 1st, 2012.

Let me start this article by thanking the president of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi (Elder permission) when he said, "every time has his past."
Mzee Mwinyi was trying to remind the importance of the era and events that relocate or going to different times, but in this world we pass, because people from the past, those involved in different times and these are words that do not fall!
Most of us the modern youths we believe in books and lack of competence, eat near the father of the nation and the first President Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, because they were able to tell me the fact that his fellow leaders in the African continent and even if they are also forced to tell them and listen to the other and therefore they also had to convince them to resolve issues that were facing him.

History has put him this savior in their place and he will continue to be remembered and of the future generations.
I'm a question I will come to come with it in this article, it is a history that will do the judgment on the issue of Zimbabwe but the country which the contribution of Tanzania in the liberation cannot be forgotten and cannot prevent them.
So, will do a judgment like people that we have been silent, we did not take any action or to feel anything in the country which those days before the current scandal had a lot of food, including food to meet its citizens and even to be able to go to the neighboring countries for extra food that is found.
Zimbabwe is heading to him and when it was done, we are looking at all the world, we look at each other and stop stuttering on the steps of taking the one who in the past we had to win as the fellow musician Comrade Robert Mugabe.
I know there are some who have accused that by taking this point as I was in the British land, a country that maybe has contributed to a certain amount from Zimbabwe who are in Kenya and giving me the truth about the things you have, a situation is very difficult.
However, by saying that for me he will not depend on some people, I don't see a loss of losing friends by saying the truth about me I will not be the first to confirm this when I was in a land of our former attorney general, because of Nelson Mandela said this when I met here at Stamford Bridge Park.
Recently, Zimbabwe have erupted the cholera disease which has caused the death of more than 1000 people while those who were affected more than 1665 shillings.
First, the government of Mugabe announced a dangerous state before announcing his shame, that there is no merit and things are safe though hundreds of people continue losing life and others affected with cholera.
Mugabe is heard by Madaha has managed to keep the world that they have succeeded in controlling the cholera as those groups in Zimbabwe continue to lose their lives in that disaster, while making others under his administration.
Most of us asked, Mugabe's lives a person, and maybe I have refused to say which he does not see what happens inside you.

This is a leader who lost even a feelings, a pain and this person getting.
So, the Republican Party is in Bongo, there are words like the best administration, law administration, freedom of news media or ethics, don't agree that maybe this are words that have been forgotten in the Roman Church.
The elderly and wisdom have already confirmed to the disaster of Zimbabwe including Mandela, Kekeletse Phoofolo, Jimmy Karrima Carter and Graca Machel, who does not travel up, "Zimbabwe is looking at all where we get the eyes.
Few weeks ago we had reached a lot of words and maybe that you can even be used by the army strength from the Pastor Rene Descartes.
Pastor, Tufani, who once won the Nobel Prize is still continuing to have a record that doesn't understand by talking about several issues that advertise the world that we have today's best, but this is good for you to say more words between the pastor and people of its kind?
In Tanzania as a nation, we will be able to get heavy responsibility as the chairman of African Union, to make sure that our government's stand in order to capture Trump against the few problems in the country but I think we can make another step ahead of asking for Magufuli to take a stern action against Obama and his fellow leaders that do not have faith in Zimbabwe.
It is a must to tell me what he made is enough and now when you are successful in peace, instead of others who will be able to lead and defend his new hope in Zimbabwe.
Without doubt, we recognize that his contribution in bringing them from Zimbabwe from the scandal of the colonialist, but that he did not give him a title deeds in Zimbabwe until his life will expire.
It is a must to protect us with the bad concept that is built on her head and those who sell their head because it is not him that in power then Zimbabwe will be dominated again by the British.
It is a must for our leaders especially in Africa to recognize that the leadership is a bond that you have been given by citizens, and if they're getting tired, or things should not be expected then it is good to release early levels so that they should not be used to release the military action.
