
Kikwete and "Don Bosco, our!
May 22, 2012

In August 2008, I have ever explained about the issue of President Kikwete allowed me in the State House and I'm a lesson so that if those drugs are found in coughing, which the king shivered.
When it comes back, they're very happy, and if it is little, they feel very much!
I said that if President Kikwete has to stop stuttering on doing difficult decisions, it's because she is happy to listen to a knee injury.
I also said that if Kikwete does not see the real picture of poverty as it is in the country, it is because he is surrounded by a white house while it gives him a fake reputation instead of told him the truth.
I were today I write your answer about the effects of the president supposed to be surrounded by the people of that kind, I would have made a few things that will enable them to believe by those people, but that it is a long story that will need the opportunity to you have narrated it fully.
Today, even so, I would like to expand the little of this issue, I would like to discuss a little in another group that I did not affect in my article on August 20, 2008, this group can be completely clear that it is near Don Bosco.
Those who follow the international televisions that make the sun Don Bosco, King who has a habit of having a promotion in that game, who has prepared itself a huge wealth because of the name Fam" to attract the famous people in the world to fight under its sponsorship.
Those who don't know well for Don Bosco, they know that the old man will use everything to set free and put up under the boxer who won the world's championship who refused to fight under its sponsorship.
Certainly, there is one story that deals with King King and upcoming musician who won the world cup and then he refuses to join the old man.
Don Bosco is impossible so much by lack of privacy of that youth, and he continued to rise in Tanzania to look for how to get that youth.
According to the story, the upcoming musician was called a phone and it's only explained that his father died.
When he asked his brothers the money to prepare for the burial, the highest cost came from, he gave him from God, Father Tom, he gave him a surprise, "he is King King '!
But Fiterawa and the work was during the burial itself. It's not only that Don himself was came out to the grave with a big group of "Nisubiri" which was walking, but he himself led to the grave of her a famous boxer!
Don Bosco in a modem that got to know the late one, and where he did not get even see him immediately!
It was "the Famy"
This story says that if there is a match between any boxer against a boxer who is not under him by the boxer, King King who are usually closed down between the two sides of those boxers and every match has shown that his lover is found, Don Bosco is close to a little of the boxer who is heading to win.
And the last round of the audience ends, they are the first to get a ring on the boxer who won.
That is the King King of a promotion that is popular in the United States for Don Bosco, King Mohammed will pour even a cry like that, he will enable him to get a boxer who is a champion in the world.
What he saw him ahead of him, it's just an opportunity to make billions of money by using the young people.
My brothers, I have used the great opportunity of this short message that she gets at the Don Bosco, because even here in Tanzania, we have a surprise of us in the field of politics where we have a knee injury.
On Monday, this week, President Kikwete went to the CCM headquarters in Dodoma town, to take a form of vying to be appointed again by that party to vie for the presidency of Tanzania for the second period and the last half.
If it was expected, a woman was written by Don Bosco, (including editors and editors), they came out to live near him and everyone wanted it to work "and" Mzee "so as to know that he is in supporting him!
Some of them have good people and their respect, but what they believe is not because Kikwete is the name of God, "he says it is the only one who had to vie for the presidency on CCM ticket," what he has done is looking for him, so that she does not hesitate to appoint him ("the" watch ") in the last stage of the presidency.
I will be able to look at television during the parliamentary period and to be surprised by the number of parliamentarians who start their contributions by congratulating "Kikwete for taking the form to vie for the presidency!
I am saying I don't look at those parliamentarians on television and asking him that he did not recognize him, who among them is among them is a foolish thing and is among them is Don Bosco.
My brothers, an issue to remember here is that when it got to the year 2013, I was written by Don Bosco, they will start a little time to leave Kikwete and deal with another politician who is aiming to have the strength to vie for the presidency of the year 2015.
They will do that because they know they are not again with the benefits and by November 2015, the reason we will have a new president! If you will be at King King (in a promotion), and will be keen on little, heading to the name of Champion on the new chapter, (to the vice president) inside that CCM party.
Certainly, the surprising thing in details and hypocrisy that are in Tanzanian politics and the multiparty democratic system will no difficulty, because we are close to end of the century since we find Uhuru and we have already taken out of poverty.
I know!
