
The heavy secret of being represented by ministers is called 'Jichunge.'

Various obstacles that have started selling in relation to a lot of pain "that was being done in the implementation of the operation carried out, suffering from four ministers.

Those statements have started to get out after it was revealed that the prime minister Mizengo Pinda was given a letter immediately by the former Minister of Internal Affairs of the country, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi about a lot of pain "but he could not take action.

The real news that when Mtanzania comes, it was said due to Pinda being unable to take action, it could cause Doctor Slaa's intention to resign as required to do that.

Our news source said that Nchimbi refused to address during the session that was requested by Pinda while speaking to four ministers who were mentioned in the report of the parliamentary committee of natural resources, land, and environment, arriving at the levels.

Our source has explained that in that session, Doctor Nchimbi told me that when he used to give information on the complaints of citizens, but he was given an answer that it is a special job for the government.

Apart from Doctor Nchimbi, other ministers who were called by Pinda is the Minister for Security and Armed Forces, two-thirds have the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ambassador Khamis Bakar.

"In the session, Doctor Nchimbi told the prime minister about the two letter given to him, he explained how the operation was run at that letter, told why the suspects who have been arrested have never happened to the police force and instead they are being beaten in electricity pillar.

"You come up there, Nchimbi told him that the prime minister said, the heads of provinces and the district are complaining that their provinces has been attacked, people are capable of defense and security of their provinces to have information?

"The prime minister told the answer saying that the one was Tiananmen Square (the work squad) and in that primary, Doctor Nchimbi refused to wait," said our news source.

Mtanzania Saturday they looked for, Doctor Nchimbi through his all mobile phone, but the phone was called without being received and later it made up.

All ministers who had gone down in different times have explained that action and many read it is like it has decided to be given.

Doctor Nchimbi announced openly that in his heart through the Facebook network, explaining how he was touched by the way they continue having love for his fellow human beings.

Ambassador Kagasheki, got a chance to speak shortly before the Prime Minister announced the decision by President Kikwete, to be accountable because of that report read by the chairman of the parliamentary committee, James Lembeli.

Doctor Mathayo asserted that he got an opportunity to retire while talking to parliament saying allegations that are available in the operation reports have gone down.

The captain also made it possible that it is same as the examinations that has planned for a human being in the world and therefore is supposed to deal with it.

In another step, the director of criminal Investigation in the country, Isaya Mungele has said the report of the committee on natural resources, land, and environment is the one on the side of not looking at two sides that were affected by the operation in violence.

Speaking to Mtanzania on Saturday in his office yesterday, Mungele said that the members of parliament contributed the debate on the report of Lembeli's report, they were looking at one of the victims.

"In that operation, one police officers was killed, but members of parliament did not see that the importance of rebuking the citizens, but it depends on the terms of reference for him they were given," said Mungele.

However, Mungele said that the operation taking place in writing and it did not advise the police to stop the citizens.

And the member of parliament of Mwibara Constituency Kangi Lugola speaking with Mtanzania on Saturday, he confessed the report of Lembeli at showing a shortage of people not knowing how poachers involved the police who were involved in fighting corruption.

Lugola said that in that operation, her female brother who is a police had died after being shot by poachers and died on the spot.

He said that the reports should go inside and see how the police were faced with difficult conditions while being faced with the poachers of the people who died.

"But this argument of people being used as a long time and this happens has been the same as usual, the cause of bees," said Chikoka.
