Our government and the incident of Mzee Mbonde.
May 22, 2012

In the past five years I heard that the case of Mzee Mbonde and his colleagues in the incident, I wanted to show the importance of government to think about the possibility of helping our elders and income of every month that will enable them to register themselves as a difficult state of life.
And in that, he insisted on the importance of educating the elderly who have not been employed in the government or in companies and organizations, but all their lives have done agriculture, therefore, then it is farmers.

The day before yesterday, the government through the minister is responsible for work and employment issues, Professor Juma Kapuya, announced that in Parliament his intention to start a plan to provide payments for every month for subsistence, our elders including those who participated in agriculture.
This is good news and it will give an affordable information, not only to our elders, but even with those who concern them in our country, what happened in the year 2005 to Mzee Mbonde and his colleagues have contributed to the giving of these results that will be sold to many.

It will be remembered that in April, the year 2005, in one of our newspapers in every day of the English, it was a great picture from the police to prevent the famous violence by the name FFU from the incident that was caused by one of the television stations.

In the picture of the newspaper, Mzee Mbonde, he urged his colleagues in his soul in color or boiling, color or the face of Mzee Mbonde, he had told the Parliament for sadness and looking for those who can be similar to them and to know her.

The picture that gave a lot of opinions, Mzee Mbonde was not only behind in the vehicle that they were arrested by other elders in the past, he warned many others, women and men. Mzee Mbonde and his colleagues were retired workers of the former East African Community.

It was not correct for our media stations to use a lot of energy to address issues of our elders especially the ones that did our country's way to address issues that concern our elders.

Mzee Mbonde and his colleagues did the protests of peace and calmness to claim that the primary issues are their right to get their benefits after the former East African Community broke out of many people who will serve the East African Community with great integrity and integrity.
To pray for FFU soldiers and taking them into the police vehicles, it was not a good way to thank these elders for their contribution to the East African Community.

Last five years I wrote on that incident that we witnessed was one of the million shillings on the second side of shillings, we have the Tanzanian farmer who will not get work to be given the identity card and put in the procedure to be paid the pension funds.
We believe that more than twenty percent of contraception is living in the villages and these are we are helping farmers, "we say Tanzania is a country of farmers and employees that Tanzania is not a country of industries, but our economy is available on agriculture.

While the elders of this country on how to demonstrate to the benefits or the pension funds, the number of farmers of this country who are going round with some time is increasing.

I gave an example of Iringa I'm living in every Friday that I will do groups of adults and it's the elderly whom I want to do "retired farmers" where these elders live on Friday, you can meet with them even the normal day of hunger does not have Friday.

These are the elderly who come from the municipality and even the villages that are affected by Iringa Municipality, they could destroy their food and to recognize their daughters, a disaster of AIDS has made some of these elders to have a big cargo of bringing up their orphans.
In the previous years the pension fund of these elders found themselves on their children who were in the city and even in the villages doing well for their children who have died in the villages, they have died.
