
Pinda has crossed to Mbeya.

Rashid Mkonga.

The Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda and the leader of the opposition camp in parliament, Freeman Mbowe will do a tour in Mbeya province every one with his intention of strengthening his party.

While the prime minister is expecting to start his tour from February 23rd that will run for one week, Mbowe started his tour yesterday which will last for four days and end in Njombe Province.

Speaking about the tour of Mbowe, the Deputy Secretary General of CHADEMA Zanzibar, Salum Mwalimu said that the tour of Mbowe is aimed to encourage citizens to come out and register themselves for the purpose of voting in October this year.

In addition, the teacher said that the Union of the Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) has continued to explain his intention to boycott the voting exercise for passing the constitution that had been directed to claims that the constitution does not benefit from claims that the constitution does not benefit us because they will last for a period of four months only.

Teacher said that the future of the constitution and the general elections in October this year, is going to vote by the citizens and that they will continue to boycott the constitution because it has no benefit to citizens.
"The constitution, which requires you to vote is for the government of CCM we have refused and we will continue to refusing it will last for four months because November first, the president of UKAWA will come into State House and sworn in," said Teacher.

The teacher who also gave a list of the tour by the national chairperson of CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe said the intention of UKAWA and the opposition in general is to see citizens benefit from their constitution and it is not good to be sold at the same time due to the needs and importance of the constitution for many years to come.

He said that Mbowe will do a four day tour in the provinces of Mbeya and Njombe for the purpose of launching and educating the registration of voters and that the aim is to see citizens are taken out in numbers to use their primary rights for voting in October this year.

While explaining the delay of announcing the candidate of UKAWA if there is any relationship of waiting for the candidate who will be left with CCM in opinion polls, Teacher said that in the candidates, those mentioned to vie for presidency within CCM is no one with the qualifications to compete with the candidate of UKAWA.

He said the procedures of UKAWA are continuing with the process of every party continuing without considering the plans that can put up and that the citizens should expect to get a good candidate from UKAWA which will give a long time for getting the best president of Tanzania.

At the same time, the report that was given by the office of the head of Mbeya Region to the media has clarified that Prime Minister Pinda is expecting to do a work tour to 7 councils of the province to visit the projects and public meetings.

According to the report, Minister Pinda has visited the council of Mbeya City, the District Council of Mbeya, Bushubo, Rungwe, Chunya District and Mbozi district where he will inspect the projects and put in primary education including launching projects in education, health, construction, roads and agriculture.
