
Fans should form the electronic tickets.

It has been written by Hudugu Ng'amilo.

I was published in 1st October, 2016.

Today is one of the days that are important to the soccer fans, especially the teams of Simba and Yanga that meet at the National Stadium.

For many years the two teams that are rocks of soccer in the country meet, do not have the great help from his fans and even the community as a whole.
For this year, those teams are meeting for the first time with a new system of switching off the field there, where there will be no normal tickets as usual but it will be used the electronic tickets system.
This has already been seen as a problem to some of the fans of these teams especially considering that it is for the first time this system started with this big team, it is clear that these teams meet the whole system of getting especially because many of them will be able to enter without understanding or follow the procedure.
Private, I would like to use this opportunity to urge the fans of all the two teams to ensure that they are following the required procedures that are required to intervene in the field where they are increasing money to enter the field.
It is good that wherever they are all the fans to go to their close centers where they are given free for mobile cards, they should realize that they are required to increase the money for the money they are required to benefit because they are able to sit for that match.
Then he arrived at the field to ask for those cards in the special machine to intervene in the field and then came into, but that is possible if considering this and increasing money from those cards, by doing so, today everyone will get into the field at a time and in peace without any problem.
It is good for today employees of Selcom Company they offered to be enough in every area of the National Stadium with the responsibility of educating citizens on the use of those cards as well as providing services to access to the electronic tickets.
In doing so, it will help in a big way to ease a reduction in the field especially considering that at the moment there are still fans who do not know how they get into the field there are some who don't know if they get money so as to enter the field.
Nasima said that there is a great education that required to be given to the citizens especially in understanding the use of those cards and also Selcom Company that put it open and where the cards are available easily.
