
32 years of CCM and a good thing.
May 31, 2012

Last week, the ruling party of CCM started 32 years since he was arrested.
In the week of those commemorations, we heard the news of here and there about the strength of the party and development that brought down here in the country.
Eternal peace, who died between the 93rd minute, 483 kilometers, got an quoted saying.
"A modem, who's in the center, Said it," Dar es Salaam with your own life and give your own life, it doesn't know anything, and it doesn't agree with what you believe in what you believe in your opinion, is the truth.
According to the statement of eternal peace, I am sure that we will give birth themselves and other leaders of CCM that were done in last week and they will do their evaluation themselves and they believe in my heart and where it came to.
But on my view, CCM is like the old party of South Africa (ANC), that is the name was sent away and do good to its citizens, but now it is heading to him because of knowing the poor.
I know there are some who will follow up with the statement, but I request that I want to return to the end of the last decision of the chairperson of CCM, Mwalimu Nyerere about the party that he finished, followed up on October 14, 1999 and lost its direction.
While he is impressed by the direction of that party, Teacher he wrote me.
"CCM is not my mother and" for sure, the teacher did not accept to show his thoughts that if there could be another political party in the country which is stable and what he has left CCM and joined it.
It's bad luck that the teacher did not live a lot of years to see the type of life it will help us in the country, but I believe that those statements are still unknown because of CCM party because it has not been impressed by the party members.
Therefore, those who want to understand the statement released last week by the vice chairperson of CCM, Pius Msekwa said CCM has been stable and I would like to stop the opinion polls of the old rivals, Kidawa (WHO), Said it, "Dar es Salaam and give your own life and a penalty.
There are many factors that are supposed to be used to inspect the Msekwa Hall on CCM, but because it has been the ruling party since it started (32 years ago), the main criterion is how his government is able to do their lives better.
I hope I ask you (for example), is true that CCM has made the lives of most Tanzanians to be more better than five years ago?
In order to try to write a question, let us look for example whose leaders themselves, last year, they given us about that.
On October 3, 2008, Minister of Finance, Mustafa Panju lo, announced new statistics of the state of poverty in the country, the statistics benefited from the research that was done by the National Bureau of Statistics called "Hungary," the new statistics show that most of the poor people have more than 12 million.
According to those statistics, the average of Tanzanian income in a month is shillings.
Approximately 360 shillings, that is 460 shillings for a day, I think I'll ask you to be where in Tanzania where a person can get one food compared to the day that was completed at 460 shillings.
If the answer is not there, now the truth is that CCM has been stable that CCM has been stable because the strength of CCM should not be stable because his government has increased the number of poor people in Tanzania up to 12 million?
But even if you look at the issue of success in the fight against corruption and bribery, the current CCM is getting better than it did not be in the past.
It is not great, for example, that this party was forced, or don't have a true intention, to stop bribery in its elections and because of that, many leaders and those who go to the government, are those who go through those elections.
For sure, we have been mentioned where some of us have been able to build the thoughts that our leaders like the state of poverty continue to continue to go down all over the country - the villages and in the city, because if they get the environment that will enable them to win their elections easily.
The logic here is that because the elections are bribery, an amount of poverty directs. That is how the candidates will be forced to buy "vote for a little money.
For instance, a person who is a little life, you cannot buy, "buy 'votes for a one hour, you cannot buy, maybe it will be able to know if it is 10,000 shillings only, or even there is nothing else.
That is the situation that produces in CCM elections, and that is also the situation that comes up during elections of members of parliament and the president and they are used to make sure that they did not see this, in the year 2005, when they were able to witness billions of CCM campaigns.
The results of this situation is that we get bad religious leaders right from Ambassador Seif.
In the leaders of that way, they get to power through the bad way, they face the rule of leadership, corruption in them is the front line!
For other words, CCM right now has left to supervise the issue of ethics, and its results are a result of the leaders now, and the corrupt people to vie for the leadership is no longer a chance to serve the citizens and improve their lives, but to look for a chance to serve the citizens and improve their lives.
Yes, if bad luck you are supposed to inform our soul and ask you like this situation is faced with a heavy scandal of corruption and any time in the history of our nation?
I don't want to talk about anything about the corruption scandal, because it will be a repeat, and don't want to talk about another issue like improving education by building the influx of these secondary schools that are non-teachers, books or laboratory.
But even when you go to the issues of good administration, CCM right now is unique more than the previous years, in the past 15 years, we have witnessed the regulations and guidelines of the party to be installed so as to protect yourself "those who are seen are enemies.
In a period of the past three years, we have witnessed political parties competing for a modern network and get married that deals with the growth of the party and in its government, things that the era of Mwalimu Nyerere were able to happen.
How do I be able to look for my friend by thanking CCM that during the era of Mwalimu Nyerere's administration, CCM was true that the poor and the rich and the rich people, can't understand the poor and the rich people, never can't have a threat in the party.
When I ask me, what is something in CCM and his government is still proud of, my answer is peace and harmony and that together with the huge poverty of contraception is still a lot of peace and harmony in many African countries.
If it is that, then, it is the responsibility of CCM and his government allow peace to all his energy and because it is the only thing that the party is proud of in 32 years of its establishment.
And on my view, the best way to defend this peace is to make sure that justice has been done to all, and that the gap between the rich and the poor is reduced, "CCM will loose even what is possible for the age of 32.
To say only that some of us have been getting recently after getting information that the Youth Union of CCM (UVCCM) organized a political meeting in Zanzibar where many delegates confessed that it was a mistake to sell the field of Arusha by putting the stadium of Zanzibar.
We thank God only that the UVCCM's secret meeting of Zanzibar is the first of the process of moving to the foundations of the stadium of Arusha, a declaration that made sure that at least many benefit from the nation's cake.
It depends on.
