Asha Mkwizu while posting his husband to her husband.
Frode Dyrdal of 28, 2013.

In that case there were three witnesses for the accused who were Yahaya Mkwizu, his wife of the suspect, Benson Bela, and the first witness has explained the court about the sitting that happened in Doctor Pindi Chana and decide the suspect to be supported by his parents.
Doctor Neema Rusibamayila speaking about the tests made when he made a suspect after the incident of manslaughter, so as to know if he had a mental problems when he was implementing those killings.
Doctor VASHARI found that the suspect had a mental problems which currently it results from the marriage problems and also had a lot of ideas (SMS) due to the family problems that he was suffering from what he termed as seen by the condition of his humanity does not lie!
As he was announcing the accused in that case in court, religious lawyers will be forced to join the suspect, while supporting the suspect, one of the lawyers had raised the accused of the accused of preventing his murder but the lawyer made examples of several cases that have agreed with that cause.
He wanted the court to accept that the suspect had an error in the explosion that had been condemned strongly with the late and that was the reason for doing what he did when responding to the matter so that he can sign him with the concept of killing Tanzania (Monbusho Scholarship) and cannot be given a chance in that case.
He came out the evidence that was given by witnesses when it is not true, especially the evidence made by Musa in order to oppose the fact that you are annoyed by, "I am like to include my explanations in front of the elders of the council and that the law should stop in each other and the concept of punishment for the year 1945.
"I would like to explain the elders of the council position in relation to the concept of being left with the concept of his humanity does not hesitate in accordance with our laws here in the country, to pass through 'Reasonable Doubt," the end of me.
The elder of the first cabinet, Tuli Ali did not agree on the evidence of the concept of preventing Tanzania (Monbusho Scholarship) and he changed the evidence that he accused of killing the late and said the Catholic church will be guilty of manslaughter.
That case was expected to be heard on October 2nd, in 1985, Judge A.
While reading the judgment, Judge Bahati said, and here I wish me the answer and put my opinion in this case, it is clear that there is no objection that the actor Happiness had died, had died in one of the suspect Asha-Mkwizu.
"Therefore, then it is true that the boy Happiness Senate have died and his death came due to a suspect that is in the case and what should be keen on this process and making a decision to look like what the suspect told the deceased with a bad intention or not."

Judge Bahati explained the evidence that was given by the charges made by the charges made so as to confirm that he accused he is expecting to prove that he accused he is expecting to stop the killing of the deceased, starting from six o'clock in the afternoon, to get a time he had admitted to face the body of the deceased.
There was also an act of accused to convince him to convince the deceased so that he will go to his home, he mentioned the army in Lugalo, Upanga and later the condition of the suspect decided to fall in the body of the late and then swept away it together with cleaning the house so as to eliminate the evidence.
