
How would you know that the union is keenly, you will benefit from 26th of 15, 2012.

In the second part of this article last week, we saw how the controversy of the union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar is ending the future of the union and to bring about problems that are currently the second side of the United Republic of Zanzibar, seems to get tired and claimed that the union or not to be dealt with.
While giving a topic at a seminar for delegates of the representatives council recently, the attorney general of Zanzibar, who for that position is the chief adviser of the president and chairman of the Revolutionary Council of Zanzibar on issues of law, Othman Masoud, asked about the report saying.
"Because the nation has been made through the system of structure of the union, how many of the union are where there are many what do the fate of those partners after the union?
The people of Zanzibar have gotten tired with the coalition.

One of the founders of the United Nations and the political veteran in the islands, Nassoro Hassan Moyo Mashine, was quoted saying he is impressed by the union as it is now, he says.
"There was a mistake in the system of a union of unity we used in the year 2007.
At least 1 billion, the moment has 93949, so as to do a mistake again in getting the structure of the union we are waiting for a penalty.
At least approximately 1 billion, the people of Zanzibar got 93949 with the ones that do not kill them.

And the minister of the country, the office of the President, finance, economy and development in the islands, Omari Yusuf Mzee, has been quoted saying.
"It was a big offence of seeing Mzee Aboud Jumbe Mwinyi after the resignation of the year 1984, today there would be no claims by the people of Zanzibar to enable them to kill them."
It is that, in the year 1984, the second Vice President of the islands, Aboud Jumbe Mwinyi, through the second vice president (AG) of Zanzibar, Bashir K. Nyerere, who organized a certificate to submit it to the special constitutional court organized by the Union of Constitutional Assembly (Constituent), regarding the requirements of the union's agreement with the coalition law and to bring about great problems of the union.
Earlier before yesterday, he spoke to the citizens at the peak of the celebrations of the Revolutionary Party in the islands of Zanzibar, January 12th, 1984 and President Julius Nyerere sitting in the main platform with President Kikwete urged the people of Zanzibar to be calm, on the scandal of the coalition nuisances and ensuring that the government (them) of the revolution would you want to get solutions on the crisis of the union of the union.
"If we are unable to know, we will take this issue to the special constitutional court of parliament according to the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania and to be taken to the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania and to be taken to the constitutional court to release that decision," said President Aboud Jumbe to believe in him.
Before going through that certificate, it was killed under mysterious circumstances and moved up to Mwalimu Nyerere's executive council not supposed to interview him and encourage him to discuss the offense of wanting to break the union.
Jumbe did not be safe to try to move out, "the unholiness and the opposition party including the chairperson of Zanzibar Revolutionary Party and the chairperson of the United Republic of Zanzibar, and he was surprised by the vice president of the United Republic of Zanzibar, and he was sent away by security at his home in Mji Mwema, Dar es Salaam city.
This is the mistake that the minister Omari Yusuf, claims that if the idea of people would have been left in use by the court, the solution that was found earlier on the problems of this union that is continuing to Kombo without the solution.
The issue of the attorney general of Zanzibar, Othman Masoud and the one of Nassoro Hassan Moyo Mashine and Omari Yusuf the ones that there is no other time like this time, and this period of the process of the new constitution is to get a solution to the union that is going against them.
We shouldn't leave the habit of hiding your head because we believe that we buy the whole body by producing it so that if you shouldn't know her, we will have a cry like us with this behavior, the club is impossible.
We will not be reminded that, the United Republic of Tanzania was established through an agreement between the government of two countries - Tanganyika and Zanzibar to address 11 issues of the union under the coalition government, it was mentioned to be the authority of breaking up to any country among the two countries that joined.
But it happened and it continues to take the government of the United Republic to pay the authority to supervise all the African countries that are not a union while it was not available thus for the internal affairs of Zanzibar.
By doing so, the government of the United Republic not to mention the Tanganyika president as the president of the United Republic, and the Tanganyika government as the government of the United Republic of United Republic of Tanzania.
By there, if the way we saw, Tanganyika has been Tanzania, and Tanzania has been Tanganyika.
The step by the government of the United Republic of Tanzania is proud to have two authorities, that is the government of the United Republic of Tanzania (under the interim constitution) intended to be a period (transition) just to wait for the making of the permanent constitution of the United Republic within 12 months since the union.
The constitution did not make up to 13 years later (1977) when it was quoted the constitution that is used now and those involving many things in the requirements of the United Republic and Tanzania's constitution is supposed to be careful so as to remove this disease.
I agree with Professor B ai P. Chikwanje from his group, "the Ambassador of the United Republic of Tanzania in 1977 due to an issue of Art Innovation and is an eye on it."
"The structure (right) of the United States intended to be a great shape, which will be produced by Tanganyika and Zanzibar, with the peak of Tanganyika and Zanzibar, and the peak of United Republic of Tanzania with 11 things have never been standardized.

On that basis, there are three government authorities and parliamentary administration, that is, the government of the United Republic of Tanzania Mainland (Tanganyika) and the government of Zanzibar.

But if you don't understand that we are growing, and contrary to the requirements of the United Republic, there is only two governments, that is the government of the United Republic of Tanzania with the authority on all the union of Tanzania Mainland (Tanganyika) on issues (Tanganyika) of Tanzania.
The United Republic has implemented these things more than 48 years now, and this is the big source of conflict, wisely, many problems that involve our union to an extent that today, our colleagues have reached an appropriate step to enable them to kill them, a person who was blocked to attract free weather in the union.
The people of Zanzibar have the agenda of 'Siri ya Mtungi' to enable them to be free (free) that you pay, because they have reduced the throat inside the union, but why are the contestants, today and not in the past?

This question has put an answer in my last article of here that I would like to say that, even if they were left behind in the past, you will not be able to deal with their throat cancer for the hostility.
Maybe, since the year 1957 up to the establishment of the national United Nations (SUZA), the people of political parties and limit each other on one side, and the Zanzibar People's Party (Zohra Moore (1957), Zanzibar and Pemba Islands, on the other side.
Inside the hostility, there was a declaration of permanent secret of many years, that they started ASP Masoko which would continue to rule, all the people who were former CCM members of Zohra Moore (PPP) together with brothers and their skins, should have been banned on top positions for leadership in the government and in the army.
And because the many followers of Zohra Moore (TCDAA) took place in Pemba, that is why it was banned for Turkey to rule in Zanzibar.
It is because this, the efforts of CCM's efforts to bring the right time is political in the world in the recent years, tried to break up every time to the people of Zanzibar they have reached SUK by voluntary.
While addressing the members of CCM in Unguja City, November 2008, the president of the fifth term, Amani Abeid Karume emphasized the need to break the old rivals so as to build a stable nation that is supposed to lead the country.
My brothers, I am talking to Maalim Seif (CUF) we have asked me, until when we will continue with these politics, hatred, hostility and there are no one who loves this situation, we would like to live in a state of peace, calmness, unity and solidarity. "
And in Karume and Seif when they met on November 5, 2009, the history was written, when they agreed to start HK after putting a foundation of guidance on the first important things, it's good to know, "tell them and make sure that we have been in the second time, working together with the aim of bringing great changes to the citizens of Zanzibar" outside the union.
The consent caused commotion by Tanzanians who have succeeded in Zanzibar (in the islands of Zanzibar and Mainland) who had requested the separation of the people of Zanzibar, they have been seen as the coordinators of the union in the middle of hostility and hatred in that without them to control those hatred, a union will die.
While speaking at the CCM's youth conference for universities in Unguja, May 2nd, 2010, Karume, showed up by those people, he warned them.
I give a warning to the members of the National Executive Council (NEC) of CCM, that those that will allow citizens to oppose them to oppose them immediately because they are people who are outdated, they don't know how to study at times. "
He said, among those suspects, others were high-level officials of the party and the government, and informing them like the dangerous people that are supposed to be afraid that they did not want the citizens of Unguja and Pemba islands.

"I urge you to be happy to continue more on this issue because I can cause all leaders who are opposing this issue," he warned.
The completion of the fire with cold drinks and creation of SUK in Zanzibar Islands, is a big secret of the people of Zanzibar which contributes up to the fear of true that, in unity and solidarity this, maybe they can be able to resolve the great things among the union, including someone she didn't jump.
Already the people of Zanzibar have claimed that Zanzibar is a country, they don't want to hear other different meanings in the moment they want to do.
Hinterland, said, "when he gets pregnant, it is very fast," Moshi addressed Zanzibar inside the union and because it is not the time for playing for a union because it is not the time to play for a union because of the benefit of our union for the benefit of politics and politicians.
We should be clear that we should leave you in the issue of political and private benefits.
How would you do that, a union person will kill him because the constitution of the constitution is to be discussed later, where I will be told by the administration and it accepted without the head, that the issue of the union was enough for the terms of voting for the constitutional process.
It should remember the union of union (Arnautovic and the Union of Union (Act of Union) and the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, and the constitution of the union is the constitution of the United Republic and therefore there is no constitution of the United Republic, and therefore there is no constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Also, the foundation of any constitution of the United Republic and the United Republic of Zanzibar, is an agreement of the union. Therefore, the constitutional constitution is contrary to the agreement it's clear, since the end of the contract, it's said to repeat the mistakes of the previous constitution.
