Secret is IPTL.
Petit 25, 2014.

While there is still a series of controversy were taken out of billions of shillings on the Escrow account (Escrow) that was the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), a new report that protects the controversy that shows that 70 percent of the Independent Power Tanzania Limited (IPTL) "have been sold at six million shillings."

The sales have been the foundation of BoT to enable them to be taken by approximately 200 billion US dollars (122 million) that were waiting to wait until the case between IPTL and Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO).

Those funds were paid for a short time before the IPTL equipment that TANESCO's property is faced with advice from the Parliament of the United Republic, waiting for.

The investigation of Raia Mwema has shown an existence of controversy of controversy concerning it is mentioned to be sales of a large section of shares (70%) for IPTL that the required by Malaysia Airline to go through the British Council of England at a price of six million Tanzanian shillings.

Already the information and documents of the sales have already started several media stations including the parliament, the office of the controller and auditor general (CAG) and the Institute for preventing and fighting corruption (UDART).

CAG and the parliament have received information and documents from the Member of Parliament for Kigoma North constituency (CHADEMA), Zitto Kabwe, who wanted the media to make investigation and make correct decisions about the rights of justice.

In his contribution to the government's budget of this year that she has presented keenly, Zitto has talked to IPTL on saying.

"Mobile phone company (IPTL)" has been sold "by the Apple Phone Company Limited for an amount of six million Tanzanian shillings per day, the increase in the increased price that was paid in TRA is to sell its shares to the PAP company at a price of 300,000 American dollars.

"The payment of taxes in all the companies (EFD) have been taken one day on the 6th of December 2013 one day after the PAP company paid the Tegeta Escrow account (BoT) and all the documents are aired here."

Zitto has said that in that contribution of writing the financial law of the year 2012 section 29 wants the first tax to be paid before the authority plans to give permission to the sale of shares from the former owner to the new owner.

"These documents show that the PAP company entered into contracts with the government authorities without having the ownership of IPTL, it is also clear that the mobile phone machines have reduced," he asked the Minister for Finance to provide information about that issue.

Before presenting to parliament for those explanations, Zitto Kabwe presented a letter to the CAG on June 19th this year, while asking for a new investigation of the funds that were given from BOT from the Escrow account in a special environment.

Zitto Kabwe, in his letter to the CAG, he said it is clear that the whole plan of taking Escrow money was destroyed by a wider network in the government and wanted the CAG to make sure that it will write the truth about that scandal.

"You will remember that the PAC committee decided to do investigation about the validity of funds that were in the Tegeta Thermal Power Poll company (PAP), I would like to pay a very important documents to protect themselves in your investigation so as to identify the truth about this issue.

"I call him a letter from TRA to record number TRA / DR Congo / 09 / 1000 in the 15th / 11 / 2013, it shows that Malaysian Airplane from 9 / 9 / 2013 at the value of 67,888 trillion shillings," says in his letter to CAG.

He has said that the documents of payment of taxes are estimated to be paid taxes paid by the increase of capital, 467,888 trillion shillings and the tax payment of 18390,536 billion shillings in December 6 this year at the CRDB Azikiwe Premier Branch.

The "companies Pipino Lilenga, bought its shares to the Pan African Power Poll company on 30th October, 2013, the letter of TRA shows that the tax paid is paid in the increase of 47,43,000,00 Tanzanian shillings.
