
A higher education officer has said that the laws are still involved in pregnant women to continue with.

Rashid Mkonga.

By Dar es Salaam city.

, Estrada, that the government has not put policies for students who receive pregnant in schools to go back to continue with their studies after giving birth.

.
Has been revealed at a session of the Council of councilors of the Mpanda district council recently by the acting education officer, Stephen Maseru while explaining an issue that was given by the head of Mpanda district, Pindani Nyalile and the students who receive him to return to school.

"" Until now it will not accept the law where it allows the students that got pregnant in schools to continue with their studies, the ministry has not put policies on this issue, "said Maseru.

He said that the directive by the district commissioner is very difficult for its implementation thus the procedure that is going to remain in the homes after getting the pregnancy that is going on.

On his part, the lawyer of the District Council of Mpanda, Mrisho Malassy, explained that there is a law that says that a student who started the school is to meet with schools using a series of education law of 1978, together with the policy of education in 2003 with the law which is supervised by the ward councils where the punishment are given there.

Previously in that meeting, the council of councilors of special seats Tuaje Pesa, explained the problem of preventing absenteeism in schools that it is contributing to the development of education in that district.

He said that many students have dropped out due to being pregnant women and those students, especially those who completed primary education and join secondary education have put aside children and your homes in a situation which contributes up to education to female students.

And the councilor of Kabuta ward explained that apart from pregnancy, there is no legal action taken by parents to encourage us to protect themselves so as to encourage parents to learn education.

The councilor of Mpanda county, Ahmed Maphologela stated that the implementation of the directive by the head of that district is forcing the intention of wanting those to get married, to get married or get pregnant to go back to time to time when the school will be opened in July.
