
24 December 2012

The community has been advised to participate in the training.

By Andrew Chale.

The acting head of Dar es Salaam Province, Robi Raymond Mushi has requested the community to stop fearing religious faith that the training were given keenly, the policy of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), therefore there is no importance of getting that training.
That statement was issued yesterday in Dar es Salaam during the closing ceremony of the sixth phase of the 51 phase in that province that took place at the Railway grounds,.

He said there are a big number of people who think that the issue of the training is to implement CCM policies, something that has no truth instead, they are required to be ambassadors in educating each other so that the community can recognize the importance of getting that training.

"I request it should be remembered that Tanzania after freedom of the late father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere this year 1970, decided to start the city, with the aim of using the youth with skills," said Bwiru.

However, he has requested the government to ensure he gets enough budget for the purpose of running different training, so as to help community activities including fire disasters, bombs and participatory.

He said that they will also ensure they are talking with security companies so as to give birth certificates to those graduates.

And the provincial commissioner of that province Colonel James Kilaba said a total of 229 students who graduated in where Ilala is 139, Temeke six and Kinondoni 160 shillings.

"We started on August 13th this year, having 439 participants from all the districts in Dar es Salaam Province even so the completion of 229 graduates have been completed and the existence of various economic challenges," he said.

He said that until now the policy on security and security has the aim to get 300 houses for every year being unable to reach because of being taken to those training, from what is claimed to be a careless spender.

And the Executive Officer of Temeke District, Major General Projest Rwegasira, said that he will ensure he is planning to be required so as to provide training to all levels of government in the area and ward.
