Sumaye bidding farewell to Lowassa.
Hudugu Ng'ombeni, 2013.

Prime Minister of the third phase, Frederick Sumaye, has named his fellow who accompanied him after leaving that position, the Prime Minister who was admitted to Edward Lowassa being involved in giving false information, he claimed that it is supposed to help him.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam, Tuesday this week, Sumaye claimed that he is happy that he is the only person who made a water project for Lake Victoria, Lake Region and that all other ministers who loved.
When he read one newspaper of every day, Sumaye said that, "he wrote the secret of the water project for Lake Victoria to be buried and in his details, the information officer said that two ministers who were supporting the project and all the others opposed it.
"I know the player (Lowassa) has used a lot about this political project and we have been able to say the truth about this project because I'm the prime minister and the project has been implemented under my leadership as a leader and the supervisor of the implementation of all government activities.
He said together with the fact that the one that was explained is a dangerous winger, who's as a senior minister at that time and now if that is not able to do that because he knows that he is not true, otherwise he is not true otherwise, he is not true otherwise, he is not true. "
Sumaye who in his talks with the journalists started by supporting the chairman of CCM, President Jakaya Kikwete concerning bribery in political politics of CCM, he said there are different ways that are used by the involved who are looking for various positions for leadership to achieve their goals.
He said that it is good for the old generation and it is a dirty system like Cheik Tiote (MCST).
"Cancer which is dirty is when the player is making ways to make sure others get married to be his competitors later, or give them restrictions on their farms to register their colleagues in order to identify her colleagues so that his fellow project can get time," he said.
Speaking on details about the water project of Lake Victoria, Sumaye said the project is the government's project and it was not a person.
"It is true that the contract that was there in 1952 or 1953, in the country, about the Nile river areas where they were required to use the Nile river water so as to ensure those agreements are not correct and we started to claim the changes in that law.
"This issue involves itself with Prime Minister Doctor Pius Ng'Park and later came out by" AGAPE, which made an agreement between those countries being signed with ten countries, "said Nkingwa, who was the deputy chairperson of that council of ten countries, Musa Nkingwa, who was the former minister for water at that time," he said.
He said in solving that issue, he said that the prime minister had to meet in Addis Ababa city and the late Mujahideen, the former prime minister of Ethiopia before the Holland government will help to write the project.
He said after Minister Nkomola the source of Castrol Lubricants and saw the project is possible, President Benjamin Mkapa has been advised that the project is possible to implement the promise of getting water from Lake Victoria in Shinyanga province.
"
He said there is no minister who has the ability to implement this project as a cabinet of ministers going into and interview with the concerned ministry, and that we politicians like to carry the reputation of the professionals going on well and make sure we are doing if one team and the government is only one of the government.
He emphasized that his decision to speak about Lowassa's statement is not to intervene in issues of other people but he is proud that he was not going to do.
