
The safety of the scene taking the net.

November 10, 2013.

Two people that are accused of being involved in bribery actions, while one using the identity cards that he wanted to be the senior officer of the National Security Department, have been arrested in Dar es Salaam city.
The incident that made me the feelings of other people took place the other day in Kawe, while at the Mount Meru Hotel in Mount Meru at 5 o'clock in the day after being trapped.
Those suspects are accused of those who were arrested in that event have been identified as Fadhili Dononda, who is alleged to have used the identity card of the National Security Department, it was the name of the body and the name Kokoro.
Also, he is using a phone number plate T-8-445.
Those people were arrested after being trapped by people who are claiming to be eaten by a Mayele at the incident that happened on Friday, last week at the Holiday Inn hotel.
While you have narrated that incident, one of the witnesses who saw said after or being conned him, they started putting a trap and succeeded to sign him Magula by using another person who bought it and seems to be a problem with him.
That news reporter, claimed that while Magasha at the corruption incident, he didn't know more or they have remained with his phone number and after following up, they discovered that they have been signed by the name Magula.
"When he was called a phone and a person who introduced himself, maybe I met with another Gigabyness, therefore they had to meet at Pambani County," said our news reporter.
These sources explained that Maghufuli arrived at a hotel in the city with the Big Results Now (Iloha) and then met with someone who had planned to work, without knowing that he was going in a trap.
After arriving, he was arrested together with his fellow citizens and started getting a big blow after a swim, where it was noted that the identity cards that they gave to be the senior officer of the National Security Department.
But when he was interviewed, Magoiga introduced himself that he is a business person of grains, a statement that was born with his friend who was arrested with him in the incident, since he said Mafoto Blog is a businessman of vehicles.
Mayele said he is a chief technician and that he arrived at a hotel in the city to follow a little money for his friend, but suddenly he saw people they are starting to follow up and he didn't have a way to run away since he could have been stopped.
After those people got a beating from the citizens, he arrived at the police who were able to identify the identity card of the nation, but Maganjila being interviewed claiming that it's not his property.
The suspects who were removed from the scene for using the police vehicle number T 332, a fashion model of Land, RNB, EngenderHealth, Kunduchi, arrived with that person, where he was doing if he didn't know that she was doing so they were standing on the floor.
The person, he started asked the news of a lot of days to him with her sister, at the time they were having soda, "said that person, it is said he asked to put a thing that is being thought of drugs in their own kind, since their condition changed.
He said her sister is usually suffering from heart disease, so suddenly he started her legs to leave him, that's when he told them that he will go to his car so that he can leave that.
The writer said Magoiga announced the asked if they have a ATM card, because he does not say, but there is a person who wants to use that money from Arusha when he told him that Arusha they shouldn't know, where they refused and ended up.
After that, her husband explains that he started using her sister to make him make him in a fast speed and started leaving with his brother. He said and he had a car, thus he started to give information from Mtongani.
He said that the suspect, went to her sister to one hotel (we have the name), where he wanted to kill him, but he had asked for forgiveness, but he succeeded to leaving, therefore, when he remember the number of voting for them and meet the police, Mtongani.
He said that since that time they started putting a trap of suffering from people, up to yesterday, they were arrested by the police commander of Kipolisi Kinondoni, Ciara and Wambura, when they were looking for him to speak about that incident, his phone was called without being received.
