
The parliament against the court of parliament are democracy and their husbands?
Deodatha Makani, 2012

The first part of this last article explained about conflicts between two American dollars, parliament and court, which has been seen one to intervene.
At the time the Parliament has claimed that it has all the authority to rule the leadership of the country with the concept of 1688 trillion shillings, the court on its part has claimed that the concept of political parties written, including Tanzania, where the constitution is supposed to rule the leadership of leadership and not the government or the party or the party or the party.
Suwedi, De Bruyne, from the Law Society, "(Edu), reveals the same way that" the political parties in the country (not in the picture), has noted that the end of the duties and ability of making laws (ZAPDD), followed up with the ability and control of political parties.
First, it's just a legal action that gives your impatience will be the ability to make laws that do not have great impacts and the boundaries for the second time it means the ability of the citizens' voters (CCM).
If this is how it is, then, the ability and ability to make law is not capacity and even a little because you cannot be about the citizens, but it's only one that will know the laws that are taken by parliament if the court will know the laws that are being supported by parliament if not considering the constitution.
Therefore, the parliament has no ability and legal action or political because there are many things, such as DPO is seen, that the parliament did not be able to do by being boundaries, if we will be explained later little.
Therefore, because the court is the only agency that has been given priority to interpret the law, it's impossible for every person or another person, as a parliament, having the ability to officially announce the consummation of the law or fighting the constitution of the country, as a court cannot oppose the parliament to stop or to stop its laws.
It is possible that Speaker Makinda did not openly say that Speaker Makinda did not implement any time (since the era of Pius Msekwa) that, to the court to stop the rules of law, it is a job to make law instead of violating the law, heading to the speaker who will read it, if we are not less than no one has been said first.
Part of the 30th article (5) says, "if you are in any case, it is alleged that any law that was taken by the government or any other authorities involved in order to give an opportunity to the law or any other authority involved in order to give an opportunity to the law or any steps that are involved in time and on how it will be mentioned by the high court," he said.
To say the truth, this article gives Tanzania High Court (time to time), if you view it is to be satisfied and decided to give an opportunity to the government to implement the law in a period that will be taken, but it is not a must for the court to take this course.
But how many times the government has not been unable to obey the high court decision on that is example, in the case of Pastor Christophe Henning spoke with the attorney general (number 5 / 2001) where the Court of Referral Hospital was contrary to the constitution and the court made an amount of 500 million shillings instead of it.
Up to now the government is making a situation that is supposed to allow private candidates and about a bond of five million shillings, the government did working hard by allowing the court and the constitution in a country that is claiming to consider the administration of the constitution and administration of the law?
Article 30 (5) of the constitution did not withdraw from the court's authority and the ability to market the law to be against the constitution, according to article 64 (5).
13 (2) and 1075 (1). Until when we can ask you, the parliament of parliament has boundaries for what is there?
To say early, that there is no section of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, that uses the Parliament that does not have borders with the concept of DfID, the England Parliament system and that the parliament is only a high level that was born by the Constitution of the citizens.
Yes, to say that, the issue of parliament to have all the authorities in the country, is not present in the country, but it is the constitution of the country about all of them and on how this is the authority and the ability of parliament have been given boundaries for many ways of the constitution.
One, it is saying that parliament is not allowed to redeem themselves and intervene in position of the second phase, parliament it's supposed to respect the constitution in making laws and law that is being supervised by the parliament because of living with human rights, the right to work, responsibility to the community (3), and the rights to work, responsibility to the community.
Three, the parliament is not allowed to make laws that concern the law as explained in the first draft of the constitution, for example, law aimed at putting the high level of economy in the country, as it is against the 9th article (J) of the constitution.
Four, the parliament is not allowed to resolve the power of it where it reaches the article 10718 and 1077 of the constitution, this is by mentioning a few boundaries that the parliament has been banned, different from the thoughts of many members.
It is the only court that it was given the responsibility of ensuring that laws that are being supported by the parliament did not turn out of the constitution and also that the legal action will not be found outside the borders and that's the last decision, if we are not less than the end.
And this last issue is like a solution to the position and responsibility of the speaker of parliament of parliament, the speaker is part of the process of making sure that the law was the responsibility of leading the Parliament in its activities.
Just soon, the parliament knows the decision (or have been banned the law), the process of lack of law is complete and the process of the government (in implementation) and the court (TCU), starts its course.
In relation to that eventually, the parliament has stopped and if it has a legal authority, basically it is the process of it.
It is not usual, and the truth is not legal and it is not correct for the speaker to educate the public about the decision of the parliament or even to indicate that they have a strength, if a habit that is built among our citizens have shown.
The authority that was given by the speaker and parliament has not allowed him to break the constitution.
I call on our institutions to respect the division of power and to stop the system of insulting each other to the other, because doing so is to overturn the train with a cargo of democracy, rights and good administration.
