
Bishop Josephat has warned peace.
May 29, 2012

The Catholic church in Shinyanga province has warned the government about the danger that supports the nation if it will continue to allow peace to be played with a small group of people with a dirty and dirty group in the country, who will enable them to prevent them.
Getting the Jews at a holy mass for a new year in this town, the bishop of Shinyanga province, His Eminence Polycarp Cardinal Pengo said, "peace is in danger of the country, due to the bad growth of the national resources that makes poor households to continue being more poor and more than the rich and to continue being more poor.
He said the government is supposed to recognize that there is power to protect the rights, interests and honor of its citizens who are its employers and that the state of expansion is between those who don't have it, it's not supposed to be left with, because it involves bad things on the near future.
"A person cannot see and understand that children have died of hunger or to lack of treatment, sometimes life lives, a way you will have to use everything so as to make it," said Bishop Gwajima.
As he resorted to human beings to do wealth by valuing human beings and lack of honor to God, Bishop Josephat Gwajima said Mrs Salma, is wrong, relatives of these rich and poor working environment, in the middle of people with hunger and that is a scandal to other human beings who are in investing.
He gave a challenge to the government, to explain to the truth and openness is because of his statement, "the country's economy has improved" when the gap between the rich and poor households continue to increase.
"If the votes that they took the honorable president, the honorable members of parliament and councilors in the positions present are now, for a good life, better life for every Tanzanian is possible, he asked and added that, what is heading to citizens have been conned politics.
He noted that when a person knows them in poverty and giving up, he can do anything without caring about its results, and that the behavior of those citizens is tired of the state of poverty that are accused of fighting corruption, and other people who attended the property without caring for the interests of the public.
He said, it is possible for the rich people to have strategies of controlling the attacks that have been directed to them by people who are in poor life, a situation that he said can be able to stimulate the lack of peace.
About the corruption that have taken place in the country and the legal action is taken to the suspects who were presented to court in the phase, Bishop Balina said he does not have any primary reasons for the government to give an opportunity to discuss the law.
