
Controversy that broke the signing of Nyerere.
December 17, 2014.

Approximately two weeks since the chairperson of the Special Constitutional Assembly, Samuel Sitta was quoted saying he was impressed by the signing of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and that was scored by the law of the former president of the Tanganyika Union, Pius Msekwa, not at the State House or other authorities with sure who were involved in possession of those agreements.
The signing of that agreement between 22 of the year 2014 was signed on April 25, last year, there were only Mwalimu Nyerere for his position as the president of the Tanganyika Union and Msekwa in his position as the president of the Tanganyika Union.
Following the signing of Nyerere's signing, those involved will increase capital and "US" are believed that they did so by using the computer knowledge and in part of signing up the word "Msekwa" in that computer way.
According to several citizens who communicate with our news agency wanting to know the person involved in removing Mwalimu Nyerere's signing, especially after the chief secretary Ambassador Ombeni Sefue showing the real documents of Tanganyika and Zanzibar to journalists in the State House, Dar es Salaam, on Monday this week, a step against those involved have not been taken.
"We have seen through the real news media of Mwalimu Nyerere that resulted in the real documents of the United Nations and Zanzibar which the chief secretary Ambassador Ombeni Sefue showing the journalists at the State House so that who was involved with the previous law that did not be on the law of agreement of the union.
Recently, the signing of Mwalimu Nyerere is proud of to be distributed to members of parliament and we request that action should be taken, "said Eric Haule who was the news agency to question that issue.
Apart from Haule, another citizen who plays our news network and wanted more follow up on this issue is Teacher Rehema Madusa, who put up his disappointment in how the Parliament continues to marry off from some people she called "hooligans."
As a result of that situation, our writer led by the chief secretary, Ambassador Ombeni Sefue to know if there are steps that have been made against the concerned parties.
"On my part, I have not seen those documents of the signing of the father of the nation that sees you and I don't know but I don't know, therefore, I cannot give information about accordance with the issue," said Sefue.
And the minister of state, office of the president, relations and coordination, Steven Wassira said he cannot know what happened until the signing of Mwalimu Nyerere when he loves although the content of that right is correct.
However, Wassira said that similar to the possibility of "be played with the sign of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere, all of them said that maybe the documents of the Julius Nyerere's father's father, Mwalimu Nyerere, all of them said that maybe the documents of the Julius Nyerere International network and the signing of the computer and time of doing so, the signing is so possible.
Approximately two weeks ago, Sitta was quoted by one newspaper of each day speaking about the issue claiming that those who put those words are employees of the office of the attorney general of the government after seeing a brief part of the signing, but he put into mistakes.
"Those youths don't know (documents) it doesn't jump" US "at the end of the computer to the signing of Nyerere, but they did a mistake because the best way you are forced, therefore," he said.
However, those explanations from Sitta did not overlap with the attorney general (AG) Judge Frederick Werema, who at that time he was quoted by the newspaper.
It has not know that his office is concerned about the signing of those agreements.
