Among other than five minutes, the person has came to council members of this problem, we are praying before this morning and the elder of the distribution of the year, commission to get better.
There is a reason that when he was done there and because I have surprised those in the same way, I have seen him in another period that we have planned to know and you will also have several social media networks as well as television through an error in the accident.
Therefore, the agents of the manufacturing company which is the number under the number of IPP has reduced and caused the deaths of people who have found the president of that they are fifty but now many points having been directed easily.
The late I have never given instructions by Ras Makunja, there is still journalists.
Nigeria is saying that I'll stop that like that if they see the sun does not have the winner.
And the others have heard this is this car that his ability is to carry Christ, there are ten passengers and when the accident are available ten thousand shillings now, they are the first people to be able to see.
And even after seeing a lot of words of those who are in the world, but even discourage them, it is that the same as Mister late.
At the right time.
I was carrying 1 billion yesterday when they are not knowing if he does not know hard.
I had been the family, but you know that it was surprised and it was not pleased with the water here until that is the middle.
Now Mister Msafiri.
And when we are told that it will be the same?
It was infected with more than eight holes is one of the love, they are saying.
Media houses have reported that you are giving a report that is going on to ensure that they are facing one day here is to give the club and they heard that he has never been given a fast speed like him as a youth.
But is the lasting solution to this news that we do?
View people.
Welcome him since we look at the media to report we will take.
Wash your eyes too.
I hope I hope to say the network.
Social network.
To read the newspapers we be told that the reason is.
The speed by a Rio de Janeiro was saying that in the village, they want to have ever happened when they were in speed by getting early, then like the writer when he wrote all.
But also.
The late God also don't know if the CHADEMA leaders know, because every time we have been a pregnant woman here, there is the front line to fight the first hand in the street fight.
We are talking first.
When the Lord, then we did not take the young people but after an accident you know.
Most of us have spoken to those injured and the people that lost their lives are more than one hundred thousand, those who are self-scale, because a penalty is now close to accumulate 41 points since Slipway is not a gift.
The late God is doing the moment I have at least a point where we will talk about the weight of the witch doctors so as to check the roads we go together with the police also come up that we will come from.
The station for fear.
I don't want you to leave when Ubungo tried a question from Morocco when she was brought to the last hospital where the subject of Ambassador Seif is the late God, looking for why it will be discussed from there.
But if there is a cries in stations in the middle and go back to think it is poor or check up so that there is a woman's work and even when we are involved, I think how to get my son and there is no one who is enough for one way from one way.
You miss.
