Time has come to prepare well against terrorism and raging water.
Sei, 26, 2013.

The incident of the terror attack that occurred in Nairobi, Kenya on Saturday the surprising fact, the surprising thing that it was done for millions of people's lives and it's impossible because it does not have any interruptions that does not be dealt with and accepted.

The occurrence of the terror attacks in Nairobi, Kenya is reminding the attacks that happened in Nairobi, India where the terrorists group broke out of Taqwah Hotel, in Nairobi city is an incident that Nairobi has happened in a place together.

In Nairobi city even so it is a terrorist attack in the year 1998 where American ambassador in Tanzania and Kenya were attacked with one time caused the deaths and effects of hundreds of people in this event, I believe there is need for us to sit down and prepare for a event like this or not more than this incident.

What can it mean?

Think about an example a incident like this happens when the Mlimani City shops or Quality Center will be able to deal with it?

We expect that we can inform you that their security agencies are ready to deal with the disaster of terrorism or robbery and a big crime system if there will be a long time used to control the albino killings and to fail to find themselves in a very difficult state.

This is important to think that the countries of Kenya and many security agencies have received training, equipment and money from America and England to enable them to fight for many questions, and we can say that Kenya should continue doing so, when you check the news agencies in Kenya.

On the side of Tanzania even so I believe that the current challenge is very big and we believe in our heart that if we believe in our village, there will be why we are doing and how we are preparing and what we are preparing to do it?

I believe that among the primary things that are supposed to be done earlier, it is to check the policies of defense, security and security of the nation, policies are the basis of the law and policies of the Revolutionary Party and the policies that do not meet the challenges of the concerned sector is a solution to a bad thing.

Through our policies of security and security it is a very important thing and it is required to be done now because if you check the events that I have witnessed, the policies that have never been done in the environment or under the policies that have ever been the foundation of changes in various systems of performance and administrative especially in this sector and others related to them.
