Do you inform us because of corruption?
Deodatha Makani, 2013.

For sure he will be owned by the discussion of the debate that emerged in parliament and outside the parliament, after the member of parliament for Nyamagana District (CHADEMA), Ezekia Wenje, recently led by the Citizens' Association (CUF) and inform them because the party did not have a group of parties in that group, to support him.

A lot of existence in parliament were severe to the extent that we had the deputy speaker, Job Ndugai, to make a decision to postpone the parliamentary session. I'm told the debate continued to be tough at the parliamentary grounds between the members of parliament of those two parties.

I have also witnessed members of parliament concerning the names of the parliament recently, recently the member of parliament of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Peter Serukamba, and interviewed him inside the parliament hall, but it was the one that was not similar to even a half of this debate.

I have talked about many questions, but a big one that is like you shouldn't know yourself or the biggest problem than corruption we have, the party to defend or not any dangers to our nation?

One of the biggest challenges in the world in relation to issues of tribalism and refuse to discuss public issues, this has been an issue of ban the results of many people even they don't know and instead they are holding on a lot of religion or traditional and a bomb.

And the religious reasons and ethics have been used many times on the violence of certain groups of people, during discrimination of color in South Africa and elsewhere in the world where black people did not experience more than even the animals were used to defend that offense.

In the religious training of Boers, Jew of others, people are complaining of black people and the child of Prophet Zakaria, who is alleged to see her father was naked.

That after his father discovered, he termed it and from there he had a black origin and the black person started there and this means that black people who been sent by Almighty God.

To Kabudi, who came through the religious training, you cannot say something about a black person and even so, if you read the logic or a difference between the Bible and science, she does not recognize the logic or a person to come out to be a curse from or Maasais.

The business for slavery was also used for these days to someone who was the pastor, Sheikh Issa or when he was in his body, and did not see his offense because he talked to that a black person is a curse from them.

This argument has caused women and there are some who had said that women don't have any rights because the ones who caused Adam and Tunda Man has caused the anger of the Almighty God for human beings.

When it received during the Bible 'book, the writer is writing that in a certain religious meeting, several men did not know anything or else they are marrying them and counted at them.

In one of the small tribes to have ever heard, it is claimed that there's a period of Taliban believe they had men to men because they feel a woman is very fast to have their relationship with the woman.

And given it, it will be told that those who had a Christian and a woman or a religious leader.

Basically, all of those reasons used to oppress children, are usually sent, women and black people on the previous years and even today, it is the problem that is used against illegal immigrants in this generation.

My big issue of today is that you are traditional or religious about anything, it is not a must that you be correct for people who are not supposed to change because of protecting that problem.

Last week, there was a debate that was involved in social media, one person told him in my stand of wanting him to go to you or not like the animals, she told me that I would like to inform me.

His name is called Alphonce Godfrey Ngupula has asked two questions just like that he does not like to Him and why his name is in the western culture is the second, therefore all the defending rights for women are women?

Or when you enter the rights of animals, it is a must that you have a dog or elephants but I think that many people have been unable to defend his human rights due to fear of getting married.

Last weekend, I heard in one article on one newspaper in the country where one man's friend has complained that it was attacked by young people at his home and getting married immediately.
