The same, Nyerere is not the Angels but not the devil.
October 21, 2012

Today, October 14, 2012, the nation is celebrating 13 years since the first President of Tanzania, the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere passes away. We have met and read a lot.
So, what happens about Mwalimu Nyerere and therefore, it is a big challenge to write a new issue and even so at times, politics and lives of contraception?

In on the poem, the speech and many words that have been very close to many about what is called Mwengi, "this argument has caused a new thoughts under the killing of a human being like others followed by the conclusion," he did a mistake if the others are. "
By looking at very fast, this argument that Nyerere didn't know it and me think that because it is true, Nyerere was a human being and therefore for this primary, there are a mistake he made as a human being.

However, dizziness is very disturbing, by checking the criteria used to legalize this issue, it will not recognize that this issue has not been presented on the basis of good intentions and instead it can be able to achieve private goals for those who represent Tanzania.

Also, most of them are forced to compensate our motion so as to put aside (which is found out of the bad and good environment of Nyerere, their aim is to build the conclusion, like a human being, Nyerere as a leader did a lot of mistakes (to an extent of continuing to do a lot of well).

This is where the basis of the problem is for instance, who carrying the argument of "Nyerere is not angels" together with its defending, they are doing an effort to make sure that they are bad or the things that fail to make the teacher Nyerere.
The biggest thing in order for some way you want it to be free of them.

For instance, there are many times now, we had made great efforts to consider the goal of the stadium in Arusha town and its foundations of socialism and self-reliance instead of which is said to be noted that the attack occurred in poverty and under the collapse of the economy and that its effects are needed until today.

But these issues are believed to be in the city of Arusha, it will help us to build a high speed and reduce "high speed (we are at the moment) of the presence of a big gap between the poor and the few people.

In this continuation of try to stop, bad, "the teacher, and even to make sure that you made, now there is an argument that made them, now there is an argument that made up with a poster that.

In this issue, they are unable to do anything or for not knowing, to remember that it is one country with a union of strategies like using Swahili as well as the country, the youth will continue to study in schools that are in different provinces and so it has enabled us to reach them here where we are as one.

But the truth is clear that many efforts are used to show a lot of Nyerere mistakes so that they do.
Do not allow their interest, which are many among them, Teacher Kisongo went to avoid eating words.

For example, there are some who want to do and think about the basis of the region of the southern region, western region, lake region and so on so as to make sure that, we are forced to get better interests, for example, some of them want to get personal interests such as leaders, or to be appointed to be elected by the foundation of this region.

As the defending champions, "Nyerere didn't know their lives and their top fate, by using their full list of" bad "of Nyerere is to inform us that Nyerere had bad luck in a human being, but its meaning is the actual problem of Tanzania.

In ensuring that they are forced to produce their evil deeds (not a fetus), so if you use many ways to prevent them and to give them good conditions.
