
The fundraising is needed to prevent Benedict Liwenga.
The Stars team starts preparations for one week this week so as to get a stern legal action against Lesotho in the second round of looking for the tickets to qualify for the African Cup finals in the next year.
By John Lukuwi.
After 1-0 goals away in the first round, Kenyans are waiting to win in the repeat match which will be played on Sunday, August 3.
The winner here in general will qualify to enter the group stages of last year.
The home youth will be required to do that which many Kenyans want to make it put, it is a victory to qualify for the next year finals.
In the group stage, if Stars will give Lesotho, it will be planned in the C group that of Burkina Faso, Angola and Gabon.
EXIM Bank needs a victory of 2-0 goals after losing the first match in Maseru coast region, Lesotho.
It is impossible.
Kenyans will fall into the victory by the great desire since they have gotten tired and seen their team be an actor for many years to ensure that this step, Stars need to get more strength, considering that the recent years has failed to get a unsatisfactory performance.
Stars had a good position to play the finals of that cup last year, but was sent away by champions of the continent, Nigeria after a 1-1 draw against 1-0 in Nairobi.
While Stars wants to participate in the sixth time, Lesotho, they will try to participate in the first time.
When we look at technical, we get more better because of their position in the FIFA international standards compared to their opponents.
Stars that had been thrown in the campaign to qualify for the second round after a 1-0 victory and a draw of nil draw.
In the level of the quality of soccer that were donated by FIFA, Lesotho, there is an increase in an increase in Kenya with the 95 position, a situation that enables the next game to be tough.
Kenyans are still having hope despite the teams not playing well as a result of time to time.
Most of the citizens are expected to use a system of removing blood as young and the old ones, for example which previously helped the team an amount to reach it previously.
Despite that team did not reach far from various competitions in the last season, but even so it seemed obvious that he will start falling.
The current system of raising upcoming players who do not only be names but even the experience of the Premier League did not know all, and it has failed immediately.
The players are required to come out and play with great shape by considering the victory is found in that important match.
It will be important for our youths to make sure they are playing in cooperation and not them.
All Kenyans have faith that Stars will do well, because it's only the way to qualify for, therefore we should wait for the killing of our fans to know their fans behind them.
The champions of soccer in Kenya are supposed to speed up the coach, Adel Amen to sign up of Twiga Stars following the ban of CAF for one year.
CAF has blamed the Belgium citizen following the claims of switching off the referee for the national team playing with a draw in May.
That coach was the ban of two friendly matches going on and he didn't have his team playing with Lesotho and losing 1-0 away.
The decision of shooting one year was presented at the end of the last week at the CAF headquarters in Cairo City.
That sitting under the chairperson Raymond Him of South Africa has bought Kenya three days to appeal him.
At the same time CAF has appointed the referee, Emmy Awards is man to supervise the repeat match against Lesotho.
Return.
That repeat match will be played on August 3 in Nairobi.
The international referee will be assisted and it is owned by the musician, Joseph Fuad Luda and Christopher Ndeki.
Kayla Lalaguna Royo from Rwanda has been named as the commissioner of that competition.
For another time, Coach Adel Jola asking him to be outside the match as a normal fan after being banned from CAF by lack of discipline.
And the coach of Lesotho, the coach of Lesotho, the father of Lesotho, the chest and claimed that his boys are ready to meet Taifa Stars to qualify.
Being interviewed by the internet network, the coach warned Harambee Stars not to leave when they are not in the repeat match.
"Our victory against the Kenyans did not be afraid, we are ready to send himself from home, so as to prove who we are marrying.
