
Thursday, October 16, 2014.

When you are fighting with the HIV in fighting with the soul of people living with VVU?

Recently, I got an opportunity to participate in the project that tries to control the infection of the HIV virus by helping people living with the virus so as to deal with that situation which is for sure they sell their lives.
This good opportunity to give birth to what I did not have seen me for a long time, I wouldn't like to give you the statistics of these reports that tries to show the situation in general but statistics of the real situation I have seen in my eyes.

In a long time, I was in a clean environment that I would like to see if he had a service to deal with the HIV virus and at the average one day, every day I got them to go back for the second time in a period of one month.

For sure that the people that is looking for these services were children and youths who enches to get these diseases on the birth of children, the others who were left with their parents are still young, they don't have the ability to get education or basic services for every day. Others live in a lot of knowledge or guardians.

One day in the week, youth victims of the age of 12 - 20 are forced to get a donation of how to deal with their condition, which for sure many of them have been born and Mister Nasim on the list of registering themselves.
One of them who is the first, has finished form six in the school called special talents and won the examinations for the first half points in physics, chemistry and mathematics, "I told me," I don't have the right to study, "he told me," they don't have a right to study, "he told me."

The community is still believes that the AIDS virus is waiting for the burial, it is an issue of just time, we believe that even without the virus, it is an issue of just all.
This young man who is seen is in urine, but in the ward, he says, "I live life on privacy, it does not love anyone to know that I have HIV."

On the privacy, you can't be explained in many ways, one of them is that the victims know what the community involves HIV and acts of discipline and it has gone down.
That you cannot get the virus just apart from sexually transmitted infections, there is no human beings who likes to be involved with that behavior which are not easy and accepted.

But if we see these youths and children to hundreds of the children brought by parents to get services, I asked me that the logic of this faith that has been affected by the HIV virus?

As youths of this way, many of them attended treatment for a long time believing the problems of chest, pests and etc.

Others in the process of refusing to give up the lives and getting tired of someone who are not same as others, they decided to pay right to be similar to their colleagues by doing sex with their colleagues who are affected with the HIV virus.
These are the results of ensuring the victims of the AIDS virus see as people of the bridge to be discriminated against.

When we go to kill them living with HIV virus?

The day before yesterday when I listen to one mother, a woman for a whole person, she told me.
"When I am pregnant for a third son, then I was surprised by, I have been infected with the HIV virus and I have never been surprised when they were just one and I did not know."
This is an example of many women, "those who brought him to the AIDS virus at home without the news.
He told me, "in this state of giving up, is in the church where we would like to get advice and stability of heart, when you want the pastor and AIDS like a curse.

What we learn is that the habit of buying things in the general view has a great cost of thinking that we are doing and if we want to avoid bad behavior, it has never been a reason to evade that danger.

Maybe it is not the right time to start understanding the truth that AIDS is a disease like other diseases since the year 2004, the AIDS patient is using drugs to control the virus because it is now different from the person with the virus and other people are the use of drugs.
His life is same as a life of any person.

I remember one girl told me, "the pastor said, when my fiancée has the HIV virus, maybe it did not want to do a marriage after that," this is possible that we need a relationship with someone who is living with the HIV virus and even if they get pregnant or a child to be born.

It is a must to prevent two important things who want this to use because.
"The one who is a patient" like them, together with the disease, the problem is why we are preventing people living with AIDS virus and we think that I have HIV or AIDS virus, "my husband sees it, he started praising himself."

Denying people with AIDS virus on the right related to other people is not similar to other people who are not similar to other human beings who are not similar to other human beings who are not very much and other people should be like him and others should be like him.

It is true that there are many who have been infected with the AIDS virus as the outcome of the behavior.
And sometimes you would like to do so much, but we have the reason for making them feel much and what I don't know, "I don't know you," I don't know you so that we do not know your success.
Do the life of giving up and these actions do not look for them?

The fight against AIDS should not be avoided.

When you came to fight with the virus for public campaigns, we are talking to AIDS?
We do not affect the HIV virus and the AIDS virus to get to be part of the community?
When talking to AIDS if a curse from them is why people of people want to solve anything? The results are living with the virus, therefore, it should not be enough if you do not like a way or others how this situation does not help a human being or the community as a whole.

In commemorating the world's duties in the world, maybe we think about it as much as we can make sure people who use drugs like other people who use drugs to do so, we can help each other and other people who engage in life, peace and hope and not a dream.

A fools should be prosecuted?

It has been written.

Christian Bella.

