We should learn to the mistake of Nyerere.
October 17, 2013.

It is in this month who we want to remember the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, which are also looking for noise which are cast more to oppose the newspapers laws of 1976 and several others that were supported and used by his government to eradicate freedom of information.

I have been cooperating with the article, debates and different explanations that follow the law, but many times the journalists have condemned the use of that law but they continue to speak about the origin of that law and administration that will be among the fourth phase of leadership.

I think that to avoid the origin of these laws, it is because there is a danger of putting the father of the nation, a person who will and be loved more than Ligi Ndogo.

In those repressive system that is used more, especially in the media industry, it is one of the newspapers that uses the government, through the minister of information, the authority of the control of newspapers, contrary to the requirements of the good administration where the instrument they should be independent.

It's just the day before yesterday, September 27, 2013, by using that law, the government followed by the Citizen's newspaper on 14 days and a Tanzanian on 90 days if it gave that judgment, as the controller of the sector, that was enough for a politician, the minister in a politician.

All of us know that the regulations of rights don't understand the case that himself is known, it's true that the newspapers was true and there is a big shortage of newspaper laws, but this article doesn't have an aim to view that shortage.

The national security law of 1970, another one that came about out and is among the 40 laws made by the Commission of Nyalile as the bad law for human rights and failure to be washed away by this law among other things about the secret of secret reports that it's not a mistake.

At the time of Nyerere, there was also the law that started the Tanzania Media Fund (TASWE Saccos) that caused the organization's authority to be involved in the good governance of this law that was sacked for the year 2000.

It's not my intention to discuss about those laws, but I have been impressed by how we consider what we are talking about these laws while we find them to save a good picture and as to address the Mwalimu Nyerere.

Taifa Stars that is within the father does not meet our father Mwalimu Nyerere, so as to maintain a good picture we want to build him about him, we have never seen ourselves about the part of the shortage and fail to some of the policies and plans.

The behavior of not wanting to destroy the deficit of hypocrisy in our country is clear that if we do not want to go back to the policies of socialism and independent, but we see a lot of laws that the teacher entered into power, but when we see him, it is like a lot of success.

In the public communication system, there is a conflict that was called a mental checkup of communication (SCA), where a human being unable to hear and save in a report that they agree with his previous faith.

This situation, according to the researchers, what happens in terms of manslaughter, not to discover ourselves, in my opinion, we should be a nation, through our view on Mwalimu Nyerere, we have confirmed the same way.

That Mwalimu Nyerere is our friend and man, therefore, it is why you confirm it, it is what we decided to talk and remove anything related to his administration.

However, in my opinion to do that, it is not supposed to do justice because the situation affects our country and instead we are producing a lot of things or faith that we have is to reduce their contribution to the nation.

There are several primary benefits to explain the success and failure to the Mwalimu Nyerere. First, by explaining the biography of the full work of the father of the nation, we will be able to confirm the biography of the full work of the father of the nation, we will make sure that we come from where we come from.

Likewise, by explaining the success and the shortage of Mwalimu Nyerere, it will help the nation to learn from the mistakes that they made, as the administration of presidents who made Ali Hassan Mwinyi and Benjamin Mkapa has been highly commended and criticized for various Swahili people, they say that she is not to know the way and that the offense was not a mistake.
