For sure it is possible.
If you're doughnuts, it does not make it only work but to cooperate in hand with the non-governmental institutions to achieve its activities among the huge projects being implemented under this strategy includes the increasing production of those crops and with the main aim being to increase the production of those crops.
In another reason and called tennis ball in this projects, but the first, leaving the production of sugar production which until now, it has an order from outside the country.
Bagamoyo has launched this project.
Losing close to US dollars through the meaning of Kidoti Brand '.
To register a police that will be used to produce a total of one hundred thousand tons and thirty thousand up to one.
Now in its procedure it is that.
Low level level which will be produced here at six hundred thousand have been produced in the farm.
But the needs of.
We shouldn't pay because the sugar name is close to one million and male tons so I see close to her.
It will be an issue from farms?
What does it mean?
To be able to get that, you can't know that you can be similar to make sure that farmers have been taken to the environment that they can be taken to the environment that they can be taken to the environment.
And this is a foundation question because there are farmers.
Those who are in the villages going into the area of true farm which was part of the farm's farm.
That is more than twenty thousand shillings have been used for investment that the government is one of the companies that are involved in that company, the procedure for citizens to go to the government through its disappearance, but it depends on the investment that is happening.
They are going round in the field so that the seven farm is close to three thousand.
Swahili has set aside a lot of challenges used in the production of now, those farmers will sell their farms at the factory and due to this, there are many sources which are still, we are ready to produce other crops for example production like vegetables and fruits.
The late?
