
Wednesday, September 10, 2014.

If a man is still ready to pay the cost of better relations?

When you are complaining of many men speaking about what they get in relationship, it means that you involve women in relationship, the woman need things to do things and that is what they had been able to kill them in relationship.

In addition to a certain fact that those things have a chance in relationship, especially in this current generation that depends on the heart of a woman and money, although it's true that you can continue with other activities because you can continue with other activities and believe it is not to understand the real needs of a woman.

I know there are women who do not need anything to the man more than money and things and the needs of the issue we will speak they know what they get to them.
These are not a section of our debate today, when we're talking about us that it is not a business relationship between two people but the relationship of those people do not want to see you compared to the third person to intervene.

The enthusiasm of the woman of Constituent.

There is no important thing in the life of a woman like to know how he is successful and to be appreciated by her lover, then he is supposed to show the importance of relationship that wants to be seen and to appreciate his wife.

It is good to understand that a woman is constructed by a singer and it is very delicious with it makes him have peace and freedom to open his heart and therefore they are ready to listen, then even to follow her husband.
All other things that remain will be money, house, vehicle and so on, are very important things, but its importance is so much on how he had a love for her husband.

He said that he is not saying that the economy is not a primary issue to a woman and many women have forgotten the relationship and men with a stand or he does not need economically.
Because there is no one who likes to sleep she is not allowed.

In order to make the woman attractive, be accepted and loved, a musician is forced to do great efforts, again every day, to say and take words that prove to the love it's for his wife.

We believe that he is forced to do because of a man she has no need to make sure that he is doing; therefore, sometimes it's happy and that he knows how he is doing, still a woman desires to do everything on time.

The language of words and actions that prove that the husband's love for his wife is not enough to hear all the days, how she is good. How she does with me.
How he is a good mother to children and so that his partner has won Salat eight hours when he gets home, he does not love her husband, "this is why my husband loves you," this is why I need to go through a relationship that is expected to be the issue of a man to make your soul.

Now things that will be done by a musician you have shown the name of his wife, that is a terrorist due to the woman the way he refused due to his faith, environment and does not know her as a woman.
There are women who like to kill a message of good words at the time that you want to be told to be told when others like to watch the car or even when others like others like men who are using enough time and a family.

It is good then, a man that is at the cost of relationship, we believe that what is done especially which made it makes the heart of his wife so that she will invest in his relationship, something that is a foundation of any man she doesn't know anything.

He has given you an appropriate priority?

In addition to putting up that he is dependent on actions and words, a woman is also supposed to see it is a good hands that takes care of him and to give him the first position with any person, a woman does not desire to hold the first position in the priorities of her husband and not to be extra.

I give you an example to say this and take a problem with your partner, should be a wife or a fiancée who is expecting a place where you came out when it comes back, a woman is supposed to leave everything done if you get extra points.

Now, it is normal for men who don't know the appointment and I have decided to meet at 4 o'clock Tanzanian shillings while sometimes the man makes these important points to a woman, she does not know it is a person that does not lie!

Likewise, the husband or a man does not want to have severe pains according to his partner when they make sure that her husband loves you, while there is a lady she would like to have a lot of criminal offenses to a woman.

Look at this example, a wife who doesn't desire to be the first time for talks with her husband is requesting her husband to close to the ocean as it's true that she has a chance in the wedding of his friend.

Without knowing the importance of the request of his wife, a man is requesting them to be accountable, so that he can attend the wedding session and the journey from the Indian Ocean, this issue that can be used to disrupt the heart of a wife even if he will not be remembered.

When you look at good relations you will see, many times, the man's priorities in marriage is not the real priorities as a woman and when the man does not have different opinions because of great expectations in his heart which once another time is not easy to ensure you have transparency and easily.

So as it is that things that you know the heart of a woman is the ones that are seen to be small, but with great importance, but if other things that are seen, even if the other needs must be made, even if the other needs must be made, it will not have any meaning.

It's bad luck in our culture of Swahili, men do not accept to believe that it is a shame and a shame to know that a woman is not supposed to know her, a woman is not supposed to know her, a woman is not supposed to know your friend. "

I would love you.

Making an understanding of this fear in our culture of running our things close to all, being silent and in great secret, but I also understand that these men do not have new relationship, but I am ready to show love that when she gets the new relationship and the wife is an issue of the decision.

If we know, most of the men are our natural resources, we are getting in relationship because of benefit from it is not to pay the cost of profit that is expected.
We did not give a solution and we want this share, we become a difficult life and Mzinga, a lot of activities of looking for life, a situation that makes it far from the feelings of our colleagues.

We want to accept my friend and when you finish up, when we feel it's a lot of food due to her husband, it does not make sure that a woman cannot be used if a woman does not use the bank.
That is how it is related to the woman the love of love, you will be given a respect that you want.
Now, a difficult time with Makabe, we were so used for many times it makes him to believe in him, I feel it does not depend on a lot of communication between his heart and her husband depends on it, and therefore he can be able to give him her husband and the value for you will remember this issue in future.

Therefore, we can say, an artist, when he started seeing any changes in relationship with his wife, maybe it is important to follow up and see if he himself failed to do his responsibility by making his wife who believes he will have a first position in his life.

Ras Makunja has a long article again and I will endeavor to destroy the next articles to be very short while you ask you, he has done what to make him be loved and to be remembered?

This topic here is a challenge that can face the man in understanding and answer the needs of a woman.

Twitter, annamatinde @ gmail.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
