
Everyone knows our parliament, APR the year 2013.

For another time again, the members of parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, from the ruling party, Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) together with other opposition parties, have started to meet in Dodoma for the purpose of parliamentary sessions of the budget.

In those sessions of the budget of budget for different times, every ministry will get a chance to submit the collection of revenue and expenditure for the next financial year 2013 / 2014.

Current sessions of parliament are made in different system as usual for many years here in the country.

This journey of the ministries are the ones that want to be read and then after the process is complete because of the meeting with members of parliament, including the implementation of the ministers' budget will be presented by the Minister of Finance, who until we write this opinions, Doctor William Mgimwa.

We believe that the changes of running the parliamentary debates on budget in the country will target to improve the trend of that debate and not to disrupt the concerned debates.

Therefore, as it is why we use many people in the country, us to our citizens, our expectations that we will witness the sessions with discussions with a high level among members of parliament and their nation.

We will not expect to witness the sessions to discuss and discuss and agree to see the symptoms of the economical state in the country, but we should never expect to see the symptoms of lack of thinking because some of the members of parliament and even the government leaders in working with new and important sources of revenue for the interests of the nation.

Therefore, our call to the parliament leadership led by Speaker Anne Makinda and his deputy speaker, Job Ndugai, is that the parliament and its sessions of the national assembly will be discussed in accordance with the regulations of the nation with a constitutional process of making laws and to advise the government on the other side.

For sure, we should never tell ourselves that we are not close to them, during the important debate of the budget it is ongoing.

We are expecting the conflicts of primary issues from members of parliament which also its decision will be careful, the benefit of more benefits to prevent us from general.
