While Lowassa, Sumaye will not be found.
Brightiles 14, 2013.

My reader from Mbeya, who has identified himself to me saying he is a cadre of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), after going through my last article last week that was carrying a news reporter, that was carrying him on corruption, he told me there.
All those congratulations were followed by bad talks between us, spreading close to 20 minutes, he told me the way he does not love the CCM's stand and especially those that are being done by its directors at the district level and provinces.
In short, Mwangi, says CCM at all districts in the district and provinces in the country is not ready, he says close to all the chairpersons of districts and provinces who were chosen last year in the general elections of the party, instead of dealing with their fellow members who were their competitors in those positions during that election.
He says that the secretaries from CCM at the district level and provinces are employees of the party, they be paid salaries and allowances for being permanent secretaries, the vehicles so as to ease the activities of people with the aim of meeting with the citizens, but they also don't have parked in the party and other times starting from the morning until night.
He mentions the example of his province of Mbeya, saying that since CCM's executives are being elected in different levels of leadership last year, he does not see the chairpersons and secretaries to discuss the development meetings and the problems of the citizens, but they have gone up with conflicts between themselves and against the leaders of the opposition parties.
That is when we Mwangi, when he spoke to me saying that when he saw CCM this year 2015, it is supposed to surrender to people with money so that they use their money to buy medical equipment so as to reduce the votes of their opponents.
Basically, I met with him, I believe that even members of CCM with their party, who believe in their faith that I will not be true, I will agree with Brown Mwangi, a member of CCM who is in Mbeya province, that at the district level and provinces, CCM has died.
Mwangi, has touched on the way the directors of CCM at the provinces of provinces and district are contributing in one way or another in the national level, but even at the national level, I don't see CCM party with life, but we see the party's level, but they see the party.
We have made us to see this recently among the two sides of CCM in the northern region of Tanzania and Tanzania in general, these two are leaders inside CCM and those of them being supported in their presidential race.
On my view, Sumaye and Lowassa are standing with him to get their colleagues in public or when they prepare well and accusing his party's government in this country and that they think they are building politics in front of our party, because they feel it is same by the chairpersons and secretaries to protect themselves from Brown Mwangi,.
These are building their political parties at the cost of their party and its results, tomorrow they will be the presidential candidates through a human party, they do not participate fully and without knowing them.
We have heard the parliament recently to continue with his new song for time to time, lack of employment to the youth of this country is a bomb that is waiting for the completion of his party inside parliament that involves many Swahili plans with productivity for employment and the economy of the country.
I decided to inform you, the truth of this saying that lack of employment to youths in this country is a bomb that is waiting for the time since the second phase and third term, Lowassa being in government, but there is no place anywhere in my memory when they believe that the politician stopped and support General in writing to his call.
