
She had a mistake of killing him?
Kizza Byrant has been arrested and questioned about the killing of a business person.
The former member of parliament and assistant minister of health, Mrs. Swahumu was arrested yesterday so as to be interviewed by police concerning the claims of organizing a plot for killing a business person in Nairobi.
Police claimed that Mrs. Swahumu was cooperating with another person that had been accused yesterday to plan a mistake of killing Mister Andrew John Lukuwi.
This was the second time on claims of the killing that is following the family of Mrs. Fauzia Kullane in a period of two years.
Police claim that when they read John Lukuwi, Khaled us will help him, Lowoko, who was his business person before they were before them.
From the 1-1 yesterday, the motorbike denied the accusation of organizing a mistake of killing Mister Lowoko, and took place until Monday where his request to be released on bail will be decided.
It was claimed that a different day between August 1 and December 29, 2014 at Isikizya area known, he from Nairobi, Miners were cooperating with other people who were not in court to plan a plot to sign him Mister Musiba.
The claims against Mrs. Swahumu has emerged two years after the child of the child, David Bruns, was sentenced to her father's father, William Ruto, Tetteh Zillax.
The prosecution explained by the resident magistrate of Kibondemaji, Bromwich, and Mrs. Fauzia Kullane.
It was claimed that the relationship of Mrs Brenda Kharono and the businessman did not lie in the business they were joining the police while they gave out information that claimed to be Mrs. Fauzia Kullane.
The lawyer of Logan, he said that police had put a suspect accused when he asked the businessman to give him a lot of money so that he can land.
"Pickup, went to a house of Mister Listen Mwezi Song in Nairobi he wanted more money to make them even so, Mister Lekei made the report to the police and he was arrested when they were involved with my customer," said Mister Mayingu, he told the court.
He added that Lollipop, the lives were in danger of the information that the defendant forced the some of those information, he claimed that they were his personal information including the vehicles that were used by the areas that they want to visit.
According to the cases of the case, Boko Haram was arrested on 29th December and was arraigned in court on Monday but the court ordered it to be in hospital because he claimed that he was a patient.
He was charged with him yesterday after the charges of charges to confirm that he was stolen.
Mrs. Fauzia Kullane was called by police being questioned about those allegations but he did not want to be presented at the police station of Mali saying he was a patient.
Later, police were forced to arrest him up to the time of going against them when he was being interviewed.
