Now poison.
We have heard the funeral.
What is in Songea town, why is the young man for this time.
I want to know what I think about what is possible.
And for sure, every Tanzanian is supposed to think about what the youth and why is only one of the period.
First, we are supposed to realize that there is a matter that made a reduction in.
That we should not enter in the ten and five election while we have no agenda.
We're going to meet the agenda of.
Therefore we urge you to inspect someone because of his same type, not to the problems we used.
And they have talked about it well that, the presidential candidate is the issue that is inside the constitution that is needed for the age of the age inside the constitution.
If he would believe that he would have been supported if it would have been increasing the age inside the constitution, but it's a big issue that is in the constitution, therefore what I know is that many Tanzanians will remember.
I insisted that everything can they do well.
There are many youths that they can be well, we have a problem of the system and here.
It will use four minutes to explain what I gave you.
While Elder Mwinyi is taking the country from the teachers, I got many problems to many Tanzanians that they want to eat dain.
If you want to travel it is a must for the buses that were affecting the African continent, the province takes a whole issue that is still underway.
That is a problem of the system and policy to agree on the procedure it will be.
Mwinyi went to see one of the market.
There they also urged people with financial ability and we were told that every person that involves itself will start from traveling for a week before two weeks before Ukawa goes through a long time.
But these teams of Barcelona are joined.
Tickets that give us the existence of the market system of freedom of the media, today can be seen in the whole country of actors if it has faith you to invest in it so that it can be in a housing system.
In the way of implementing the way you will be left.
We would have been able to come back again, and we did not want to see the changes that will arrive this week by giving them the voice that it is a person when I want to say there is a problem of policies and teachers.
Solution is necessary for changes in the policy, we have been on these issues to have the internal market, issues of having media freedom in order to ease the ability of protecting the discipline for accountability in the country.
Unfortunately, and the ones?
But this policy was not a member of the revolutionary party.
And the teachers are saying that the president we have now need to come out to come up and prevent them that we have a union's life, if you do a last speech, we need the president to come out to implement the policies of the revolutionary party.
It's not easy for the commission to be appointed to do only points at the state house and his wife in the morning, let me know how things are changed since this is an issue.
There are also a financial challenge, you can have good policies but the implementation of the policies.
That the implementation will not just look for what was written in, where they claimed that they are able to believe that if it can be forced, giving thanks to those who will follow up and that it is good deeds.
They tried to make this one and he has touched me from one area to carry out and others although there are a good procedure for teachers who want to see if we are doing difficult decisions, therefore we are doing difficult decisions to take action against them that we do not have a company like food we remember.
Up to today the theft of the company is not yet known who can get money.
Comes back into bad use until we finish his time the president is currently in the moment although his studies in the moment in his period was the end of the old man.
But the elder Mkapa has failed to make sure that phone company and and and when they met with his ten years, it has dropped a little in the current companies, but we have a difficult decisions in difficult decisions to take action against the public laws, it's property.
That someone will be found with more income of his salary, he is using him that they were receiving bribes.
So we are inspiring.
