
Corruption continues to rule?
Fly on 1st, 2012.

It's a long time now I have been my view that after going into the system of the party to rule, there is a process that has been explained by several factors in our country with an aim of building a new system that I have a new system that I have a new system.

The results and the process of the internal elections that depends on us to reach the end of the Revolutionary Party has every sign of attaining the high level of the process of the construction of the party in the hands of leaders and order to enable the system to the leadership of our nation.

The most corrupt system is a system with intentions to satisfy some of the issues that are causing to work together with the father of our nation Mwalimu Nyerere and his great followers starting with Tanu and later CCM.

It is a system that has been involved or in different articles as well as building a high market system in line with the reality and not knowing that we don't affect the level of economic, competitive politics and so on.

Most of us like it is not all in one way or another, we have participated in the efforts to build the MO Bejaia, to enable our participation in order to implement its issues by acknowledging or to legalize the issues of corruption, to enable the economic and political agents to enable them economically and otherwise.

I urge you to be careful before I don't get inside, in the analysis and explaining my opinion about this issue of the construction of the ordinary citizens that we are facing now, it is possible for us to be in the final stages that are measurable.

The Zika system does not have a party or members of the local system that you have no religion or not.
The current system does not have tribe or the ones that do not have.

Therefore, I will talk about this illegal system in the context of the Revolutionary Party which recently we have been seen and see many arising from it is said to be said in the process of internal elections of the party and the party that until now is the ruling party.

One of the thing that has gone into as is the best to test for success or the effects of this election, has been how the power of money has been able to show his coupon in this election.

Most of us have been looking at and analyzes this election as a mirror of looking for who he will be a candidate and others believe that she is supposed to be former president.

Most of us have been looking at this election as a sign of switching off the party in the line or not to carry out and give an official award to those who seem to be able to distinguish itself as the leaders and the construction of the construction of the wildlife officers.

In a certain way, there is a fact, because there are many or they have prepared themselves because they have decided to be careful, they have promised a grace and leaders who believe that they are playing inside CCM then the presidency of 2015 is them and that eating that will come to them.

This situation is sad and sees much in the future of our nation because it is very happy and gave up with any patriotism he will be a member of this party and even the one who is not his member but he knows the importance of this party to our nation, especially during this time they will be paid with numerous votes.

The process of building a MO Blog owners are aiming at hiding all those who joined CCM party due to a lot of patriotism in front of our humanity and not to leave the party in the hands of those who put in faith of finance.

Another time I'm in thoughts that there is a lot of efforts in these activities of leaders and the aim of removing the construction of a great history for instance, equity and the liberation movement and outside of our boundaries.

It is possible, and it is clear that the leaders and the agents of the Almighty God's agents have already had special relations and alternative parties in the race for national administration but it is not aware of the ethics of this party but to fail to rule the administration of our nation.

And here is where there is a high problem of how some of the citizens run if they put into the fight against the construction of the party against their competitors in the party, as preparations for the next general election of getting the presidential candidate through their party.

By putting up in this competition that is depending on the strength of financial resources and not the faith of the party members and their leaders, this group of the members of CCM has shown to build a environment that enemies with their competitors in the investigation scandal of the party have been easily damaged by the organization.

His results even those who want to distinguish itself as CCM - a lot of things, they are forced to believe in funds of money so as to deal with their competitors in the group of interests who will them be the main foundation of any success.

And here is when we come to another problem in these efforts to fight with the security options that if things have not changed, and not later, it is clear that they will succeed to hold the rule of our nation.

The action of the members of CCM and especially those who are calling CCM political parties, that is CCM members who believe in the basis of the party and America in our country.
"We thank the poor" to fight themselves by themselves or by using it because they have no effects, it is no problem, something that is continuing to rule.

The fight for criticizing the party which on my view is that up to now, we have enough alternative treatment to be keen and depending on the current liberation, they will not succeed in leaving the network themselves by using themselves in the same way.

More there is a big possibility of those who we believe that they are fighting against us by the leaders and the agents of the MO Blog in the country and agreed to fail and join the team's victory of their colleagues.
He said that these together have been cooperating in running the revolutionary party in the party before and putting the foundation of construction of the local system that their colleagues have decided to buy and when they are successful in politics and the senior leadership of our country.

The struggles of them and which can restore CCM in line with bad intentions of the leaders and the aides to the boundaries for what they are required to participate in the electoral agenda, foundations and ethics of the party and not otherwise.

And here's when the members of CCM, elders of youths who believe in the importance of vision, foundations and ideology of the party and our nation have its importance because it's only those who will be able to change the trend of this contest and the fate of their party and our nation.

In that state, there is bad news for the victory of financial resources in these elections, there are also good news to a different election, in these elections, there are some of the candidates who succeeded to win the moment they failed in every election that they failed in every election.
"I thank you," we should not believe in the strength of money and to look at the basis of the foundations and culture of the party.

The victory of these players can be little but the ones that are still there are hope and the possibility of the basis of the foundations of this party and to give a message that this cancer is a threat to the party and eventually the possibility of fighting corruption has never been successful for the benefit of their party and our nation.

It is the fight based on foundations of the basis and not the strength of money that will enable you to prevent the threat of corruption, therefore we should be able to prevent a threat to the party, therefore we can be able to prevent the thoughts of "alternative treatments and should be able to prevent it, because of their faith that they will award for many years inside CCM.

