I love you.
Let us lose hope.
All photos in which we see the truth.
Rungwe, Rungwe.
My right is when you get one of the great efforts of the government, they went to advertise tourism in developing tourism.
When the guest comes to the peace of peace until when you go back, also the boss, leaving in urban planning will be received until when we get married, we will have a chance to sleep when we go into a house without preparing food when you are given training.
The grave of Dubai Dar es Salaam.
The widow will be served when he wants food to give a grandfather's training to be a grandfather who did not know what is in the field but we are happy to see the importance of visiting them and visit the Bible to see how the government's efforts are made to see and see the services that she is doing.
You do you know?
Organizations or companies.
I am happy with and give them.
I love you.
The host of things in all.
Now happens it is like.
You know drinking is in the streets and they complained that the nurses and many can be good, I will go.
It is people who give their services continuing with food, "said Makame.
Hayatou is just like that you are very happy, I think that most of the owners in a tree will enable these two people and them.
It's good for this customer to make him have died from that producer, we should see that we like this service providers we want to do many people to do so that we do with the expertise so that we go to the ones they want to provide services that it is needed by the government.
We have been doing so as we run for a short time, there are his advisers to know, I would like to see told him that the answer they get, but I advise that you can make sure we can make sure that everything is done to make sure they have played two sides, from the past,.
Different types of period of two months of three months so that even those who give the quality service that will be able to be put in line with the procedure that they can be able to identify those who are in hotel or those of the company.
The servants who don't have professionalism have no qualifications to come here to study at.
When two years we give but for a short time I give you.
We also urge them to help the employers who have been taught them are taught them from here because our teachers can be able to work in areas that need people who have problems.
In the work that are not found?
We see and many times have been done, we have done work on how I have visited without Ben Pol to teach them and he told this there is a different girl child.
Every year.
