
There is some of the government of Kikwete - Doctor Slaa Dec 27, 2013.

At the time the Secretary General of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, bringing his tour to the provinces by urging the government of President Jakaya Kikwete to stop caring about the citizens and the senior leaders, from the decision of the executive committee of that party serving the leadership of Zitto Kabwe.
Zitto Kabwe handed the position of the deputy secretary general of CHADEMA and his colleague, Doctor Kitila Mkumbo to fund the delegation of the executive committee of the party, when Samson Majwala to contest for his position as the chairperson of Chakwama, Arusha.
It is as a result of that decision, it is obvious that the top leaders of CHADEMA are divided, who are in power and now most of the decision of the executive committee, when they were suspended from leadership opposing that decision, every part of using the political conflict to the other side.
Recently, Doctor Slaa was in his tour in Tabora Province, Kigoma, Shinyanga and Singida where he gave those statements against Zitto Kabwe, that the party can sign him any way while giving allegations of existence of a plan of sabotaging the executive committee of CHADEMA and finally Zitto Kabwe resolved.
But when Slaa was with Tundu Lissu, for example in Singida town the day before yesterday, Zitto Kabwe has been in his public meetings in Kigoma town, opposing the decision to suspend the leadership and tell citizens who attend the meeting, that his position of defending the country is, giving an example of a grant from political parties.
But when Zitto and Slaa, together with Lissu building the stage to oppose or support the action of being accused, Doctor Kitila Mkumbo has emerged as a solution to the party is to open doors of democracy in the party, so that the party's next elections can take place in freedom, without the end of the party.
While writing a long time on his column in this newspaper today's newspaper, Kitila says that the conflict inside the party cannot end because of not being inclined or not by the members in general they should be accepted by the leaders that they want.
"The members of CHADEMA are saying that the party will be safe for one group in the identity cards in another group that is causing a system of political parties at a huge level is based on top of the leaders.
"It is Almighty God create a political party to think that they will sack him from the former member of parliament and one with us again, in an environment of LonAgro Tanzania, again, and the party, a stable party," wrote Kitila.
He said that it will be a big offence in the construction of democracy here in the country if the opposition parties will not hesitate to identify and they get inside the party up to the need to enter the State House.
A scholar has written that conflicts inside political parties is the normal issue in the world and that which has given you the way other parties involved with conflicts.
"Therefore, for the democratic nation within parties not to be approved and that is the culture their democratic culture that we have voted for.
"Different members will change the position of leadership.
At the same time, Doctor Slaa on his report to conclude his tour, he urged the government of Kikwete to stop the acts of criminal acts that came out during the implementation of operation that came out during the implementation of human rights.
Slaa is collaborating with Professor Issa Shivji who in the newspaper that he has given his article, he advised the steps to be taken against violence in the implementation of operation that he refused.
