Ivory Coast, which will arise when we play in Karume on it.
May 30th, 2012

"IS) is a easy way but there is no surprising way to explain our group of A in the African Champions League for players who play in the premier league (Uganda).
Why is the group that will take place in Abidjan City, Ivory Coast, from February 22, 2009, "IS), which is a short time in Tanzania?
It is because the group is made up with Ivory Coast starting with capital, "Senegal starting with" S, "Tanzania starting with" C "and Zambia starting with" signifies.
The first word has been built by capital and capital to the names of the neighboring countries in South Africa and the second word is constructed by capital to the names of the neighboring countries, while East Africa!
This is a surprise, but you don't read there, if you want to get two positions for the coming of us, the Ivory Coast, Tanzania (IT), let them get two positions for the being mentioned.
While this group of "IS) will battle against Abidjan City, the headquarters of Ivory Coast, group B of Ghana, Libya, Zimbabwe and Congo will play in the second capital city in that country in the country.
Artist with a great talent can play with the English word and capital city and the first names of the countries of our group in non-communicable diseases (TGT), therefore, I request I should request that let's go through the group because it is our group!
It is my faith that, if our players of the national team did not continue to be proud of in the big competitions and get enough time to be employed for the fight, why our group will be in Tanzania if the name takes.
I have been in talking about fatigue, players, here I request to support him by the chairman of Yanga, faith, said that their participation do not identify their team at Tusker beer competitions this year has been affected by the fatigue of many players.
Those players have been fighting with a lot of strength in the first round up to leading the league with enough distance, most of them went to international matches with the national team against Cape Verde which will play one match in Mozambique, both matches of killing someone and then suddenly they are inspiring.
If it is not enough, now you are at the Fiesta Cup competition which is happening in Uganda, once they will be in the second round of the premier league, then the journey to take place in Abidjan City, Ivory Coast, but these are people or machine?
Not truly, one of the strategies of doing well in Ivory Coast, is to look for a way to reduce it is enough of our players, otherwise instead of 'It Off' ('TZ)'), something that is not our needs, even if we are unable to arrive at those finals.
