Azzan did not meet the incident.

Member of parliament.
Kinondoni District (CCM), Idd Azzan, has said he is ready to resign as a member of parliament.
If it will be revealed that they are involving drug trafficking.
It has come few days after being mentioned in one of the letter.
On social media, after a person alleged to be arrested in China.
Looking for several people including Idd Azzan.
And Mtanzania yesterday about that scandal, he said the step of being involved.
Illegal drugs of drugs, are not supposed to go right in front of the community.
Especially the voters and the nation in general.

He said that he got a letter on allegations against him, it is clear that he is expecting to wait for honor and maybe he had a good thing.

"It is true that I have seen that letter on the internet, a situation that has been written.
A youth who was arrested in Hong Kong, China, but I asked himself.
For sure he is a good citizen, in this why did not want to mention his name.
In that letter.

"Even when I read it, I have noted that the person has been used and maybe completely.
Not in the country, because in his explanation he is leading the name.
Philip Mpango said that he has helped her a situation to be recently, President Kikwete.
He appointed the new ambassador, Abdulrahman Kinana to be the ambassador.
Germany Federation.

"Another I see you tried to write a lot in order to protect the community.
However, but the first ambassador has been mentioned by the attorney general.
Wino. I would like to explain the nation that I urge the security agencies to do.
Investigation of this issue and I have found to have lost drug abuse?
Ready to vie for my parliamentary seat.

"A big right is the right to perform on this issue, but it's a must.
It is a must that the society and the society should not hesitate to think afresh.
They should leave our country to hatred and disputes, "said Azzan.

He said due to that situation, he is unable to take any action.
To do more than to write a letter to the police force to make it clear.
Against that letter to identify the truth of that issue.

"I have never sell drugs and even in my family there is no one.
We do not make the illegal business and everyone knows that Idd.
The councilor of Magomeni ward, while my big work is business.
Vehicles and buses that are still continuing with until now.
Like I have been given honor to my voters of Kinondoni, "he said.
Azzan.

When Mtanzania asked him that it was no truth.
That is after the security agencies make investigation, he said.
It does not know God.

"It is difficult to say that this step will be completed, it was revealed that there is no truth.
I want to say that the one who wrote this letter has mentioned his name.
After investigation I would be able to ask for advice to my lawyer.
To take, but because she did not mention the name it is difficult to decide, "
Said Azzan.

According to the reports that were issued through the networks were reported.
Why are two sides in China with drugs.
The value of 334 million American dollars.

News by Bakari Kiya.

Source - Tanzanian.

