
CCM does not have the way apart from Slaa's 20, 2012.

Truly we can blame the Revolutionary Party (CCM) where I decided to start and continue with the attack against the secretary general of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA)?

For sure, we should be announced by CCM youths as they prepare well in every way and by seeing a lot of names not knowing if you are supposed to see the presidential candidate, Doctor Slaa what has been tested in front of the public?

Others can be surprised by me.

The attack against Doctor Slaa has not started after the general meeting of CCM party and those remember everyone has been attacked from that day when he was announced as the presidential candidate of CHADEMA.

We saw during the attacks that were personal and uncountable, in order to make the poor work ahead of the public, she was reported not by CCM members but also groups of Muslims with great stand in which they used the history of Doctor Slaa against him.

He has ever been the accountant of the Catholic church and left them by following all procedures.

This was being used so much together with that, there was a motion on the relationship of Doctor.
Slaa and Raymond Mushumbusho - both sides were used and there are some people who believed and they were given.

But in addition to all the severe attacks, it will sign up with one person, Doctor.
Slaa was able to do that which was not yet thought and shook the way of CCM and of etemesha Entertainment found themselves inside the earthquake has shaken the foundation of the Revolutionary Party.

The earthquake that doesn't know the ruling party has been seen in the voting process and in the political awakening that is going on in the country. The strength that CCM had for many years has been reduced and there is no one who contributed to a large extent to come out of that fear as Doctor Slaa.

It is as a result of that fact, that CCM believes that it cannot go to any election while Doctor Slaa is still a strong desire to oppress CCM's strategies to become a big threat to CCM.

This threat to say it is not a threat to us but it's a threat to us intellectually and there are other politicians that CCM would be able to confirm if they could not vie for the position but among them is Doctor Slaa who gets a threat to us (birthday) of CCM.

What he did, in the politics of Tanzania, I can as compared to what was done by Martin Luizio, because they were involved in a good job, especially those who have found themselves living in a good environment, especially those who were not involved in the issue of bringing discipline in the administration, he spoke about the issue of bringing discipline in the administration.

When he was talking about the issue of making sure that the money affected by outside the country is expected to go back to the country, he was ahead of others to remember that his interview that was aired by ITV television station where he achieved on the better use of your words that are not known as usual in the thoughts of citizens.
"When I launch CCM it is a disaster in the nation," today these things are receiving and the people see that it's true there is a disaster in the nation.

But many believe that after all the attacks, but Slaa has continued to stand up with his enemies saying that after he defeated him, he would like to sign him from CCM where we would like to destroy the candidate of CHADEMA who had only one goal, to eliminate the threshetta.

For some of us we look at the internal attacks, it is easy to see that CHADEMA who have the attack Doctor Slaa did not know well.

It is a time for CHADEMA, fans and lovers to stand behind Doctor Slaa, because it is in doing so that CCM is not only a easy way to lead CHADEMA. I don't see another person inside him who does not lead CHADEMA to enter the State House as he is now.

This is the one that needs Doctor Slaa to be the first lady of the attacks of CCM.
