Rwanda does not give him Tanzania DR Congo.
Brightiles 21, 2013.

Rwanda and Uganda did not want Tanzania to conduct his army in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in the army to protect the peace of the African Union (AU), our citizens are told.
Water sources of this newspaper from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, have explained that those countries were sent to representatives here in the country for the purpose of requesting the government not to lead the army there.

"Rwanda and Uganda did not want to obey the army of DRC when they sent their representatives here to ask we don't have army in the country but we are holding our stand that we should go through or have requested the army for the interests of our African continent.
"They did not have a heavy reason to prevent us should not think about what they are doing in Congo and you don't know why we have a long support," said the source of these news on the conditions of not being mentioned.
Mwema should understand that the government has made talks with Rwanda's embassy in the country with the aim being to try to put his stand on the issue of peace in the Great Lakes countries.
"We have told Rwanda that they should not say that to them that they don't help a human being, they would have been silent because we were done in official sessions with them if they have a motion to table.

"They are using the media networks that they use some of the ones who call the victims of the killing of Kimbari of the year 1994.
"That is why you have heard the other day of Africa living in Bribian (Belgium city) against President Jakaya Kikwete, the citizens know that President Jakaya Kikwete is the main solution to the problems of Rwanda," the source of this newspaper from the State House of Tanzania.
The efforts of Mke Mwema should talk to Rwanda's embassy about this issue, it did not succeed after the writer was required to stop the questions that didn't be looked to until they're going to go against them.
That has been seen various reports in the media houses outside Tanzania that Rwanda and Uganda will not allow Tanzania to participate in the United Nations agencies to protect peace of DR Congo, claiming that its presence will stimulate the more of violence more than bringing peace.
The rebel group of 23, which is the one that has brought a problem in east of DRC in Glasgow, already has given a report of wanting the army to protect peace and not to do there, there is a report that the rebels of 23 are supported by the government of Rwanda.
Last month, some of the public institutions (NGO's) that are doing in east of DRC got a letter from the United Nations (UN) and requested the army to protect peace that should not make it because it will destroy the situation instead of improving. "
These reports are following up during the time when the government and the media stations have been running a long time to blame to Tanzania and President Jakaya Kikwete for requesting the country to cooperate with the rebels of the Democratic Republic of Tanzania (FDS).
Last week, President Kagame said that Rwanda is not ready to speak with the rebels of FDS and that all of them are requesting talks with the group do not know the history of Rwanda.
The issue of Tanzania to take the squads in DRC is the one that is rumored to be a great extent in this two war between the two countries in the issue of talking to rebels.
President Kikwete is alleged to have given advice from Rwanda, Uganda and DRC to partner with the rebels in their countries in the meeting of leaders of African Continent, held in Addis Ababa city, Ethiopia last month.

Mke Mwema has been told by one of the senior officials of Tanzania in the African Union (AU) that when Kikwete made that argument of talking to the rebels, there is no any leader of those countries who complained.
"We are in Diplomacy, we were surprised so much and we think there is something that our colleagues (Rwanda) do not want to open them.
"And President (Kikwete) did not speak with secret or with the aim of educating people and he spoke before their eyes and in the very high session.
