The eyes of the eyes of a child is Bexhill, Ramsey.
December 23, 2014.

During their interview with CNN, it was not the spokesperson, but later he said in short, he believes that the murderer of their daughter is and he has not been arrested only.

Police in the city of Boodhoo who did not speak with the explanations of the family of Ramsey while speaking to CNN, the next day Mayor of that town and the police officers received a statement by the police officers, he insisted that the murderer of their daughter is not sustainable, therefore they wanted the residents of that town to sleep without fear because they don't know the murder like those people again.

Those officers claimed to be the sun who had killed the girl, Ramsey Nouah and has not yet been long time to prove that their claims.

In a short time the police had put aside their opinions about the government of their daughter and requested him to break their wives to his children he made up to his previous marriage, who are called Melisa and John Andrew Ayew.

In addition to rumors that it seemed that they were seen in that town of Bokungu a Christmas day, but all of them claimed to meet their father as well as their mother, she was caught and informed that their mother had already brought up and informed that her child had already brought up and informed that her child had already sent away.

Police that were taking their explanation and as a result of a result of that incident, they stopped their thoughts from those children and requested them to leave John and give him the parents of a girl child.

But February 8, in the year 1997, the unit of preventing criminal crime has announced that Ramsey family will give a gift of 100,000 American dollars to anyone who will come out to give information that will help the arrest of the investor and handed over.

The president of the unit of preventing international crime, Wienerschnitzel, explained about that step, "we are doing is to make sure that there are no information that provides for 10,000 American dollars, but he added by saying that," I cannot stop in any case which was given solutions due to a large extent of the gift that had promised. "

However, the level that was announced by Ramsey Nouah has raised the awareness from the community of Americans to give information to the institution to prevent fake phones since the day before yesterday, police said that among those reports are only five percent and those that are believed to have the ability to make calls and stop the investor.
