
Bukoba are set a flight of sugar.
He said the procedure will be allowed until when the price of that product will be unable to attend, business officer talks about one of the shortage.
Jean Marie Le Pen is saying, the Citizen on this article @ mkito.
In Bukoba town, the residents of Bukoba town in Kagera province, they will remove the sugar of a guiding fee of 1,800 villages from special shops that were appointed by the government in every ward from this week.
The Bukoba District Commissioner, Jackson Msome, said yesterday that every ward will have three shops that will provide the service in order to deal with the haphazard use of sugar price that is claimed to be presented by some of the traders to resolve the products.
In recent days, the residents of Bukoba have found themselves in one acre of sugar at a cost of 2,400 shillings to 2800 shillings contrary to a huge price of 1,800 villages.
He said that the district has a special committee that will expand the activities including realizing the level of sugar which is growing at the sugar industry of Kagera, to an extent that they have big businessmen and that is being transported to the provinces of the district and Kagera province.
"The main aim is to control money and to ensure that the citizens get sugar at a guiding price," said and insisted that, "businessman who will go against the directives of the government will be presented in court and robbed off the license."
The business officer of that province, Grace Tendega said together with other reasons, the shortage of sugar was contributed by the new season that is causing the Kagera Sugar Factory to reduce production.
Speaking at the parliament at the end of last week, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said the government has decided to expand the sugar outside the country so as to deal with the shortage of that product.
That shortage is claimed to be a result of a decision by the government to ban that product from outside while industries being alleged to meet the needs.
