If you're welcome to watch the hundreds of citizens of Mwibara province, they have come out in large numbers to witness the match with an error in the semi-final match between Manchester United's final match against Altay FK, a match that did not involve ten billion shillings while the second winner will break a lot of Sh.
Hundreds of the competition Kangi Lugola who is also the member of parliament of Mwibara province, has put open the aim of this competition.
Why is it?
He is not found.
Why is it?
.
Little of us.
The guest of honor at the competition is the deputy minister in the ministry of information, youth, culture and sports this week, after he was impressed by the big number of the name was injured and attacks this competition, he gives from the council of sports.
High table.
It has been buried.
Open your eyes as one of the youth groups.
Ministry of Information Youth Culture and Sports.
It would have been built.
He was yesterday but happy about it.
It is evident that the pitch is the best player in the pitch or Kibiti.
The artists of Bongo Fleva yesterday were an attraction to follow the beginning of the fiesta festival that was a question by Diamond Platinum together with me this book was part of the festival which began yesterday in Mwanza Province.
If you go to Grind.
The gospel music artist or see you made in the second consecutive years, they must make sure he launched the album but the speed of the executive director of that company which has a message to sign him.
They were given.
At the building.
Mwananyamala?
.
Why is a bomb.
The love was done in the church of ditalists, where gospel music artists affected by the artist.
.
The delegate of the honor of the African Football Federation hall Mister Ally Eleuteri Mangi, has urged youths to cooperate well.
Playing with discipline in the state of great efforts, when he was speaking during the opening of-finals of all the top five countries in Karume Memorial Stadium in Dar es Salaam, Salim, said it is very delicious with the best player in the tournament of the Airtel Rising Stars that is involving the youth teams of the age of ten years from in Tabora province, a bomb that is owned by Zanzibar.
In the international market it is that the Arsenal team, I have scored Manchester and I cannot be known by without being in the game where community will succeed only.
Other goals have been supported by Professor James in the European Champions League emerging victorious with four goals because of the last game, I have closed down two goals through the final match that I had scored two points behind which the Chelsea team played again today for the first match in Somalia in which the last game will play with great goals.
At the end of the news, it is not a game with me what happens?
The late God created these visitors who are talking about the third forum for young scientists in the world that is starting today on ten to ten o'clock in the world.
And also they will arrive at the twenty-five conference of the people that have been employed to Georgia of Africa which will start on the ten to ten o'clock this month.
I don't call him, Professor African when she is the late?
He is the chairperson when it is heading to the conference of scientists and in everything that are very close to Professor Lipumba, he has been accompanied by a youth that is not religious.
The late Adam who is the deputy chairperson of that conference.
Maybe if we start to talk about the fight without knowing what I want to let us start with a youth?
If you look for the first desire to support this third issue of controversy when they get to the world.
For a team to have more than three hundred thousand youths from different countries in the world where he is big to discuss how the science education in the world is the whole life that we will meet here in Dar es Salaam.
