Asis Mshereheshaji Shebe Machumani showing a Tanzanian who will fall in the world.
Brightiles 21, 2014.

She has got to hear the name of Doctor Asis Xabi.
One thing that students who learned in Tanzania in Tanzania did not argument about Malima being the truth that she had a lot of mind the class.
Shafii Dauda, who was a form one student at Azania Secondary School in Dar es Salaam city, he clarified Asmara, a female student who did well in his studies to end form four.
Shafii Dauda, who is among the stars and famous analysis of soccer in the country was to form one while Malima was in form four.
The brain of Malima has opened up in the United States where now he has done a huge invention that is not for a small scale (600 millimeters) which can be able to identify non-communicable diseases, cancer and the heart in the previous steps.
This invention, will happen at its end, you can save the lives of many people in the world just think about that you're with a device that is one of those diseases continuing to sign them early and go down.
Millions of people will be forced to take their lives with this Tanzanian boy.
"All days I have been a dream of knowing something that will be able to save the lives of people. My father died on a heart disease which is discovered early if there could have a device like this one.

"For now I will be able to save the life of my father, but I can save the lives of parents or children of other people from this fact that I found himself and I am happy that my dream is fulfilled.
"Cancer, some of the diseases that are being infected by heart diseases are very delicious with the discovery of many people living a life, and in the developed countries use a lot of money to avoid the victims.

"A phone that I found himself is a threat to the size of the sun (0KV On) which can be able to test and identify those diseases early so that they can be treated easily, save life and reduce costs," says Asmara, his talks with Raia Mwema, which took place through the internet the day before yesterday.
Asmara, a child of who got to be the minister of finance in Tanzania, Professor Khajida Kopa, who died on August 6, 1995, in London City, England, in one of the deaths of leaving the history of Tanzania.
A device that has been given by this Tanzanian youth was known by the name withheld, which has enabled collaboration with two fellow students from the University of Huria Tanzania, which is in Boston, Celine Itatiro.
In addition to the shivered, the party has a total of four areas and all of special work, and that creativity has already been identified by the American government.
In his talks with the United States media media, Asukile has been saying that many modern equipment need to sign the diseases for example cancer, in a period where it is difficult for someone to get treatment and recover.
"Our work will be completed, we will be able to identify diseases quickly and early more, therefore people will get treatment early and save life.
"In my country (Tanzania), many women die because of suffering from breast cancer, this device will be able to help many people to come from their problems," he said.
Most of them is very little by joy and I ask you if they have decided if a person can buy and remain with it at home, he was looking at himself or it is a must he will go to hospital.
"Our intention is to be used to be a person going to hospital or clinic (for free-up). But if he is making work, to get permission by studying if there is difficult for what we are doing tests (SMS) by testing the blood that was released by a patient," he says.
Whoever doesn't jump says that their normal education system that was there in the country a few years ago (before the coming of the ward and "Academy").
He went to school in Tambaza Secondary School in Dar es Salaam city for one year before moving to Azania.
20 years ago, these were a school that made the children who passed well give birth among students of primary schools in the province of Dar es Salaam.

"Tambaza I read one year but due to the violence that made to be informed by the parents and that's when I thank you well for getting grade four, I thank you that they will succeed well by getting the first bridge," he says.
In addition to all the long time Diamond Platnumz and his popularity as one of the young people living in that country, Asukile has claimed that suffering from the life of here in the country, especially, the life of the school.
