The organizers of Aziz Abood.
October, 23, 2013.

The chairman of the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Freeman Mbowe, the Member of Parliament for Sengerema (CCM), William Ngeleja, and the famous businessman, Riders in Aziz Abood, they have been questioned about having great wealth outside the country, our citizens have been informed.

Those politicians have been questioned by a special working squad that is set up by the government recently for the purpose of looking for various assets affected by outside the country and different people with great positions.

Although the senior directors of that work squad have refused to confirm or leave about being interviewed by those politicians, this newspaper has told the politicians that are only part of more than 100 people that are reduced by the state agencies.

That squad was made by the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda and is led by the attorney general (AG), Judge Frederick Werema, to the executive director of the Police Force, the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) and the representatives of the bank issues.

The source of sources of this newspaper said Mbowe who is also the leader of opposition in parliament, was questioned for explanations that he had bought a luxurious home in Dubai, December the year 2011.

"As a result of his position to the public, Mbowe was forced to be reduced due to the purchase of houses which he did in Dubai, December the year 2011 when its investigation is difficult because we have been unable to follow its accounts and it would have never been using the bank to make payments.

"This means that if he did payments, then he did by using cash money (Cash). It is a must that you can be remembered because it is not normal for a leader like him to travel up to all the millions of buying a house in Dubai and pay Cash Money.

The organizers are among the popular business people here in the country and Good Citizen has been told that he was interviewed because of owning a building in that East African countries and this newspaper has been told that he has several accounts outside the country.

Dubai, it is the solution to many business people from an affordable cost that is given by the government of that country and also the presence of business and big security.

More than being the popular businessman, the head of parliament has ever been a member of parliament through the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and he was also the treasurer of that party.

Until we're going to move forward, this newspaper has not been done because of the wealth of these property, otherwise he knows it but when he was the Minister of Energy and Minerals, there were rumors that he was among the youths with a huge problem which she had bought within a short time.

When he was asked by our citizens about that he was interviewed when he was called by his squad, Ngeleja, he answered by a short message of words through her mobile phone, although he was asked by a writer to make sure that he was questioned by Hanscana.

For now, the former minister of the government of President Jakaya Kikwete is on a way outside the country.

When they were given to that event on this week, explaining his part about that he was interviewed, the head teacher did not answer the phone or a short message of words that were used by the author.

Mbowe was not ready to explain about that he was questioned, although the information officer of CHADEMA, Tumaini Makene, who explained that he has been directed to answer on behalf of the opposition head, he said that it was not true because Mbowe had property outside the country because it is a businessman and he has business until outside the country. "

The work squad is making its work in the environment of privacy and since it was launched early this year, it has never been given a report about its activities.

One of the delegates of that work squad, Doctor Hosea, said he refused to speak anything about the people that interviewed him because the spokesperson of their activity is Werema.

Werema, did not want to do not to confirm this report but in the previous talks with the media, he once said that it is against the ethics of the commission to give information about human beings.

Mke Mwema should understand that someone being interviewed by that squad does not mean one directly that it is the ones that are supposed to be approved because of collecting information.

November last year, the Member of Parliament for Kigoma North constituency (CHADEMA), Zitto Kabwe, gave a private statement to parliament and he wanted to take a investigation on money and illegal property from Tanzania followed up in various countries in the world.

According to the law of Tanzania, its citizens are not allowed to open accounts in foreign countries without permission from office of the governor of Central Bank of Tanzania.
