Professor Shivji scored the "bad" of Raila Odinga.
APR, 03 / 2013.

The judge of the Tanzania High Court, Doctor Willy Mutta, whose panel of judges who was leading recently in Kenya caused a cry "to the Prime Minister, Uhuru Kenyatta, who will land at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), it has been explained.
The judge who has got great popularity in different international media stations due to listening to a case to oppose the presidential results in Kenya, who is also a friend of Raila Odinga, who will land in the country to participate in the debate on the progress of development about the field of Arusha, that was founded by the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.
The debate is part of the implementation of the fifth graduation ceremony of Mwalimu Nyerere, which every year is organized by the Mwalimu Nyerere International Conference, under its chairman, Professor Issa Shivji.
According to the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam, Bashiru Ally, the festival will take place on Wednesday last week at Nkenye region, University of Dar es Salaam.
Apart from Mutta, among the who will participate in that festival are together with mental disabilities, different from outside the country, including Professor Samoa Island, Professor Idriss Kicheere.
Others are Professor Aisee Mjengwa, Professor Ahmed Modupeh Cole, Professor Manufacturing Company of Statistics, the Minister of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, Professor Anna Tibaijuka and Professor Ibrahim Lipumba will join the scholars, hand with other invited guests.
More than the invited guests who will participate are together with the big veteran in the country, Doctor Salim Ahmed Salim, Doctor Espirito Santo have arrived in the day that the chairman of the National Executive Committee of Tanzania, Doctor Mutabaleta was speaking on a day that the chairman of the National Executive Committee of Tanzania (MCT).
Different topics that will be identified, as a result of its development plans in Tanzania and especially the analysis of the city of Arusha and the national policies of the year 2025.
