
Water company is expected.
By Mathias Chikawe.
The water company from Pwani province are believed to be 13 billion shillings by the Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (CSB) according to the Manager of CSB, Mister Chihira, the company believed to be 13 billion shillings by lack of payment of water that are spread in plenty and that board.
Mister Ditopile, said that the board usually has the responsibility of producing water in plenty, and then sell the products to the water companies in Mombasa, the ones that were sent in Malindi and TaSakali.
The board that produce a total of 100 million shillings per day from the whole water stations (TaSCA), Bhebey Ndey and wells of TTCLin Mkwajuni, he said that he is.
He opened up to Taifa Stars yesterday, Mister Donda, said that the water company of Mombasa is alleged to reach 561 million shillings, a company that transported 227 million shillings, the company has paid 29 million shillings and the Tallness of 10 million shillings.
The shortage of finance in that company is lack of paying tax for water, he said that the board is faced with a shortage of money.
"The water companies are believed to have an amount of 13 billion shillings as a result of not paying tax for water which is spreading to those companies every day," he said.
"The board is faced with challenges of financial challenges, that it is unable to pay debts because as to cater for re-branding of the pipes to generate water," he explained.
Mister Donda, urged the heads of those companies to pay the debts owed when the board will take a stern action.
The board said that might decide the distribution of water for those companies if they don't pay their debts, the managing director of the water company of Mombasa, Miss Khadija Naif Alyafei said that the debt of 561 million shillings is the former director of the water company of Mombasa, Mrs. Achileus said that the debt of 561 million Tanzanian shillings is the very old.
However, Miss Achia said that the water companies have been faced with challenges like the low fees for selling water, high costs of water distribution to customers, theft of water and pipelines for high prices.
His company, he said that it will pay a debt according to the amount of money that is paid for a month.
Miss Achia has also pointed out that his company is being addressed to reduce the payment of electricity prices in the production of water production of Bowman.
The Executive Director of the Water Utilities Regulatory Authority, Mister Boniface Mwamende said that the company was forced to pay 13 million shillings per month as well as 228 million shillings in an aim of paying debts.
