It is a must that we talk to now, we talk about the topics that says your expectations from the special parliament of the constitution, without depending on the religion is wrong.
If you go to Grind.
The ruling party for a week.
More than a little one.
.
The punishment for a card is to come but not less compared to each other.
Because of it?
The video of robbery and depending on this one, I would like to inform the delegates.
We can start and thank me in addition, he said that the constitution is still going on well and is expected to leave the game without the new constitution, the birthday is what is supposed to leave.
If you represent the requirements of your behavior which we have unholiness and therefore the father are free of free and to be beaten, we request that we can see that if there is no reason why we can get women and children the girl in the same time.
So much to know the language of contraception?
We believe that if the criterion of you, he has been put the request again for the woman to resolve the issues, so as to be a grandfather's grandfather, I am happy to say that a woman cannot get married after ten years and who can lead you.
It was not like a period that doesn't know, an issue that doesn't look for hard and brought up on the radio when it is very attractive, I wish you shortly after finishing the examinations that education without a must for now I am just a place then I am just there.
Another happens.
The constitution to revise the name of the African Union.
In the East African Union spoke about this time, it is like the constitution will follow it in line with another generation, why they will fail and therefore there are from time to time.
They can be able to grow themselves but they look at that among them, he also urged them.
Youths themselves.
Or more or they are very delicious.
The constitution to do one thing as I want to finish if they went to a long time because without through today, they should start a lot of education to the owner because we have a lot of challenges to me, the youth of Tanzania does a lot of challenges about people from Multichoice Tanzania?
For my life?
Hotel, let's go too has been very attractive, because you find the passengers, the youth of Tanzania, the resources that is supposed to take them once it is another person, and it is happy and the request that he did, give up the constitution.
If the constitution will take place in place the life of a Tanzanian who doesn't understand that this Sunday does not be sharp teeth.
