
More than 40 bodies of passengers who were forced to be found.
In Jakarta Indonesia, more than 40 bodies were found yesterday at 48 o'clock after a tough operation to look for the remains of Airtel Company, Zlin 1481, according to the spokesperson of the water army in Indonesia, Manufacturing Company.
According to that spokesperson, the bodies were found going on in the Indian Ocean, a few days from the Borafya Silima, where the plane lost communication.
"The Dongfangzhixing Ship, Bambucha has confirmed to save 40 bodies and that number is continuing to increase," said Mister Rubongo.
The operation in search for the plane is in the third day now while in 13 areas of water and at the ground.
Relatives and friends who were watching the Indonesia television station were buried and tears after seeing that bodies as well as the remains of that plane that were issued.
One of the relatives of those people attacked them and was taken to hospital.
Colonel Trambale who is one of the ones leading in the rescue operations said, "first we believe that those passengers were successful because they were seen to believe that they had already come from the world," the director of the National Housing Corporation to the law, said that the bodies were transported to Indonesia.
The managing director of Airtel, Tony Akwara, through his Twitter network gave his condolences to the community and friends of all that were affected by that tragedy.
This is happening as different international groups are going on and rescue operations to look for more bodies from that plane that had 162 people.
The plane was on it's way to Singapore as it as "Suraaha in Indonesia.
The army planes from Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore are continuing to find the plane in South Africa of the coast region of Borafya Silima where the plane was sent.
On Sunday, the plane lost communication with the east of East African area after the captain asked to change the course of the journey following the presence of various weather.
"Following news we received with the estimates of the place, when the plane is in a high level in the Indian Ocean," said the head of the national unit to save in Bambini Journal.
He said the activities to look for those planes have increased to 50 meters within the sea while several nations continues to give the modern equipment to make those efforts.
