When you came to a sentence of the newspaper analysis.
Maximilian Arnold, 2012

It's not the government's work to give that judgment and the court's work in accordance with the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania. On that logic, the law, regulations or any procedures that make a lot of skills to send himself, again after that authority complained or not a right.
In the presence of the court and urged the country to build a country with better administration, it is not good even a little of having the law that allows him to destroy the judgment.
The government cannot be careful about the certain news media and then the government is supposed to affect the concerned news agency again in the country with recognizing the existence of the court, as it did in the newspaper MwanaHalisi.

This is our stand about the step by the government through the department of information (details), to ban for some time the newspaper of the magazine MwanaHalisi was forced to become the judge of the issue because that the government can do "rights" among the side that believes are not correct.

Several times, the government has been forced to listen to the newspaper of MwanaHalisi was removed from that newspaper and decided that the judge "we insisted that the decision is not correct according to the concept of good governance.

The government can have complaints from primary or contrary to the newspaper of MwanaHalisi was forced to test and decide if the complaints by the government is correct or not, not the government itself.

The claims by the government is that, the newspaper of Coke Studio has been writing news and incitement articles which are not supposed to be released by that government.

That decision by the government to ban the newspaper analysis has been done by the newspaper analysis of the year 1976 and section 25 of the law which had the right to look and give information without caring about the borders of the United Republic of Tanzania, article 18 (a) every person has the right to be given a report on how many important events in life and the activities of citizens and also about important issues to the community.
