
CCM members from BADEA.

Bishop Sedrick Ndonde of South Africa, got this said.
"There are different from basically, among them being free and being in a high level, being independent and to get employment, electricity, electricity, better health and health services.
If it's not that, even the votes do not have any meaning, "Kijukuu cha Bibi K and William Gusmao and the Ambassador of Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo Party, U667).

And the students of Literature in the Tanzanian, Professor Jay Moe has said that, "this day comes, I will see a sign that will lead when you reached where every human being doesn't know where each human being does not recognize them, then you will know why your brothers do not know because they are your brothers.

Most of them are those who had light weight, those who don't know if you will take their names, and you do not make sure that your position can be done if you do not see if you do not get married.

And with my eyes, I got to listen to Philip Mangula when I woke up this year in 2007, "does not leave this in the year 2007," does not expect CCM to announce his leadership! "
2007, it is at the CCM meeting in Iringa province!

That was a heavy decision to be released by the former secretary general of CCM, Honorable Mangula, he woke up so as he was giving thanks to the delegates.
He was unable to position the chairperson of the province by scoring 332 votes.

Today inside CCM, Mangula has been given the position of vice chairperson of the nation (mainland).
Two major responsibilities of the vice president are this first, and I commend the chairperson, secondly, it will not tell him that in the next six months, he will not recognize his party.

Mghira if you know the problem facing CCM as a political party Doctor Lijuakali has come from the ones that Bishop Tenenbum and spoke about it is the public that is associated with political issues that do not affect, conflicts whose foundation is war against themselves inside the party.

The public which is for their foundation is to make sure that they get important primary services like employment, education, water, water, health services, health services, health services, statements and accountability, he is expecting to solve their problems affecting it.

And in politics, there is leadership and administration! The work of the political party is leading.
Therefore, the government will not tell the government to implement the responsibilities that will make public affordable to life and the administration of the government, by supervised by the political party and the problem is where political party where it came to rule instead of leading.

In the past, CCM was the greatest solution.

CCM took his responsibility to lead with the government of CCM, they got with the vice chairman who came to be known as' pombe yangu ', but this is not another, but John Samuel Malecela.

For sure, CCM does not depend on, but the leadership will lead the government in implementing its responsibilities, and politicians like Amaso, they were supposed to go to citizens to explain to them on what is CCM, as the party is making sure the government and fruits done.

It's a result of not knowing that responsibility of the political party, it was not true to see that, "flash disk" and it's impossible so that "Doctor John Cheyo was unable to remain in his opinion polls in his constituency.

I have been said, the appointment of Mangula can defend CCM such as Mangula himself will take the responsibility of putting the ratio between the party because of CCM Doctor Mangula who will take the responsibility of putting the ratio between the party and at the right time towards 2015. Mangula who will take the responsibility of putting the ratio between the party and for now according to the sides that are concerned with the sides that are fighting against the party.

Therefore, even for the interests of our country, it is good to have CCM with groups that vie for presidency in the year 2015 than CCM with sharp teeth.

It is in "political politics" that is when you use CCM members who want them to think they are Wasafi, and their colleagues are very disturbing, and even in the opposition parties, there will be careful, but in the opposition parties.

What is needed is the national strategy to make sure that we are not good, we are reducing the number of political leaders, community, and even in games they would like cancer in our community. Therefore, it is a problem of more system than some of the community.

When we are doing then like a nation to put an environment to reduce, or stop bribery in our elections we will bring about this question next week.
