The members of parliament they will do those allowances.
Dec 21, 2013.

The members of parliament of Tanzania has gone into a scandal after it was revealed to take the allowances for the journey to go out of the country but they are left to the country without stopping those funds, our citizens have noted.

The speaker of parliament, Ann Makinda said that he took deliberate measures to make sure that all the members of parliament are working inside and outside the country to learn political issues, but the decision now has started being used by some members of parliament.

The investigation that was done by this newspaper at this time of the current parliament meeting that is going on in Dodoma town, has revealed that close to all members have separated.

They do not have some of the members of parliament for now, to collect their allowances of evil deeds that they will fall in the country, while others were sitting for a few days even though they are paid the allowances for another day.

One of the members of parliament who were faced with these allegations is the Member of Parliament for Arumeru East (CHADEMA), Joshua Nassari who was alleged to have made a certificate of eight million shillings for the journey to go to Malaysia and he didn't return though he received that money.

Mke Mwema has been told that Nassari who is the former member of parliament who was born in the year 1985, said he will join with his colleagues of the Community Development Committee after few days suffering from Malaysia and doesn't return.

Few days later, Nassari was in the camp with a special parliamentary team that was done in Uganda to participate in the football competitions where he is being paid by that parliament.

Speaking to this newspaper at the Parliament grounds this week, Nassari confessed that they took that allowances without going to Malaysia and although he said his issue is known to parliament.

I have been an emergency fundraising, there was a very important fundraising in my region that I have to get them and therefore I gave a report to my leaders of the parliament.

"As parliament when I told me, I will give me those money I will bring Tanzania without problems but I believe that you can take money without doing work is wrong and that is why I gave a report to the involved," he said.

This newspaper has been prepared to see the email letter (email) that was written on November 28th, this year, and Nassari came to the secretary of parliament, Doctor Thomas Kashgar, the audience listened to him about that issue.

"I arrived in Malaysia and Community Development Committee but they are going on because of being disturbed by the fundraising activities in my region.

"I have already taken a certificate of journey back to this letter, I request the instructions of your office to ensure that the Kauzela with the name of God rest his son," wrote Nassari in that letter which also was sent by the secretary general of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilison A. Slaa.

Another member of parliament who was in the process is the Mbozi Constituency member of parliament (CCM), Godfrey Zambi, who is alleged that he took the allowances of the journey of his committee that went to Dubai and England but it does not go for that journey.

Mke Mwema should be told that all the delegates of that committee were paid a sum of five million shillings each one as the allowances of the journey, but this member of parliament who is 51 years will not return to that journey.

When he was interviewed by this newspaper, Zambi said that it is true that I took those allowances but they are going on that journey, I was going to visit to my region where the secretary general of CCM, Abdulrahman Kinana, was visiting him.

"But one day after Kinana started his tour, I got a funeral of my young man at the moment, I could be able to leave this case because of the five million reasons?

"I am the chairperson of CCM, Mbeya Province and the secretary general of the party, was visiting my province, now I would like to leave everything?

"First as a parliament allowed the money it is an issue of not told me because I will be afraid that you would have been married because you would have been forced to continue with their journey to make the use of five million shillings" said that member of parliament.

This newspaper has also been made a report concerning the nominated member of parliament (CCM), member of parliament (CCM), member of parliament (CCM), member of parliament Pindi Chana who is accused of being paid the allowances for the journey to go to Kenya and Ghana but he went to Kenya where he played for two days and then he went to India for treatment.

Chana is the chairperson of the committee on constitutional and law which had a two weeks tour in those countries, with our citizens, he has told that due to the lack of that chairperson, the committee came back to two days before the day that they had received by parliament.
