
Ramadhan Nassib and Son of God, Tetemesha Entertainment, can't leave, "he showed.
By OthmanMapara.
I know you know that the first winner of Bongo Star Search contest is Kayumba Juma who was representing the province of Dar es Salaam and he had put a certificate of 50 million shillings but I don't see if the second one and three do you know?
When they got this is this, who held the second position, Nassib and Atosha Kissava, who happened in Shinyanga province, but in that competition that represented the province of Arusha, he got 10 million shillings, while the third winner, Francis ida Amani who was from Arusha has ended up with five million shillings.
We should follow up with what I want to show it is how the second winner of the competition, Nassib and Atosha Kissava, which was able to sing with great skill of "I could have lost," the artist of Kibondemaji, Tena, and has shown an opportunity of success through his music.
"I was using the song" Amast (EU) Petra Tungi 'because I believe it is a good song, with good friend and I believe it has shown my talent for all who were following that song because it is why he believes has shown a way in his music life.
That song started being known in 15 countries since it was recorded in the year 2011, I was known by many countries in the world after a player of Barcelona soccer club and Portugal national team, Christiano Ronaldo and the best player who plays for Real Madrid and Portugal national team, Christiano Ronaldo, and more than one million people.
That song was written by Sharon Actor 'and Antonio Dyna, which was mentioned in the Portuguese language and English, claimed to be known after some of the players of Brazil among them, Aqsa in singing that song while in the TV period in Germany.
After that song you used to go up the charts and loved by people of the European countries, Latin America and Israel where it was able to hold the top position in various charts.
In the year 2011, that song was chosen to compete for the Latin Grammy, using the best album at the time the game had 11 matches in the Germany minute, number 10 Australia and two number 189 in Switzerland.
This is an interview and talked about some of the things she gets like musician Telecenter.
Tanzanian Mrs Testify which was born in January 21, 1981 which was believed to play in the school's choir in 1987, having six years old, what you were born where you are born.
Fanta, Mrs I was born in Shinyanga, I met with a peaceful election as I am happy about the university at Makerere University in Arusha town where for now I will continue with a music degree of music.
Tanzanian Miss Testify which when he reached 10 years, his music star started showing vision after his father gave him a gift of a music car and when he attained 12 years old and his brothers, he advised them to start with a band because he was knowing some of the media, you will do your music journey?
If I start, I started music with a small man even though the environment of my life was faced with a lot of challenges including my father not to love my music activities because it was not seen to continue on how I started with music.
But my mother gave himself the heart and he was a great help to me, but his great support is that I'm in this period my father would have a surprise of my music because he was seeing my work because he did not see his benefits.
