
Farmers do not lie!
They are supposed to leave the concept of masturbation.
Joseph Lyimo, The Citizen of Pickup, as he invented the bar.
Simanjiro District, Simanjiro District, Manyara Region have been urged to grow professionally and using better seeds that are used to cater for them.
Agriculture and Irrigation and the District Council of that district, has made the statement the day before yesterday in front of the district commissioner, Mahmoud Kambona, and the councilors who visited the class.
He said, he said through his farm, leaders and citizens will learn and educate other farmers the benefits to grow professionally by using better harvest, the fertilizers they used to climb it.
He urged the farmers to come out with any interruptions that doesn't sell land.
In addition, he said that the four acres farm has been tested for maize for the purpose of training to farmers in the area so that they can know the benefits of fighting and using the virus and quality seeds.
Speaking on the farm, Kambona, said that it is good for political leaders with great impacts on the community of farmers to get the subject of better agriculture in order to improve education to their votes.
"The plain truth that trumps mirror does not destroy the land for now, has been known as a time since the best farmers gets professionally by using the officers that educate them and get a lot of crops with productivity."
Said Lambert.
Nyanghwale member of parliament, Jackson Ole Sendeka said that through that farm, he has got a lesson so as to explain the farmers of his area.
Also, he said that he will use his farm for the purpose of buying WhatsApp professionally.
"The farming work is good and if you will follow the criteria you will succeed to get better crops, because there are some people who are forced to have 20 acres and get the same kind," he said.
Councilor of Fly 540 Kenya, Hamburakis said that he will take some of the farmers of his area for the purpose of getting in the areas of Orkesumet.
