
President Jakaya Kikwete is in danger of being sentenced for verification of war.

A warning was released by the American State House against the government of Rwanda.
The accused of the president of that country, Paul Kagame, to stop helping the rebels.
The age of 23, has every symptoms that it put in the group of leaders.
The African Union has their fate after releasing his authority covered.
It is surprising me.

President of the United States, Barack Obama, who.
This week he was quoted by different news agencies in the world.
President Kagame to be able to help the army in the Sunni rebels.
He is believed to release that statement as the stand of his government which is found.
Officials involved with the war crime.

Although to now.
President Kagame has not been mentioned by the American State House as one of the leaders.
Africa is accused of fighting for war, a warning was released by the president.
Obama says that there is a rumor that it involved with events of the type.
That made them cost some of the presidents that cause a finger to a finger.
America for this kind that is happening in the Kagame Cup.

Analysts and lack of things that consider the statement of President Obama.
They are explaining that he released after America being satisfied with the evidence.
It was involved in Rwanda the government of Rwanda to help the rebels.
23 million.

It is explaining that America after realizing that district.
The Army of Rwanda that performed in that groups of the rebels who are planning.
And the Local Government of Congo, with being implemented the brutal actions against them.
A human being in the east of that country with great wealth.
The minerals, has decided to destroy the Kagame Cup, who has been with Swahili during a long time.
A long time with that nation.

In their assessment, about the warning weight.
President Obama of President Kagame to President Kagame, are explaining that he will not be able to avoid sharp teeth.
The charges of the International Criminal Court (ICC).

The rebels.
The group of 23 group, apart from running the fight against the army.
The government of Congo, an issue that can be dealt with by international community.
They are accused of preventing them and killing of people that do not have guilty.

The claims of
Those are also directed to the army of Rwanda, that is said to partner.
And those rebels and the ones that told President Kagame in a danger.
He was arraigned in court and even sentenced to him as it was.
The president of Liberia, Charles Taylor, who for now is serving the imprisonment.
50 years in prison after being found guilty of war crime in the country.
Sierra Leone where more than 50,000 people were killed in war.
For themselves and many others were left to a permanent disabled.
This is since the Kagame Cup now, and Taylor also was so far.
When he was informed with the international community and he raped.
Those are.

As analysts and analysis of issues they have.
That is the warning by the American government against President Kagame.
Army in the war in Congo, the evidence that were collected by the institution.
United Nations agencies for providing human donations shows.
The United States of Rwanda that are planning to work together with the rebels of 23 are.
They were involved in criminal acts against human beings.
The evidence of that kind is that was used by ICC, used that judgment.
Who was being accused of helping the rebels groups.
United Front (NBL) and the winner of the Council of ORC.
To cut off the weapons of war in the context of the swim.

Stephen.
Karlander added, the law analyst of criminal offenses in America.
His interview with the newspaper of the United Republic of England.
Being the leadership of the government of Rwanda has the accusations of returning in court.
ICC has confessed about the fights that are going on in East Africa.

He was a statement.
That Agnieszka Radwan is supporting claims of time to time of organizations.
The international ones that are involved in the defense of human rights reserved.
Congratulations to save the ambassador of UNICEF and UNHCR, which at different times.
He has been alleged to have enough evidence of the rebels of 23 percent.
And the police force doing the killing of citizens that do not have guilty in the towns.
Various east of Congo.

It is also reported.
The evidence shows how the rebels of 23 have been selling.
Small children in the army forces are the ones who have.
If they were asked to the front line in the fight.
In events of war crime.

Other accusations.
The ones that are believed to be played in the country of Kigali, is organizing a group of the Sunni rebels.
That was under the leadership of General Don Ntachuma.
He has surrendered to court of ICC earlier this year.

Part of the place.
The big number of the fighters of 'Ntwa Mitego has now come from rebels.
A group of 23 and they have been improving security in areas.
The great wealth of minerals in Congo.
