The chairperson of National Electoral Commission Judge Damian Lubuva said there is no increase in voting stations in the Arumeru East elections that is expected to take place on first of next month.
There is improvements will take place in the permanent registration exercise so that it should have a report.
Ready for that election the retired judge Damian Lubuva has said that in Dar es Salaam city when he was meeting with journalists to explain different issues happening at the campaign meeting where together with other things, he has urged politicians to run professionally and consider the ethics of the elections so that the law have a report.
Nine days before the residents of Arumeru East Constituency in Arusha province, to elect the representative to parliament for the National Electoral Commission (NEC) through its chairman Judge Damian Lubuva, I have met with journalists explaining different issues concerning the election at the time when the campaigns that are reported were affected by violence, Mwanza gave him one of the politicians who are in his campaign to speak to him.
For a picture.
One is there.
It's not in the campaign but I have said that therefore, they are told them to cook here, the writer is just on behalf of my colleagues if he insisted to contest.
We are to consider the ethics ethics if we do.
You feel that some of the voters while being removed from the permanent fate of voters.
It gave out an explanation and sometimes it was someone who has prepared them to be careful.
Baraza Ditto started saying that if that person has prepared himself time.
Now, that kind is the kind that we will have been worked on in Arumeru East and be satisfied that there are voters for those who registered more than two times after his explanation is taking approximately four minutes, then it came to approximately seven minutes, that's not a Retired Judge Lubuva has reduced that it's not a Retired Judge Lubuva.
This is with problems.
All of them are Tanzanians.
That happened is that he has been born with other countries.
While parents are doing work.
And on the law of the country, I asked himself, the law of Kenya allows for a child who was born in the country when he used to be a story about it and that they stopped him that there was no law.
In a total of four hundred and seven centers that are in ten and seven wards are expected to be used in the small elections of the member of parliament of Arumeru East Constituency.
Yams flourish at Eliona.
