
AG Werema is not a member of CCM!
May 31, 2012

Few hours after being sworn in here in Dodoma town, while the 17 parliamentary meeting was started, it started a session of all members of parliament for the purpose of being given a briefing of the trend of the day training on day in that 17 meeting.

Inside that meeting, all the members of parliament who are not allowed to attend the news from within the session met this newspaper with some of the newspapers in every day about what happened in that session relating to AG, Werema.

One of those things are AG) being given an opportunity to speak and explain three two to members of parliament as the greetings to ask for cooperation with parliament and maybe explained his direction.

News from the meeting which also been quoted by some of the newspapers reports is that AG has thrown out that he does not have a CCM card and therefore it is not a member of CCM and he has no plan to be a member of the party.

Another thing that gave them to the members of parliament is that, he believes that he cannot have a permanent friend or a permanent thing in its work performance, the view that he was also swept up while speaking to Good Citizen in his interview after being sworn in parliament.

However, apart from that, it was said that some of the members of parliament were doing well (AG), who is not known especially why they did not do a lot of time, maybe if they wanted to be taught.

In doing that time, one of the members of parliament, maybe on behalf of the few colleagues, he stopped him (Msemo) on his minute before being given an opportunity to go to speak.

In my friend, they identified himself or released his position as AG) about an issue that goes hand in news headlines for nearly a whole week heading to members of parliament to take two allowances for doing one work.

It is alleged that when he has talked to the members of parliament, they saw him as a lot, it has come to Judge Werema, who were waiting for desire to be tough, it would have been a lesson that could destroy the members of parliament or could destroy the parliamentarians.
But maybe by his ability to test for things, Judge Werema, was keen and did not give a answer that depends on any side.

According to the sure reports of inside the session, our citizens believe that, Judge Werema, to explained to members of parliament, "there are people who use abusive language, here they want to talk about this issue.

However, despite the occurrence in that event, the privacy of members of parliament, other information reports are saying that there will be taken out of the issue of "Nisubiri" between AG and his fellow advisers here in Dodoma town.

That day was stated that there was a session of the members of parliament of CCM, and here it should be remembered that AG) had made an appeal to the members of parliament because he does not have a CCM card, and he does not plan to look for them.
But in that meeting with his fellow directors of that ministry showed the intention of wanting to attend that session. Our news reporter is evident that he knew the talks between the ones who wanted to advise him as AG).

Adviser of Mzee I think it is better if you involved in this good session of members of parliament of CCM, so as to enable them to continue with their procedures if you are the attorney general of the government.

AG Werema, you know I have been appointed as AG and national chairperson of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), then know me is the attorney general of the CCM government.
Now I think I was forced to go to attend that session.

However, due to the presence of a huge tension, that news reporter was not ready to explain how the last decision was between advice and when waiting for advice, and by bad luck, we were unable to follow up closely like AG, visited or not.

The first day to answer the question the parliament took that on November 4th this year (Wednesday).

Maybe as a result of that reason, the attorney general, who is one of the senior officials of that ministry, who is also in parliament as a member of parliament and part of ministers, was forced to answer a question by the member of parliament for Meleba South Constituency, Wilson Masinga.

In his primary question, Masaudi, explained that the Muleba District Council was launched in 195 but up to now the district courts should know how the government will build a court building of status and residence of the judge.

On behalf of Prime Minister, AG, gave answers with a lot of information, but the biggest thing, he started by seeing the member of parliament for showing interest in collaboration with the government to build that building.

However, in addition to arrest, later he gave a answer that made some of the journalists in their area (press conference) who were listening keenly, they started falling.

After writing a lot, the member of parliament and his efforts made the answer that it can be interpreted as' to stop the original reputation, especially when he said it has no importance without changing the words that, "the government does not have a plan to build a Court of Muleba District as well as a result of a budget."

What is his feelings before members of parliament?

As a result of the fact that the day was the first of him to stand in front of the parliament inside the parliament hall and to answer a question on behalf of the minister, without the experience of the way, my fellow citizens have been looking for AG, Judge Werema, to know how he felt as he spoke about that question and those short talks were recently.

Good citizens (AG) is your first time to stand and listen to a question on behalf of the minister, together with the questions of registration of parliamentarians without any experience, considering that other questions are estimated to be used as women.
Slaa, we explain your feelings during that time.

AG Werema, thank Aah! There is no surprising thing.
Remember me is the judge and I have ever been the judge until the Union of Development of Southern Africa (SADC).

The activities of inside here (parliament) is not true and I see it is normal activities by considering the ability and my experience, especially in this legal issues and especially if a person has never seen even a bit about issues of general elections.

A good citizen of Zanzibar, what you want to talk about our parliamentarians in general in your first day in parliament and even before being appointed to be AG?

AG, right now are members of parliament keenly and with great contribution to the nation and these are only many, but I have also noted that there are members of parliament who don't have a habit of doing enough research about different issues that they want to talk or ask.
But the situation is good in general.
