
The proposal of the 18 teams in the premier league has come up causing a mistake.
By John Lukuwi.

And John is holding 18 to 18 to an extent that it doesn't affect the field that affects the lake and many fans.
The proposal that was set up by a big conflict between the company that deals with those two teams.
After both sides failed to agree, he had a message to FIFA officers to visit the country for two weeks to give guidance in relation to conflicts about the procedure of that league.
After the officers meeting with various stakeholders in the country, finally, they found many Kenyans who joined the team's proposal to be 18 next season.
The direction wants to bring back the ones who passed after some of the players who have retired from organizing that league also support 20 teams.
Through the chairperson of the association of coaches in the country, Ricky Solomon, those players said that they were tested in that league will give the two teams the best position with many talents to be identified.
But some of the soccer officers in the country including the chairperson of Mathalis United, Bob Dylan Kerr to feel that they can't affect that game.
You are proud that who is one of the people who start living in Kraehenbuehl said the exchange of time to time from the soccer federation against the company raised sponsors.
You are proud that many clubs in the country have been faced with financial problems including her club of Mathna United, but stop involving themselves in every time, it will not help anything to attract the sponsors.
"There is plans to attract sponsors more to strengthen soccer, but it will not be possible if this tension will continue, what are supposed to told the journalists.
But one of the top levels in the Football Federation insisted that the new season will have 18 teams instead of 16.
"The decision to increase the premier league teams from 16 to 18, will you know if we have decided to advise all the 18 clubs, the ones of Supa Premier League and also the communications officer in the country's offices in the country.
Both teams were given time to register afresh and the federation according to 17 soccer laws in the country.
Those supervisors are claimed to be Kengele posing for a team for you to be 16 so that they continue to buy money from sponsors.
Under the number of soccer supervisors in the country wanting the number of the premier league teams in the country to be added from 16 but responding to their claims, the Chief Officer of the KEC Company, Jack Oguda, he said the supervisors of his company had an aim to increase the team up to 18 days just after Kakopi Kapesti 'and directed Azam FC to be taken to the level.
The report of the soccer managers in the country said that we are the ones that are chosen to manage football in the country and we're the responsibility of doing a student depending on the FIFA rules.
Among our responsibility is to remove and increase the team every after the season ended.
All that we visit was done in a special vehicle meeting that took place in town, in the year 2013, the ones that were being attended by all the representatives of the Kikio Team was officially released at the annual meeting that took place in Kenya, of Dar es Salaam.
"We don't know the procedure that now we will not have another person to intervene in the soccer authority in the country," the pastor leading the plan through reports from the media.
Kraehenbuehl has announced that after the executive committee committee, the committee stopped the proposal despite the managers of soccer insisted that they agreed to agreement.
In that report, Kraehenbuehl has claimed that the law of that league are supposed to have two teams that have been affected by two levels to be taken to the national league.
The 16 teams started 2008 for the national team to have enough opportunity to participate in the friendly matches with the international competition according to the FIFA schedule (CAF) with the aim of the country strengthening its international standards of FIFA.
According to Oguda, that system was also focused on the interests of the players because many teams in the country do not have insurance to their players when they use them.
Kraehenbuehl has claimed that since it started working together with the soccer party, Kenya was listed in more than 68 percent of the FIFA level, "we are happy to see this team being the FIFA committee of the year 2004, the government, clubs and soccer supervisors have agreed to be taken against 24 to 16.
Oguda he claimed that since that time, the soccer situation has improved than it was previously.
According to the research that was done in the English Premier League, the only teams that are more than 16 teams in their league are Nigeria and Egypt, which have a big number of citizens than Kenya with enough sponsorship but not to qualify for the African Cup finals of 2015.
That report claimed that the league that was eliminated, the team will have a big cargo following the big number of matches which clubs play since the end of the season.
Here in the country, the proposal of having 18 teams from 16 in the Kenya Premier League (KMU) in the next season, are attracting many fans.
Already the Federation of that game together with the company that deals with running that league has started the strategies to ensure it is being implemented.
In a special session with the sponsors of the game, the proposal of the change of the game in the country will be submitted.
Those talks were started after the Chief Officer of the Koscielny and Jack Oguda explaining that the current law of that company is not knowing the league to have more than 16 teams.
Hostility between the Football Federation in the country FKhajida Kopa, the Koke company took the new course later on the moment, we are urged the authority to supervise the premier league clubs and even those who were before it to change.
Through that is the deputy minister gave birth to them, Robert Asmara, a company announced to take the responsibility of running that league officially from next year.
Asukile has announced that he could destroy the front of all the companies that do not work under SuperSport and announced his new opinion about the sponsorship of that league.
All the clubs in the country were ordered to register afresh and FFGM before December 15.
In those recommendations, the First Division League (Supa League) will also be removed from 24 to 28 teams whereby they will fall into two groups each one with 14 teams.
After receiving those agreements, a special inspection was started about evaluating the way they used the money for a period of five years.
Those session also organized to make changes in the Kenya Premier League so that it does not go hand in hand with the European nations.
Asukile has said they are expecting the sponsorship of soccer from the South Africa Power Station, former TV and Kenya Power.
Finally, a car has and Postal Bank got in the premier league and started weaving their squads.
This has been seven stars with an entrepreneur of many years including Joseph Kimwaga who are being taxed.
That star has ever been the best scorer in the league at that time when Yanga soccer club.
The governor of Kisukuru, James DeBarge, is among those who have shown to help the team in a state of property.
In the contribution of him, he said that he had gone to re-branding of the Karume Memorial Stadium for his home ground in that club.
Rangers on his part removed some of his players who were outside the loans and now is proud of its strong squad.
Moreover, the heads of that club that brought the coach John Lukuwi from Thika United.
