
Ciara and coldness.

The step of the Court of Appeal in the country to revoke the decision about the handing over the Independent Power Tanzania Limited (IPTL), by the fact that the attempt failed to sell it from that company aimed at making money from the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT).
The decision by the appeal case (CLA) number 1, released last week by three judges led by the chief justice, Chande Othman, has shown the previous decision made by the court in relation to the handing over to IPTL on the left wing, a decision that has affected the sales of the company's sales company from Cedars-Governmental Agency Limited.
The legal reports show that the decision by the Court of Appeal will look for a decision by the registration agency, of births and deaths (RITA), the responsibility of honor to IPTL, the responsibility which was to run the institution's authority to run the company's activities.
Before that decision, the discussions were going on, and November this year, the previous contract (they do we have made all sides involved in court, last Friday (December 21).
2012), before the decision of the Court of Appeal of December 17, 2012.
However, there have been an obstacle to the government and some of shareholders who have shown to instill doubt in the agreements which he would have forced the government through BoT in giving an amount of 115 million American dollars (TANESCO) like payments to IPTL.
The fear from some of the stakeholders is the division of those funds and payments from the buyer, compared to the money that will be from BoT in the level appears to take advantage of the payment of payments according to the shares.
In those previous agreements, Celine Itatiro was able to buy 70 percent of Mechmar and Standard Chartered Bank, Azikiwe Premier Branch (CBB) inside IPTL on 115 million American dollars (USD 1), and that there are BoT to pay that company at the same level.
The oil company has also bought 30 percent of the VIP company's shares worth 70 million dollars (more than 70 billion shillings) together with the cost of six million dollars (more than six billion) and so as to reach 76 million dollars (more than 80 billion shillings).
In those agreements, it has been explained that all the concerned sides will be forced to stop immediately because the process that is in court is together with the process of the effects that were under RITA.
In those agreements, the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) is expected to be involved due to having money that was paid for IPTL, to provide services to the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO).
The Central Bank through a special account has been increasing the payment of IPTL as a result of producing electricity in a special account (Tegeta Escrow A / C), money that were unable to be completed in the process that is in court.
For a long time now, there have been a problem concerning the IPTL funds that are in BoT, with some people including the members of parliament about those funds to be dealt with.
Already there is an issue of parliament that issue to be finished quickly outside the court so that the money can be used in completing the debts of TANESCO and take care of IPTL so as to reduce the cost of prices and the shortage of electricity in the country.
The chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, Zitto Kabwe, who his committee is the one that made those recommendations, and said that any decision was given to IPTL, it is required to consider the declaration of parliament.
"The issue of IPTL has been taken quickly out of court so as to speed rates of the machine to use gas and thus increasing the production of electricity of 100 megawatts that are required to now whereby there is a huge shortage of electricity and therefore, taking part of that declaration of parliament and continuing.
In order to implement the IPTL plan, it should be noted that IPTL will affect the country and TANESCO had set aside the debts that is used to ensure that the amount of money that is being paid by IPTL, said that TANESCO are required to make sure that the amount of money meant to ensure that the cost of production (non-communicable diseases).
The conflict that is there between TANESCO and IPTL is due to the spread of both two sides about the cost of production which are charged by IPTL.
According to the contract of swept away the electricity between IPTL and TANESCO, it should be able to take advantage of the capital by 30 percent and the profit of 22631 million shillings while IPTL has started producing electricity and started to sell for TANESCO in the year 2002.
The investigation that was done by TANESCO and other institutions have been discovered that the real capital while IPTL has begun to produce electricity was 50,000 shillings, therefore the capital is necessary so as to reduce the cost of production that is paid by IPTL and not otherwise.
After the investigation of TANESCO, if it is discovered that until May, 2008, TANESCO started to pay IPTL a total of 221 billion shillings since they started implementing January, in 2002.
The statement of the secretary general.

Speaking about the issue of IPTL, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, Eliakim Mwasammentioned the village in Magato village for holidays that told our writer.
"IPTL is a private company, we like the government we cannot intervene in the sales process directly, but what we do is to ensure the interests of the nation are protected.
For example, there are money that are in special bank accounts, among those funds, there are also TRA and even TANESCO, we are not supposed to intervene in the interests of our country even if we are not supposed to intervene in one of our country, "the statement by the chief executive officer of RITA.

On his part, the chief executive officer of RITA, Philip Salomon Kalou, told our writer, "I saw our writer," I was told there is no one who wanted to buy IPTL on four months ago but after that I did not know anything.
"But if there is a process of being sold to IPTL, it is a happy issue, because the solution to the issue is in two areas, the first one is to be sold to IPTL and therefore if there is a process of selling it is a good thing.
Statement of Zitto Kabwe.

And the chairperson of the Public Accounts Committee, Zitto Kabwe, who is the member of parliament for Kigoma North Constituency in his communication with our reporter said that the money that will sell IPTL is more than 200 billion shillings now, money cannot be aired in prison for violating the instructions of the parliament. "
Apart from the current information, Zitto Kabwe has ever said, "the High Court has already decided to put IPTL under the second floor, the Office of the handing over to IPTL, TRA, its partners and VIP Engineering) and TANESCO each one to get the country to get electricity that is not a lot.
"Take care of IPTL and it will be able to sell 9 billion shillings every month and to reduce at a large extent of buying electricity and enable TANESCO to run itself with the benefits," the IPTL project has been in a long time taken against those involved and the existence of bribery during the process of that project.
