
Wisdom, giving them to Lake Nyasa to 11 o'clock.

The dispute between the Lake Tanganyika between the United Republic of Tanzania and the United Republic of Malawi has now come out for the strength of a lot of days.
Apart from what we want to recognize that lake by the name of the Lake Nyasa and its neighborhood to speak and return to Lake Malawi, the action of the neighbors to show their map, that the whole lake is not a stern action.

The Mighty One, have been showing that in their map, though the locals are in the outskirts of that lake which was depending on their lives due to the economic activities they provide in the region.
Now, in all of us, we know that the area is in conflict, the decision by Malawi to enable the mining of oil in that lake region is an act that appears to be facing a certain kind.
Wisdom of normal make sure that it is good before starting any use in any area of conflict, discussions should be used to take the first position so as to solve the problem.
To approve the use of the areas with conflict before solving that conflict, it's out of lack of wisdom in the primary school, we believe that Malawi and Tanzania were supposed to look for a goalless draw and not one of the countries to start the use of the area of conflict.
The citizens of Malawi and Tanzania are many years, if you remove the mistakes of performance and the relationship that got lost in the past years between these nations and therefore, we urge them to support all the important efforts in order to resolve the issue.
It is our expectations that, legality of human beings will be able to solve this issue, without the use of energy, therefore it is good for forgiveness for leaders of all the two sides.
Politicians of all the two sides have decided to use this matter to be the capital to show "thank you," to speak even a good thing and another one is waiting for the hearts of their citizens as' patriotic '.
We are saying this because after the ministers of foreign affairs of Tanzania and Malawi in Dar es Salaam, for the first talks, the issue that took a new chapter after Tanzania's delegation to return to their home and give a picture that shows like Tanzania, "Masau boasted.
Here there is no salvation, to write a lesson so as to identify the truth about the truth, because we do not believe that we are blocking the water of that lake which is same as getting in Malawi.
Those talks are being done to solve the conflict because we do not believe that every country has come to one of the countries using energy or other ways to get its rights and for sure that the relationship is available, another one in Malawi and Tanzania cannot be satisfied with the hope of getting oil alone.
