He has taken a good picture when he told her that you can come out of ando and be a researcher in the place.
When we live in Dar es Salaam city, we know we're very important here for the purpose of continuing with research, it was explained that there was one area where all the business people can meet and let me take this opportunity to try to know this which we have been able to discover these things.
Where we are in Songea.
Or the chest?
We see the eyes, and these?
It could not be noticed if he is a erosion of soil that we could be able to be identified.
Something that has been helping as to know how we have found.
So I don't know?
.
Four Paul and later we will want to look at how that country can be used, they believe it has broken these things.
Because they surprised himself that this area has a lot of discipline or the ones that are following fear of.
Therefore, the first time we have decided that in this area where we are going on and we sat on the map of Tanga city, this will help to follow up on the players on how to follow up and know that you will be easy to follow up and know the love will be available in Tanga.
The late Adam and it is with this way, on the map, you can marry off the person and be able to follow up and attend to that area, others are not the first thing that a woman can put it so in and just after.
Secondly, we will begin to win by being things.
Get a stove.
At the moment there is a carcass in the field of Dar es Salaam, to find your views on the way you do not recognize the questions there, it does not recognize the questions, there is no reason that we will be in the area.
If someone can also be found under now, it is a culture of many days we believe that she has broken.
Do not understand the real time you will be, after starting to build himself in the second step, it will be a result of nine.
Put the late Adam James and when the bad hours you wrote two days again, he was sent away from other things that are available on the late.
In its reality of land.
It will be a second thing is yours.
