This work is done?
Thank you so much my brother like what he said.
My colleagues here do not lie!
Truly you look at this issue of running the coalition.
You know our brothers, a love of love is like business.
If we request for them now here, we should make sure we have to do our soccer to be modern in the clubs and even our national team.
Now I talks about shivered to the relationship, you can't know the clubs.
I take a example in Yanga Club.
Before Yanga is a very big club and I think I have fans who are very many here in the country?
But it is a club you can see that there is a small parts that are facing.
The major ones are sold as the jersey are there, there is a picture that you will come out to the Konongo that goes up to up to an extent until today the clubs are expected to move up until today, the clubs are expected to move up until today, the clubs are expected to go up until today, the clubs are expected to go up until today, the clubs are expected to go up until today, the clubs are expected to go up until today, the clubs are supposed to go up until today, the clubs are supposed to go up until today's competition.
Yes, when a word, you do not know the broadcaster of the headquarters like I don't like I went to succeed in order to make steps but to believe that it was so as to give a penalty.
All of them are issues of the leadership that your leadership to fulfill our fellows together with professionalism on how the clubs are being done by remember there is something again that we have been done?
Something like what I don't know what happened in South Africa if I am not seen in the month if the last season he was required to go a long time and others but it came out is the one that will go for a long time and others but the presenter in our soccer club are very important on these events.
It is going on and participated in the statistics that are there to see the games here he was listening keenly as the police.
Right to wait.
The identity card.
I thank you so much.
By the name is called, Charles and he is a servant for these things that we will do.
To get pregnant here in Shinyanga we are happy to be the first all of all.
All of all, it's because of wanting to uplift sports where it is said they have been able to reach here, but these days have been encouraging different games to indicate that the son can be on the front line to ensure that sports is going on to ensure that games.
It is moving forward now to go to one of the problems.
Which we have been meeting?
Especially in this year's year, there were eight.
One is there.
They came to speaking.
Body and poor eyesight.
Poverty are thinking arising from what?
What does not have the ability to think that we have passed since?
Where we are and we are going?
When we were with many years.
Then you had asked you that they did for ten years ago.
I don't know a certain thing but the truth is that we are not aware like this, where we are doing what we are heading to my points I want to ask question on issues of entrepreneurship.
That Swahili is found.
You could have tried to do more than severe pains, we have already paid taxes in the body, these things have already left the news reports of the body again for the last life here is business.
Just like business and we have been complaining the same and said employment to youths, but we have noticed that we can have us from there to politicians who live in football and we believe that we can be able to get an opportunity to play and be able to get enough income and therefore for running their families.
But another is that when you go to Dar es Salaam, we have been complaining.
In addition to avoid poverty of the body, which is a conversation with those because today at ten o'clock and then I have played three times it was seen to be expelled for fifty years tomorrow at the training.
It is not know what does it mean?
The late Almighty God has come to the world with five million dollars in my account.
We should meet next week exercise is first one?
Then you want to come up to the camp you should not understand you, you should ask you and that we are being satisfied so much and if there is even if they get the same way to accumulating the ball.
They are telling us here to think more that I have remained in football and it is not a must to know it.
Most of the parents have been worried that we have read me, we did not want to play football, we believe that Lionel Messi who live in countries and for people who are involved in countries.
The ball is an act.
So as to talk about them when we go to the field we believe that I don't understand what we are doing, but we are saying that we are going to play football but we should know where we are doing so, we want to go well and we know where we want to go well in my view.
