Youths stop, mosquitoes of discrimination is not allowed.
Dec 13, 2012

Last Sunday, I met with my lesson "Tanzania mainland to celebrate our birthday, although we were born different years, and therefore the recent birthday was to reach different age, but as it is, the birthday is usually a great importance to the party.

Contrary to the most of that you celebrate with joy, joy and shouts and bad luck in my birthday, you put it the right time to think I come from, I was surprised and I don't know.
Thank God and asked him to know more.

As years we are going ahead, and as my age and of Tanzania Mainland is continuing to increase, this is how I will be able to look for me about my word "Tanzania mainland (I use this name instead of" Tanzania Mainland 'because our colleagues in Tanzania Islands got independence different days to us of Tanzania.

On top of my thoughts, as I celebrate my friend and "my word" Tanzania mainland is coming from the fact that on a certain amount you love you.
That our country instead of going to front is like it is resolved.

There are not happy about the whole issue of freedom and we put away the colonialist so that we can benefit from our resources instead of those resources to benefit the colonialist "that is happening, and his position has been taken by" the black bikini. "
Approximately 1,200 people that have shaken the country and the others that are participating in the picture, our nation have contributed to our fellows.

Several times I have been using this statement, "at least the time you will suppress and love me, the colonialist Doctor could have a problem with me, most of them have been shown to our country but many of them have been cheated in the whole country.

Therefore, basically, the Tanzanian people don't have a problem "(front) because it is not only that they can destroy their country.
But even the victims of that corruption are people who concern them close to them.

But there is a new issue "which comes up this year during the commemoration of our freedom day at the conference that took place at the University of Dar es Salaam, some of the youth politicians who were told to see the elections laws are changed to destroy the presidency."
In the previous years, I have ever written the article, together with other things, it was involved by the former member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency through CHADEMA ticket, Zitto Kabwe.
Who was quoted by the press claiming that the process of bringing development can be supervised by people who were born before Uhuru.

In that article I'm supposed to see that I've heard that I've seen the same time to Zitto Kabwe, she has put it openly that if we start praising women, Christians and he has said, Wanene Nyambabe, and etc.

What happened after that conference is as a debate on the age of presidential candidate moving to the social network of Twitter.
Where different people came out to contribute to their motion, while I was among them.

I personally, I agree with the fact that our constitution is needed to encourage youths by seeing that the presidential candidate should have a certain age and continue with this disease, it has more than 40 years of leading more than 39 years.

But I don't know this issue of "youth be discriminated, where it is impossible to have politicians who are greedy for power they want to use the agenda of the same type / old.
And I hope to reach their political goals.

And using that agenda if there would be no problem, it would have brought about issues that people who were born this year should be allowed to fight for discrimination.
