
24 December 2012

Doctor Huvisa continued to show his skill of giving the manager of the Jangwani hotel in the country.

By David.

The Minister of State, Office of the Vice President (environment), Doctor, while dancing in Huvisa, has ordered the National Council of Environmental Management in the country (AU), to arrest the manager of the Jangwani Hotel that is in Dar es Salaam.
Also Doctor Huvisa has said that the construction supervisor is going on in a hotel in the city Mister Abdelhamid Radnedge, the instructions were made by leaders of the council about improving the hotel environment.

Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Doctor Huvisa said the fire that she was not covered by the owners of all the hotel in the country, will implement the instructions that they had been given so as to implement the policies of the environment on actions.

He said in ensuring the law on the 20 environment of the year 2004 to that, they have banned the hotel and given heavy instructions after the leadership of the hotel.
The instructions he was given to improve the environment.

"I have directed them to ensure we take appropriate measures for all hotel owners who have been unable to implement the instructions of renovating their hotel," he said.

Doctor Huvisa added that many buildings are being faced with the problem of lack of good systems for passing the waste water and put restrictions in a clean state thus endangering health of customers especially considering that the hotel come from every kind from outside and outside the country.
He said that he will make sure he is blocking all the hotel that will not follow keenly the time they are given especially about conservation of the environment.

In another step, Doctor Huvisa said that he has released the report of the Vice President, Doctor Mohamed Gharib Bilal to sue them to the leaders of Dar es Salaam city and Kinondoni Municipal for failing to give a call on his sitting concerning the dirty situation that has been banned from that city.

He said that it would have been an order, he would have taken appropriate laws about those leaders for being unable to manage that issue thus he has decided to take over to Doctor Bilal and thank him to give him the prime minister, Mister Mizengo Pinda for more decisions.

Also, Doctor Huvisa added that the problem of environmental destruction is facing the world where November 27th until December 7 this year, had the 18th meeting of the United Nations about the agreement of climate change held in Geneva, Qatar.

He said the aim of the meeting was to discuss about the start of the second phase of the implementation of the contract or protocol of the entire country to have a length of its implementation.

Other things which were discussed are levels of illegal gas in developed countries, during the implementation, availability of funds to cater for the activities of climate change and how to enable the fund to climate change.

He said that sitting continued to discuss the availability of money so as to prevent environmental destruction, on how to deal with loss, destruction of property and lives of people due to the effects of those changes together with the use of the agricultural sector to deal with those changes.

He emphasized that his office is ready for managing the laws given, not otherwise, he will ensure he is implementing that for all who will benefit from the instructions offered.
