
We shouldn't understand the union keenly, you will benefit from 25 o'clock.

Now it is permission to discuss the fate of Tanganyika and Zanzibar on the 48 years ago on April 26, 2014.
This has been open by the chairman of the commission to coordinate the opinion polls of the new constitution, Judge Joseph Sinde Warioba soon.
Previously and at the beginning of this process, and said that since its establishment, the citizens were not allowed to discuss the union.
The permission has opened several floods, about different ideas on the union, there are some who want the union to obey them by considering the right purpose of its establishment and in the current environment, there are also some who want a three-government structure, but there are also people who have succeeded in politics of separation who want to be dealt with.

All these are part of democracy under the concept of freedom of ideas which would have been the era of democracy of one party, all of those would like Keko.
The cause of ractory sides in the union is enough confirmation that our union is not well since the beginning of the public and that its silence by the citizens on his opinion has been forced to fear, because of the opinion polls that were given to them, and that now has given birth to him.
Any political union that is being done without the consent of the citizens on all the days are of conflict, conflict, problems and hostility, and therefore cannot be permanent immediately when they get into power, but you can be filled up by listening to the issues of citizens and by giving them the mistakes that they stopped.
We have witnessed and saw the way the union of many days between the United Kingdom and Ireland in the northern region has been caused by cyber crime, including a special argument about the legality of the member of parliament of the United Republic from Ireland in the northern region.

There is also a matter about the people of Zanzibar to be allowed to own land in Tanzania Mainland, or the people of Zanzibar to hold the position of leadership in the United Republic of the United Republic of the United Republic of Tanzania, while Tanzania mainland are not allowed to meet those issues in the islands.
Why we are continuing to have people of Zanzibar and Civil Aviation Authority, while all of them are small from one country?
I have said that the union is available on the sun and blood as a danger of was born and broke all the days, again it's a shame.
The failure of the Central African Federation (CAF) in the year 2009, the United Republic of United Arab Emirates (1) and the United Republic of Ethiopia which was started in 1952, is examples of the union that is owned by lack of consent to the citizens, as it will confirm the way the union being supervised by lack of consent.
The discovery of voluntary contribution in unity, has been written on the source of our union, but in a big part that has been misled, the fact that it was found through voluntary contribution from the East African countries, at that time Zanzibar was the name of the spread of the ideologies.
More than that, the fear of Karume was launched by the activists of the left wing, Karl Marx-Islands, prompted the donation of 300 soldiers from Tanganyika to protect and strengthen his administration and therefore he was already the Tanganyika Stadium for the decisions that were given.
And when the Mwalimu Nyerere's efforts to form the East African Union (close to Tanganyika, Kenya, Uganda and Zanzibar) with great help in the western countries, including Russia, China, China and Germany.
When you know this issue, do not tell ourselves what Zanzibar was baptized as the name of Cuba from Africa "the days of cold drinks?
It's not only that, it is also known that in Karume when they discovered a voluntary contribution to form the union and Tanganyika, Nyerere started to remove its police at the islands of Zanzibar to see Karume without defense and his fellow leaders of the Council of Revolution.
There is no evidence to show that Tanzanians are done by the people of Zanzibar and there is no evidence to show that the Zanzibar Parliament is known as the Revolutionary Council, that made the union's agreement to make laws to legalize the use of that contract in the land of Zanzibar.
Sonero has said that in those constitutional changes and legal measures, the union is supposed to be careful, the union will be careful not to make sure that it will be a lasting problem for 48 years to be good and bad.
What I say here is that the union is going to be discussed in developing and strengthening all the good union of the union, and by considering the structure of the union intended to stop the problems that are not a must.
And in doing so, we should consider and we are living with the requirements of the United Republic for the intended purposes of being in the government and the United Republic of Tanzania, but up to the last constitution is being implemented in the year 1977 due to the permanent constitution is expected to be opened in the year 1977 but six issues were added to be dealt with and contrary to the agreement of the union.
Those 11 things that were mentioned to be mentioned in the fourth article of the United Republic of United Nations (Arnautovic and the Coastal Union) under section five, the law did not change the constitution (Actor ') and therefore its amendments to increase the union of unity under the article are illegal and shivered.
The same way, the act of Appeal will expand and finish it, the authority of improving the United Republic by getting its capacity, the presence of the coalition government and this is the beginning of playing for a union because the process of current constitution must be discussed in order to save the union.
Here is to be emphasized that, the agreement of the union is the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, because it comes from that there is a conflict between the constitution of the United Republic and the United Republic of Zanzibar, the agreement of the United Republic of Tanzania will win.
My opinion is that all of them have been able to discuss a union is a sin or that they do not understand the union it is disrupting peace, democratic and constitutional time, those are the only person that will do him.

The danger of the union broke down is every sign of showing that the union is in danger of shambles, take action against the captain or the coaches of leading the union with culture (Monbusho Scholarship) and on the purpose of its establishment.
To leave the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Sheikh Abeid Karume, as the coaches of the United Republic of the structure, who had been used to be used by power and is still a big challenge, has caused the union of coalition to wave.
The two that got the United Republic of Ethiopia to score against him as King Haazu of Ethiopia, can't accept to be a union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar because of Zanzibar for Tanganyika, if we will be later in this article.
Secondly, there is a new understanding and great importance among the people of Zanzibar (against the coalition) with a union that shows hatred, hostility.
We are not knowing that the United Republic of Zanzibar has been able to get into permanent registration due to their political politics among them themselves (with the rule) since the era of Uhuru's activities in 1957 up to the establishment of the national union (SUK), two years ago.

But now the people of Zanzibar can sit and discuss a union of unity and in one voice by using the constitution of their country and the Parliament (council of representatives) that will not be able to communicate with any agency or any institution of the union.
At the same time, the citizens should claim that they want to get out of United Nations, they want to know which kind of the union was intended and why there has been a huge violation of the foundation and requirements of the union?
The answers that we were used to give the citizens, that they do in that agreement was lost and wanted to advise the United Nations who have lost, it's not the main problem and will continue to increase the problems of the union.

Third, all the three foundations of unity do not have gone to the moment there is a need for the new evaluation of the first primary and East African countries in order to deal with the presidency in the third world.
Secondly, the second foundation is a system of democracy of one political party that gave birth to a great president, popularly known as "President Zito" (it is not allowed to be completed.
The president was able to respect and play for the requirements of the coalition in his order (Tree) and one party Parliament has placed on him without a question.
Anyone who interviewed the union that will be accountable for different levels is the President of the second phase of Zanzibar, Aboud Jumbe Mwinyi, who was awarded all positions for leadership of the government and the party in the year 1984, when he used his political rights to ask about the correct structure of the union that was intended under the union's agreement.
Jumbe said, by using a total of 653 billion members of the constitution of the United Republic, he organized a certificate to take him to the constitutional court of the United Republic of Tanzania to give explanations about the kind of the union between Zanzibar and Zanzibar and the division of power between those two countries in the union.
The only work of that court is to listen to the process that's released before it, and to give a decision to disrupt the constitution in any way or its implementation should be stopped between the government of the United Republic and the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar.
The third foundation that fell in the stadium of Arusha and politics of socialism and livestock that was supervised by the government of one party and the existence of a lot of human rights, political rights, but today issues are different whereby there is a great system and to eliminate challenges and regulations of change.
