Peace will come back in Egypt with the strength of the public?
Autoworks and 31, 2013 by eternal peace.

First, I would like to thank the beautiful lady of this newspaper, Amhad Rajab Rutengwe, for his article I have read in the Citizen newspaper, August 21 to 27, with the news headline you want them to do well, let him leave far from those that arise in Egypt.

Since July 3 up to today, with a sober mind and being independent, they are supposed to arrive in Egypt on what happened and there is the only group that deals with military and those who were chosen to face the army.

Historic, Egypt is a country of many years ago, the past country since the era of Prophet Mohammed (Radhiyallahu An'ha) was a big margin in the world without being found though one person who got injured in the university.

In 1956, Egypt showed joy among the African countries, during the administration of President Gal Abdu Hyghaimo, to serve us in the war against England and France, whereby if we see doctors from Egypt and even teachers who were teaching them in our secondary schools and in mosques and gender violence.

Egypt after the revolution of 1952 and Gamaji Mvumoni Village, began to rule the leadership of that country, there were great opposition between the government of Nasser Mtegery, which was being led by the late Sange (IAGRI), that was being led by the late Sange (IAGRI), that was being led by the late Sange (Iloha), that was being led by the late SELEKT program.

A bad star led to Egypt on July 8th-1967 in a period of five and a half years, I have not allowed the arrest of this country with the old history of Egypt having a huge loss in this war because it was done by leaders of the high level in the army of that country.

I cannot say that the soldiers of Egypt having injuries are their reputation, but history shows that it is not an important thing to them to close to their president and make sure that they believe and give them a bond of strengthening its nation.
Since this was done by General Abu Dhabi, Fatna, Msasani branch, on Wednesday night of July 3, they are not apart from the ones that was done by General Abdul-Him Amir, and his colleagues against Gal Del Jola, during that time.

General Simeone has taken a great promise to the Mlaki and to claim the map of the way that will lead to Egypt in a good future.
