We have the ability to continue without a lot of journey to the president.
Jide 11, 2013.

Last week, there were a short video on the internet that supports President Jakaya Kikwete speaking about his trip to time outside the country for a short time, in that video, President Kikwete entered the journey, while he claimed that "there is no country in the world that you will get development, but I think they will get development when they are not known," he said.
He continued, "the big issue is that you will go out of you, you will go just to leave or you have a special goals during how to follow it?
Likewise, he explained that (his right) I think that all the journey have had the importance and he will not expect to be president who he did not expect it, and we will not welcome him, "we will see what to follow it?
Likewise, President Kikwete said that even in big nations, presidents have separated and gave an example of presidents XI when he visited China and Barack Obama of America.
I request that I advise that the explanation of President Kikwete because of one main reason is saying that it is very good to an extent that maybe the benefits available in some of the journey, can be used to cater for another journey, and that is a burden to the Tanzanian poor.
If a lot of journey is the catalyst for development, then today Tanzania has been able to start development of countries like Rwanda, Botswana, Ghana or even South Africa, because our presidents have done many foreign trips more than the leaders of those countries.
Although it is true that the presidents of great nations like China and America are also doing foreign trips, but the journey are few compared to our president, despite those countries having a great ability to pay taxes or (if it is in AT).
Likewise, the journey of leaders as explaining to him and Obama, may go hand in hand with the signing of various contracts that usually have more benefits to those countries that are visited.
Basically, some of us are complaining about those trips for leaders of great nations like the ones that were done by "if the colonial era, in order to look for resources of their industries, the markets of their products and the areas of making their products.
I request that to be understood that all the journey of President Kikwete has no benefits to our nation, not for sure, what is often seen, the citizens are not satisfied by the ones that are not recognized by the concerned journey, but also they are not satisfied by the success of those trips.
It is difficult for you to hear for example, President Kikwete saying "due to my tour in some countries, we have been able to get market for rice we are producing in large numbers in Ifakara and Mbeya Regions."
Same, we are poor and we are forced to ask for donations for our development of our development, but that poverty also is a reason to reduce the expenditure that are not a must, including those of time to time and for sure it is a big burden to our nation with poor economy.
Although in the normal environment, so as to visit you, you should visit your colleagues, the statement by President Kikwete that, "what is coming is why most of the leaders who come to come up because there is a huge wealth of resources that we have, which essentially has never been done to reduce the journey of time to time and to look for development."
But also if I have written in my last article on this week, our big problem is not the availability of donations, but the correct use of those donations will be same as the correct use of the donations they will be treated.
In an example of example, what does it mean to follow the journey of time to the time of President Kikwete and those of someone who is going to break the water for several times, but when he comes back home, he put up water from one barrel.
On the other side, if our way of a big tour like explaining to him and Obama is the results for the time of President Kikwete outside the country, then it is clear that we can end up because of the tour to go to the ordinary citizens.
