
Police when you have spoilt the people living with?
Jide 25, 2012

There are two types of misunderstanding between the violence that occurred in Zanzibar last Friday from 20 in the afternoon up to 6 in the afternoon up to 6 in the evening a big area in Unguja was like a area of forest that is on fire.
The skirmishes that poured over a whole town from Mtambani Primary School, Michungwani Market, Miss Chang'ombe, Mpendae County, Mpendae County, peace and other parts.

The ones who were saying that in Zanzibar they are on the fire that had been put in road accidents by people who had been burnt down road by people who had been banned from water to make sure they face the police force to prevent violence.
The victims that put restrictions in road accidents are doing it.

The official story of the government is that the leaders of the East African Community (Jumaa), are accused of tension here.

The leaders of that conference, on their part, are saying that they had been doing it is to pray to their bodies and other victims of the ferry river ferry that sunk last Wednesday, while reading their prayers in the Mosque to prevent violence and drinking water, as one newspaper in the country was explained.

When you read the events of Friday last Friday, there is one thing of an assurance from the objection. It is that police used a bomb attacks to oppose people who were not guilty and those who had no weapon.

This is the second time police to launch that situation in recent days.
It will be remembered that the violence that were cast on May 26th, this year.

That day on Friday, the situation started being bad due to those acts of police to prevent violence that were taken place where they had gathered at the field of mental disabilities, but it was a incident "a bomb that had gone to who had been attacked.

Certainly, it shows that it's a few activists who were affected by many who were abducted by the disaster which was the ordinary residents of Unguja town who were in the areas of peace that had been kidnapped by the police officers.

Zanzibar is praised in peace and its security in the East African region is one of the few countries that are in the Great Lakes countries or Somalia, for example the state of peace and security of Zanzibar is among many tourists from outside to visit and when they get to the market for the future of the islands and its people.

Last Friday, a special squad of preventing the violence of the police force in Zanzibar did not qualify to take action against the police can cause someone to understand the state of issues as he believes that there is a situation in the islands between security and ordinary citizens.
A person who came in Unguja that day could believe that in that town, you have faith of hooligans.

We think about the foreign tourists that they visited Zanzibar getting in his film and they are happy with peace and calmness and the state of criminal acts using strength as it is in other parts of East Africa?

It is important to see the violence that are caused by the armed forces, especially in tourism that are believed to have bad results for the economy of the country especially in tourism that is believed that the tourism sector is believed that the tourism sector is the best employer of the residents of Zanzibar apart from the government.

Another thing that has continued to bring bad luck and to make the police department to read it for his attacks, is that the Friday event happened on the month of Ramadhan to people living in their homes and their activities in preparation for the end of Ramadhan was affected by their businesses.

By bad luck since the year there were only political parties of Zanzibar, that in addition to the police have been educated about politics and just like the truth, then we are supposed to see our security agencies for the way they were doing their work since the year 2004 up to disperse them and killing different political suspects.

For political reasons, the security agencies so much used to protect human rights like the citizens having freedom to say, freedom of giving their views, freedom to address them and opinion polls to deal with the official views of the government or a party that depends on them.
However, after going back to the system of many political parties, police and other security agencies have been working for political parties in Zanzibar that it is "political enemies," time after time, there have been cases of followers of the opposition parties being attended by security organs or arrest and there were accused of having been charged with charges of "treason.

In the community that are running the administration activities through the old Taarab work, the police are usually in fighting crime and to protect the lives of people and their properties.
With us for a period of 48 years ago police have risen from another name.
It has been used to have given them a chance to defend the government by putting off the citizens or by involving themselves with other weapons like the bombs of humor and enough.

Here we arrived at the community development and political parties, we have a need to stop afresh the life of the security of Zanzibar and when we consider the truth about the fact that Zanzibar's fact is a country that is not supposed to do the fact that in Zanzibar today is a country that is not supposed to have any problem of enemies or violence from outside.
Without doubt that the investigation you can be able to look and look for who those who are able to be his foreign enemies and their strength?

That investigation will also be able to look at the possibility of violence in the country by considering its security situation as it was done because Zanzibar didn't have a lot of weapons to use criminal acts that until now the poor needs in Zanzibar while comparing to the neighboring countries of the neighboring countries.

On his webpage, maybe we should learn from the history of the colonial era of colonial era, according to the army it was a small squad of the police that was seen as the army had a small team of crime and to make sure that Zanzibar continues to be a small country without crime and the situation that had many years.

There is a police to prevent the violence that they started to take them as a result of causing a attacks to kill him last Friday, the citizens explained that the use of power is another evidence that police used them in their power.
Apart from that they were told that the police were found on the rights of citizens to attend to peace and use their freedom to prepare and to do a service.

All the freedom that is in the constitution of Zanzibar (and in the Constitution of the union), especially in terms of constitutional reforms that are being involved in worship for human rights and any community that makes sure that they give the public and it is their right to citizens to come to the country.

On Friday, 20th July, citizens had every right to ask for prayers and outside the Mosque of the police force, on its part, he didn't have the right to kill him and to marry off the water of stopping.

In many countries, the police force is controlled by local government and the responsibility of the army's responsibility is to protect themselves and serve the lives of citizens and not to cause a loss of their great work to serve the citizens and not to drop in their state of peace and calmness.
