
That child has gone to a affliction of hunger, it will pay approximately 20 to 20 percent.

Baby Turki al (5), a resident of Isakonko District, Ngorongoro District, Arusha Province, who was admitted at the CCBRT hospital after affected with hunger and it will pay shillings.

The news that was found out in Ngorongoro district and confirmed to the leadership of that hospital together with the government leaders in that area say that his photo was used in the first page of this newspaper in a two weeks ago, died on December 2, this year.

In that edition, we published news that involves the interview between our reporter and the parents of that child, at that time he has been admitted to the hospital, his body has planned to when they reached to marry off their daughters in order to get a fire.

When he was in that hospital, the child was served by Mrs. Jichunge.'

One of the doctors (name is reserved) of Simanjaro District Hospital, while asking for a child's grandson who has confirmed at the end of the week that the child has died on December 2, this year.

"It is true that's true the child doesn't have died in the world, like doctors and nurses we have done so much to save his life, we are pleased that we did not succeed and died from a long time," said the doctor.

On his part, the councilor of Kising'a ward, James Mbatia, confirmed the death of that child and added that as a leader of the citizens, the death of that child has identified himself and put him a lot.

"I have been touched and saddened by the death of baby Amne Salim, especially from the statements of some leaders of the government where it was quoted by some media leaders who claimed that there is no doubt in Ngorongoro, and what is happening is the incitement of politicians," he added.

He said the funeral of that child was held in a home area to attend the family to attend to the citizens of that area and already the government leaders and social leaders in that area have been in hand in hand with the family in the funeral.

"This family does not have the father to now because of a insurance person who is the father of that child to leave home to Mwanza City three years ago because of a difficult state of life," said the councilor.

He added that they will take several actions as well as helping the three sacks of maize, oil for cooking, and other important needs and added that, 30 children of the age from one year to 10 years are continuing to get treatment in that hospital.

"Those children are present at a special clinic and get food and medicine (diet) special so as to control the problem, it is lack of food due to hunger," he added.

Optat Ngorongoro in another step, the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ambassador Hamis Kagasheki, visited that reserve due to the existence of a long-term complaints by citizens who are claiming that the government has been increasing the claims of hunger.

Apart from hunger, they have been following blood to be allowed to produce poverty that has been banned in Ngorongoro Conservation Area.

Together with talking to the management of Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCAA), Minister Kagasheki, spoke to citizens in a public meeting that took place in Mkonga area, in that meeting Kimaro was received with posters with various information about agriculture and hunger.

During that tour Kimaro was accompanied by the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Land, Natural Resources and Environment, James Lembeli and the Member of Parliament for Ngorongoro District, Elias Kiyemba and other government officers.

Some of the posters that do not be read, "hunger is usually sent to Ngorongoro," we are happy that you are sick, we want the ratio in Ngorongoro, "we saw the statement that Ngorongoro is no hunger."

It came during the citizens to give their complaints in that meeting, all of them got an opportunity to speak about the big problem of hunger and saying that it causes children to lose lives, suffering from diseases, it will pay their families and youths to come to the city to work on security.

Kagasheki has talked about officers Nicrox, without stopping the words of those citizens, Minister Kagasheki, opposed to officials of the authority on what he explained that it was hard to take food to those citizens while money for food was built and paid for a long time.

"The defense do not give here to be patient failed to get a permit from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives, it is not allowed even when you see me or to write a letter to me or to write a letter even to me," said Kagasheki.

The Minister who has shown openly is evident by the action of the officer of that authority, he said that the step of the delay of that food was established and threatened to cause people with his leaders in front of the eyes of the community.

While asking to the acting head, Bruno Kaumba ', the Prime Minister said, "the Acting Director General (Kaumba), your information has not seen him because if the time he got the problems in buying WhatsApp, the nation is supposed to inform them because they are supposed to wait for the issues of the tender while the people have died of hunger."

He added, "these citizens have been suffering from lack of food, therefore, I think that I think this minister will be responsible, but I advise that I will not leave you, but I will leave all from this and I will not wait until I will not be infected.

For the first time the reports of the existence of hunger in some of the villages located in Ngorongoro Conservation that caused some people to die with others who were admitted to Muhimbili Hospital, it was reported by this newspaper, while some of the leaders oppose being there in those villages.
