
A case of being handed over to those ministers JK has been signed with a load.

Rashid Mkonga.

And Rashid Mkonga.
During the 14th session of the Parliament of the United Republic of the United Republic of the United Republic, it is going on the thoughts and feelings of citizens directed to the whole issue of breaking up 'which was forced to be open due to the environment of humiliation and suppression of human rights that are not supposed to be stopped in any community.

The discovery of the effects that took place in that operation have been secret of executives who are in different positions in our government who have also had intentions of fighting the evil deeds that arise in the society and make sure that they have decided to use their leadership positions as the umbrella of protecting their evil deeds.

This kind of performance by leaders depends on a good reputation of some of the good executives who are in the government and so as to bring about the basis of the whole leadership to be responsible, as a result of a few unable to be responsible.

The operation that was done has caused the deaths of rape, destruction of property, citizens, and livestock and even causing a nuisance to the citizens who have a huge loss to the citizens who use their lives and the fate of their lives and their fate in this level.

This issue of its kind that happened in our country has destroyed the reputation of the local government leadership and even to show how leaders are supposed to hold different positions they are capable of causing the criteria required by our nation.

Just after this issue and a lot what happened in this scandal, the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda who is the chief leader in government activities in parliament, was mentioned not to be responsible in order and even some of them were unable to be responsible and supervise well the ministers.

According to the report that was given by the commission in order to investigate that cause of chaos, those people were killed by being shot, those who were killed by being shot and even the misleading reports which was reported in the commission where even so, it is claimed that the areas were taken against the citizens.

Finally, following that brutal act, three ministers were dismissed from their position as minister and one to resign and therefore, showing the way they are ministers, "said President Jakaya Kikwete in his performance.

Ministers who were dismissed from their positions are the Minister of Internal Affairs, Emanuel Nchimbi (42), Minister of Security and Tourism, two-fielder, David Mathew (44) and the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, David Mathew (44), due to the real situation he was forced to resign from his position.

According to the reports from different sources are that Kagasheki, who was born on August 30 when he saw a group of people who had qualified to be accountable because of that operation he did not have an opportunity to be accountable because of what they believe was not involved in one of the incident.

On his part, Nchimbi was born in December 24, he was quoted saying that the operation was run by police and operation reports were being represented by the head of police and that he does not see a place where he is involved in that incident.

And Mathayo David who was born on July 20, 1969, explained openly that his stand in parliament just after Ambassador Mbelwa officially announced his resignation and he didn't see the reason to do that because he was not involved in anything in that incident.

On his part, the coach who has ever been the chief minister of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar who came in the United Republic following the appointment of President Jakaya Kikwete on what was seen to get an opportunity to be among the ministers of the government of the United Republic of Tanzania, has got a chance to get a chance to be in the council of ministers of the United Republic of Tanzania.

Captain who was born on the 20th of 1962 has arrived in that case due to his position as the head teacher of the People's Defense Force and the National Housing Corporation, where according to the information there is that operation was run by the army.

If they were his fellow ministers, Nchimbi and Mathew could not retire from what was claimed that her private was not involved in one of the issue though after going on it and he will continue to serve the citizens in state and property, and that what happened against him is the same as an accident that happened at work.

These events have been noted due to the cause of the commission to follow up, there are a lot for example this issue that will be brought by the citizens, have been complaining of them without posting them publicly.

There are many types of violence in different operations that are run as well, operation of supporting breeders in land areas or other things that farmers and pastoralists have been complaining about performance that doesn't maintain human rights and abuse.

The performance of the executives who have been giving good understanding of accountability about the government led by President Kikwete and even gave a great contribution of removing that executives who did not follow the regulations and law by considering good governance.

The manifesto of the newspaper analysis is my property, it is no longer.
