It has been able to inform the clinic because if we go to the clinic, we have no problem of water.
In the past we had a person who are doing so much.
But now we have no problem we must have problems.
Even a woman getting problems from close water again that time it has helped me.
In the truth about this project, I have written the reason before the main project we were looking for water for a long time, women do not have a chance to go to work activities because if you wake up this morning.
Now, the project is supposed to come at though we started with the problem it was difficult, but now we have seen success, we have seen a lot of diseases like the stomach, stomach, because there are some diseases that are using the stomach, it is seen to have reduced because people are using the water project.
Little is it?
The availability of clean and safe water in this area did not benefit us all the medicine for poor farmers here in the whole country, especially when I want to sell water here at the same time when we were forced to sell water here at the same time when we were forced to go down here at home where we were forced to go and go through home.
For sure the fifth commandment is not there.
I was the day before yesterday a human being found?
Mikumi is set aside.
But after getting.
Now students are given us with here.
The level of success shivered to be careful, even the one there is students close to a lot because water is available here.
If it is a result of food and food they have getting food to the same time in this year because water is available in the country after going to get their talents.
In line with that, we were also involved with skin diseases.
Because it is a person going to take water from different areas so that he can get water for example the chest or bake.
For sure it takes water for the purpose of food for the afternoon.
I want to get these water from the last mine.
Therefore, we thank you so much, he knew the truth is so much because of looking for water to rivers.
There are drugs in the village, which is like more than two kilometers, then there was a lot of mind since the students themselves because water is needed many because there is a situation that led to a situation that caused a big number.
But after the work.
Because of this service which I was surprised.
Together with Walter.
