
If CCM is clean, it does not fear what?
May 30th, 2012

Recently when you see someone from a good suit with the color that is pleasant and at a bad price "while holding a very delicious with it is proud to be clean up because it can be clean?
If you get close to him and they discovered that she has lost her own marriages, it has been cut off, it is supposed to have his teeth.
At the time you look at that person looking at, he made up and it doesn't know that standing on a hole she had bought every type of beating them and saying that he is clean and get married?
Given the meaning of "be clean" at the cleaning is a clean environment and not a environment that is also available?
For a long time now, I have been looking at a joke in conflicts between CCM and their opponents with their opponents who were led by Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa and Zitto Kabwe who claimed that CCM is not clean while CCM led by his defending Mzee John Okello and Amos Makalla to claim that CCM is clean.
After looking at that incident for a long time and I am happy and went up to this debate by announcing that CCM is a party that is claimed to be a surprise, while it was working on top of dirty and bad luck.
If you see a person looking at the sitting room, then you should know that there is something a thing and if you want to visit your friend, then it does not expect it to go inside.
If you want to come back to political parties, if you see the political party, it is not ready to open his duties in front of the public then you can't be doubt inside there are problems.
There is no party that received many public funds of paying tax in Tanzania as the Revolutionary Party, but it is also a party that has not been taxed for all their income and its use since all of them are sick.
The report of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) of last year shows that all political parties did not present their financial reports and giving out an amount of 13 billion shillings because CCM is the ruling party and it is true that it did not give that report at the time of inspection.
But more that is proud that is not involving themselves by its books and the free institution, and its results to stop the party is affecting many political parties in the country being faced by heavy accusations of being involved in corruption.
In the year 1995, CCM is alleged to have a big amount of money from Zimbabwe so as to achieve his campaign in the general elections of the year 2000, there is information that CCM used the Central Bank to pay billions of shillings so as to achieve his campaigns.
In the month of April 2005, the popular newspaper of the United States of Africa Constituent, wrote information that more than two billion shillings had come in the election process from Oman, later they were given another news that there were funds from Iran.
Here is supposed to introduce himself about those reports is that one company, inspect the order given, "contracts" and foreign companies from Nuzulack Dausen (Jichunge.'
955,731, 890,67,888 trillion shillings (10 of September, 2005) with Timbo Kalugira (970,010,57,990 - 12 of September, 2005), a problem is that Kaguo has been signed up to 29th September, 2005.
So, there was no correct report of those funds to be thought, they are of "Iran," which were of inspecting the order?
Now I can say a lot that already has been said by the others today, CCM is using more than one billion (and other two billion shillings) in the small elections to fill in the parliamentary seats, "he asked himself in 2005, CCM had candidates in all the elections in the country.
In addition to the cost of the general elections we remember that in every province, it had his opinion polls that will be resolved since CCM claimed that it is not less than 100 billion shillings while considering the cost of one province, members of parliament and the president.
But the surprising fact is that until now, there are all signs that GAPCO Company will not be demolished rather than three two people can be arraigned in court to be arraigned in court for the end, "I assure you like CCM wants to inspect them so that they could have succeeded in the year the day before yesterday.
There are those who want to believe that we are marrying each other in the court that is currently shown how the government is keen in managing the law.
Those thoughts have been postponed by various leaders of CCM who want citizens to believe that the government is keen on fighting corruption.
In quickly, someone can believe that even so, we are asking us these these that concern them, the court has happened under the administration of the party?
We thank you just some (if it is not all) of the suspects is members of the political party we are, those who were involved in the court for the mistakes they want to do when they are ministers of the government that was formed by that party.
The IPTL contract that he got in with the government of which party?

The contract of Richard Mwaikenda, has talked with the leaders of the government of that party?
Isa Buzohera, that he got in with the minister of government of that party?

The contract of purchasing the fees that he got in with the government of that party?
The contract of the Dege Eco Village of President that he got in with the government of that party?
To bring a high-related partnership which was done by the government?
To bring the operators of TANESCO to work done by the government of which party?
It is the government who entered into a contract with Proin Promotion Company which carries a form to run our railway organization until today they have reminded that they do not have the railway lines so that we are in CCM.
Theft of billions of NECTA have taken place when the government has paid over it by CCM.
The great importance of the use of the tax tax shown in the report of the CAG was done inside the government of that party?
The president is alleged to do a business while at the State House and went against him contrary to the leadership ethics, he entered the party?
That is a few days just as required and register themselves in the council and different cities in the country, and corruption in the department and different sections we can!
Today they are not recognized as themselves as themselves because they want to continue to abandon that they are clean and just like that, there is a clean "then you have lost its meaning!
Recently, when you check on stage and claimed to be careful, the party, "CCM is clean" we are doing so that we get to us, a foolish thought?
Until when the party will be present, the party who is looking for the right is the father of the nation when I agree that "it is not dirty" but the whole system of the party and the culture of the party is that when it start it and it can be safely.
And my brothers, CCM is thanking God that there is a cleanup of the opposition and the ones for looking for me, otherwise it comes up to the party, a lot of the party will be clear than the real vehicle.
I wanted to say in short, that CCM does not enter the suit 'and the sweetness of his promises to lead them is that the citizens believe that CCM is clean, a day when they prepare them to be careful.
There is one way of sure and without doubt that it will stop CCM in front of the public.
That way does not involve Yusuf Makamba or asking for him through that way it is true and that can destroy all political debate because the way it is for CCM you want the international business company to make for an emergency inspection from at least 2005 and to give that report publicly.
If the report has said that all the reasons for CCM are good and they don't know that all the sources of money should be understood, and that all funds are not allowed, "CCM is clean and I am happy to say" CCM is clean. "Now we are talking to me," CCM is clean.
My call is that CCM to start doing it now and from the breathing system where halted as well as sanitation, and not just like cleaning, and it is not only clean, and therefore will enable CCM not to be clean, and therefore will enable CCM not to be clean, and therefore will enable CCM not to be clean, and therefore will enable CCM not to be clean, and that is not clean.
