If you are happy that we continue with those statements or a person who is still in this information and about the strike of doctors's rights but the way they believe it's an act of doctors to endanger the lives of Tanzanians so as to get their rights is contrary to the basis of human rights and legal administration in Mbeya province is going on a report.
We gave the statement when he was impressed by the step that doctors came into the lives of more citizens all over the country despite the importance of employment and relations at work because of the importance of the services offered to the leaders, Nape Nnauye of the secretary of ideology and propagation of CCM, concerning his saying when he spoke to journalists in Mbeya town.
Go up so much when it is claiming your rights.
.
The son of the life of those people alone, is like the truth of claiming that their rights and also like people do not know again, there are many rights to know the life of this people's lives where you have been caught up with our rights, then we would have tried.
You are getting Ramadhan.
She has claimed that there are people who have been unable to sit down and they did not accept to be one well that it gives the one that was caused by the people of people.
We must have a human being.
Nape is using that opportunity to be the source of those doctors to recognize that their education has been caused by the money for Tanzanians because they went to their lives in danger of being involved in a strike.
It does not lie!
You cannot get a doctor without time.
When you miss.
For them you will pay it but it's good for citizens to pay for them.
Here we are going to give me soon as the citizens, before we are tired.
I was true the number of projects put in water.
The strike that started June twenty and three for the hospitals in the country is being used by the doctors as blood as well as a result of understanding their health problems, a situation that is expected to give its own decision to the public, a situation that is expected to give its stand on the government.
And the child is a report of our writer of Zambia at Mbeya town, see it with a strike of doctors where anything has been given to him.
We will continue with our information concerning the deaths of Somalis in Dodoma, the bodies of forty-three people in Mbeya town is expected to undergo more investigation in order to know the source of their deaths in Mbeya City, it is expected to have died due to lack of climate change in Dodoma.
Speaking to the six to zero, the chief physician of Dodoma Provincial Referral Hospital, Ezekiel Mpuya said they believe in twenty and one being built to Dodoma Provincial Referral Hospital, an expert from Ministry of Health and Social Welfare is expected to arrive in Wednesday, so as to address the investigation.
Almighty God rest in we see that there is many people for every human being?
Lots of brotherhood we have here that squad can remain.
Therefore, the procedures we have continued now are for one of the one?
Look at what is going on.
The servant for health and development of the community of a special session.
What can baptize?
But you will be.
Work so as to work when they appear.
I think I think we are continuing.
.
Only two are not doing well.
For every medicine we will succeed?
I commend him.
Ninety minutes.
A collaboration agreement with the government.
The police commander of Dodoma Province, Stephen has said that those people were eighty days and two were transported to Mbeya City through Dodoma, where a lot of people had died and others which are being held by the police force in Dodoma, fat Joe.
