
It is 10 years of succeed or fail to the African Union?
October 12th, 2012

For approximately this year, Africa is celebrating 10 years since the birth of the African Union (AU).

Or the union involved in Africa countries to address issues and various challenges together, was made up of 9, 2002, to take the position of the former Union of the East African Community (AU).

These commemorations have been an important opportunity to reflect on success and the steps that were taken by the countries of this continent economically, political and in other sectors.
It is also an appropriate time to think about problems that are facing this continent and special ways to fulfill.

In general, he emphasized more that it has been in view especially those who came from and looking for where they are going, the scholars, leaders of African countries and African countries in general they focus on their eyes and give them AU.

The debate especially about the way AU has been able to implement the objectives of its establishment, or not it will succeed in the country and maybe it has increased in the goals against the ones that was invented and is expected during its establishment.
This is the aim of this article to also thank you at least the way AU should be taught after this 10 years.

Inside this mosquito, one of the owners have to agree on the view that AU has positioned itself well in a condition of being criticized and being criticized, compared to the condition was by his predecessor (AU).

It should be remembered that AU was established as a result of changes in the African Continent, political, economy and the community as a whole of changes that it started not to go hand in hand with the objectives of OAU.

The main aim of the establishment of (AU) will promote unity and cooperation in African countries and this union was interpreted more to save the age of age against the colonial era, to protect the borders of the country and to improve the lives of African countries, most of their countries are just handed over to Africa themselves.

At the end of the year 1990, when it was launched it was seen that OAU goals didn't go hand in hand with the steps of liberation, "said Africa, that is in implementing the agreements that have been canceled due to the African economy (Abuja) where the agreement was a continuation of the implementation plan of Lagos City (Lagos).

At the occurrence of that contracts and several topics which were going on, that's when the former leader of Libya, Mzamaji Mvumoni Village, September 1999 has proposed the introduction of AU.
This declaration is the one that had caused the official start of AU in South Africa in the year 2002.

According to the objectives of its establishment, AU was created so as to promote development and unity of the African continent and social welfare, to ensure the success of peace and security in the African continent and to make sure the success of democracy and human rights.

It is clear that, the objectives of AU is that especially the important needs of African countries until today, but as it is a lot of time to the leaders, finding the goals it's difficult to discuss the implementation of those goals has become difficult, in order to discuss the implementation of the holy books.

By considering the ways that AU has come through this 10 years, it is difficult to say it has succeeded to stop, even to 50 percent only to implement its goals, this is because several reasons.

For instance, the big problem that until now is facing AU and the government of African countries up to now, is to use the same way for many years and solve problems, this is done without considering that the challenges do not forget where they have discovered that it is the reason that did not forget.

For example, in many African countries, the community or its people are in many parts of the world, it is said that this is just one country in Africa or tribe, and other countries that were left at the colonial era or just after freedom.

According to the director of the school leadership of Johannesburg city, who has also been the minister of local government and the South African countries, Doctor SynoHydo Corporation, has said that this system is in a structure of protecting the interests of the few people and this situation causes the interests of many to continue putting yourself in these countries.

Reliable and new ways of improving this system like new constitution have been late to be implemented, therefore many problems continue to be used.
It has been witnessed in Kenya in the year 2007, conflicts that are ongoing in the country like Nigeria, without forgetting the effects of elections here in the country especially in Zanzibar Islands, and the issues of the union and elsewhere, are of the systems that have not been presented.

The countries that are outside the African continent also, especially in the western countries have continued to intervene in internal affairs of this continent, this has been using one way or not directly or the rebels and the real example is that which happened in Libya, the ones that happened in Libya, and one of the ones that happened in Libya.

If the AU report has been a way it is dangerous or not taking his position to oppose and carry out of Africa against persons involved in the country and it has also common that AU members to fight against them by their actions that are being taxed.

The state of every country member of AU and to have his stand in line with AU leaders on a certain issue, is translated as a sign of a lot of party members and AU.

On the other side, one of the AU goals was to ensure African countries are improving their lives and economy of African countries.

While many African countries have already answered that the economy of its country's economy is growing up to 5 percent per year, the development of the World Health Organization (IMF) in the life of one of the citizens of this low-income economy in a day.

Similarly, we are continuing to witness the diseases like AIDS, cancer and other things, so as to reduce the age of people living for instance, it is estimated to have all people who have been infected with the AIDS virus in the world, 30 percent in the southern Africa countries.

Up to here when it's time, AU have no need to look at how these challenges are successful in the coming 10 years to be able to cross the explosion and the implementation.
It is possible that Africa is still need to AU and ensure that kind of people should benefit us?
