Member of parliament.
August 10, 2013.

Maswa District member of parliament, John shibuda has decided to buy a parliamentary seat at any time, his fellow citizens, has been told.
That is as a result of his party, the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), accused by electing him and therefore planning the membership card as a member of parliament explaining to being a member of the party called him, where he addressed a member of parliament.
But himself says he was not officially explained about that plan by the Secretary General, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, he said he is the executive director of the party and that he cannot talk about issues that can have been decided because they can be taken to him as an appeal.
According to the report that was found, some of the national sessions of the party have been made to make a decision of the national consent, a decision that is claimed to be supported by some senior officials of CHADEMA and that time the others opposed it.
In the "tension, that tension, shibuda has advised some members and senior officials of CHADEMA who is believed to be a leader with the intention of disrupting the party, but it gives them an issue that he will be a leader with his thoughts that they've not been done inside CHADEMA and more than that, you should be patient with politics too.
Several news sources have narrated that the reports of those who came to be a sign of a division within the CHADEMA that came from two weeks prior to the elections of the leaders inside that party.
It is alleged that the shibuda has been giving a statement to consider among some of the leaders of that party, including those that are derived from the sessions of the party.
Among the things that shibuda has been forced to go against his party is an issue of not supporting the cancellation of the parliamentary allowances for members of parliament who attended the meeting as a member of the standing committee for good governance (APTA).
Inside CHADEMA, his decision was questioned and brought about discussion, but also shibuda has several times he has been giving several languages that concern them on some of the leaders of CHADEMA.
But he knew that the shibuda has been defended by some of the leaders of CHADEMA saying that it is freedom of thoughts, investigation shows that if the shibuda will be expelled from CHADEMA, that party can get a difficult time to run its politics in the lake region especially in Maswa West region.
That state of CHADEMA that in a difficult environment is increased by the state of conflicts that is ongoing among the leaders of the party in Mwanza town, where several leaders, including some councilors have already been sacked.
More reports are required to have two camps facing but they've known their operation to the Youth Council of CHADEMA (BAVICHA). There is the vice chairperson of BAVICHA who was chosen by the member of parliament of Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe, in the political process inside that party.
Zitto has been reported to be supported by some members of parliament and on the other side, it was claimed to be the existence of a camp by the chairman of CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe, that will also involve Doctor Slaa and another group of parliamentarians.
Inside BAVICHA, the chairperson, John Heche has been reported to be on the side of Mbowe and Doctor Slaa and that has been among the things that brought the HIV virus and his vice chairman Shonza.
Our news source has spoken at the political activities heading to the party elections by explaining that, "we want to make sure they use bribery, false accusations, and when we want to use these ways.
"What is going on in CHADEMA is one of the planning issues, there is a wife of a senior leader of the party, to find a youth (is being mentioned) to sign him a group (is being mentioned) to vie for a group that is called by Zitto Kabwe," says our news source.
There was a rumor that inside BAVICHA has been reported by different media stations in the country, including social media networks, Juliana Shonza, "I have received with great disappointment the scandal that is spread against him as one of the group of Zitto Zuberi has talked with the party leaders together and to coordinate the party's plans.
