
The scandal of Richard Mwaikenda ended up to parliament on May 31, 2012.

That scandal of emergency electricity project was handed over by Richmond Development Company LLC has increased again in parliament while some of the members of parliament showing off the way the government will involve yourself, it has been known.
Some of the members of parliament who spoke to Good Citizen this week, are saying they are waiting for the desire of the implementation of the resolutions of the parliament concerning the scandal of an emergency electricity generation company, which will be presented by the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda.

Among the steps that have been explained to lack members of parliament is a decision to take them to court, only one person, the director of Richmond Development Tanzania, Naiko Goshashy.

The members of parliament to be made in that decision of getting him to court, the director of Richmond Development Tanzania, Naiko Gmwaijonga has said that the company has released a contract with TANESCO and not that is not the company but it is Tanzania Geothermal Development Company LLC of Hulk from America.

However, apart from the fact that the contract that was done is between TANESCO and Richmond Development Company LLC of Hulk from America (and not Richmond-Tanzania), those members of parliament have said it's impossible to urge him to send my colleague, who has no shares in that American company.

She has emphasized that the person who was supposed to be the one who got into the contract with TANESCO, that is Richmond Development, and not Richmond Development, which is not present.

They have said another problem is in the type of charges he is facing Glasgow, which is saying that he had a legal consent to run for Richmond Development Company in Tanzania.

The members of parliament have clarified that they are expecting that you will happen in the trend of that case is Richmond Raymond to present a letter to prove that Gikombaa is allowed to run for Richmond Development Company in Tanzania and that is the first expected to be at the end of that case.

They have complained to Good Citizen that if the government had a sincere intention to take action against the concerned parties, then the arrest of the agreement with TANESCO, a contract that was unable to serve in the market and on time.

However, apart from the members of parliament getting displeased with the government's report, it has been noted that the board of directors of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) have land in controversy about the scandal of Pan African Development Company Limited, due to its action of giving information which is ongoing in the report of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG).

In his report, BoT has ever released a report to the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, to be the successor to the Richmond Development Company, Erick Holder who was paid the payment of more than 467,888 trillion shillings, being a cost of transportation of electricity generation.

But at the time the report from BoT was saying that, the report of the CAG committee of inspection of the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) for the year 2030 and added that the money did not affect the Dowans Company and insisted that they are supposed to return.

The report of the CAG will discover that just after the attempt to be paid for those funds to go back to the government but they are so far up to the agreement that Mkingie has been killed by TANESCO, August first, year 2008.

Apart from the victimization, the report of the CAG will ensure that Richard left more than 23 billion shillings, money that were donated by the company in addition to other things to make corrections on credit (credit).

Those funds were donated by Richmond Development from the government so as to be restored to its first phase of the total funds that were given out of those agreements, approximately 30 billion shillings, but Richard succeeded to return seven billion shillings.

Many members of parliament were seen getting displeased with the implementation of several resolutions, especially the declaration number 10.

By considering that declaration, the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, August last year, presented his report that he said that the payments were legal, information which is carried out by the CAG of the CAG.

Pinda explained to the members of parliament (August, 2008) to be the Ministry of Finance and Economy in the Central Bank of Tanzania what they had reduced and saw that the payment of 49 billion shillings (467,888 trillion shillings) that was paid by the Parkal Randall Company Limited LLC is legal.

Later noted that the payments were paid on February 2nd this year in the year 2007, being the cost of air transportation of solar power plants, after receiving a total of 890,67,888 trillion shillings, but when the report says the payment is legal, CAG says that those funds are supposed to return to the government.
