We are happy to tell that this new season, the first one is the first of artists and new generation workers just after their health.
They are their lives after working with great faith in more than ten years.
They deserve to live home.
Do not like to live with a good and good families deserve this family just after life?
What is the meaning.
In health insurance there are life insurance that are inside people who have their rights and they have children in that wife together with the child together with the other and the one that had got unsuccessful.
Before you get married on the procedures of having their children and them, they are in a situation where I would like to take this opportunity to thank God because.
In life is that if you have no bad luck you have not been successful.
Yesterday we had bad luck in order to be good.
Then.
Something that has happened today so as to do something that every person was forced to come out due to the efforts that will happen.
And this is the payment of good work and not listening to the scandal involving the newspapers scandal and the things of the country and to talk like that because it is not the group that will make anything related to you, how does your impatience will get.
In the state of acts and therefore, it is a very happy that if he said like smoke, Mwanza there that there is no danger.
We are doing so as to be I don't think this Friday it is just a challenge because you know what happens there were bomb.
The ten to them is when I was still a big victims of the bomb.
I've put a cake.
I've left to be left something when he was there and sure that you came from, you leave the family of God's family that has gone down if it was lost.
There is a way to be buried as a house, it will be prosecuted?
It will return that would be improved because.
Also, I would like to thank all that you are losing your time to join us with the ones that did you do.
In-law.
For men's health insurance knows you, they know you are also the planes of India.
And this comes.
So much, let me say that I thank God is found.
And if those positions were found, it gives you the strength of Mister's day in Zanzibar Islands, I was on the way it took it to someone.
I am in those who are the first children then I started walking, laughing out and when we start before the community is abolished.
I will play my son I have heard about that, I thank you and this is for information that all groups that are inside you are saying that there is no one that is waiting for himself to do with him.
And to ensure that when he comes like this bad, it is not a wall of Mister women to do.
We have seen and we have succeeded and we started having advisers or other groups.
Love for us should come and they are things like what we had did?
Because private is that the concept.
When I went to the chest, he told me what he was going.
I am happy and I am happy and I love me I went up with glasses on the same time because there is an eye for a bit of love.
Today I have heard, but I request this there are few opportunities which we got here will have the strength of through and I was speaking with BoT.
Our country we are four presidents but there are fifty years of freedom, our colleagues have two hundred years of freedom and even if it has been made severe pain in hatred.
Hayatou, I feel very much and I have witnessed my eyes, most of the young people that did work like to me when I believe there is a situation where many other things even when I believe it is a situation that if you see you, even if I see what you are doing, maybe if you see you, even if you get to you, even if you get to you.
So as to assure you, I request my brothers to some of the journalists because when I am, we want to reach you, you are required to study hard, you need to study hard, because there is a big news that you need to do, there is no good things that we need to do more.
That this is not known if you are people who have not received education this education.
He has told his team that does not have the right to start the late God and to get this hand over the journey.
Then, maybe I would like every corner, it means that it was seen, maybe it is a must that there is a must that we have a lot of abroad, it is also a must that you have talked about it well, then it will be the red carpet.
If you know there are many things that have a lot of things that have money meaning to separate yourself from today Mister Masaki, Mister mi ward, I know that most of the young people don't know, most of us know that, many, you know many, Msasani, and our correspondent.
You have found a mother who is married, he has three years and there is a story where most of twenty thousand shillings, but yet I would be able to change his business since she could be very much, I am very happy, I am very happy for God to bless you.
