
The Coast hotel is not complete.
By Mathias Chikawe.

Serena Hotel of transporting tourists in the Coastal areas are being faced with difficult conditions of business after Christmas celebrations and the new year to reach.
During the Christmas season and the new year, hotel had a good business due to many tourists from inside here in the country who came to the Coast to pave way.
According to the chairman of the Coast Tourism Board (KMU), Mister Mohamed Hunter, the hotel of Mombasa has 30 percent of visitors where during the new year's holiday had a total of 70 percent and 90 percent of visitors.
Serena Hotel in the Coastal Region have between 15 percent of the visitors, though the Serena Hotel of Malindi and Bayern Munich are among 10 percent of the visitors.
Mister Huvisa said that the situation has been contributed by the small number of tourists from outside the country.
Restrictions of transport that have been put in place by the United Nations, America, France and Australia in May last year, said that that is how it has caused a huge shortage of tourists from Europe.
The number of planes from Europe from Mombasa to Mombasa with the investor has emerged four days in a day compared to more than 20 journey in the year 2013.
Mister Huvisa said that the restrictions of transport that have been put in place by England and America have affected the preparations of the international meetings.
The United Nations Organization, the World Bank, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said that they are not doing meetings in Mombasa hotel due to the restrictions of transport.
However, Mister Hokororo asked the government of England to remove the restrictions of transport against its citizens because the security has improved Coast.
The celebration of the chief executive officer of the Serena Hotel in the country (Apimondia), Coast branch, has given an agreement that the shortage of visitors in the hotel is caused by the Kenyans to go back to work after the end of the season.
Mister so much because he said that the number of tourists from here in the country has reduced due to the school's holiday to reach.
"As usual, many Kenyans live as Coast and their children for a half time during the school's holiday," he said.
Due to the huge shortage of visitors, he said, the hotel of Mombasa will depend on a meeting that is prepared by government institutions and non-governmental organizations.
In addition, Mister Ramesh Shah, urged the government to respect the roads that have been destroyed in the area of Mombasa to enable the hotel to attract more meetings.
