
CCM was stolen from now to put the following so that it should be a great opposition on the year 2015 on May 30th.

Last week I decided to congratulate the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) to be keen with this rumors about the big clubs inside the Revolutionary Party (CCM) who want them to stop from their party and join the opposition.

Those who believe in the system involves people before the idea, each other and compete in providing better thoughts is a must that the importance of having political parties with strength and good direction.

While my thoughts of last week which is pumped by the importance of seeing CHADEMA (and the opposition in general) goes further and be the best party to help CCM to be stable as it has never been able to insist on the great importance of helping CCM to be stable while he no opposition.

Lack of discussions on political issues in the networks and other areas, they have advised them to give birth certificates of contributes to the ones against the ruling party because there are some contributes to me, CCM, special seats and to be avoided if the IP address of Zambia, wheat flour, Malawi and several others.

And there are several reasons that would like to explain this share including CCM to sit in power to an extent of building a youth and to be able to confirm this responsibilities and they love them, "I won with my money not to kill them," I believe that you are some hope to be treated.

When you get all the candidates of all levels in the ruling party they promise several issues, including order for you to vote and later, when they get married, "you love them," that is no doubt to be treated.

When you inform our citizens that, thank you, "does not mean that the government will destroy the aircraft of the president even if you will have to live for a dummy check," then you should know that it is some of their personal decision to the whole nation, then you should know that is the fear of their personal decision to the whole nation.

When you and our leaders are participating in the theft of their country themselves as the one of EPA, Richmond, IPTL and RadarOnline, then you know that it is no doubt to be treated.
When you talk about the citizens that "freedom are used to remove it, the government is given to you for free by a party that is in power," when the country's constitution says, "the government's authority will be released to the citizens," then you know that it is the need to be treated.

When you ask ourselves, we ask you to look for investors from outside to come invest in farming so as to bring in the country and the bar of hunger - in a environment that the government will be able to sell in use and importance, including a little of it, you should know that it is a permit to be treated.

When you hear the leaders saying that a Arumeru district is being waited for by the residents of Arumeru "first, and not by the citizens," therefore, you should know that it is no doubt to be treated.

When you see the leaders they have made a system of switching off power such as summoning demons, they don't know the pieces of the animal because of going to eat, while they finished "patriotic have the ability because they just know that it is no doubt to be treated.

When you see the leaders don't have a lot so as to address the primary problems of citizens and believe that, "you will say you will agree with the journalists that, the farmers have told journalists themselves or even when you know it is a must to be treated.

When you get their leaders ready to kill a citizen in order to protect and educate the visitors who give resources, resources and even the main opportunities of economy to an agreement with personal interests, then you should know that is the fear of unconscious.

And all these are very important information in the trend of election results of the recent years which have been built for CCM, a lot of votes.
Since 1995, the first election of many parties, CCM started 10 percent of its votes every election that followed up to 81 percent in 2005 and instead of the reduction of 10 percent like the year 2005 and instead of reduction of 10 percent like it was increased by 20 percent.

This is not a good message for CCM even little, and in the easy way to look at the logic, it is clear that there is a possibility of CCM votes getting away from 61 percent in the year 2010 to 81 percent and start planning how to involve yourself (as usual).

But the CCM members listening keenly (who know you are), will take the content of this column as a wall that will enable you to wake up from any day before the year 2010, we wrote and discussed many weaknesses by the CCM members so that they want to inspect them.
"King Elder Yusus or" save a tree which they lost. "

Recently, CCM members started a debate about the most primary issues about politics of this country.

Because they think about it, you will sign him that if CCM would have been preparing to be opposition on how it is, then you are supposed to be careful, so as to be able to pay revolutionary faith, as it is supposed to be forced to prepare for revolutionary changes before the 2015 general elections.

After the second phase of revolutionary party is to release power through voluntary to the next elections for vying for parliamentary and councilors just without putting the presidential candidate.

Secondly, CCM does not want to look for him about his previous terms and how it can't identify farmers and employees which it will have to ask for farmers and employees' because it will believe that the policies of defending funds should be shaken.

Four, CCM should change his constitution and its structure to deal with the great changes that are expected to do so as to choose new leaders at all levels and if possible CCM will not be done without any levels to be the meaning of the members.

Six, if you will not be forced to go back for socialism and its main foundation is farmers and employees then CCM will be open that now it will return the resources and property of the public, and causing losses to all citizens.

.
