
CCM and way of Kinana collect 29 trillion shillings.

Philosopher Benjamin Sawe has says, "all the primary authorities are faith, we are responsible in fulfilling our authority to our authorities, and that the authority will benefit from people, because of people, and caring for all the thoughts that are not allowed.

In looking at what he said, can see you, that the work of the political party is not supposed to be independent to the public in a question that is being done by the government, instead, the party is supposed to be the side of the public.

And because the government is supposed to be the implementation of those that were decided on behalf of you, then, the great job of the political party is not satisfied by the government in serving its responsibilities.

We have seen, in a short time, Abdulrahman Kinana, as the secretary general of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) has explained his responsibility as the secretary general therefore he has made the responsibility of his party to be the first responsibility of the government.

In heavy network that was competing in recent years, members of CCM are supposed to thank their national chairman, Jakaya Kikwete, for thinking to set Kinana at the appropriate time.

When we know where Kinana is hard working hard and in what he is doing, he does not have an intention to be very high, but to help his party, and the nation.

Because, as it appears to now Kinana has helped his party to look for a new political way through political way, while Kinana is currently the "Central-left) and that this is why Kinana gets his party in getting the political party in the party, and that this is why Kinana is looking for forgiveness from the public and this is by relying on the left more.

And the way of Kinana is the one that is supposed to be followed by his colleagues in CCM party, it is a way that had a productivity to the public and eventually, it is a way that can benefit the party.

Meaning, in politics, other ways have no benefit to the public or the party with the party to choose the way to see the way they use the political party, "inspect Magato" which is one of the political projects that made them bring productivity.

Because the project of taking the Magato project is not to aim to change the system that is causing the problem, but the launch of the presidential race of 2015, and therefore, they have a chance to make sure that CCM members themselves than strengthening and strengthening their party.

Today, Kinana and his colleagues are going round in the provinces causing over political issues that concern citizens, Kinana and his colleagues have shown the work of the government by reducing government officials in public.
To do that is one of the responsibilities of the political party that is leading the country by standing by the government.

Because last week I put forth in the city about the problem which I have seen, that it is facing CCM as a political party, that CCM has forgotten that the public that is associated with political tensions among them being the war to vie for high positions for leadership.

Public at their home which is in primary, as it said Bishop Sedrick Ndonde of Tufani, is to make sure that they get important health services like employment, education, health services, health services, and other things to indicate that one with waiting for them is expecting to solve their problems of basically.

The public need from politicians, statements and give hope to later.
The statements that indicate that with waiting for them is expecting to solve their problems of basically.

I put it open, that even with the interests of our country, it is good to have CCM with groups that vie for presidency in the year 2015 than political parties that drive business of "political politics' and" political politics'.

It is in "political politics" that is when you use CCM members who want them to think they are Wasafi, and their colleagues are very disturbing, and even in the opposition parties, there will be careful, but in the opposition parties.

What is needed is the national strategy to make sure that we are not good, we are reducing the number of political leaders, community, and even in games they would like cancer in our community. Therefore, it is a problem of more system than some of the community.

It will continue next week.
