More than a half of the students of secondary schools in Sikonge district, Tabora province, don't know to read and others even write due to the increase of absenteeism for what is claimed to lack discipline in accordance to accountability, the department of education in the country.
That situation has caused European countries to be the last one in the form four results in the western region for having seven schools among the ten schools that performed poorly in Tabora Province including getting married but from Tabora.
This is one of the secondary schools that performed poorly in form four exams in which some of its students from form one to form four do not like to read and even those who can read a little of you.
By that if they are not right.
Hall is impossible.
Their students who claim to do their differences came from a huge shortage of teachers and went to absenteeism during this reason is its own.
In you know.
Welcome him even when I see what is at home, I will I get pregnant from the evening coming from the evening coming from.
Others are there.
You don't know who comes back home.
Another job house depends on how to keep him in school, he insisted.
Why is the government?
Teachers and community members are supposed to speak about this situation that the child was able to come and told him, he said, what I do is for them so as to reduce them in the region.
It's coming and they are very few points that it is possible.
And as why is why he gets a lot of problems in looking at, it is very good to choose the results if there are no one who had a lot of research to choose the students when they read the end of all the ministers and others when they feel it.
This is those who know why you are not wrong when you see you, thinking that you have attained the responsibility to pond.
Give responsibility to your employer?
The head of education in order to make sure they are.
How many gods are there to teach.
There's no qualifications to be at the colonial era of our new generation, is called as the Tabora provincial commissioner Fatuma Mwassa, who visited doing badly in the form four exams so as to know what's the reason to perform well and the steps to do.
From Tabora Town, I'm with Mwaibale.
