What should be done in order for the father's game to be able to continue.
First.
Traditional foods to follow.
Many society especially the villages are saying that the child saw it is like.
Therefore, women get similar to the same areas like schools they are not there so that they can be able to register their children and cause children.
To explain their talents in the country, therefore, I call on the government to try to give birth or to find the children, Jane Mwakalebela to show their talents to be able to promote the game here in the country and even if you do, I see what they met but try to say the truth.
He said.
A big percentage of many stakeholders have reached faith to say that children can't know.
Those children can compete well as people.
When it comes to that it can be able to get various donations to help those children, but our colleagues who have up to them are inspiring.
Therefore, so that we can be able to get entertainment, we request that how many children get them in their games and we don't know what we got this day and to go to you, we find these colleagues that we should know these people?
We request the government to revise the training to ensure it's a look for the children and give priority to the children and to give priority is that the disabled can't be able to explain because the oil has got for a period of one week.
A shivered will go with success when he is going.
Those training for us thank you for within one week.
We got the journey.
I used.
Far from the picture.
Therefore, we request that we are in different seminar to enable them to build up.
We are very much even we are continuing to go.
Going back to court for the sponsorship of ten close to a very important stakeholder.
The coach to bring our Somalia session for this period will get the training of this game being done?
What you have seen as the first captain, the education to be released to all stakeholders so that you can understand this game on how you will play against them.
All stakeholders who receive the body, then it will be easy for other people to understand what they are going on but as other leaders, we will benefit athletes to be keen and be able to supervise a sports question so that I can be one of the games' leader in school, I will not get married.
Every department so as to say it is that when the children do not agree this game you will follow it well and the ones that came to see you get good so that the child starts laughing out but there are different stakeholders who are cooperating with the government and other stakeholders like the mobile phone company, the late Marijani Rajabu.
It's not stated that it means not to go back to other people and therefore it did not be used so as to use them to children but the end of my part, the late Adam.
The society is impossible so that children were put in homes and those who will go into the stations, that the union will be in the sea, then they are going to schools and if there are five sports teachers who have been able to help them and see them as a community that is not well.
I love you.
Much continued to continue.
I request to contribute to this topic as usual.
What should be done in order to improve this game.
It is that brothers.
And.
Each one of us today with an illusion.
Because we were not sure tomorrow we know today, but tomorrow we can be able to see that we can be able to see if we go and so as to see for them, what we are for us now in our primary schools or in any other parts of life.
This game is supposed to be dealt with because they are children in primary schools and those who see them be able to play if those are self-employed in our country, it will be a chance for the first time here in our country will be good and will be able to teach that other community do not have three young people.
