What would you have given you a lot of joy when you finish votes?
May 24, 2012

Every time I am listening to politicians this year I request you to listen and see the television while I talked about many questions.
And at the time I think they are doing and giving them to them and their aides, I started asking themselves if I'm in Tanzania or I'm outside one of the countries that are not seen as the world.
A question to ask for anyone who has a lot of patriotism in this country, with the respect to her husband and who does not understand what to be read in making a decision on October 31st when each one of them is blocking him in the voting process?
How does it mean that what will enable you have put more effort to elect our leader to be at the councilor seat, parliamentary and presidential positions? We will be led by soda and beer we were bought for one day and that's a citizen of this country, approximately 50 years after Uhuru?
If we expect my colleagues we will be led by numerous promises that we were written from candidates who will do this time, they will ensure that you are at least six times in a day, they will ensure that you are near the bridge, they will ensure that you are building a bridge even so you can help them?
How many times you have been promised the life of creates and then came to vote on how some of them have been made to pay for those campaigns and not it's impossible for a campaign dubbed 'snacks, soda, and five thousand.

The taxpayer started a question that why do not have been promised in the national campaign, there are also happy that you have not found themselves so as to sit down, therefore, you want them to inform them, but you want them to sit together with them, but they hope their colleagues has come up with your votes.

So, you will be led by fear during the set aside, some of the candidates are there, you are able to believe that the senior policies to build fear that some candidates or certain parties should look at all their candidates and their parties, who is a habit of wanting them to place blood?

For sure, it's true that there are parties that will win blood, again in large numbers but there are blood pressure and goats to celebrate the first win.

So, you will be led by the truth about religion or the experience it means that in many countries in the world, politicians like the policies depend on issues that involve more feelings more than other thoughts, they know that they can cause people and even discourage each other.
If they pay for a lot of time you go to the religion (because they know that our religious countries is a very important thing, or you depend on tribalism and hostility seen in another thing that is easy to prevent citizens.

But the painful truth is that when the country being run for bad policies, it is not because the religious people are not because of people who are in power, which are a mixture of religion, tribe and from different areas, are meeting and planning to plan for more than millions of citizens.

As a result of our constitution, religious cannot be a problem in the leadership of the country because of our country, our country does not have religious leaders but we have witnessed how here in Africa, all those who live in religion, have implemented the policies that sell all citizens including their religious leaders.
