Two people have lost their lives and more than eight people have been injured following a vehicle accident that caused a lorry with a lorry that caused a lorry that caused a lorry accident as a bus station of Tegeta Escrow area, in the city of Dar es Salaam, where they have taken the reports of music that surrounds them.
But people like I want to get like some of the witnesses who have told the channel that another one usually comes from Kariakoo, at the same time when he was suffering from Tegeta Thermal Power Station, I have requested the government to set aside from Kariakoo to avoid unnecessary accidents in the area on claims that they have been increasing at the area on claims that they have been increasing at the same time.
He has suffered a thing in which one shop is to reach here, it will be an offense but I give a solution to lack of reasons because not so on.
Government in the government.
He wants the people.
The idea of the idea.
That these vehicles do not make an alternative way, Mathayo Suleiman.
Look for many questions.
Twenty days of that day and every day people love many youths by touching on doctors themselves, he will change him.
Speaking about the incident, the police commander of Kinondoni district, Charles Msonden has confirmed the occurrence of that accident and the deaths of those people where he has urged traders of buses to purchase passengers at areas that are prohibited and also urged business people who drive their activities along the road going against the government in order to avoid accidents from time to time has said they have already been rushed to Mwananyamala hospital for the purpose of treatment services.
Because of ten years.
News last week.
We should work in the army to remove small businesses.
In the parts of the road, today we get an accident.
Ommy earlier an accident.
There will be no single bus.
Because he has lived in place a place.
And causing it now.
You shouldn't leave each other.
And the deaths which I did is expected to say just because it is God's work of God is complaining, but he says.
The area is there.
I commend the vehicles.
It is good to report from Dar es Salaam, but he is not Tenga of all have met.
