You have already made a chance to oppose that they will be reached, now they can be of politics how will it be?
Brightiles 24, 2015.

To the minister of forest and shivered.
They will face street children.
Tanzanian shillings
My lover 'my lover!
You love our love!
In addition to that, my lover, because you have failed to join the queue of going into Tanzania Electric Supply Company, has been forced to take his form.
You know I am the chairperson of the girls' girls here in Bongo, and now, due to a lot that can't be avoided, my colleagues have been unable to refuse.
I know that the journey will be difficult because I don't have no longer clothes, but I am expecting that I will allow people to understand that the political party is not in secondary schools or even the army, although these are the army with the army.
The boss says they are Americans and Soudy Brown was forced to destroy the weapons and destruction while following the attack by their weapons and destruction.
Now let me tell you that the party is people, how will it be able to have products like a box of color (that are only) I believe that girls who have the ability to work so as to avoid all what will be done, now they will have a lot of politics that will happen?
And the true time to oppose the lover to welcome him here at the evening when I met the boss's car he was surprised and I went to check up on how I was surprised and went back behind while I was surprised and went back behind while I was surprised to return.
"Said the incident.
Until now, the video of the boss.
"We, Hidaya Kapera, has not been commanded?
"The boss is where?
"I am me here! Let me look for me."
I open your eyes and scored again.
I don't see if they have changed their father. "
"Stop foolishness, Hidaya Kapera.
At the same time, the boss was surprised when he was shocked.
"My husband dies.
His boss he started annoyed.
"Where is where?
"Why do you have changed, it has changed and it has been like 5 o'clock."
Royalties, his boss did not depend on or even if it comes back, he refused and bad luck, the lady's boss was born in a room, crying, laughing out anyway.
"Heah, father has been a fan of the Cameroon team?
What does it mean?
"The football fans that call the color to their daughters in order to show the love of the team and I see Cameroon, again the women's team are doing well."
Boss, he threw out and owned up of taxes.
"Hidaya, let me defend my match.
MB is happening but BB, laughing.
"Is the father and if it was on the face?
"We are not good for all the candidates for everyone being in a green shirt, if you're close to what I have heard that I am very happy about what I believe in all the candidates, I am himself the name of what?
BB will continue cheering.
"Same father but color is not a person."
"If I don't know what every person tries to get a way, being able to look for ways to show that you are the patriotism more than patriotic, it is true that you need me.
Listen to you shortly.
"I remember, when a young man was coming from the road and every vehicle got a red card so as to show his milk it is now, after seeing them two times, I decided to stop and leave where he is."
BB is supposed to mix up but MB 3.
What's the meaning of?
"Insisted my wife to listen to the end before saying that when I was asked and warned those girls who were close to them," you thank all girls who were close to me, "I know how many people are happy to see me.
I asked me "because this is a business announcement," he told me, 'the truth, Mister "what would you have stopped the car before my not others."
MB is unable to prevent us.
"Masau boasted.
"So I know what I met with him but I wanted to know why he is doing well."
MB it got it on it on an eye for the allegations, and even if people have a lot of years and the incident happened even before they did not meet the first time she did not disturb the boss.
I met here I learned anything because if you want to do one thing or different from my colleagues. "
