If you want to improve the relationship, do not understand.
Mr, 27, 2013.

This column has ever been able to write and advise that the government wants to sell the public on a certain issue, in order to make the commander Suleiman Kova of the special region of Dar es Salaam.
This is because the Almighty God did not want him to resolve the matter of suicide, giving a report to the public you have found themselves speaking with if he is listening to another thing in his soul or trying to remember how he had been asked for him.
Its results, the flow of his report gets mistakes that make the listeners should treat if his report said Kova is not a good thing of taking reports to cook with his body and his body makes him betrayed him when he started doing so.
We saw the time of the scandal involving themselves as being known as Doctor Steven Mertesacker played and even recently during the police scandal to run away from the reserve in the money that they played in Kariakoo of Kariakoo.

He is another person in the way to our government, that is the Minister of Public Relations in the State House, Stephen Wassira said this week came out for a period of 45 minutes that is aired by ITV.
It has been normal to run away while in addressing various social media networks and to come out to him immediately because there are two major issues, but that CCM has been forced to use few ministers, those who every place in addressing the public meetings.
Secondly, the elder Wassira is his responsibility to address a relationship with that he is himself supposed to arrive every place to give information with the government's stand in relation to of cyber crime, which I think you while I think it is correct than his ability to make calls, wisely, I'll leave it.

Earlier on all, I say openly that basically, to form this ministry in this government talking about many questions, the logic that was used to see and decide that there is a need to have ministries that destroy the relationship in the nation has a great problem.
Two problems are open and at the first, to form a institution or an agent to address conflicts, is same as to put a probability of making more conflicts in the country or not to create a problem so that the unit takes work to do.
We put up keenly, we can realize that, Elder Wassira has been making conflicts in order to get the work of doing so that he can do so by knowing how he didn't know that, he didn't know that if he didn't know what they believe in with them.
In a state's request for the leadership that is in, a person, known as Wassira who is very easy for him, is very easy for him to be happy because he is supposed to go back to areas with conflicts, giving details by the government's stand if the government does not win because it will get a lot of time and resources to address conflicts that are not ready.

Secondly, one of the bail (OPD) of the selected president in all levels is to solve conflicts, improve relations and even make new relations in their areas of work, where those selected officers can't make this work well, there are officers who are dealing with this issue.
In the decision by the government to form the ministry that is crush using a relationship with a way to be treated or solve the conflicts when it comes up, it is same to tell others that are in the country for now, the results of this policy which is being faced with a solution of criminal activities that happened in their areas.

However, some of the executives who came out and looking for a goalless draw in community, they are not sure if they are not on with elder Wassira and his results that most of them have decided to stop or tell people that they should wait from the State House.
In a period of 45 minutes this week, Minister Wassira confessed that the government has been trying to address problems and destruction of peace and solidarity of Tanzanians.
