
Corruption (KAA) is ready to download an entrepreneur show in Arusha at the General Meeting of 7 / 12 / 2013.

Africa is the continent with large numbers of resources and it is because of this large numbers of this continent, it has been a must.

The source of resources in the African continent, other continents and the world in general for many years.

Several decades ago and Karume are many days ago and the property are not pleased in minerals and other natural resources.

There are also in human resources and various talents as they have them.

In our talents, one which has been used in many years here in Africa.

To say it is in our origin, it's why we shall talk about soon.

Music is there in the origin of the ones that come up and it has been in used to entertain but more than getting information.

With building and improving the community the public and it should be a song, can the cost that we are currently, we recognize them.

The great name, or even to be in different media houses like Marimba, music and so on.

It is in a message that is reserved for the purpose of generations to come, and it is in songs.

Reaches it to the community that is in the country, if you know this issue, they are forced to listen to a message keenly.

We have closed down the Entertainment Label, singing together with other stakeholders.

Our purpose is to use this art which will be able to reach many citizens more at least.

To give a message that we believe has benefits not only to the previous beneficiaries, but also to the beneficiaries.

Of the future generations to come in the whole African continent.

We believe by doing this, we have a chance to give a message to the way that message have been given.

It is received, and more to be taken to the citizens and all the others being received.

In this logic, we have organized a show of that address that says "bribery are not true.

Benefits and it is to be able to be beaten in any cost if the show will take place in Arusha.

On the 7th of the month of ten and two this year, at the General Tyiga Stadium starting from seven o'clock and a half hours.

In the afternoon up to one and a half o'clock in the evening, they will involve artists who agree with the community for carrying a message.

This so as to be taken to citizens we were given good deeds for the listeners.

The citizens of Tanzania, and the whole African continent in general, among the artists who will participate are together.

By Fid Q, Chocha, Izzo Bizness (Kenya), Vanessa Mdee, Linah Sanga, Stamina.

And the Blacks group from those of Joh Makini, the second one, G-Square, and has said.

Others are together with Mama C, Lumumba Band, Mo Sembe, the University of St.

Villa Squad, Dogo Janja, popularly known and P-Cuture Group. This festival will give a chance to also different artists.

We request your cooperation in this, if we believe the fight against corruption is the responsibility of every one.

Our and it is for the benefit of the whole continent because we are Africa, and Africa is us.
