
13 December 2012

RC, Iringa has ordered the contractors that do not have reputation.

By Eliasa Ally, Iringa.

Iringa Provincial Commissioner Doctor Christine Ishengoma, has urged engineers and directors of all councils in that province to ensure they do not give the tender to the contractors that do not have money together with construction equipment for road construction.
He said there are complaints offered by the citizens about the contractors of that kind being given the tenders for the construction of roads.
Especially in the villages that are being built under the level together with the projects being late to be completed.

Doctor Ishengoma said that in that province yesterday at a session of the roads board in the province and insisted that from now, from now the ban on the engineer giving a tender to the contractors who do not have enough qualifications to produce roads.

"The good performance of contractors who do not have a lot of roads that are in the villages failed to be completed in time and claimed not to be paid by the council.

"I would like to understand these contractors have been given tenders for the criteria, my thing is that I am an contractor that wants to have money to start implementing the concerned project, enough equipment and the management of the engineer with certificates," he said.

He said that if local contractors will continue being given the tender to the council, they will cause a huge loss of government funds together with many projects being implemented under the level, there is a probability that the citizens need to blame their government.

Speaking about the state of manufacturing roads in the villages, the district commissioner of Kilolo District, in that province, Asteria Mlambo, said engineers are providing enough training without following the procedures.

He said the situation causes many projects to be followed under the level and insisted that there should be a regional team that will have the responsibility of inspecting all the major roads that have been set aside, before maintenance of contractors.

"The government is giving a lot of money to improve the villages in rural areas, there are engineers and contractors whose work is to chew money in conjunction with the directors of the council.

"These directors give a tender to look at the ability of the contractor, we have separated with the habit of lack of money, there is also a big problem of management of our roads, to make sure that we can have a problem of government funds and make sure that they are doing their work," he said.
