
Our parliament and the accusations of the wife of the Kaumba Chini Secondary School, 2012.

Julius Kaumba got an answer to 'my sweet one, he will not kill me, I was under the name "- Maelezo, my wife who is not supposed to be accused.
Kaunga was responding to a question by what he told his wife, Pickup, for allegations of going against the good movements of the marriage.
Yes, the allegations alone, even before the verification exercise, they were enough to thank his wife so as to leave his wife so that he can leave the status and public service should not understand by doing their evil deeds.
Here, you have not come from the parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania that on the heavy accusations of bribery, it is good to know that the weight of this matter is that the minister is responsible to give priority on the allegations of parliamentarians to consider among them is a big scandal.
It's not only for the concerned members but to the whole parliament, in the whole country, in the whole country, there are no other drugs to evade a bad behavior like that, apart from the accused of going to pave way for investigations and report of the investigation is presented to the parliament and the public.
Meaning, here there are two that are expected to happen when the investigation report answered, or give an answer to the suspects or remove it against those allegations, the first one coming is good because it is enough to go with legal action against those involved, even if they have already been sacked.
But coming from the second time, that a special committee that was set up to investigate that case was not guilty, therefore moving them, therefore, the prime minister has accused of those allegations in public with his fellow executives who were involved with reports of minister's information and that when he resigned immediately.
And by saying it is true that in parliament it is good that stern legal action will be taken against them and to be true, I don't see another way of parliament and our country to come up with this big scandal, but by using the ways I have reached there.
And that will be done, and if the committee made up the speaker or national team, it has confirmed the allegations of members to find out, then, the presence of legal action was taken so as to give the parliament the status and honor.
This is together with Speaker Makinda to break up all seven committees that are accused of receiving bribes in their work performance.
And if the members of parliament will be confirmed to get pregnant, then, there will be a lesson to learn about the better system of getting directors to manage our resources.
Because, the Minister of Energy and Minerals and his team will arrive that it's true for the public of civil servants who will help them know that there may be a good system of getting ministers who will help the president and the country fully in having ministers who will be from outside the parliament.
That the next constitution gives the president's authority to appoint ministers from outside parliament, and if the president shall appoint a member of parliament to be the minister, therefore, the concerned member of parliament should not be appointed to vie for the presidential position but being supervised by the directors of ministries that are involved.
Likewise, the members of parliament through their committee should not depend on one of the activities of institutions and public organizations but it is the managing director of the concerned ministry and its departments.
This will eliminate the bribery partnership that is currently among the members of parliament and even their committee and heads of institutions and public organizations, this situation will increase efficiency, it will increase the national income and it will help the country to move forward.
In the system that we have now, some of the members of parliament who engage in parliament with the expectations of getting quick wealth by doing business and the economy of the country in order to benefit their personal interests and their groups of theft, instead of paying them the public.
They have changed the country, "Masaki,", Democratic Republic of parliament.
In politics, the Czech Republic has said that some of its leaders are doing business and the economy of the country because of using their power and therefore doing business and resources of the country instead of fighting itself and make sure they help many people.
Today in a lot of insects in TANESCO, we have seen things that are being done against Altay FK, some of our members of our members with their hands, are from a tires, fuel up to the public (not TANESCO) is getting confused.
That there have been the smell of bribery and go down in the system of "France are very disturbing, while some of our members of parliament, whom they registered, participated in making sure that this is a great scandal and it's impossible to continue without any action taken against those involved.
Its at the moment, our Parliament has been led by speaker Anne Makinda to make sure that they go through this situation.
Because, this is not the first time for the allegations of members of parliament to receive bribery, this year, when we saw the member of parliament, David Kafulila, when he met the Member of Parliament for Kasulu District, Omar Shekilindi when he was taken to court for allegations of receiving bribes from the Mkuranga District Council.
All this means of the problem of some of the members of parliament to consider among them.
Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, the deputy secretary general, Eliakim Maswi has said the whole team have had a unique courage to collect taxes today with his real name which is paid taxes today and not that they are supposed to be supported with their good intention to our nation.
Meaning, if we go for now in a very difficult time in history of our country's history as a nation, we have a difficult time and the only thing is to see, therefore, we can be able to liberate them economically our nation or not.
Why do not see the Minister Professor Muhongo has a lot of shortage, but by listening to me, I saw him as a true patriotism he would like him.
Otherwise, the committee that was set it does not allow me there and that Professor Muhongo is a man and let's wait and see.
