
KCC have failed.
By Mwangi, professor.
A meeting that was called to discuss a special issue of privatization policies in the New York Company (KCC) that was emerged after the late in order to enter that it will not accept any plan that will attract more strength to 85 percent of the shares.
The meeting that was organized by the administration institution (KIA) on Tuesday was arrested without stopping.
According to the chairman of the New York Board (KCC), Mister Mendes Hospital, Mister MONDE, has explained that the farmers explained their punishment for the proposal of the panel that protects the laws of the public companies that deals with the farmers to get 31 percent.
The panel that organized itself with farmers through the production agencies to get 31 percent, an investor from outside, 31 percent and 25 percent of those shares will be sold to the public in the Nairobi market.
Another 10 percent have been built for the government while three percent of the workers of New Zealand.
On their part, the farmers who prepared their report that had requested them to reach 85 percent of the shares, while the government is set aside 10 percent and five percent be responsible for New York C workers.
At the day of the day before yesterday, the conflicts facing him and we had to prepare a meeting of that meeting to serve the injured.
Mister Myovela, said that farmers have decided to register the Chama cha Mapinduzi (KCC), community development, which will be used as an aim of buying the shares of that company.
He added that another meeting will be prepared as a panel of privatization policies in the ministry of finance so as to discuss the activity well.
In an interview with the nation today, the chairman of the union of local farmers in Mount Kenya, Mister Geoffrey Mbithi said that the government is growing up the Kenyans that the distribution of those shares has no mistake.
He said the activity had been adopted by New York C players who are accused of buying 51 percent.
He carried out a low political parties to give one company to give the reputation of the milk market and its products.
New York C followed by the government at a sum of 200 million shillings on 2003 after being in a bad state due to corruption and bad management.
He said those who are going to take the management of New York C are breeders.
