The interpreter translating to the case of political killings.
Kristen 31, 2013.

On April 16, 2002, Charles Quiah was removed from the Ghana court and went to him the charges of killing him in the court that was claimed in the year 1996 when she was living a lesson on the previous bar, that is near the National Stadium.
It was claimed that the intention (to cook with a non-communicable diseases) to implement those murder, due to his behavior which he was used to prevent them and that many times he didn't leave that he raped.
The case broke out the feelings of Ghana, Judge Agnes Dimwa, as he was going to listen to the defense of the defense, the suspect was appointed through the popular lawyer of that army that was prepared to investigate the deaths of three judges and the retired officer of the army that were killed under mysterious circumstances.
The case was expected to be heard on August 7, 2002 and a Quad ah ah was sentenced to his killing after that judgment being at Frankland forces, waiting to be involved in the killings and asked the creation of special commission for investigation so as to be stopped.
He continued to say that the law was impossible so that he can be considered as an offense when I have ever been forced to register after being arrested by the police who had been forced to register after being arrested by the police who had been forced to register after being arrested by police officers not to be given an order to introduce himself from the top level officers of the investigation unit.
In addition to a Quiah Ghanian, but fear was still among the residents of the areas that were being attacked by the investor or even if the murderers had not found guilty or even if he was not guilty or even if he was not known as many.
According to one of the soldiers who did not want his name to go through the news agencies in that country that, the instructions were given to court had not been registered by a Quiah Prayzah who was claimed to be involved in possession of those women.
He continued to say that the yellow card is in prison when the investigation of his case was going, when most of them comes from the headquarters they went to prison and then bid farewell to the stomach, and then returning him in a lot of blood due to the affliction and then brought him to killing those attackers.
