What are there in our politics?
August 19, 2012

In one of the articles in the edition of this week, we have done an interview with one of the veteran politicians in the country, Judge Joseph Warioba, speaking with other things, problems in political parties.
In his opinion, these problems do not affect the elderly and be self-employed while in the way he knows him, the source of those problems is a deal of vying or protecting the power.
These opinions of Judge Warioba are not different from the opinion polls of many who have been following the performance on performance and leadership in political parties in the country.

To say the truth is a very big problem among our politicians in these parts and the era of what happened.
It is true that politicians like others like the other human beings are not angels and for this different types of issues and thoughts among them can be avoided, they would have been successful in the issue and thoughts of construction of the country instead of right now.
For close to two years now, we have witnessed conflicts that are not involved in the Revolutionary Party (CCM) where each one he has discovered that he can be the president of Tanzania.
When it was found, it's only the only presidency of the year 2015, that is spoken by one group after another extent that there is a clear threat that the situation does not be controlled, we will see that in recent days, many casualties of the presidential race inside CCM.
In how things that, as other parties or any other parties or have been infected on this disease of the political parties in every party, there are conflicts that are ongoing in every party, they can be used to look for who more.
In the past we used to have a stable foundation, with words and with actions, about the operation of our country, some of us remember that, so that the country continues to include people, land, clean politics and good leadership.

It's bad luck that many of our politicians in today are not good and do not have clean politics, and this situation is taking us to me!
