If you want to now it is not a organization like Wama ACT Patriots, we have a problem here, this situation is not good to do the procedure to change this issue, what do you want to convince the students to study in science and read it so that we have been trying to make projects or anywhere.
Which they are looking for your information and when they live there?
What are the problems of agriculture.
There are problems in which there are problems of the economic environment and try to sit down and look for people in which way they can use science and different technology that can end the problems like this and being forced to finish the problems like this and leaving, then put it so as to make Zitto Kabwe.
We are looking for.
Every year, because it has shown that this year has started since yesterday coming up to today at the Diamond Jubilee Hall here in the province, there are a good work that there was a good work there was a good work there was a good work when we started students.
Some of the things that the hall are saying in this class, science who could be already used directly in their lives and finishing different problems and not to identify the regulations, so as to remove it and singing so that the law is Pius Mutakubwa Lugangira.
I aim youths who are studying in secondary schools.
I wish you all signs and see the challenges they are facing the students they are facing.
Its operations in this year's side are participating in one hundred schools.
And all one hundred thousand activities are coming up for twenty thousand because we know that they know that in Zanzibar, all the schools in the commission through problems are many again when they start the journey.
I will give you the other schools that most of the roads are being built on roads and even the equipment are in the same, then it is not bad or not there is a challenge but here is not a challenge but here is not a challenge but here is not a challenge but here is not a challenge.
There are clear that if you look at the work they have made work that you can make research on the road, Paul there are work that can be done in research outside the past.
There are examples of as this year?
The students from Nigeria are looking at the chest with the problems where there is a lot of water that is affecting the water when it is against the water, you have decided to change each and they think themselves.
What we need to do, we have been suffering about the heart that we got in the class and then we use the system of doing what we have reduced, but we have been able to make sure you go immediately and we do not use science and even this which are outside the thoughts that are there.
To continue with this studies I am happy about.
Science is when it happens.
Yes, I cannot be a teaser?
Following the news.
If you are.
What are you doing?
It's a mistake.
All do you get a sin?
So I don't know all over the vehicle.
To get the tension it is looking for Mercy what is looking for the poor but I wanted to look for forgiveness for a short time, it will be same because I wish you a lot of money to prepare for the community and yet it will not be taken to the community.
You don't know, when I get Mercy I will get a great opportunity to be used in the office, if you know what we are due to these days since the teachers.
He has received us and let me ask you.
These boys are supposed to do.
They did not live with a picture that I will also end with Mercy Tanzania, I don't believe that I come to explain that if he and his partner, you will discover that those who have already been living in then?
But the fine is fine and will go to Master Jay a surprise, how they get to my life?
You allow me to make sure you are doing research or a sin.
For a human being, most of the Swahili scientists are going, we will not make sure that I think it's just because of the first step in this issue and then make sure that we are doing a very good thing from all of us where there is a good habit, where we're going on.
Stew.
Wake up every states or has the government in your research.
Welcome him as a sin?
