
Diamond Platinumz speaking after the award 'Fulfill Your Goals and Bado' I have a new song. "

Others talks about the White House foreign affairs.

"You know you are very happy about the artists of Bongo Flavor music, I know that I am pleased with me but I decided to be silent," there was a surprise, "he said.

He continues with, "I cannot do a video and they do not get a video and they do not have a lot of work, but when I've ever made a lot of work, but I have never got a lot of work, but I have never got a lot of work, but I have never got any video, but I have never got any video, but I have never got any video because I had gone down in South Africa and put him down in South Africa.

The person has been revealed by a series of ten o'clock in the morning and read it, I wish you for me, comes from 4 o'clock.

Most of the people that do not lie until you know your value as an artist, they are also associated with a big problem here in our country and still she has given you a donation when all the money he wanted to give him ".

Talk about the challenges.

"The biggest challenge is to get blame, for now I have a lot of friends and I will play with many people now difficult, I wish you a lot, but if a human being did not see me, but if a human being did not know you, but if a human being did not like you like you,"

"The challenges they have, I have people that you love and thank you so much and they believe I will do it down," you know what I do I do with me, comes back and ask you to write a picture, you should not wait and understand what you want.

As he was asked by Vanessa if he has the ability of rapping who wants to be given his beat up, but if he was given a hard beat, he refused to ask for the hard beat, when he refused and is showing the ability of Gongoni.

Others hit the legs.

"You know your music at the moment you pass Nigeria which has called Africa".

"My second thing is about to end here when I was surprised and I have a lot of a mobile phone, you know I live so much, but I cannot sit down, but I cannot sit down here," I cannot sit down. "

"We are supposed to do a lot of lot of songs, others are outside Africa, and the same way it's like I am able to record a video of collaboration with Cindy, Nigeria is his songs."

"Idea of the video of Mdudu 'was started by Adam and each other, later we will improve it and Wema.

"I have seen whoever doesn't have Live, he died on my day, it's not aware if I had not seen anything but I don't understand what I had never seen, but if I am surprised, I don't know what I had not seen, but I don't know what we had just like you, and even if I am pleased with no wonder.

The subject of the language used in Swahili and English was to ask for the way.

Thank you!!
