
On this bribery of billions, the presidential way is darkness falls into 1st, 2012.

Internal elections of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) this year, have reduced to one big issue of complaints on bribery such as a way of getting leadership.

We have heard a lot of complaints in media and even from people (saw and others are victims) directly and that issue is that the money has become a great foundation "that is running" this election.

Starting from rumors has up to "veteran players" like has said, but others, each one has been heard, "he insisted on how bribery they were written to him" and some of them (in accordance with their claims) they did not give them an opportunity for the leadership because they did not give bribery.

A cry or complaints that were quoted by the chairman of CCM, President Jakaya Kikwete who was heard while addressing the youth of CCM during their election, he spoke about bribery and even so he entered into a series of bribery that were surprised by complaining about bribery inside that election.

It is for a series of complaints that happened, and the complaints that were given, and what is going on, it is obvious that bribery that has reduced or it is the main reputation of various elections in CCM for this year.

It is very different from other parts of the world, and even we are used to be as a nation last year.

For example, while America preparing to vote to elect their president in the coming few days, that you will expand in the presidential campaigns, and in the media is people to discuss issues concerning the future of their nation.

When they read the Americans during this period is issues such as Obama and Brenda Kharono, who its policies are forced the best way of the United States on issues of Americans' lack of themselves so that if they are receiving bribes so as to receive a lot of bribery they want to receive a lot of bribery.

Now on our part, those concerning bribery are concerned with people or presidential candidates through the policies (which I believe it has taken place and in a large section, which was used in the provision of those funds, so as to win and get leadership.

In line with these issues of bribery, which has brought more fears are reports that have been accompanied by that situation that, these bribery are not in free but it's the internet or network that began well so as to achieve the goals of someone or certain people for the purpose of the presidency, the year 2015.

This is the great problem which is putting in the state of asking questions about our journey and where we are headed, we are among these questions, due to the trend of the person or those who want presidency) which are very much protected.
For instance, it has been reported that he is a candidate for the chairperson of "CCM region" one who were worth 300 million shillings so as to prevent it, they should be joined that in provinces and various community, all of them have been used for people or certain person, all the money is where all of them are.

Secondly, according to the source of all the money, there are those who gave their expectations, more than the presidency, they receive the leadership that there is nothing for free in any place, but the management is obvious that the foundation has been used for the availability of that leadership and finally they were also beneficial to its leadership.

Third, it should be known that you're some people who had not been given a bond due to his own quality, one of his colleagues in the concerned community including the best player who is the best player in robbery, is the one who is given to lead the squad of the criminals.

In the front line, if we have decided to give them a better power in providing bribery, so we want to prove that we have agreed to ensure bribery they have become a legal system "of our life and therefore it is legal" these will be given bond of leadership?

In addition to that, the major use of money like that, the way I said earlier, are not only going and return the cost that he used, but also paying the effects that were used, but also the money that are used are many in Tanzania, also those who helped its availability are very many.

The same way, the leadership will be available and pay the hopes of those aides "which they put in power," this can be through a way of "shivered to the leadership and other ways that consider the problem.

Mwalimu Nyerere once said that we have to marry anyone who is going to go to the State House because it's why we are supposed to go to the State House with any personal interests and not for this situation, then we are supposed to do it.
