Engineers are now used.
Petit 20, 2012

The training institution in Tanzania has emerged the project to build capacity for engineers from Tanzania who like going on as planned, we will begin to see the work that were done to be done by visitors that are being done by visitors that are being done by civil professions in the country to be greater than it is now.
The president of that institution, Jonas Tiboroha has told the journalists yesterday, on Tuesday that they have condemned the project due to the fact that the increase of engineers that do not have work even to be self-employed and join the profession.
It is not true that together with the nation to produce many engineers every year, many development projects in the country should be made by engineers from outside the country to cost a lot of foreign money.
Tanzania has companies that are registered and more than 10,400 government and it is estimated to have more than 2000 engineers that have not been registered for different reasons.
The engineers that are studying in the country are not being used as required despite the existence of numerous work in the fields of energy and minerals, infrastructure, construction, palaces, clean water project.
According to Sumbwanga, that project will be of four areas, those areas were of improving technical activities, improving the structure of institutions so as to use the experience and their expertise to collect taxes and use data for a vibrant engineers.
This issue of having a memory or the statistics of a vibrant engineers in the country is very important so that the problems of contraception will be dealt with or greed.
Tanzania has engineers that are experts in various sectors but because there is no records or statistics that concern them, a nation will be forced to use foreign engineers that have the same time when a problem comes.
Moreover, the nation would not be forced to form the commission for investigation in trouble, what has been made because many commission have been causing problems where our engineers are would like to solve.
