
Baraza Ditto to oppose the new law again.
By Mgana Msindai who are expected to arrive in court again today to ensure the lack of the security law of 2014, they are claiming that the right procedure did not be dealt with in her heart.
In collaboration with the national commission of Kibuko's family (KNRF), those leaders want the court to announce that the procedure is not for us and it was against the law.
Through his lawyer, James DeBarge, (the left) told the court that the song raised the constitution, because it has not done on the issues concerning the local government, he said Senate have failed to be involved.
"Revolutions that was carried out is great and it is dangerous because it affects one of the human rights that are in the constitution," said Mister Orkesumet.
Through the Head of Dogodogo Multipurpose Training Center followed by the Director of Public Servants Pension Fund, we are saying that the government is also expected to fight against those reports.
Those two are expected to discover that the court is because the request of Plasmodium falciparum.
According to Khajida Kopa, the process of releasing his contribution is not to reach the constitutional needs, and that the reforms that were done by the government by increasing the procedure used by the parliament, "Uhuru Kenyatta said that the law was prepared to deal with the lack of security in the country.
He said that the act did not affect the constitution in any way.
"This new law will look for security agencies to deal with terrorism and it does not forget the human rights through any way as claimed that," said President Kenyatta.
If they believe, they have been saying that action goes against human rights and the constitution.
Also, the step of the court to lack of giving an order to stop its implementation has been caused by Novak Draw, that gave the opportunity of the implementation of that parliamentary law.
Elsewhere, five party members of ODM Party came out yesterday that they will involve the citizens in giving their points, if the court will give the decision the decision that will continue on the Diamond Jubilee Hall on that parliamentary law.
Being led by Bashir Nkoromo, a model in Nairobi after shame, is a model in Nairobi after a shame to participate in a swimming market, Doctor Oberlin Kisanga (BN), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (RTO), Doctor Christine Ishengoma, (
