
Kikwete, "Airtel is an example of taking place in Africa.

President Jakaya Kikwete has said the African Continent has a matter to learn from the success made in the Tanganyika and Zanzibar union that lasted for 50 years.

He has said that the action of the permanent secretary, improving and continuing with the development of the 19th century is not a matter that can be taken to any country because there are some countries that tries to do that, they failed.

"There are our colleagues in Africa, they failed, but they did not succeed as we have, because their union lasted for a short time and protect themselves in two years, two months and there are some who have started discussions until today they have not finished," said Kikwete.

Kikwete said that yesterday in Dar es Salaam, when he was receiving a tour of youths and spoke to citizens through the media.

When he knows the words of the father of the nation, the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, Kikwete said, "Tanzania is a very big percentage in the history of Africa, all the other countries is to inherit the colonial history, Tanzania is the creation of us themselves because of us themselves after getting them from the colonial era."

He said that the success made in Tanzania shows that also the East African Federation can have countries of African continent to join and be one country is possible.

"Including good intentions, these things have been planned well, there is no doubt that it will be available, we have been able to see our colleagues also," he said.

While his speech comes close to time with youths who had celebrated, Kikwete said the cause of his speech is to answer two questions about the union.

He mentioned the questions that it was a question because if the Tanganyika and Zanzibar union has possible and what had gone down.

Responding to the questions, he said that according to the census on people and housing of the year 2012, 91 percent of shisha are born after unity and that nine percent only were born before the union.

Therefore, he decided to build a motion on his answers by mentioning six things that he mentioned is the secret of the success of the union.

Those things are that the founders of the union, Nyerere and Abeid Karume, had a great intention of joining the nation to put the nation's interests in front of the Tanganyika and Zanzibar people are one.

Other things are the presence of close relationship between the political leaders of Tanganyika and Zanzibar with the intention of solving the problems facing the union and that the union is benefiting more people, otherwise they could have already died in the past.

Abusive language in parliament.

Kikwete said that he is disappointed with the use of abusive language and others that were used by delegates of the special assembly of the constitution, even after preventing them so that he stopped the parliament.

"I was heading to my advice they did not hesitate to be keen, they use abusive language when it comes to," he said.

Also, he urged the delegates of the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) to return to parliament because citizens will not help them to solve their problems, instead they will be careful.

He said that he did not know her little by the action of Ukawa from outside parliament because he believes that their solution is found inside the parliament.

More than 3,000 youths from different provinces in the country and different areas in the country and different areas in Dar es Salaam city yesterday were among the people that attended the PTA hall, to listen to the speech of President Jakaya Kikwete of the commemoration of 50 years of the United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar.

With them wearing a red sweater with the message that has not be easily read "2 enough," your impatience will be supported by CCM.
