
Our leaders, journey from the United States and the colonial era of May 25th, 2012

At the time the world may face the wind and direction of the new president of the United States, Barack Obama, to see if he will protect themselves in politics and the biological president of the United States, Honorable Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, has made history by being the first leader in Africa to meet the president of Tanzania, Honorable Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, has made history by being the first leader in Africa to meet the president of Tanzania, Honorable Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, has made history by being the first leader in Africa to meet the president of Tanzania, Honorable Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, he has made history by being the first leader in Africa to meet the president of Tanzania.
It has been explained that in those talks, together with other issues, Obama advised President Kikwete to resolve the political conflicts in Africa, a work that he said, Kikwete was able to oppose the political conflict in Africa, a work that he said, Kikwete did not meet with him in the 54th minute, "said, Kikwete was able to make it at 1348 when he decided to make it.
"
We are not aware that President Obama does not want President Obama's responsibility even to give President Kikwete the responsibility as he made but we think that apart from being the highly experienced coach, maybe it was a result from the competence which they have shown in the implementation of the African Union in the past two consecutive years, as the chairperson of the African Union in the past five years (AU).
But this concept of "we are measurable" has no strength by failing to give an answer to this question from America and Obama, who is in Africa to urge you or check the arbitrator.
And because President Kikwete decided to receive the "employment", so, he will have the consent of his colleagues in the African Union, or the current chairperson of AU, Colonel Mtwala.
AU aim is to see Africa with strength to its union to protect themselves, in solving its conflicts together under one spokesperson of this continent in the international political parties in Africa when it reaches the continent.
If it is so, because the United States's action is to appoint President Kikwete to be the arbitrator of the African conflicts without the consent of AU, it should be employed as a certain kind of law and rule.
It is identifying that America is not able to eradicate violence, we have witnessed this because of its actions of destruction and other cargoes at the whole world, together with the heavy rains in the whole world.
It is also the month of April this year, President Obama's delegate, through his delegate Johannes Carson, made that message ("friends" of America) to end their conflict, and threatened that if he will not do so, America will use the strength!
If the American policy is the use of strength, "it knows" President Kikwete for work if it is not with a draw and maybe with another goal different from this, if we will see later in this article?
What is happening to the chest is how the tour of President Kikwete and the statement of President Obama about his intention of Tanzania and Ghana, that was received by some of the African countries.
In Kenya, the tour by President Obama's statement has been received as events of reducing Kenya in the race of "loved" with the great nation, and Kikwete seems to be "understandable" to our country not to be the first child. "
In South Africa, these are the same way to be announced that Obama had visited Ghana earlier on the month of July this year, Nigeria came into Ghana such as Kenya fell in Ghana, this year, Nigeria was divided into Ghana such as Kenya was divided into Ghana.
"Our father started in Europe and America, your name will be expelled and royal carpets, you will happen, in our African continent.
Our would like you welcome to South Africa to prevent it, as it was in the colonial era, you will take a lot of 970,089, "every day and you help us to forgive him in our weakness what have been sent away by God, Milele FM, Amen."
In Africa, there is still a continent of darkness, to cause light from western countries?
So, our leaders are required to contest for the gospel music "in America and Europe, they have raised me and we have sure that the gospel will help them?
In a sitting in that office, they don't have 970,089, after President Obama said that when he was visited by President Kikwete, there was also the minister of foreign affairs of America, Mama Hillary Clinton and his assistant in charge of African affairs and the ambassador, A. S. Carson.
Carson has been forced to Tanzania in the year 1994 to teach in Malangali Secondary School, Iringa under the wind power program, and finally got a chance to reach the Ambassador's plan of cold drinks, and finally, a period of 93949 years were led by Russia.
There was also the adviser of Obama of the security issues, General James Jones, to ensure that the American intention of putting the military station in the country and elsewhere in Africa, under a program of "Kijukuu cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party."
He played 970,089, the African Child, 9335, it got a lot more.
The Pan African Development Program that is under the department of defense in the United Republic of America, 970,089, was handed over 97,949 years after the special rule, rule of law and providing an opportunity to grow the economy, "the law was expected to start being used in the year 2005.
But the end is a whole issue in the United States which is pumped by the fear of war from nations that is called "Bugandesis' that goes up for the army's strength and great weapons like biothionol, North Korea, Iran, China, Russia and other nations.
It is as a result of that fear, America has set a big military station in Europe for the African Union in Germany, to prepare for any attack from those countries.
The plan to put social media stations like this year, 9703949 years, was not the first to America since 1950, the country ended a tough plan of air travel known as "Landscrona" as preparations to cheer up Russia "Kijukuu cha Bibi K" from Abu Dhabi.
In the same time, during a knee injury to cross 5 in Egypt, a total of 33,356 by 1956, President of America, Dumu has cautioned that he didn't use the stations to fly the Russia and Borussia Dortmund, as Russia would continue to insert a thoughts from China to Kuwait.
The warning by the United States made me also in China for the year 1932, the president placed a small field of Plasmodium falciparum.
The year 1988, on the La Liga, "has planned to buy 50 bombs in important areas in Egypt, Syria, Iran, and German soccer, including traffic grounds for fear of being used by Russia.
The strategy of the Pan African Community is the history and return as we have explained above.
The coastal region of Tanzania and Mozambique is an important areas and the right time to the United States to be able to control all the local market in the Indian Ocean, South Africa to Somalia. But there is an issue of economic interests also, if we shall see here.
In talks between the presidents of President Obama and Kikwete, there was also a threat to the economy who once served as the economic adviser of the United States for International Trade Organization (33), and the others that are being controlled by the American bank who's also known by the famous name of "Ambassador Seif Bowman.
Tanzania entered into an agreement with IMF and WB while in the 6th minute, to implement those procedures with transparency in the country through the policies of the economy that do not care for the environment, patriotism and integrity of the community, a point that today we have reduced its ideology and skills of true development.
In those talks, General James Jones, Florian Philippot has said that it should not be no longer, without doubt the goals were affected by Pan African Cooperation and also to protect investors and interests of the African countries, such as Isa Buzohera and other countries known to the country.
Therefore, other main purpose of Pan African Lyon behind the name of foreign policies in the United States, is leading to lead the race for the new race in areas.
During the 87th minute, the cause of the causes of 93949 in the world in a new era in Berlin, South Africa, scored 970,089, in the past five hours, which happened in Berlin town, 18388, where South Africa passed away from European nations as well as required by considering the biggest areas of every nation.
The purpose of Pan African Community is also together with the managing director of African resources like oil, minerals and forests from America wants to get oil from Africa which is already a big source of energy of that nation is known that in the next few years, Nigeria and Angola will give more than 25 percent of oil in America.
Reasons for controlling the meaning that is called terrorism, "who said it is true he is a public process of the weak participate in this world to protest against visitors or return to the colonial era, tensions among other nations in the United States.
Making sure that many American doctors have a lot of shares in companies mining gold here in the country and we know for example, the Apple family has a great shares in Baragigi company as he is the former ambassador of America in the United Nations Andrew Young, in that company that is owning the mines in Ghana.
We know that our contracts of minerals is a shadow of the contracts that is used in Ghana "," our professionals have the mental disabilities of the country, "these professionals have the mental disabilities of the country.
Tanzania is popular among the most important minerals that are very important in the manufacturing of heavy weapons and which the United States does not depend on how to get that opportunity because he has joined Ghana and Tanzania for the first two days in Africa?
So, in the year 2008, we did not use our money worth 25 billion shillings to be the host of a African Union of African descent to play in 970,010,00 Tanzanian shillings led by Andrew Young, what should not believe that the colonial history is wrong for us under the colonial history?
