
Dombeni with privacy of Ali Ameir, relatives of Hassan Nassor Moyo Mashine, 11, 2012.

Anyone has been responsibility for fighting tourists in the Zanzibar islands of today, this will not take time to recognize that in his political sector there are two main camp.
Those camp are representing two agenda that will lead the big political debate that is going on in Zanzibar Islands, Zanzibar's agenda and this is the real situation as well as every day they continues to be open.
When we woke up, this is the situation as it is and to start because in the page of this magazine, there are those who tried to see themselves as enemies, traitors and catalysts.
They woke up every type of bad luck and not to hear a lot of things that do not lie!
Today there is no terrorist who contested for two days, there are no great success, but there is no very big problem here and there is no one who plays for people of Zanzibar without caring about their political ideology or political ideology.
We think about the eyes of the popular members of CCM / Zanzibar that came to open and introduce himself in one camp between those two countries, Hassan Nassor Moyo Mashine, one of the delegates of the revolutionary council of Zanzibar and United States, he led the agenda of Zanzibar and he is facing that camp.
Another one who is similar to that position is Mansour Yussuf Himid, a minister who doesn't have a special ministry in the government of Zanzibar, this is a young man but his father was chosen to be the head of the new army of Zanzibar and the representative of the revolutionary council of Zanzibar.
Those in this camp believe that there is a union of two nations with two governments that will join the agreement.
On the other side inside the same time, CCM / Zanzibar, the former journalist and a member of 4 the executive committee of CCM, Ali Ameir, has supported the Zanzibar's agenda of wanting the union to continue as well as to how other alcoholic beverages.
According to the support of two-thirds, the minister of security in the United Republic of Tanzania, but also the captain wants to change him, for example, he wants the issues of oil and natural gas in Zanzibar.

The captain started getting popularity in Zanzibar politics when he was appointed to be the leader and retired president of Amani Abeid Karume.

In his camp, Ameir, and the captain of the people of Zanzibar don't support the agenda of having one nation with two governments, is also Salmin Awadh who is a member of the council of representatives and a member of the executive committee of CCM.
Maybe Awadh Ibrahim and his colleagues that they don't have a lesson so as to support him in the CCM's policy because they're getting to them in CCM and they do not see the positions present at CCM because it is with a great importance to win their patriotism in Zanzibar.
The heart has emerged as a man of people of Zanzibar with the courage which they have shown in getting any political leader in CCM with status, does not pollute the political leader within CCM with status, don't understand and wisdom if the agenda of having two government in one nation.
Why is, Ameir, when they came out after mothers came out to open and defend the union of two nations with the two governments, it is obvious that when they see the wave of the coalition of the contract, Ameir, he got in and he didn't see the death of his contract that they will take him and try to marry off his honor.
That is open and the verification of history is that there is no even one inside the medical camp, Ali Ameir, who is able to buy a red card heading to workers, in the activity of voting for workers in the process of voting for freedom and the revolution of the year 2014.
Likewise, the great contribution of Moyo Mashine song that is now in Zanzibar has been made in the history of the history of Zanzibar and there is no one who does not erase stupidity, so that he can be heard since his voice has changed and become a voice of integrity.
Contrary to the politicians of yesterday who are trying to mix up and investigate on his name, we see I remember that on the front line of activists who are in matters of development here in Zanzibar since we are small and he is a youth.
A lot of patriotism has no doubt, his faith in the African continent for the African continent should also be taught.
Currently, it has emerged that a big politician who is capable of using wisdom to evade a loss like we not less than 74 matches claiming that he is in front of the medical camp in Zanzibar Islands, a situation that has brought peace and peace.
The truth is that this people of Zanzibar have been supported with the most of them, they have also support him about the type of unity he meets with the captain and Ameir, they don't have a great desire that is caused by the people of Zanzibar, the issue of patriotism and a great importance in the nation.
As a result of people's views that recently hacked to him up to now in front of the constitutional commission, we see that those who support the union system as the right now are few among the political leaders among them can't change the thoughts of their colleagues.
Another truth that is that people of Zanzibar are saying that this is not the issue of the party and not the issue of CCM or not as CUF. It is a matter of the country and that's why people were asked to be asked their views on community and not in their party branches.
We live in different times, everyone has the right to say she will get without being dealt with because everyone has the right to give his views and dealing with them and to give their views on freedom without being dealt with.
However, as their fellow people, they have all the right to talk about those opinions if they are seen, they are not a great opinion and that do not have interests to the people of Zanzibar, even to them, Ameir, themselves.
When I been keen on this issue, Ali Ameir and Moyo I have been asked if I think I have decided to get the coach and Ameir, she has said that he wants to go one country with two governments or a nation with one government with one government.
They have also said that Moyo is not the desire of Zanzibar?
Certainly, this is the first time to hear that she is told that it is not the desire of Zanzibar.
All the days we believe that it is the desire to Zanzibar as we like, even others who have a lesson or our fellows who are born even so that we can be buried in the land of Zanzibar.
The heart is eternal peace and maybe that there is a must, it is that he has a lot of pain in Zanzibar to win and Ameir, who wanted to bid farewell.
Those of the era of looking for political or political parties is not only again.
Those who don't sell the party to register with ideas like the Mansour's thoughts as a person who is going to listen to the party.
The ones who wanted the union of agreement should not recognize the concept of the coalition. They are claiming, due to reasons, it is having alternative union but even those who don't have the right to say so, and the right to say so, and the right to say so, and the right to say so, and the right to say so, and the right to say so, and the right to say so, and the right to say so, and the right to say so, and the right to say that.
There is a probability that speaking with Ali Ameir, they can bring conflicts here in Zanzibar because it involves political and harmony in the islands of Zanzibar, I believe that they are doing so with their mental health be able to serve the constitution and instead be discussed people.
