
The way the heart could have tried to break the union of Zanzibar on October 12th, 2012

Last week I was talking about the importance of the country like Zanzibar's importance of having political politics instead of having political politics but this is conflicts with peace and political parties.

I also mentioned the importance of putting it in the country instead of putting policies of the party, to be given priority to the national interests instead of the interests of the party.

For a long time last Saturday, there was a big conference in Unguja, a conference that is a good example of political parties, that I was coming from speaking.
The conference that was under the chairperson of the chairperson of Professor Abdul Chocha (one of the historians involved in Africa) organized by the Marist Committee under the chairperson of CCM, Hassan Nassor Moyo.

Other delegates of that committee on the side of CCM, is a minister who doesn't have a special ministry and the representative of Kiroreli village, Mansour Yusuf Simbakary, acting director of CUF, Salim Bimani and Ismail Jussa Ladwa, the representative of CUF.

These six people have been looking for a check that she is holding for the national union of Zanzibar and to make sure that solidarity and the people of Zanzibar continues to the benefit of our nation at that conference that was done in that gathering and attended by people from different political parties and from different countries of Zanzibar with religious leaders.

However, he said the conference was the first of its kind to be held in Zanzibar Islands, it is unacceptable, that many media stations in Tanzania mainland were allowed to be distributed by those media houses as required by Zanzibar with Bongo Five that was not allowed.
What was speaking to the participants in that conference, were being presented with him in the government's television station and they were announced by him in the army of radio that are free and even in alternative treatments and social media networks.

The topic on the conference was in the Zanzibar position in the process of the new constitution, "something that was given a heart during that debate is that there was no opinion that was there and it did not confirm what this people of Zanzibar are expected to confirm how the people of Zanzibar today are continuing to have a union of thoughts about their future.

Another thing that was a heart is to see the ones that were contributing to that debate as people of different political parties and from parties and different communities but all of them being holding one of the people of Zanzibar.

It is happy to listen to some of the elders and his fellow leaders of CCM-Zanzibar who had been trying to give her honor because of his stand about the future of Zanzibar, the heart and a 7 card of CCM, he spoke about more about Marusu.

When I read Moyo Mashine, another one who talked and Salim Rashid was the first secretary of the Revolutionary Council and the former president and the ambassador of Tanzania in Guinea and Ethiopia.

Other leaders who talked about that conference, were together with the attorney general of Zanzibar, Othman Masoud Othman, the Director of Public SACCOS, Salma Said, representative of Zanzibar Law Society, Salim Toufiq and Khalid Mohamed who is the chairman of the youth union of the national union.

Another one who talked about that meeting for his contribution, the father Emmanuel Masoud of the Kiha attire from Pemba, who insisted that he was the desire to support the United president of Zanzibar, he added that he also joined the union of the agreement and wants Zanzibar to have his full authority.

There's no doubt that Marimba will be the Easter concert in peace and calmness in Zanzibar and it brings the heart when we hear some of the leaders of CCM and some of the veteran leaders of the party, while having problems that his fate will be to return to Zanzibar where they came from in mind the political tensions and hostility.

Without doubt, it is true that when you get your political politics, it does not mean that different parties of the party do not lose their disappearance, there and then.
Those different from them are going back, but they are important to be followed up and will not be put in mind, the interests of the country in a system like that country comes first and then come back or not less than not less.

When it is a lot of those who will come out, then arise in the old man and environmental degradation.

However, they don't know some of the opponents who will be avoided, there should be dangerous that the political parties should be played even so that they want to break the union because it does not affect CCM from Zanzibar.

All of them are doing sins because they are going against the historic course of the time we have now, the history of Zanzibar is holding the process that it is disrupting the union of unity.

In the state that is in Zanzibar, political politics is not a matter that really needed, but these politics will be used to fight for justice in the democratic economy, therefore, politics of those types are used by the non-communicable diseases that are used by the followers of their parties.

In true politics of unity will have the ability to expand the citizens and make them be productive to the party, their aim is to fight for the party and the interests of their country and the interests of their supporters should understand themselves and have a chance to put in the country in front.

Those politicians when they see their followers are standing firm and they will not pollute the environment, then it starts when they started being attacked and when they start being obtained, where some of their followers, when they start using some of their colleagues in different stand and that they will start doing well.
Haazu taking me there, but they put up their old man and they are starting to identify their own kind.

Therefore, it is a sign that those leaders who know you are soccer, because it's not the right time, but they are just looking at the sea and do not see themselves against their colleagues.

The last Saturday, the last Saturday, has confirmed that the political parties can be used for success to protect citizens and make sure that they prepare to fight for their interests according to the political parties while they never were involved in the field to fight for the interests of their nation.

That is the reason why the conference was done by the crowd that had flooded the crowd, most of them being young people who died from that conference was a good thing that is difficult for the future of their country, that is in their hands.

About all that, the situation that we have in Zanzibar was a police force, it is a police force to make sure that any fight can bring changes in the society and therefore, the youth must know that any action of bringing changes in the society is not free and to make another step to move ahead and the fight.

At the moment the Zanzibar has been made, the important step is that young people do not lose their vision and not to leave that, they can't be shaken by politicians who want to leave the country.
