In Dar es Salaam and also the opportunities to bring.
Dec 5, 2013.

Last week I met with my friend, a Tanzanian resident of England, who was sent back to home recently.
In something sad, where he was welcomed at home and "the white blood transfusion service" (white house), who in the surprising environment succeeded to get three phones. On his details, the theft is supposed to be done by those involved in the airport, but what he explained.
After the occurrence of the theft, he got several opportunities of "to see the real life of Tanzania more in the internet or elsewhere, he says that when most of their brothers, relatives and friends in Dar es Salaam have made huge steps for buildings and number of vehicles, a situation in rural areas has been dominated by giving up life, while the symptoms of poverty have reduced every corner.
But one of the things that talked about it is accountability in the office, told me that when he was welcomed at some of his office and several important positions in the areas they do not hesitate to tell him that this is the name of "WHO," (who is an accident)?
He determined, it is that many of the attackers "eat well" and most of them, moreover, in many offices they visited it found that many of the workers face, even if it is for the benefit of the concerned offices, it's not there.
Another one that witnessed are the way the players who passed were filled with high costs, although my friend is one of the few managers of the institution to make sure that his office is like a small State House as a result of getting house furniture and other things of high costs.
Likewise, despite many friends of his friends those who are required to inform them that they are paid enough salaries at the office, while in a short time, he claimed that he is taking the important time to do though the institution wants to continue with the citizens about their performance, "he said.
About corruption, he told them that it has been a important culture in many institutions (at least they visit at home). He gets a example of one senior officer in one of the public institutions who had paid rent of American dollars (I do not be paid taxes which are millions of Tanzanian shillings.
But when he left some of our colleagues living in life, even if I did not get married, "he said that in some of the areas he called" Swahili language, "he told me that in some of the areas that he made in Dar es Salaam city, he told me that in some of the areas he called" Swahili language, "he told me that in some of the areas he achieved," he did not want to sign such a statement before coming up but I did not have an opportunity to witness.
According to the information of my friend, there are some families "Swahili language," in Dar es Salaam city are living in one room, where the father, mother and children don't have any facts.
