
Corruption, sexual abuse of May 22, 2012

Reports have been coming out to the news agency of Raia Mwema, to explain more on the theft of revenue collected from tax at the port of Dar es Salaam to be tough and brings together big business people and politicians.
Those reports are more information about the main news of this newspaper last week that was written under the head of constitutional reports that are being taxed.
The family of the youth business people with the Arab Emirates, has been explained that they are blocking the property of corruption in the collection of taxes and now they have been growing rapidly, in Kariakoo, and at the outskirts of Dar es Salaam.
Being led by their brother, those two Arab Emirates countries are saying that they are told to bring the benefits of more than three billion shillings in a week.
In some of the reports, my fellow citizens have planned to business people and big politicians, old and current leaders, who are participants in that network but because of open reasons, and especially those who were not involved, their names will be mentioned for now.
"We are waiting to see if you have written again.
He said another person, "if it is contributing to the Revolutionary Party (CCM) we have been increasing even in time when these (he is asked the name of the company did not have a lot of contributes to the party.
"Insisted that we believe it is an issue that is being left open in TRA (Tanzania Revenue Authority), it is a cry for customers and all the business people who are involved with importation and provision of goods at the port and even the commissioner, Kitilya Mkumbo, who is happening, in the answers that he has done in that school.
"I have my brothers that he was being bothered by a few months so as to give his cargo, just a letter, then I don't know how a letter is called" according to the businessman, some of the business people would have talked about their cargo at the Beatles, Mozambique, Mombasa, Kenya.
"Now see the government every time it means that income will not be enough, but they do not hesitate to get problems in one of the big sources of revenue?
To you to the journalists of Mwema, first I don't have to congratulate you for a good work in which he did by getting reliable information and without favoring any person, "that is how he started another reader who is why it will not face the name.
He added, your news in front of the fourth page is true.
These are the three youths (he is not names), have the origin of Saudi Arabia though they are suppressing.
"It is true they started the agents of Tanga and Holder who came out after one customs officer, I remember by the name Bela, who was moved out of the country and put it so much.
"We are partnering with the top leaders of TRA and have built network starting from the port and JD all of them and they are doing in any time and any time if there is no government.
"We have led several officers that were sacked from work, I remember some of the officers that were sacked at the same platform, which is known as' Jichunge.'
"Because all the companies do not follow the procedures of the list but their companies are forced to write a letter and asking for a letter to ask for forgiveness from what letter is supposed to evade taxes.
"Said, the letter of the letter is written, due to the instructions of the veteran players of TRA and they are required to give cargo without the end of the number and time for products that do not have the qualifications to be given.
"Products with the reputation are like the natural resources, food and government products and the ambassador's clothes have been done now if we go through this network," we say that when we go through this network, they said that the internal inspection has been happening in TRA to identify what has been going on concerning the evasion.
Last week, this newspaper has not been getting complaints among business people and customers that make them get their cargo at the port of Dar es Salaam which owns the company that is owned by shortage of internal products, one family in Dar es Salaam which owns the company that is owned by lack of customs products in a group that will involve politicians.
That business of its own kind of agents of evading taxes, has been claimed that it has caused the government billions of shillings that it deserves to be collected from different business people who sell various products from China and Dubai.
"Now it is difficult for us to be very difficult, and at the truth, there is no non-communicable diseases because the documents of these companies are not recognized as they are tired of the services of these young people that are selling, Make Me Sing.
"The situation should not depend on lack of going to go but to those youths and they are not happy to see how state organs in the pocket does not know how they are forced to use only one company which its prices do not have discussions.
When you go to the show he is told to look for another agents who even so, you cannot get because these have fallen in everything, "who explained the news reporter in the tax sector.
Another businessman said that in the real situation that is in the system of tax collection, it is difficult to evade taxes by depending on the number of property, but if the company is possible because this company was possible because of the biggest system they have.
It has been reported that despite the campaigns of the year 2005, that company contributed the ruling party of 200 million shillings and that in this year they have promised to contribute 500 million shillings.
In order to know the amount of government revenue that are tested in these accounts, the normal amount of 20 million American dollars will be worth 1 million American Dollars by 1400 million shillings per American dollars.
If it uses a value of 75 million American dollars, tax is 67,888 trillion shillings which is equivalent to US 390,536 billion shillings which is 4660,000 shillings.
According to the news reports of TRA, this company usually affect all the cost of the capacity of a capacity from China to Dar es Salaam, and therefore, it has a total of 20 acres which will be 20,000 and 36 million American Dollars which is equivalent to 2289 million shillings.
If you will remove the real cost of transporting it from Dar es Salaam which is US $2,500, then that remain is US $200 and 2500 shillings.
478,000,000 million American dollars that approximately 19,200 shillings.
The investigation of Raia Mwema has shown that a big part of money is used in paying for little tax, bribery to officers in the concerned areas, the cost of port and transportation of the port to go to the port.
In my experience, this company has given a total of 20 million clothes to pay more than 30 million shillings per week, it has only 60 million shillings per week, it has only 60 million shillings per week, it means that the government is equivalent to 156 billion shillings, "explained the tax expert who is currently retired.
