
Liverpool to protect it.
Stoke City Solomon.
Liverpool's record being beaten by Stoke City in the English Premier League, will be in danger of these clubs as they don't see a dummy check in the semi-finals at the stadium to be played for five o'clock at night.
Defending champions while Liverpool will not play against Stoke during this cup for 25 years ago by 2-0 (2000), 8-0 (2000), 2-2 (2012) and 3-2 (year) and from 2-2 in the year 1991.
Jurgen Klopp has also been able to enter the match after falling with Stoke at the beginning of this season where Liverpool defeated 1-0 at the field of Philippe Coutinho on the 86 minutes.
However, Yahaya Ali is expected to continue especially everyone is looking for victory after losing the premier league matches in the world.
Liverpool was defeated 2-0 by West Ham United, Stoke was scored 2-1 by West Brom.
A player Debwa, has apologized to his Liverpool club to do well, with the aim of forgetting his friend.
Klopp's hope to end the premier league in the first leg and the best in its first season and therefore qualify for the European Champions League got a blow after the West Ham club.
In Germany, he had been angered by his youth game but he can end his first season from Anfield and crown this season when Liverpool will win Stoke, then they will meet Manchester City's match against Manchester City and Everton in the finals that will be played at the Wembley Stadium.
Lovers, Mkwasa admitted Klopp who had every reason to suspend him who came to CHADEMA after the West Ham match, where Croatia said the game ended, "we saw the, our game changed and we need to fall down.
"Without doubt we need to change our thoughts and also strengthen our record of winning and fight more in my opinion, we were closed for two goals easily.
"We meet with Stoke in the following match, this match has given a great opportunity to reach the finals," he said.
Liverpool, which the last time they scored that crown was in the year 2012 when they won the FA Cup, they will begin the FA Cup campaign on Friday against Aston Villa Squad, even so, he is not satisfied by the schedule of many matches in January.
"I cannot be worried about any soccer match," Klopp said, "I are waiting for matches with desire and cost it because it is a great opportunity to do a lot," he added.
