Superstition can destroy the lives of women.
APR of 03 / 2014.

While the police force started a special forces in the provinces so as to deal with the killings, including bribery, sexual faith, the Russian militants has continued to take place in Butiama District, women with senior victims.
An event on March 22, this year, announced the killing of fouling Brian Umony (34), a resident of the Nyakahema village, the Nyakahura ward, while his body has been buried on a fire accident.
It was reported that the mother was being treated for the old doctor in that village and later he entered into a close relationship with one of the aides to the doctor, where they had agreed to live together like the husband and wife.
A report from that village is saying that the mother was born in his home on an incident and went to a shop to buy new arrivals.
A sardines vendor said Happines was left to return to his home but he has not been found until his body was found on the way at two o'clock at the night of that day.
The police force is holding the mid-fielder and his assistant (a lover to introduce himself) so as to help the investigation of that incident.
Those killings have taken place three days after the other of Catherine Mandela (22), which took place in Butiama District, in Kigambini village, is claimed that he was caught and later killed by the body in doubt, on March first, this year.
Catherine was killed while coming from vegetables in neighboring village, Essar said.
On an event followed by her husband to Essar said, where her husband saw him and continued with his activities.
In the evening of the incident, Catherine did not go back home and the efforts of the brother and the relatives of looking for him did not succeed, therefore tomorrow they gave a police station, where his body was found to be found in doubt.
Those events have happened when the police force has banned the squads of fighting corruption in the province, and that in the Lake Region, an effort is to deal with the killing that resulted from faith of witchcraft and sexual violence, the beneficiaries are women.
The investigation that was done by this newspaper about the killing of was recorded in the provinces of the Lake Region, and were sworn in on February this year, the inspector general of police Ernest Mangu, said the army is well prepared to ensure that special squads that have been thrown in the country (HK) they work together to make sure the murder of witchcraft and others in that way are being employed.
"We did is to make sure that the Lake Region are doing such as compared to Mwanza, the squad of Mwanza is stable and there is a good sign of the reduction of killings since it was organized by all the provinces of the Lake Region and Tabora to control those killings," was quoted by NBAA.
This Sunni rebels in Mara province is part of the big problem of killings that are accused of involvement in witchcraft, which affects many people, while the efforts to deal with the complainants won.
Despite the government to recognize the effects drugs and to give information, including the ministry of community development, gender and children, condemning acts of murder of women in Mara region on January 23, this year, citizens have made great steps to be taken so as to save the lives of people that are lost without reasons.
According to the citizens, stern measures should be taken as it was in the time of dealing with albino killings in stopping.
"The government is unable to take stern measures against these people, I don't want to believe that the place has not been planned for this country because it is now a step going to the market or violence, why we live in doubt," said Elizabeth Warioba, a resident of Butiama.
The investigation that was done by Good Citizen between January and September, in 2013, shows 14 women have been brutally murdered in Kalala and Musoma districts, some of them have been affected by those faith, among them women were 34 and 10 men, thus making an average of four people being killed every month.
The statistics of the Law and Human Rights Center (LHRC), show that those killings have been increasing.
In the year 2010, 579 people were killed due to faith of witchcraft and in 2012 were 642 people.
According to the report of the Council of Association for Social Development of Social Action Fund (COS) of Dakar, Senegal, about the killings of the elderly and faith of witchcraft in the North of Tanzania since 1880 up to now, Tanzania is leading in Africa with the killing of witchcraft.
