The promise of President Kikwete will be involved with criminal offenses of 18, 2013 by eternal peace.

The decision by President Jakaya Kikwete inspecting a new structure of the City Council of Mwanza so as to eliminate the conflict between the council of the city and Ilemela Municipality, it is an illustration of the way the government has made a decision to lend the political council without considering the basis of their work performance.
That step by President was arrived as a result of the fact that since the end of the city of July last year, there have been conflicts that doesn't start from the political elections in the general elections until the conflicts of contesting the borders and property of the City Council of Mwanza.
The conflicts, the problem has pushed the President Jakaya Kikwete in his tour in Mwanza province last week promised to strengthen the ministry of regional administration and local governments (TAMISEMI) to prepare a new structure of Mwanza City administration which will enable them to have different activities between Nyamagana and Ilemela, which will be supervised by the mayor of Ilemela Municipality as well as the mayor of Ilemela Municipality.
Speaking to Raia Mwema, due to the promise by President Kikwete, the director of a non-governmental organization, Donald Kasibu, said that the step can cause conflicts and administrative issues instead of helping to solve the existing conflicts.
He has said that the day before yesterday to be the council of Mwanza City there were political goals but on the basis of work performance, it was a mistake because its system is making conflicts and make it difficult to lead that council.
"The political intention to start this division can be arrived, but at the cost of manslaughter, performance and good administration," says Kasibu.
The structure of the city of Mwanza after the day before yesterday were apart from bringing conflicts with Ilemela Municipality, it did a city to lack of qualifications to be a city, according to the policies of the towns of the year 2000, which requires one of the qualifications to be a city including having a number of not less than 500,000.
According to the number of people and a resident of the year 2012, the new council of Mwanza City, whose borders is the district of Nyamagana has a total of 363200 residents.
452 kilometers, while having a total of 25000 American dollars which are among them is the water area and the left 173 that are land.
Kasangati has been explained that the new system can bring transparency and plans of responsibilities which will be required to disrupt the system of better administration and he is insisting that it is not correct but it will not have a stable market because it is within the borders of Ilemela Municipality.
On their part, the politicians see the system proposed by President Kikwete is a conspiracy by the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and all the councils should be attended by that party because it was their intention since the beginning of the beginning.
"If Ilemela has its full Mayor, why again the mayor of the city should have the authority to some issues of Ilemela, with it is wanting to take it more things," says Danny Sserunkuma, who is the councilor of Kirumba county with the conflict of running the councilor and Mayor of Ilemela.
The current mayor of the council of the city comes from CCM when the mayor of Ilemela was the councilor of CHADEMA before his membership card and moved to court to oppose being expelled and therefore continuing being a mayor of the court. "
On his part, the Mayor of Ilemela Municipality says in accordance with the local government law in 1982, the issue of the authority of every council is open that the council will have a full authority.
"Ilemela is free, even our certificate of appointment is that the municipality is unacceptable, that we are a council with full authority, maybe I think that the committee has clarified those issues see," said Matata.
When he was in his tour in Mwanza province last week, President Kikwete said that in the previous system that he wanted to wanted all the councils to identify their mayor but the mayor of the City Council he would have carried the responsibility of Dar es Salaam city to discuss issues concerning the city.
In the system that deals with now he would not want you to be like the city of Dar es Salaam whose mayor is just without having any big activities that he did.
