
It is looking at the anger of President Jakaya Kikwete.

After the complaints by President Jakaya Kikwete, the partnership of three countries that is known as the United Nations have already changed Tanzania in the railway project.

Speaking yesterday during the launch of the railway project from Mombasa to Kigali, Rwanda, President Uhuru Kenyatta said that the project of that construction will also involve Tanzania.

The union of those who is being created by Kenya, Rwanda, and Uganda which are also members of the East African Community (EAC).

In recent days, those countries have been used by checking other countries, members of EAC and Burundi.

Speaking about that claims, President Kenyatta said that the country that form the United Nations have already been organized with a plan to restore Tanzania.

That step has come as the heads of five countries of EAC being expected to meet tomorrow in Kampala, Uganda.

President Kenyatta said that the park in Mombasa, Kampala up to Kigali, will have a branch through VASHARI after getting to Tanzania starting from Moshi to Arusha.

He said the railway is being built so as to ease implementation of cargo from the port of Mombasa to the neighboring countries.

He said the construction of that railway did not be done outside the community and the three countries, but it came through the EAC committee by following the procedures given.

While addressing the parliament in Dodoma on November 7, this year, President Kikwete said that the railway project is not in the EAC and they did not have a problem but he was announced and it was surprised by the previous plan of those countries saying Tanzania is an important thing in business in this area.

Together with that, President Kenyatta said that Tanzania will also be involved in construction of road construction.

"Next month we will be able to launch the road that is going to go and protect our neighbors in Tanzania, we want us to change this roads and our neighbors in Tanzania, therefore we want to change this road and we are considering the time we are blocking us," said President Kenyatta.

However, President Kenyatta said that the United Nations already cannot break the EAC because all the countries are together in implementing the responsibilities of that community.

He said that they are claiming that the union had no problems not knowing they are saying because there is no country that is left behind in those important things.

Presidents Kenyatta, Paul Kagame of Rwanda and Yoweri Museveni have done three sessions to discuss the cooperation among their countries.

Those leaders have done three meetings this year, June 24, Entebbe, Uganda on August 28 in Mombasa, Kenya, and October 28, in Kigali, Rwanda.

In those sessions, it was decided that those countries should continue to cooperate in improving infrastructure, the start of one federation for customs tax, Immigration and the creation of a political federation.
