The main market has been unable to meet the thirst for farmers.
Frode Dyrdal of 1st, 2012.

The government has decided to intervene in the purchase of small-scale farmers due to the failure of the public market that did not start itself, to meet the needs of small-scale farmers.
This has been said by the Minister for Agriculture, Steven Wassira when bringing a discussion with the members of parliament about the bills that he presented at the 17th session of the parliament.
As the ones that were reported about that conclusion, the government is expecting to form an infrastructure like the poor board and other crops.
As a result of the experience that we have that, the government gets good administration, and those board will be made up by cadres of the ruling party with the government itself in my opinion, this situation that will remove the board of their crops is to return behind in economic development.
When we go back and will continue to move ahead of seven years in the first phase of the government under Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, farmers were buying and selling their crops in the country and outside the country, in other languages, they have done the work on competence.
I remember that neighboring countries of Kenya and Uganda were communicating with our United Nations (International Monetary Fund) gave birth to his regional offices in Moshi, Tanzania.
In the seven years of freedom, the cooperative said the deaths in the system which is called corruption and burn in hardship areas, we need the professional sponsors and the system of democracy and administrative which will now live under!
In addition to talk about the issue of grains, among four years ago and 1967 the government had a structure of the organization that is called Ambassador Seif Tanzania, is carried out a good work, but it intends to use political parties as its agents.
Corruption were not able to do in that system as a result of a priority that caused the unbeaten political parties being completed by business people or guardians in this logic, there was no appropriate way to protect the farmers economically.
However, the Political Parties and that was sacked is the end of the crops being in the development of public development and development in good governance and not otherwise, the board is supposed to start, to recognize their importance and not otherwise, the board should be used for the benefit of the leaders inside the ruling party and the government.
We ask who came out during the establishment of a new constitution starting from the top of a free market where it is claimed that it is being wanted and put in large numbers and other crops instead of it?
Success in development start at the community level, not above, if people do not know something, they must be educated on him and then be taught in achieving it themselves.
Tanzania is a very big country to human resources, except that we cannot use the patriotic leadership due to the poor infrastructure, but many citizens live in poverty, but it's still a lot of food that do not have a lot of food and patriotism but also to serve the poor of this country economically.
We have enough minerals, as the income of these minerals they would have done well, we want to address a special permanent fund for all the years because agriculture is a must he would enable the country to have sustainable plans for the purpose of modern farming.
We have been with the agricultural university for the field of Sokoine in Morogoro for many years, while providing plants in agriculture and livestock, but we have been unable to unite in the office due to lack of special plans to uplift the economy of farmers and small farmers.
In an issue of professional graduates, agricultural and livestock students are supposed to be very close to their stakeholders who are farmers and breeders so that they can be used well by voting for their farms and food production and to provide professional advice.

To make sure that farmers and pastoralists in this type can't refuse to move to the new residential and permanent residence.
It is no wonder that we will not know how to use universities in the country through appropriate measures for the development of the community.
