SA.
The deputy minister of construction Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has urged citizens to give the government a long time to do his work in relation to the cause of the disease Doctor Mwakyembe has given that statement when he has thanked the President Kikwete for the quick action as he had been using his family concerning claims that he has been infected.
.
They have asked me.
How is a journalist you?
It's followed up with a lot of Christ, therefore I thank you so much, you will be free for free our society and fruit juices.
A step that the journalists explained, but they were able to request for them.
The family is infected with buoys or bake at the end.
Tanzania has been mentioned to be among the countries that are doing well in the implementation of international agreement related to human rights, that was given because they worked on different criteria including the management of those rights here in the country.
For now, our rights for human beings are in the world, we will enable you to live with challenges but basically we are doing well.
This is according to the session of the union of security for human rights through the evaluation of good administration that took place, special seats that took place yesterday that CHADEMA was represented by the minister of the country, office of the best president Mathias Chikawe.
In the United States of Dar es Salaam, Minister Chikawe was speaking with journalists to talk about the session which he said will be presented his statement concerning the state of human rights by considering the recommendations that had been made by members of the union while the last meeting was not worried yesterday Coco beach in a last session of the week when they presented several recommendations that have not confirmed to say that Ismail Aden Hazard.
We don't know your friend they want jokes, but the part of the Best Producer.
If you go through right you will follow up until when you get a decision they take the heart you can take this heart and we have no time this time but for a week.
You can't like because you know what you want.
Therefore, we have agreed but we are still continuing.
That will be for the citizens that when I decided to be popular to change, an inexhaustible speed by saying that the punishment is supposed to implement people of other different types, we are expecting to fulfill people with albinism who are not supposed to help me when I think how I'll help us as to look for them inside.
In another step, Minister Chikawe said that it said the culture that was built between Tanzanians by breaking the security is determined and not to follow the law that it contributes up to the efforts of implementation of good administration in the country to give donations to some people who need to follow traffic rules.
That is the meaning that you are telling them on the road?
A red card is there?
A part of putting someone?
But the same community.
I know this behavior of breaking up the law.
I don't know that they will continue to come up with the important things we will have but the new things are present.
All people have managed.
From the where they are not true.
Several days.
