
Kikwete has warned him and was surprised by when they do?
October 25th, 2012

For another time, the Chairman of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), President Jakaya Kikwete, has continued to speak about bribery inside his party and this time when he was opening a general meeting of the Union of Women's Association (UWT) in Dodoma (October 22, 2012), I was surprised to see for women who have gone into the purchase of leadership.
To continue talking to him is to give a lesson that maybe he is a heartless person to have the authority on the church in controlling the corruption, it's like what is waiting for another leader with him so much love you are complaining so that they do not be careful.
At the moment CCM, bribery are an error in the drugs because the truth is that there is only drugs to deal with bribes in CCM, that you have integrity and if it's not present, then there is good that is good and the speed of the disease is very big.
The complaints by Kikwete as it is for his fellow members including those who fail to be completed as a result of giving a little amount of bribery than their colleagues, have been heard very much and do not turn up.
After the release of time to time from Kikwete about bribery, we expected to witness this journey to witness those actions.
Contrary to you, we are saying "new poems will be surprised by the women of that party and it is the stakeholders of bribery and basically we were not surprised by those women, he is what people deserve to be heard first.
People are supposed to be surprised by not knowing the truth that, following an eye on the problem, it is clear.
We are telling him Kikwete, he will not look for that situation because every time he has been a leader of words that do not be responsible about controlling the bribery inside CCM.
Because he was unable to leave since the beginning of that problem to cross up to the those that he said, we want to also prepare to witness the upcoming lady of that party asking the leadership for bribery.
We're being surprised by admitting that the female students of CCM should know that now a system is not a matter of a woman, a man or a child.
Bribery are canceled due to having integrity and the ways of self-integrity, follow me, but if you eat it is using laws of law, compatible with wisdom.
Before urging them to change, Kikwete cannot change first in this difficult war against bribery, otherwise, the situation will be bad.
