The Diplomatiz Group is Tunda Man.
Brightiles 23, 2013.

For a long time, I have been discussing issues concerning democracy of our country, I believe that the situation of this important sector is not good if they would be able to be or if it has ever been in the history of this country.
It is possible that I don't have an important information that would do to be with different opinions, but I think my understanding is why I know what is happening.
The basis of the primary issue here is that violence of any nation depend on policy policies in the country itself when it comes up that the internal policies of the country is of solidarity of the nation, to break the rights of foreign policies (Diplomacy) because they have shown the direction.
Likewise, when it comes up on the policies of internal and human rights, it is very easy to prevent and eat the rights of Diplomacy, that country will make sure that if it is difficult to have a good picture at home and other different photos in the international sector.
There is also that the country has no permanent policies within the country itself, and that situation was taken out of hunger and it is saying that the country run by luck and the policies, knowledge, and policies, Diplomacy, which will be same as the same.
Here I'm talking about a situation of lack of politics and politics that are run by depending on this will and the one in the country does not have direction due to its leaders being successful in every new issues which many times seem to be in a disaster.
You will see you ask leaders of the high level when I wake up in the issues that, when you see it is clear that they have not satisfied with each other and even how she is seen and not knowing the issue.
This is when you came up the importance of ideology, which I would like that if in general of lack of vision, look for him, philosophy and politics of the special group, political party or the country in general, ideology is controlling the leader or administrator to wake up the morning.
Mwalimu Julius Nyerere said that the leader cannot be someone who depends on the morning and to implement the advice of his wife so that many people did not understand because he claimed that a special person was going to him.
I explained the other understanding and this one I saw when I met with him after his statement said, "the advice of his wife" meaning it is to bring about things that are not involved in the basis of the community that is leading, it is good advice to be given the necessary weight.
Our thinking is to refuse to think that if your friend and a member or a community member or a member of any issue that you get in, and if he will have ideas or advice that would be able to help promote the government's intention to help them?
The real meaning of a teacher is requesting leaders to do their work by following the foundation that was done by big-scale enterprises because without doing so, everyone will continue to make sure that each one of the situation is the leadership that provides information that are ongoing and to make sure that each other in the country but outside the country.
We don't have to remember to understand all the time that in today's world, everyone is inside here in the country, and then do your decision all over the world.
We have also been able to know that the construction of a good relationship with the foreign people is a heavy job and permanent work which did not use this day because there are people who know this day, but by looking for bad events, but by looking at this field or at the same stadium.
This can be done in great success in Diplomacy, if we are also going on in the field of home, it is saying that we are also going on stage and to organize our issues keenly, when we consider the interests of the deficit of us all of us as a nation.
