Tanzania has dropped out of cheating.
Brightiles 5, 2014.

Recently, in Dar es Salaam City, was launched the research report about the smuggling of illegal funds through foreign business, that is taking place in five countries of Africa - Ghana, Kenya, Mozambique, Uganda and Tanzania - from 2002 to 2011.

These are the countries that are leading in receiving donations from Denmark, which is the one that led the research that was run by the international organization that protects the smuggling of illegal money (Global Financial Services - Gogo).

Reports were given by the general commissioner of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Rished Bade and Governor of Central Bank (BoT), Professor Benno Ndulu.
The launch was held on May 19 this year and was attended by the head of Gogo from America who were cooperating with the organization of the country.
Professor Ndulu said he spoke during the activity he said the fights are taking place through an issue by using the system of accountant of the nation, he said that the report had a lot of money that are needed for the purpose of construction of the nation.
If he would have been asked if he would have any meaning, before that report, our leaders had not understand or they put an eye on that issue?
Research has shown that the money has been suffering from purchase and stability of goods outside the country through the value of products that are reduced by an increase or reduced, therefore it reaches the real value (self-communicable diseases).
The way used is growing up in the price that is paid in products that goes through or have been paid to a little amount, then benefit from the private bank (it has stopped him and elsewhere.
One example is an American company that claimed that it had bought plastic chairs to a huge price of 972 million dollars each of the reports will not be the name of the company although it gives many examples.

President of Gogo, Raymond Baker has said that these companies have paid millions of money from poor African countries and this ownership are done by the famous company that are highly commended. "
He added that this disease is taking place all over the world, together with the African continent where most of the government have many times participated in "even the African Union leaders are making money and follow it on," says an Baker.
He says that different from venturing the customs and tax officers in order to pass money and property in our boundaries, smuggling of illegal finances by writing fake documents so as to be official and legal documents should be presented.
This "this is the cheating to have been destroyed, in the business system of outside business and transportation of products that are being done by traders and buyers of the products that make the African countries billions of revenue," added Baker.
There are several ways of abduction for buying money through the price of products that are spread in the country is reduced, thus the money that is paid outside the bank has been paid outside the money that is paid outside the bank and the one that is paid outside the bank and the buyer of the products.
Many times the extra money is usually paid in fake phones so as to avoid those funds are going on to who on this account, the account are open by the name of fake phones, this is also a way of the collection of taxes, because the money is received by a secret number.
For example, it is said that the price was successful in order to avoid the payment of customs tax for sugar, Kenya and Zambia.
Many times you'll find the international companies that invest in Africa, for example, the transportation of minerals up to America, the real price is one million dollars, but the company denies paying tax payment documents.
