
They are preparing to prevent you from May 31, 2012.

In the last article take place, two weeks ago, we saw in details about the Selous National park, Mbinga district in Ruvuma province, this week we are looking at the challenges facing the wildlife especially reading a fire.
The General Manager of the Tegeta Thermal Power Station, Hashim Mgandilwa, explains that they do not want to read a fire accident which is one of the biggest challenges facing the park especially because of the animals that were affected with other people.
However, he says in dealing with that situation, he was made a group of police so as to talk to the community living in that park on the problem of reading the fire in order to recognize how the community has understood that problem.
On his part, the Natural Resources Officer of Mbinga District, Ahmed Mazrui, says they are reading a fire in the villages that sell the reserve and the whole district in general, a problem that has a solution to them.
He knows that the forests law is saying that any person gets fire even if it is his farm without getting a permit from the government of the relevant village to stop fire by partnering with the neighbors and if the fire will be able to increase the fire.
However, he says that the forest law explains that it has reduced the property of another person and that there is a small law of districts that are supervised by a tree planting environment that protects the forests from water sources.
Aron Nanyaro has added that all government plans in the implementation of natural farming, sustainable supervision of environment, environmental sanitation, and that the fire despite being stabbed with a reduction in climate change.
"We are in the whole district of Mbinga, we have done a big campaign to prevent you from careless spender.
When it reached every June and October in the meetings of all villages, we will talk about the fire agenda so that the district does not know the issue of reading it, "he insisted.
He says that since the establishment of the Lakemikali ward, the process of defense and management has been done well by the public that is currently proud of the issues of the reserve.
He is saying that in that district there are areas where reading the fire is not allowed to be shaken, even in some areas, including the villages that surrounds the reserve, as a traditional and a bomb.
Aron Nanyaro, says in those areas that they have a permanent produce there is no permanent crops especially in the mountains areas where in all the areas with production of the season like maize and guidance on issues of reading down every year.
He also added that in areas that use the production of this season, citizens are running itself in danger of using fire so that they can get animals easily as well as being able to buy their livestock in a new store after falling down in the past.
"In the Langoni Area, the fire is taking every time due to the wild animals that pass through the park, it is like the high road that goes through the reserve, it does not stop smoking cigarettes and others when they go into the reserve it can reduce fire in other areas," he said.
According to the procedures that they had set for themselves, he says if they were not getting the law that it started on a certain embassy, it is a must that ambassador to know and take action against the chairman of the neighborhood because the fire problem involves all stakeholders.
He says that in many issues, they have been being helped by the media which he says that they have been important stakeholders and participants fully in the fight against reading the forest.
In general, the resources follows a big campaign to prevent you in partnership with the department of forests and tourism in line with the media like radio, newspapers and the department of forests, outreach and planning that his office is ready to contribute to the special campaign so as to save the forest and the environment in general.
The resources officer has advised that citizens especially in the rural areas at the moment are required to get news from time to time through social media and social media networks as it is in the fight against AIDS so that they can be reminded on the danger of reading it.
On his part, the head of the department of natural resources, Mbinga District Council, Peter Mdigo, speaking about the problem of reading the fire in that district, he says that many citizens have had a habit of getting fire and that his department has been taking different actions including spreading new law for the citizens.
"The former law of the environment was that a fire was supposed to pay a penalty of shillings 2000 for now the new law on forests has failed in all 206 villages in Mbinga district and the citizens have been expelled from all 6 villages," he says.
Mdose says the council in the new financial year of the year 2008 / 2009 has organized itself to improve the environment in the fishing sector, forests and bees keeping on the forest that is a plan of supervision of forests (PFM) that is taking place in 10 villages that will be stopped recently.
He asked the villages that include Mwanzo Kigonsera, Lipumba, Mahege, Mitole, Mitole, Bribes, Ilemi ward and that all villages, those contributing to the forest and water sources.
He explains that the seminar at the villages were held together with looking for resources in every village so as to improve the use and that this program of PFM is expected to end in the year 2010.
He says that in controlling the land environment in that district every year is taking a tree planting trees and that the district council has managed to buy food equipment for groups, institutions and private individuals.
"
