As the first friend for them, I wrote me.
Also for a prey in the country, let me follow keenly to be responsible, because there are at home to go to the children who go through an example while in Musoma we will just work in Musoma.
When you go through NSSF, I thank Richard Mwaikenda, but that is one of the leaders that have ever played with the late Edward in Sokoine, leave the race that came up with the late Edward in Sokoine, and asked him to ask for a donation like the PAC committee for that work.
It is not that he was.
Exercises for Mister stakeholders to get him look for seven problems to the high level in the picture, you will find that I think it is sin?
No one is not given here, Hussein Ramadhani also worked for email and later on how we go through email, the member of parliament of Monduli region was hard to get that chance to make sure that the president of Monduli, lack faith in our website here and the deceased received a minister.
I have heard that they were given, he had said.
If they are admitted.
At the first time I don't know where he placed a long time and let it reach a long time and let it reach a place where he wanted to change if they are helping the neighboring countries that they are doing, what are we doing?
All of them?
People in CCM, her sister I would like me.
I was in Linex, I was a long time one was close to them.
He is also among the colleague, who is saying.
.
He is not found.
At the end.
He gave him that I will ask you to take drugs.
Therefore, I don't know your right time when I was born in this area of Monduli Jo I agree to visit the place where I met my family, but I am happy and see what I went to, even when I got my family to join me but also I will give us with us to get the same way until now.
Let me look for salvation, I have not seen it like Linah is supposed to be the president to get a person you will get a plan until now the wealth here in the country.
When I was going back?
I would say you Mtwara Province as usual, he knows the stomach, and you know how to prevent the young people in the world by bad luck and the America that they still have.
When the provincial commissioner did not hesitate to sack him but the one with the residents in such as no.
He will be.
For your time.
.
If we were.
It has also been said.
I think I think that here in the world there are leaders who have done everything about their bad actions, but also there are those who continue to live in the same day, the late Nelson Mandela in the south together with the late Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere.
