
The boundaries for the government and the fate of messengers?

Let me start this article by putting it open that private is not a fan of any political party and I am not able to have a card of any political party, but I am a member of good administration and democracy.

Therefore, the one that will do you will involve in any political party, I give a directive by considering the truth that, today here in the country, it is the first time they are involved in the ruling party or the opposition party.
At the end of June, this year, I am together with his colleagues that were collected in the television to listen and view the speech by the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, Jakaya Kikwete.

We expected many to come out in their speech to the extent of the weight that had been made to come out in the country about different issues, and especially the issue of leaders who are alleged to avoid billions of money in the secret accounts in Switzerland.

But apart from that, others expected to donate funds in the speech by President Kikwete that came out even though some of those who did not come through the way I have given.

In a certain way, in the short speech, the previous speech is that President decided to show his administrative secretaries who was given by the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.
The president told him that when he told the doctors that, the government does not have a salary of paying for the level they want, which is mentioned to be three and a half million shillings.

In his explanation, President said there is no money to pay those doctors and that he wishes them good things in looking for another employer who will be able to pay that amount.

He warned that the ones that continue to strike will have committed the establishment of the work itself.

For example, I wish you the same way, there was no other way to the president, to answer the issue of doctors without using your language, Makabe, any way or after getting rid of those thoughts, about the share of the president in his speech, then I started to think about it.

It is true that the dominion is the claims by the doctors needed to pay a huge income which the government does not have the ability to pay it or the foundation is not keen on the fact that our leaders are not part of the ones who are treated in our hospitals where doctors are supposed to learn more interests?

I think doctors do not do justice in the speech of the president and the president spoke about the ability of the government to protect the amount of three million and a half time that doctors did not have other primary claims.

How do you know about the issue of doctors to claim that a good environment for work together with working tools in their activities are there, the government says what is about this issue?

I recognize that the president spoke about the health sector in the direction of showing efforts by his government in improving the environment of that sector in the country, but even so, although there is a lot of success in a certain extent, still the challenge is big and it does not have enough strategy to improve the health sector in the country.

Therefore, in this environment of the government requires close cooperation from stakeholders in the health sector I think it is not good for the government officials and especially the president, to give a speech as Mzindu said that the government can improve the health sector without involved other stakeholders.

For now it's still being faced with a misunderstanding about what is happening in the health sector and especially after some of the doctors from their licenses, basically, this situation is not to be happy with the truth, it does not give any application to the patients.

Still I believe there is enough opportunity to put more things among the government and doctors, by encouraging the interests of the constitution and the legal action made, the government is not at the time of considering the strength of the constitution but it is not time to use wisdom, knowledge and creativity.

There is a reason for senior leaders in the government to continue looking for the way to prevent the gap of doctors who have been expelled from now while the way to solve the problem is clear, it is a way to solve the talks that there is clear, it is a way to restore the talks.

Because some of us are going to solve issues through discussion and the government is a must that you to learn how to solve the claims by the workers through this event of doctors since they start a strike which is currently expected to start a strike that is currently being implemented.
I am not a leader or not the spokesperson of the Tanzania Education Association (CT) but it is a member of the party and for my position, I urge you for anyone who is the right time to put open again earlier on the reports of the teachers.

Citizens do not care about what they are claiming from the teachers so as to eliminate the shortage of teachers so that I think the teachers we have not like looking at our strike that we don't like each other from the government.

My advice is keen on the fact that, it is possible that soon as a result of teachers, there are our colleagues who will be responsible in our step to be the same as a result of lack of patriotism and encourage us to protect our fellows.

In a short time, teachers want the form of teaching (SMS) to be 55 percent of the payment of science teachers and 50 percent of the teachers in art studies.

Claims that the allowances of a difficult environment for work (in the middle) for the ones in the environment to be 20 percent of the income and the end claims that an increase of 100 percent of the teachers.
The writer of this article, Godfrey Winton Mwassa, is one of the teachers to teach in one of the secondary schools, Masasi, Mtwara Province.
