
Engineer awaki together with councilors.
They have read to me the allegations of her husband and decided to suspend him from work.
Rehema Madusa has said that Mwananchi Communications Regulatory Authority enables a citizen to miss.
Geita Province, the council of councilors of Geita District Council, has suspended the management of construction of the council, Mathias Chikawe, for various accusations including giving a report of the implementation of the session instead of seven days before the regulations are stopped.
The council made his session at the end of last week and took that decision.
Other allegations are unable to advertise the council of the council for the financial year 2015 / 16, when it comes from another year of money and the offense was claimed to get into every year.
Other allegations are violation of the construction of Lubara bridge that started in the year 2012 and assume the order of that council on something being faced.
The chairman of the council, Elisha Lupunga said Shprygin is also accused of breaking 24 teams (2) of the council of councilors.
However, Engineer Sheke was asked about those accusations and being suspended from him, he said he cannot speak anything because he has not been given a letter to work as claimed by the councilors.
He said that everything is done in accordance with the law, regulations and procedures, "if they are saying they have stopped the work, I are waiting to see a letter not by listening," he said.
That same time, the member of parliament for Geita province, Joseph Omog has opposed the action of the machines that were made for the benefit of citizens to do business instead of being used to make the road.
Furthermore, he said the funds of the road safety equipment were resulting from the payments that were given by the gold mines (GGM) for the purpose of benefit the citizens going to the mine.
He said it is surprising to see that the machines are currently involved.
Furthermore, he said it is good for that council to give permission to the councilor with the ability to put oil for them to set aside roads in its areas.
