
Cotton farming and mistakes of Ambassador Youging as they benefit from China Sep 18, 2013.

The Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) has talked about the decision by the ambassador of China to Tanzania, Doctor Lu Youging as they appear in the public meeting of CCM in Shinyanga province, where the party's secretary general, Abdulrahman Kinana and his secretary of ideology and propagation, Nape Nnauye, are continuing with his party tour.

CHADEMA are saying that decision by Ambassador Youging as they finish the international agreement of diplomats, it is true that Ambassador Youging as they are seen in a public meeting of CCM while on stage and addressing a public rally of CCM.

Already the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation has talked about the issue in general, that it is wrong for the ambassador to deal with politics in the country where he works for diplomats, this is not the first tension about the position of ambassadors.

It will be remembered that in one of the sessions in parliament, in the year 2011, the tension between the government and the opposition camp in parliament, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ezekiel Wenje, on his explanation that there are ambassadors who are involved in helping opposition politics in the country, contrary to the contract of Vientiane, it gets the borders of criminal activities.

At that time, inside parliament, Wenje, announced the freedom of ambassadors for reading section of the year 2014 that allows ambassadors to visit anywhere in order for the project to present the concerned ministry (Note 7).

However, as a result of those mistakes, it is enough for us to use their time to think about the purpose of Ambassador Youging as they make the existence of the lake regions, which is famous for agriculture and livestock, do not affect the minerals.
If you see this political tension and diplomatic relations, the Ambassador has died in the lake region to discuss the investment of cotton industries and processing of livestock production so as to be done by his country.

Therefore, the scholars and politicians were shocked or to recognize the Ambassador like them as our citizens, we believe it is very important for the growth of the economy to improve economic empowerment in the world, which will be against the agricultural sector in the world, which will enable them to abandon the big economic issues in the hands of politicians.

We have surprised many politicians who live in politics and diplomatic relations about the Ambassador of China and therefore we think it is also important in China economic, and now the Chinese want to invest in clothes industries, by using the cotton industries that are being removed here in the country.
