
The residents listening to the funds were found.
By Francis Dande.
If there is an issue that affects the residents of Naemy Silayo, most of the disabled people who had hope to benefit from this project is that Wi-Fi it has been like to look for shillings in the sea since they are not in doubt.
Most of the short message residents, today they have forgotten your short message while seeking for free internet has been written by the name 'I thank God, without succeeding the way they have been promised by the government of he said.
Many of the residents have been left having condemned the government of he said that he had gone into the claims of starting a fake project with the government of he claimed that the project is in the air and it intends to help thousands of residents.
"I explained the launch of this project to get my research work because I was using a lot of money to pay for that cost in personal centers that are a scholar," said the launch of a big water project, "warned the student of a private university in Naemy Silayo, who had asked to remove his name.
"This habit of increasing development projects through Wi-Fi service in town, I advise that he is supposed to be completely stopped, because this is the bad use of public funds and the local government he has been supposed to ensure that such projects are being controlled before the official launch," said Humphrey Shao who is the business person who ordered the clothes products from China.
First, the beginning of Diamond started that scandal, with a promise of delivering three computers to students of primary schools and even before this project ended, again the government has launched another project with a lot of problems in the whole country, "said Mister Joseph prevent a resident of Al Shabab area," said Mister Joseph Chibehe.
With a pregnant mother in the popular market of Stellah Mgumia in the famous market of Issa Ponda, Mali said that it would have been enough issue as the local government he claimed that it would use the money to give small business people to improve economically.
However, Wi-Fi I don't know and I request the governor that doesn't know if you will get a lot of money like those who do small businesses by building a modern market or get low interest loans, "said Mrs Anne Otieno.
