I was able to read it is normal in the fund which is being run in a system that I can say if you are refugees.
I told you that you have not set aside the questions, something that is together that the late God is doing.
You know life?
A certain education that is seen as a contract.
And this is the fund.
First will make them work.
Ukawa will contribute a certain amount, but in the end, the contract is aired on your employment which will go back, Master Jay which tells you the questions that we have to pave way for some benefits that you have not been given.
Now there is a special time or the criteria to be able to reach the ability.
Where in the world and first, the father has the age of someone to work using programs of contributing or years which has taken so as to be a system of life for that child.
He also contributing his contributions or on his contributions for a salary increase in the pension fund that is in first.
For a special period for more than five years the Bible say what is in the theft at four hours because it is a surprise for a few hours when you get into the end up because you do not see the one that you want to find him in your contribution.
Here is when the step and they are making noise, Mister it is many years why the money is small because.
If you want to follow up, I thank you because it is like a contract to reach the goals, they are required but there is a surprise of you, but if you know that there are other people even if you know her, she will get a phone and he will still get a phone for two years.
He will continue to carry out a time they have found himself.
This person is a must and a bad fund will help him go with his employment, I saw the Kiba 'fund that is professionally known by the artist who is professionally known by making sure that you are not happy, therefore, in the left, it will expire.
Your savings is there and he is self-employed but the biggest thing is more good.
He says that there is the employer that are told that there is a great benefit, that problem I met and helped in developing.
Maybe it is saying that, eight percent of drought was walking.
I don't see what I'll go to the bank.
Ufukweni that does not want drug abuse since it gets great benefits due to this document, every time that fell, has shown benefits because I was a mobile phone, Mboni, who was known as a penalty after a short time in three years.
He left and got a very big benefits.
They should not be identified.
He will be paid any school which will be ready and corruption in the demolition course in place, but on how I went to.
You will get you.
To see the provincial councils.
When I followed the contracts that he has decided to put up a lesson so that you can think they had been found.
He is a must.
Reasons.
No wonder if he is able to answer the community.
Also, the payment of diabetes is just one time when the previous contract does not answer.
In making sure, there is an importance of having a person because many of us know that it is very big, I believe that the government has never saw that and that is why if you look for the employment of our citizens, we believe that the permanent responsibility is when we will place in a bad health fund.
It is that he does not know what he is in the world after God would inform you to identify it, he cannot get completely.
There will be an agreement that had the previous message.
A person cannot be able to succeed.
What we say at the end of his contribution where he will have lost because he will also get it because she will also give your contributions if he was in the reserve fund and that any benefits that it will not be same because my person gets.
We will set a scholar.
In addition to the cost you will go into the environment, but then another person who is a statement of.
International unable to fight with the eyes set.
And buy a bad luck, maybe now.
I've heard for instance, this is very happy if they have gone to be the first after time coming from.
You will get later.
I have seen I have started to have a health fund, the government has started to take a cup of people not in the government again, it is a revolution that has come from what is true, then I say you can have a revolution but it is why you can have a revolution in the community.
First, there is a there that I have been buying.
The country's national park.
Also, the community wants meetings.
A person reaching many citizens.
But the?
Alone, when you go to Dar es Salaam, we will go to Dar es Salaam.
It is that before Rage is known as Rage, as a person, the bags are still still getting only.
Inexhaustible to a person can be able to choose the candidate for us to go for a religion because there is no reason why we can see you, but if we see you, we should see you, but if we see you, we should have been employed at the first time so that we know you have been employed.
It's not that I will follow up about the parliament and the new fund to resolve the answers of the new contract of special needs, it's only the end of the loss we made but this season we agree from there on employment to say.
How do we mean that most of the people that do?
Therefore, we have entered even about how people do not want.
Tanzanians then in social funds are not six million, why do very few people because, what is the truth when you look at the statistics.
And if you check the job of contraception?
What does it mean?
We are preparing to sell the research and nine of now I have started to say that and go back in our history, the system of accessing us because we should unable to end.
The Ambassador Seif Antwerpen.
The support we were contested under the children, saying the workers like people who will be informed, we should put their match by casting their matches, what would you sit down, but when we learn that, the farmer has decided to show a lot of income just after freedom had no income.
And maybe the bad luck is.
To be self-employed because it was a public sector and the housing sector for now, this is not the employer and not knowing.
There are sectors that are not officially emerged and that we have reached a mother and small miners, they made them to small business people who are participating in a very big way to take this step, there isn't a great efforts by the fund of the Parliament of the Parliament.
It is a must for someone to be paid the income because many of them put your salary up and your employer is not something like that, we are still third without being loved by the virgin "that we have three months without being loved by the virginity for the third day that he wanted.
Making sure there is no great war.
It does not be remembered by my way that you want.
Perhaps, this is not even in the sector that is not easy for the day before yesterday to get into the road being built, he says after retiring from you, you don't know how many members do not have a good life now.
For him to listen to the answer we will be successful.
Only is that when getting into that phone, we have?
Two months since every employee is contributing to you and we have the car on the vehicle.
They are eager to see themselves as different entrepreneurs who are unable to remain.
Now in two weeks, there will be a prayer in Dar es Salaam to follow the chapter of our man and the awards that we will help a citizen a member.
There.
He wants to know that maybe it was this disease which will be when I would have a renovation of house, it will be allowed to take the late me up to the first percent of his fans which is okay and he had been forced to invest and go to the beginning in order to make corrections.
Continue with his current life history.
However, I have not seen the vehicles done my father, and also you will give you a teaser?
Emphasized on contracts.
It is a person from the book.
Children at the port.
What does it mean?
And so on.
Only because I was surprised.
And.
There is 50 years now?
The payment of God just after the contract of the contract.
George Masaju and the answer.
One person who deals with it does not need me.
Usual.
And give them that fifty percent are every treatment and it makes a scholar because it's not a scholar, but we do not use this season because most of them do not use abusive language, then you are enough to use his savings be there and the half time we have at the same time.
There will be an award for now.
Tanzania how come to you in your plan.
As you listen to it is very big and forget up until now we see you.
Ten thousand clothes to the whole family we talk about different groups on the high level and this is due to the good system only.
Their savings is a member of the voluntary contribution because he is through a phone that can our faith you want to be Tigo, a money can remain in our money.
In the purpose of giving me to our salvation, as the father of Bayport which is very big here, we have a very good thing and you have told the CCM members that are good and we give them a lot of things that Tanzanians know how many Tanzanians know.
For you the Tanzanians listening to him today, a big capital.
That I did not see the answers he does not remember it has come today that this Tanzanian who is normal in which many buildings are very fast and he does not look at large numbers to reach this month because I am not happy, but I didn't look for one day for what you can be known as a Christian?
Bribery will bring about one day after a day after five thousand shillings, but for a period of one month, we are supposed to go back to Stephen Wasira for ten years in the afternoon, the partners today are running.
I am a lot, my brothers who want you have done well with this interview, we remember today we were talking to the Social Security Fund and here is to be the director of markets and operations in the budget.
The pension fund will enable the government but it has also accepted private individuals to be able to instill fear and have a lot of benefits to bulb, so as to visit my new phones and also in their website, you can get great benefits from the fund.
