When he arrived in Dar es Salaam, we shouldn't come out for young people I wanted to buy until it.
It was a way with him but the little problems in the attempt came.
I will have ceased to leave.
We know our money has not come in the market because citizens can't come out in the market for citizens, I cannot get married without the late God, then it was the late God, then the youth of then will remain at their home.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, you will be able to forgive him so that he doesn't know you.
Little it was difficult if I don't have the women when I think I want to know how I think you will do money for use and the fare is heading to home and then before you get back to their home, you know that you know close to them since Africa.
The whole year is not going back home for now, they do not return home, you know that you know someone coming from the same way you must be.
Let us so that I can't know that there is a equipment that bought at them so that they can contribute to as a gift from the husband to cost you.
If it's like yours, I don't know that there is no marriage to get married, I'll leave it and now if there is everything you can work but now it is not just looking for each other when I want to work hard.
I think about it's not then, although there is a situation that if you live in the ward, it's like that when I went back home, I will be happy when I went back home, I will be able to go back home, I will get a habit, that is a habit of being dealt with.
Now happens I did not know like a little.
To be the yes, I told me I did not look at the home and told him to find him and what I will do when I get time.
When he was born with his wife, he was sent to him as they were two weeks.
Now the same week.
Every two weeks when he was given, it was just after those week has already moved forward, he did not agree with you for a two weeks time to return to me after a week instead of told me for two weeks, he told me that he took me with me.
When it comes back, it is true that now the farm was there and it was something.
It was so that we shouldn't know when we are in Dar es Salaam, then we will go to the time pregnant or the one.
Now.
That is a lot of work I would have been able to know if I know if I am no I don't know what I would like I had talked to you.
Even so, it is true that here if you are warned that two weeks do not put up until war?
And.
