Budget of this year should not be the arbitrator.
May 14th, 2015.

Without doubt, in this time the budget of our budget is the time of bringing important debate about revenue and expenditure as the country is a debate that will enable us to answer the question why our country is still poor.
I got to write, that in the dark about what he saw in light, but in the dark about it is on the dark about what he is in the same way or even if it is seen, he would have tried to marry each other from another one in the past.
There are those who are led by many in the darkness, but even those leaders have been informed that they are in light and they have the ability to help them to make sure that they do not study even five classrooms in the primary school, are important things that are being done or it is said to be said by the people that are being done or it is said.
And the big problem to some of the leaders are directing superstitious faith, Mister Mkubwa Fela, is for a certain thing and because the situation is caused by some of their leaders, citizens can't sit down and said, "it is enough for him," it is enough.
There is a time when I was in the streets of Dar es Salaam which I have seen on the vehicle for one of the selected ones of this country, the vehicle for the regional commissioner that is uncontrolled by the neighboring country, "I told the newspaper that the elected President was in the city to attend the fundraising for raising the funds of education in his region.
When I asked him, it is true that the provincial commissioner had travelled from his car for two days or more from the headquarters of his province up to Dar es Salaam, at least the cost of running that vehicle up to Dar es Salaam city is at least one million shillings for going and return.
And it is possible that the head of the province he went to a plane to Dar es Salaam and tried to pass the vehicle from Dar es Salaam city, after being appointed to be nominated in the province by introducing his position as a member of the province if his car has not been sent and understood.
Well, President Nkurikiye has condemned the plane from Iringa province, and being involved in Dar es Salaam city, like the nominated member of land for one million shillings and more for the journey to go to Dar es Salaam and go back to raising funds of education for children in his province, he does not see that those million in the road are tax taxes which would have helped to help those children?
So, it was not enough to climb the plane to get into five hundred thousand shillings for a journey to go and go back and for a few hours you have been able to sign another government car or even a good price?
This is more than to sing about the chicken. And not by the nominated, I would have given an example, this situation has been the norm for some of our politicians.
That elected President, as it is in his pocket's money that would have agreed to travel to a plane to Dar es Salaam and then tried to travel up to the plane to Dar es Salaam and then tried to use it, in Dar es Salaam! He cannot do that even when he has been promised the half of the cost.
It has come at a time for these selected ones to see the shame for their action as the community, in order to fight against him, "there is no wonder where most of the selected ones have been working back to the road.
The age of India, the fate of India, the fate of India would have shown an agreement "without a cow as I think that most of them don't have a lot of 200 million people from hunger in the morning while making it a lot of 200 million people from hunger?
In that we should not think about the judgment that I don't know how to try to find out of us about 800 million you can't be the madness of them without giving birth to them, there is a big secret of the Indians I could make it a great reason and basically it is economically.
