
Doctor Magufuli, do not know what is ongoing in fighting. "

The Minister of Construction, Doctor John Magufuli has said that he is not feared, not being touched by someone saying something about the implementation of its activities, he said that he will continue to deal with the transporters' strike and users of the road that destroy the cargo of goods until when they go into the grave.

"Sierra has told me or being held not to talk about something which is in the law and I will continue to say until I was put into the grave about the people that destroy the road billions of money," he said.

Doctor Magufuli was speaking to the press in Dar es Salaam yesterday during a ceremony to sign the three contracts of road construction in four provinces.

He emphasized that all days he will supervise the truth.

Minister said that there is no something that is divided into his work as a sign that affects the weight in the road.

He said that he does not like to see the group of few people getting into the road for their benefit or violating the law while expanding the poor.

Doctor Magufuli said that she thanks President Jakaya Kikwete for giving him power to supervise the laws that are prepared by the parliament.

"The government has given a lot of money for the purpose of construction of roads but they are annoyed because of the interests of a small group, we do not want to renovate the road every year.

"If we will continue self-compliance with those people, we should know that we are making their future generations.

"It is good for the Tanzania Roads Agency (TANROADS) with authority to supervise the law to fulfill their duties and contractors to ensure they are building a stable road when they are given," he said.

He said from now, any manager of TANROADS in the concerned province, who will be unable to thank the construction contractor so that he can also prepare well.

"If you know the contractor from your region has destroyed work, I request you shouldn't wait until action should be taken from the high level, therefore, that work has managed to win and be prepared to be done by the law," he said.

However, Doctor Magufuli turned into a dummy check to the press after being asked questions and decided to leave each other.

Doctor Magufuli appeared to vote after being asked a question about the team that was formed by the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda to look for a draw of conflict between him and lorry business people.

Doctor Magufuli has ever attained five percent charges on the cargo of 56 tons needed by the lorry being allowed to pass through the road safety in the country.
