
Misango, the witches in Kagera is a threat to the security of 5 o'clock.

In the year 1993, Doctor Simon Tyosela said the University of Dar es Salaam, gave a certificate of free medical camp after completing his research and write a report with the name, "Boznia was termed as summoning demons.
In his report, Doctor Meshaa, says that the following words about the challenge of witchcraft in Tanzania is not only a challenge against our leaders and to be a challenge against them, but it is also a challenge against their intention of enabling them to marry off their daughters, but also, "I will not kill a modem.
He quoted Doctor Silencer Mapuranga, more than 10 years ago it is still right today.
In addition to that Tanzania is giving it as a nation that consider the rule of law, but we are still witnessing the haphazard laws in the estates have been caused by events of political tensions, again without the fear of being arrested by dollars.
According to the slaughter houses, some of the suspects in witchcraft are getting some of the following actions, being forced to prove out and eventually being fined an ancient attack on different parts of the body by using abusive language that were burnt down and being stabbed with a sharp teeth.
Other actions against the suspects in superstitions has their houses to be demolished because their houses were burnt down and broke down in their houses and were burnt down by the sun and being stabbed with a bullet in their homes, and therefore it will be sold to refugees inside their country.
All these actions are a break to the law, rights and peace and in this article, I have presented the evidence to confirm this shame of the shame for the use of Kagera province as a good example.
Speaking about the real reports of what is happening in Kagera province, an first example about what is happening in Misssenyi, Kitwiru, Kitogo, who is called Mwengi, she believes that his daughter had died because of being bewitched.
After speaking to the name Nimelewa, that is her late mother, who believes that his daughter died because of being bewitched, I decided to go up to Kagera Provincial Hospital where he decided to go up to Kagera Provincial Hospital where he has been admitted at the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had been admitted to the late Justa Emerick, so as to know the doctors who had
The reports that I took from the Kagera Provincial Hospital, where he was admitted at the late Justa Mogherini has said that he had three problems including huge shortage of blood, a huge shortage of blood in the body, a huge shortage of blood in the body, and suction of blood in the body, and Deuogratius Mushi when he gets to the rules of the body.
According to the actual reports of the hospital in that hospital, the main problem of iron sheets is now a problem in the whole province of Kagera, therefore, it is complete my conclusion, by considering the progress of the progress I have issued, allegations that Mariupol City will be careful.
However, in addition to these major news reports, that Mariamu Mtunguja was accused by citizens that he is being involved in Justa Emenalo about the allegations, "been confirmed" by the pastor leading in a small church in the area called Mwengi.
This Pastor is accused of running the request of recognition of his clothes and claimed that, because of the request, the deceased has when she got her soul, when he named Mariupol City, it was given there.
People who were on the way they decided that Mariupol City will not be able to be associated with the sex of his farm as a result of her house to be transferred to him, they will destroy the farm, rice, and maize, its property inside the house were put on fire by those citizens began to accompany their farm.
But before that he did not see the police they arrived to bring him.
Now, Mariupol City has a place known as a resident of Bukoba Town, where there is a place where one girl has been married because of her daughter, she cannot sit down because of this body.
When I know all these days I went to the District Commissioner of Missouri, Colonel Njeza, so as to know that the suspects are continuing to find out that action against the crime and he has completed the evaluation of destruction of property and has completed it and that now they are seeing the evidence to see what should happen.
However, the head of this district told me that, their exercise to be made by the evidence will be presented by the bad ideology of some of the Wahaya tribe.
"It is known for me," that is a habit of knowing the truth about crime as a way of buying their friendship in that camp.
Reports indicate that his brothers, Mariupol City have been told by the police office of Missouri that they will give three witnesses who can help the police in the exercise to identify suspects who were involved in the incident.
The second example about what is the witches takes place in Karagwe district of the Nyakahura ward, the Nyakahasi.
Between December 23, 2011 and January 03, 2012, the citizens with the anger of a woman called Esther Bena, those allegations were issued by the pastor of a small church in the map, who is believed to prove that Esther Bey, is believed to prove that Esther Bena.
Therefore, the pastor called a person, Esther Bena, he went to the church when he was asked, and that after her husband died, he told him that he had never done any efforts to request that country.
After those accusations that are believed to be given, the arrest of the elder that was running a request to diagnose the witches, reach the citizens, by very fast, the haphazard use of suicide bomber (AG), has been identified.
They decided that mother Esther Bena has been expelled from the village, his farm has been removed from the village when he arrived at home when he arrived at home when he arrived at home while he was going back to the church where he was born in a different areas at the house which was abducted by the leaves.
After this event, the message was opened by the acting head of Karagwe district, Colonel Njiku said he arrived at the scene area later, he spoke to the citizens, but the citizens are saying that there was no journalists in his meeting.
It has been explained that he denied the citizens from directing superstitious faith, they think that their problems are due to the citizens so that it's not true he was not true in this statement, but he is no one who was arrested or interviewed because of suspected of being involved in the crime incidents that took place in that area.
But also, he said as the supervisor of security for citizens rights, he is aiming to protect its citizens who prevent you by considering the decision of the traditional religion (African descent), which was unable to fulfill his responsibilities.
The truth that Esther Bey, confessed that he is doing a habit, he does not show him, he has admitted he is doing well in these two things.
I don't know the efforts to ask Doctor Willibrod Slaa about this issue, but I wanted it to focus on their relationship and differences that are there between the traditional and foreign religion like Christianity, and Islam.
He added on my view that, according to the religious leaders here in Africa, the act of switching off the port is not a result of the bishop when he is doing communication with God in Tarime, therefore, I was satisfied that, some of the witches will be taken because of conflicts between religion and foreign religion.
A third example about what does the witches takes place in Biharamulo district, Kyerwa district, in Nduguti village, his wife and his family just after those allegations were claimed "by asking the registrar of Keko, a bomb judgment was given.
The citizens that they decided to be the McDonnell Douglas company and his family to be expelled from the land, their farm is being transferred to him, their farm takes place because of their houses being demolished and they were sent away from the village.
Later, the mother came to Bishop Christopher Mwaruka (now the late), who died between giving her former Ghanian player and his family when he was attending to Bissau, where he was leading.
After Elder Kamillius Ansudane Soulaimane while some of the citizens admitted the rumors continued to make the citizens believe that he was a strong man.
It is said that Bishop Mwaruka, was very happy and taught the citizens and the citizens of Bambucha, about the false accusations that is accompanied by a rumor of witchcraft.
Finally, the Archbishop of this Bishop, was able to change the picture that they were with people about the elder Correa scored by his family and finally, the community was able to live with the old man without any problems and the citizens of the district had already agreed that, the accusations of fighting the elderly Cornell Douglas company was not satisfied with the claims of witchcraft in their problems.
After a resident of Mkomagu led in shambles, Elder Cornell Douglas company and other citizens started to live with each other alone at the place where he decided to choose him by Mzee Cornell Douglas company and his family did not want to go back to Biharamulo.
Instead, he decided to buy a farm in Nyamuma village, Kyerwa District, Kagera Province.
Because the social system that was chosen to help him to live a better life in the community was has emerged as a result of loneliness he was caused by loneliness.
He insisted that as it was previously in their homes in Biharamulo, they have started again to make sure that this journey did not have champions of switching off fake ARV in the streets and finally they were kidnapped by the citizens who decided to take action against April 67th.
2008.
When most of the time they arrested a lot of noise, and then he was forced to be married, their farm has been sentenced to him, their farm is being beaten and interviewed claiming that one person who had been buried and interviewed him along with skin rashes.
There are many other events that are in witchcraft in Kagera province but because of time and the cost of research will not be able to look for Maxwell.
But at the end of the District Commissioner of Misssenyi, Colonel Njiku said that one of the ones that are in the county, two women have been killed due to the allegations of illegal immigrants.
Serving not to mention the real reports of your witches in Kagera province after presenting the results of the research, it is now to understand the expenditure of the results to show the main concept (VAT) that arose.
First, the research results show that, on a certain extent, the content of religious Manchester United continues to grow; there are some factors that are similar to these among them, dirty, corruption, and other things among those who are witches and encouraged the people to kill more witches.
Examples are this called "you don't have a woman to live, (from 22 of 18)," don't know her husband or someone who is in order for Almighty God, for sure he will not be careful, "
For these reasons, some of the religious denominations are using these things like the foundation of working in order for us to recognize the witches.
Also, I have noted that, some of Catholics are in the small community have discussing these issues, and later, due to a result of the discussions, it is involved in events of inspecting its laws.
Secondly, the research results show that, on a certain amount, avoid sexual rights especially considering that the effects of other people do not know that traditional property are not wrong, where the owner of the government can't know their wealth according to the law alone.
Three, the research results show that, in a certain amount, our culture also believe that diseases are caused by the witches and they believe that human beings can prevent the sun and / or next month they believe that lack of sun and / or every month do problems in the community.
Four, the research results show that, on a certain amount, you have been infected on the economic and social responsibility as well as causing many citizens living in rural areas to Bukoba at least once every month and many elites fail to return to the village after retiring from them.
Five, the research results show that, on a certain amount, professionalism of government directors also contributes to the investigation by some police have stopped their investigation because of being left behind by the culture of "mystery," that is a culture of dealing with knowing the secret of criminals.
Therefore, they want the complainants using the complainants unable to bring other witnesses so that the case is being supported. Some of them believe that there is an example is a high-police officer in the district of Misssenyi, who believes that the disease of AIDS can be caused by security.
Six, the research results show that, on a certain amount, the behavior of government directors to stop their responsibilities because of following private interests according to the police on one center for 20 years now, and therefore investing in there.
Basically, these directors of the government who are building economically have really fear to deal with their neighbors to fear of causing a good governance and because these are now, the citizens of Kagera could kill the police to get down and to stop blogging in its economy.
And seven, the research results show that, on a certain extent, the statement and / or the silence of the community leaders and the government concerning witchcraft being mentioned even so, the law is true because the law is true because the law is true because the law is true because it is a legal action that they need to be done.
After this, it is clear that when a person gets a name "a lot," and therefore forced to attend a service to watch it in your body or part of the body to produce them, even if his property will have been tested and apologized.
All these actions include various human rights like those who were listed in Tanzania Constitution (1977) from article 12 to 24 this year, this constitution will protect the rights of living a human rights and the right to be free of affliction and spiritual formation.
This actions is against the United Nations agencies for example, the international agreement for civil society and political rights (IJA), in article 17, that you get the rights of every person to be free from his family, his house and there is one of them against him.
Similarly, the United Nations committee for the purpose of coordinating the match against Women's Women's Women Association (UWAWa)) said that it will enable the women of Ghana, India, Mozambique, Ukraine and Tanzania to take deliberate measures to stop this phone by taking different steps, and especially the legal action.
Tanzania is a member of the United Nations and already has ratified these documents.
Therefore, this is an important evidence to show that our government has a responsibility to consider the law in their work performance so as to resolve the problem of what is more witches in the country.
There is evidence from various places here in Tanzania, but in this article I have given you evidence from Kagera Province.
Accordance with the conclusion of criminal reports in Kagera province, in general, this research has confirmed that the request for the rule of law should continue to hold the pace every day in Kagera province due to seven main reasons including some of the government officials to look for private interests through the way to evade their responsibilities.
Basically, all the actions of a human rights that is associated with your witches in this article, because it is one of the biggest laws "like how it was taken by parliament, the concept of" huge laws "like how it was done by the group of people who are affecting the villages, can be considered for a long time with the government of the nation.
This trend wants one branch in a tree for "National Security Fund," because of the branch of security of the rights of citizens of the country, the second branch of the tree.
"The national security" is the national security branch for the country's security branch and all resources that are available in the country.
It is clear that if science has reduced the relationship between the whole issue and its places (in the picture) urging them that there is relations not to make the end of the whole issue and its areas.
A tree for national safety is the whole area that includes three parts of the first part is a branch of security for citizens of the country, the second one is a branch of security of citizens, the security of the country.
You cannot agree with the security of one branch and they agree to ignore that branches and then it said that the whole issue is called the National Security and National Social Security Fund (National Social Security Fund), by considering the truth this year.
And this means that, it's not possible that the department of security of our nation, or any country's security, or any nation's security is there if it allows the security of the rights of citizens to continue through what is there or not otherwise.
This is a riddle of embarrassing for Doctor Noorali Jiwaji in his doctorate degree and finally concluded that the nation that is under the safety of the nation that supports him because of the witches, it did not allow them to continue with him.
Suggestions to the media and public agencies for considering the discussions on the moment, I would like to give recommendations.
First, about the content of a religious leader as the source of breach of rights, law and peace, we have proposed that various denominations of witchcraft in the villages and they need to discuss its behavior about registration.
As a long-term strategy, I have directed to join Rwanda. There is no one who is allowed to start the church until he should have a diggers who will help them in the whole issue and so as to remove religious leaders.
Secondly, about the legal justice of legal rights like the source of suppression of rights, law and peace, we have warned that, political parties, the government and the chairpersons of citizens should be able to implement its responsibilities by protecting the law and therefore, making the process to be part of the education to the public.
Three, about lots of witchcraft as a source of breach of rights, law and peace, we have proposed that the science subject should be touched in primary schools, teachers should not be dealt with in primary schools, teachers should not be dealt with so much in this area.
Four, about the poor quality and social responsibility as the source of breach of rights, law and peace, we have proposed that, the scholars of Kagera who tried to take deliberate measures to return to them economically and rebuke inciters and protecting the community.
Five, regarding professionalism among government officials like the cause of suppression of rights, law and peace, I have proposed that the police and investigators are required to be careful, instead of pushing that job to be patient or not to let's wait, but they should not like the law.
Six, about the news that some of the government directors are supposed to be accountable because of looking for personal interests or any other reason, something that is seen to be the cause of breach of rights, law and peace and we have proposed that these allegations are reduced by the relevant agencies.
Saba, about words of some of the directors of the government and politicians.
"The government does not believe in witchcraft," this issue needs two things that are doing well.
Eight, I have proposed that, the district commissioner of districts and regions have touched me directly in serving the people who were kidnapped because of the body of witchcraft.
For example, Mariupol City has now a critical condition and he does not have any support.
He said that for now, can't be able to afford treatment and care to his body, mother of the body of the body of the body of the body, Mama Bena.
Nine, I have proposed that, leaders of religious denominations to prevent what is more witches in the world that I have shown, what is in the world that you are using God contributes up to a certain amount to grow this problem, and I am fat and therefore, I know it is in which way to improve this problem.
But it's not that for other denominations and other denominations can also be able to look for advice from the Catholic Church, which already learned due to his historical mistakes that is affecting the witches.
About those mistakes, the chief player was called Pope, Innocent Melleck, who was the chief leader of the Catholic church in the world since 484 to 1492, but this one will be remembered for many good and bad things.
But a big issue that will make him be remembered more that its decision to prevent the law, rights and peace through this document was known, "Madee has ordered them to be given a lot of diseases to avoid sexual abuse by causing pain during this document that it has reduced it is a history.
And ten, I have proposed that the responsibilities of the Department of National Security should obey them so as to put a legal foundation that will enable this department to be more benefits to the nation at the moment, this department is run using two laws.
One law is between 1970 and the other is of the year 1996 to all the laws, I have heard about them to know what about the meaning of "the nation's safety" ("National Security") in the context of the rights of the citizens that I have made up.
I have noticed that these laws are taking place "national security" because it is a limited budget for the authority of the country and the security of the nation if they don't state anything about the security of the rights of citizens.
This is a very big offence if there is a lot of relationship with the national safety as the whole issue and three new branches, that is, the safety of the country's rights and the security of the country and the security of the country.
Therefore, these two laws know it for it to make two other things and the first to be stopped and form one law and secondly, the meaning of the nation's security like a tree with three branches not yet been taken against that new law.
My expectations is that, this issue will enable the National Security Department to advise the police force after collecting taxes in accordance with the law, reliable information and knowledge of the rights of citizens.
It is my opinion that, without doing that, the police force will continue to unite with the security of the country's security authority, and the rights of our citizens will continue to comply with the safety of the authorities of the country, and our citizens will continue to focus on various reasons including what is your witches.
