Minister Mgimwa.
Dec 5, 2013.

The condition of the Minister for Finance, Doctor William Mgimwa (63), has been explained to be bad in the MilPark Hospital in South Africa, where he is admitted since the end of last week, our citizens should remember them.

Sources from government have told the newspaper that the day before yesterday, Monday, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Finance, Doctor Servacius Likwelile who traveled to the country for the purpose of following up on the condition of his minister.

"By true, Honorable he has a bad condition and recently, I will talk to you with doctors at least making sure he is returning in his normal state," said our news source from the Ministry of Finance.

Speaking to this newspaper, the chief spokesperson of the Ministry of Finance, Ingiahedi Mduma, said the report he got from South Africa explains the minister continues well and there is no reason to have any worries at all.

I have talked to people who are with him in South Africa and said that the information is good when they talk with him and they are saying it continues well.

On his part, the Member of Parliament for Mufindi District (CCM), Mahmoud Mgimwa, who is also the small member of Minister Mgimwa, said he cannot talk about anything about the life of his brother, because that issue is being dealt with.

"Basically I know what is going on but there are people's people who know it and you are there in that hospital it is good to speak with those people" Sendo "(in the scene) more than I'm in Tanzania.

"The condition of the patient with black spectacles, should not get married and has changed and therefore the information that will give you now may not be right now because I advise you to partner with the people who are at the moment," said Mgimwa.

This newspaper has succeeded to get communication with Doctor Likwelile directly from the hospital and he said that he was impressed by the condition that he found with the patient.

I'm in this hospital the prime minister continues well so much and we are talking to him well, he is doing well with doctors who have great hopes in her health and he needs to rest so as to improve more further. "
"We have forgotten the same time, we will inform us that we hope that the minister has done a lot of work without getting for a long time," wrote Likwelile through a short message of mobile phones (HIV).

However, not Likwelile or family of Doctor Mgimwa, who were ready to explain how the disease which makes him a scholar from the economy of the economy, who started being a two years ago.

Doctor Mgimwa was the coach of the bank of Mwanza province, before being elected to be the member of parliament of Kalenga Constituency, Iringa Province, at the general elections of the year 2010.

Muhimbili National Hospital is being used by the government of Tanzania to take people who have been sent by a very few person to be served in that hospital is the late Doctor Sengu Mvungi.

Most of the famous others who have ever been taken to the hospital in recent days is the chairperson of Tanzania Editors Forum (TEF) Absalom Kibanda and retired director of department of criminal Investigation (DCI), Robert Manumba.

That hospital is the one that was found by the retired president of South Africa, Nelson Mandela, when he got problems of corruption, February this year.

The hospital is private and there is a private sector that is in Mount Meru area which is in Johannesburg city and is owned by the regional netball company which has 342 houses, while 90 among them have been used in a critical condition of patients in critical conditions.
