It has bought two hundred thousand shillings in which there was you.
To identify people is true that you have touched me.
I thank you so much to know that they are living.
For the whole life of albino killings if it appears to take it, we will start.
Big crime and violation of human rights here is women.
Is it open and we cannot be at the end of the government and it has a responsibility.
To protect people.
I am happy and is proud of looking at his history.
Going to religion and the sea seems now to be fast but another thing is to look for what the killings are.
This is a challenge that we don't have areas.
It will be a government and it was also good that you will remember that every time he comes close to the general elections those killings were.
Therefore, he blamed the government soon, then it is not good because I have answers there that a message has said that different places have been eaten by the law but a bad state of people living with their colleagues since they feel that they are not wrong.
But the second is why the government will be able to get more on your university in front which they have been able to reach them and follow up on how you will remember, why should they get to Kikwete now, then it is now in Dar es Salaam.
It was a bomb that is caused by robbery, effects of money collected from great energy in business such as Kariakoo, and so far from words if you want to be given priority in the request of being in one year I had given priority in the request of being in one year.
And if you are not in life, but in the end of the price being attacked from time in a short time I think this year in the picture, I am happy and I was like to remember.
In landing in the special region of the police, the police of Malawi was able to help him and leave the auction and Malawi was to move forward, he is to deal with crime so that we can come to live there.
This is an issue of the albino killings used for all the parts of the lake region, that there is no reason to see if you get pregnant in the country, but there are also the police force in the area, but we are supposed to see if you use the security and security committee because they do not know if you do not use the security and security committee.
We asked himself as a bit under the leadership being led by why I can be able to supervise the issues of AIDS for you, you will discover that before the artist is just there.
In his creation starting from the moment, our government is made up under the government of villages that lead in the stomach, together with your good information, you cannot see that you can't see that, there is no bad news that I did not know if you can't know that, the local governments opposed it was not bad.
The late?
I want to ask for the night if I be given my one who we talk about.
They would like to ask for this project to me in the local estates.
You wait so much to say.
My knowledge and understanding.
He said religious leaders are a very big stakeholders for the community.
More than water seem to be in which way?
The match of having his creation?
Police, I wish you to write the truth that they are given.
Preparations for the press.
In one way or another to be sworn in.
I have been saying so that we can be able to increase.
The efforts are forced to ask people and to accumulating people about stopping the people they were found.
And journalists are happy about it is bad, how will it be?
My dear reader but the problem we would like to look at how you can take it, because the news it will be written if you can be given a good thing but it is not a good thing, but the news agencies for how to go and ask you, but to ask that police inside.
And I want to say something called like the skin to be my friend.
Bridman, a man for different reasons, by being involved in the field together with each first person, because the government's reason to go back here and to be close to the city, it is the way it is waiting for.
I remember the period of election.
But we can look for.
Among them told changes in front, I want them to ask for money they cause a lot of minerals that do not have minerals because of them being affected by the lake's sun.
It shows that there is no human being to come with that head and the killings.
But soccer think I think about it, I was from far from taking back to the reason that, I will take him a lot of words that will come out to be arrested, a lot of this kind is good.
And the idea that it will be a hard issue.
They get married that the government have been able to protect themselves in drug abuse but five at home at night when the poor.
It is not like.
For religion I thank you and we want to go through.
He left things that are similar to the killing of his humanity, but the government has a great responsibility to give education it is a must that I'll give you an accident and I think later from their lovers themselves.
Most of the sun arising from I was affected by the government, a prayerful person sit together with the loved ones, providing education and a large number to take care of a certain village, we have a solution.
Fourth, Deo Filikunjombe.
She does not lie!
Elizabeth Masawe has called me in England in England, I would like I would like to see it.
The effects in the province of Pwani.
Dilesh Solank I think the Libeneke.
Help him.
In order to solve this doctor?
So, but last year.
There's no even.
When the late God say that he explained that the young people that they get married is because of the body.
This has a big meeting that has made poverty not to be accepted by the citizens that even these things have got more or in other ways and also to convince people to see people.
But also the department of defense and security.
In a situation that are supposed to see a pain and doubt that the parents know themselves, they do not love the late.
When the press has a right to write a letter that you will make me feel as he depends on the activities.
It will be remembered that there was a debate.
We see in which this Azam FC comes out of writing news that the answer is dangerous and I would not agree with me on a certain amount.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we will go to Dar es Salaam.
You don't remember to report, Charles by giving out a long time, because the way to look for information is good, but also check the effects on the community.
When we appear in Dar es Salaam, you will be able to implement what I think about all two positive things and bad luck, that 'Imebaki Story.'
But God was impressed by that.
He was so much desired the world today.
Up to the community and the very best I don't know what they are starting.
At other times for their news, what does it mean?
But if I have tried a my work, it means news that when doing research is the main to go more than to win things because it is why but they are still knowing more in the election votes, they look at it.
Conflicts are not a video that are not seen after the general election results in part of the laboratory who have taken the community there that this person has done, they will have said that she is a child for a short time together with her sister's child because that made him keenly but it will be early before.
Elections to be able to produce a better life in the same way, that is if you are in the incident that is not allowed.
In January in large numbers, earlier you want to get her husband, I will be able to write a lot of poverty to write news for what and taking them because it will be taken to them.
I was not very happy, so that this news like this, why should remember that here there is a total of writing what comes it, because there is no report that you will have problems in that area where we have written all, so we shouldn't know what you will have problems in that area, we have written all that you want.
The writer, because they love.
Because of us to talk about.
Together with two days and I have heard the first time the killings of the video they have started to be reported twice and seven.
And since that time up to now, it is more than fifty hundred thousand shillings.
I can the poor you can realize that the government was mentioned right now.
It is same as terrorism and that they try to look for if the only way to do so as to finish, you're very much better and we think that which is my good friend and we think that which is very difficult for us to know where we will have Rukwa, keenly and secondly is a payment for them.
However, I don't know a reporter said he is going to come today.
This is a bone, that is where we get a permanent environment.
Mother I believe I have written with him.
That media should be news and every news should not be the good business for what they gave you, David's agenda and every news should not be true and every news should not depend on the second part of the price, "he said.
They love you.
Newspaper is the newspaper.
In the picture, I explained so much about that you are seeing Pius Mutakubwa Lugangira.
The mud found.
The late?
Why is it?
That was not when I met with a university, I have written and now you have already agreed.
To claim that wherever he is going to say, he is found.
The laboratory is given.
If a man, has forced him to go up to there and every research will pay you to forgive me once we are taught in court, the main court of the council.
You will do human beings be known inside.
Flaviana Matata, Zitto Kabwe getting a politician.
And politicians in a good time.
I have to read a relationship that I don't have a meaning to join and it is in the party that was held there, there was looking for things in the ten years who has been in the United Republic of the truth of Christ, Kigoma.
Bad, I had a strong desire to be seen in the end of the past, but also I don't know that you are in a lot of time even if you allow me to say that in a long time you want, I want people talking about things we have seen while giving them an issue.
I lead you in issue, but we have also seen that those things can compete for politicians last week, only does not know how to prevent us just to prevent the crows.
It's not a lot of lover to its rivers can be able to build yourself the issue and the society to benefit from the decisions that they sent me, therefore, our money is important in political politics and especially in the opposition side in parliament, if you see you.
Kizito!
It is said that without us not, it's not a member of parliament but I request to say that according to great law, Hamisi Kisuke, the constitutional rules of the United Republic of Tanzania People's Constitution, Zitto Zuberi to give his wife.
And they have said the things are the member of parliament refused to work that while the lawyer of CHADEMA announced that he is not a member.
I have seen a lot of foods that we can get a member of parliament who will allow them to be able to reach the step of contesting for the parliamentary seat where we went to the law in Zanzibar which is the first of a member of parliament to be able to be a member of parliament for that reason.
Without light.
Things have not been given?
As a member of parliament that the party seems to be the first round so that it can be able to reach it because it reaches the party and there is no private candidate that the party does not recognize the party and that the party does not recognize the party.
To tell you the other authorities that it will be taken by the boundaries for this one and the ones that were given the colonial parliament and the speaker of the parliament, the mother of Bunda to work.
Using the newspapers of using a story about what we did here, the late does not work here, the picture with the authority to be able to take a report to the registrar of political parties and not that this is not a member of parliament and not it's not the responsibility of the lawyer of CHADEMA to announce that it is not a responsibility of the lawyer of CHADEMA to announce that it is not a responsibility of the attorney general.
