The child told your son fell from a tree and got a knee injury and also on a human being, a situation that led to producing the sun and not with no need without himself.
While handing over the donation, the financial manager of that company Mister did not be the father, he has said the company has in the session I touched me when I saw the period of me.
I have caused the problems of the child who needs a quick donation on behalf of the old age.
By her mother, Mboni Masimba will I give you.
I believe that we can contribute a little amount of one billion shillings but it is truly the real needs of ten million shillings and we are told that until this left, there is only ten million shillings but I would like to give those congratulations to the problems.
On the date, I read it so that we are inspiring all the citizens through his period of me and we expect that this is a youth.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we will be called Jackson as a problem.
He got problems to wake up about the tree and therefore it can get his back part and his treatment is not available here in the country but it's to run away, therefore he has called on all other people with good love and support them.
We are following these efforts so as to stop the public so as to reach an end of ten thousand shillings, so that the youth cannot get treatment in India on the side of the child's father of the child.
He has said that the child has ever been charged with the tragedy while having ten years old and right now asking for two stem cells that still continues with pain.
Muhumbili National Hospital has advised the youth to be in India for more treatment who even close to an amount of ten million Tanzanian shillings on behalf of his family and death.
We would like to give you a lot of thanks to ensure.
By touching the funds that do?
You take him a child to forgive him in India.
We request the Almighty God to bless you for a few people.
They have been reported from that.
There are only a doctor in the party.
