
Member of CHADEMA, CCM in Nyamwezi, 1st, 2012.

While the results of the small elections of the council were looking for him in CHADEMA, the reports show that the situation is still critical in the ruling party, CCM has been known.

The Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) is planning to think about the results of the last elections of councilors which gives a small victory of five seats between the 29, many were taken by CCM (22), CUF and TLP) and TLP).

That is due to the reason that CHADEMA got a lot of politics through the movement of change (M4C) and the expectations were that in that election that would have emerged with many seats.

Reports are saying that the top leaders of CHADEMA are required to conduct an evaluation of that situation, while some of them prepare to change the political parties of that party which is being supported by some of the areas in the country, especially in urban.

But as CHADEMA, it was in danger of lack of many parliamentary seats, a situation is not well in the Revolutionary Party (CCM), showed up to a division among the members, and especially the youth union (UVCCM) which has been opposed to the groups of the youth who call the youth and another one that was scored by their colleagues as well as their colleagues.

Already the chairperson of that party, President Jakaya Kikwete has been forced to be given a letter by the youth "patriotic" they put it to take action against their colleagues who need the government to be elected as leaders in bribery.

In their letter, those boys are complaining about their colleagues and wanted him to be followed, "these youths are very small and even their age of employment is very small and pay for votes from who they got where and in that situation we are confirmed to implement the instructions of who?

They are giving an example to one of the candidates that won one of the top positions of UVCCM who claimed that the candidate (standing), October 21, in 2012, while Mbeya was banned for delegates of the national general meeting amounting to 7100,000 shillings according to a distance of a member he released.

"It hurts and very sad, when he is (that candidate) in Mara Province, gave a lot of 80,000 people to 1665 members due to a distance where he went to an accident so that the delegates do not want him to vote and be able to pay him and he succeeded in her way, this is a dirty campaign and is not allowed.

In that letter, our writer has been able to see that those youths have decided to see him, those youths have talked to their colleagues saying they have seen President Kikwete despite showing him about bribery when he was opening the UVCCM general meeting recently in Dodoma town.

It is alleged that the youths' youth "have been supporting the candidate for the position of vice chairman, Paul Makonda, who even so, he did not win in that election, arguing with Mboni Masimba, who had also won in that election, Make Me Sing and who will have won due to breaking the regulations and using bribery.

However, in different times, Mboni and Millinga have been quoted by breaking the rules and using them to win.

The Deputy Chairperson of CCM, Benno Ndullu said that the UVCCM's secretary general is completing his term, Martine Shigela and accused of being involved in breaking the regulations by voting for the campaign some of the candidates, but also he has denied the allegations and insisted that he has denied those allegations and insisted that he is involved in stopping the procedures of that union and their party to appeal.

In those activities of voting for those new leaders who are alleged to be involved in bribery, the camp for switching off the UVCCM and the former chairman of the United Republic of Tanzania (TAHLISO).

Already Makonda has been quoted by heavy statements about that election that is claimed to be covered by bribery they told his fellow youths just after the election that, "if there is a poor child, the child of the farmer like me, should know or vote in her life.

Makonda also said that, "the election" the election we did (UVCCM), we did not want him to inform him (new chairperson) or Mboni, (vice chairperson) but we have chosen the leadership of the kind of our community to make sure you expect to inform us because of this words. "

Regarding the regulations of their letter accompanied by names of more than 300 youths together with their right time, the youth thank him Kikwete about the occurrence of violence in that election that it started in the appointment of candidates.

They have emphasized that the process of being the first to take place for presidential campaigns by going round in the whole country against the regulations.

Secondly, they are saying that the top leaders of UVCCM at the national level is conducting a campaign on some of the third candidates, the supervisor of elections not to rebuke acts of breach of elections within and outside the meeting hall and that together with the supervisor, he still continued to know that Benno Ndullu said that he continued to sit on the seat.

On that argument that deals with one of the minister in the country, the office of the prime minister, policy, parliament and coordination, William Lukuvi said the youths have written the headlines, "even if the regulations are saying that if the chairperson is completing his term and already he had already prepared itself from one of the candidates."

They are giving their advice saying "the chairperson of the situation that emerged is for sure that the rights of breaking the elections and to be careful, so that then it should be part of the warning and a lesson so as to stop the leaders especially the executive director of its responsibility to the youth.
