If you go to Grind.
I feel that our father are seeing I want to enable you to know more about the police.
But I want a former book there was a person who is called me, he said at a hole.
There is a bus.
Therefore someone can reach his stand.
The same way you're following that is the legal action.
Or a forced way or blood is doing?
You're getting tired of getting.
Or if the teachers like to Zitto Kabwe, it was a must that you have a must that you be science and it must be remembered because I hope.
When you get the book of Public Procurement Agency for each other.
If there is nothing?
He also said that.
Almighty God bless TANZANIA.
That is a very big meaning.
Because, as students, we don't have a person that do you do this by a total of your child, you want you to be seen, but my child is this why you will go together with me.
Your account and timber and fruits or fruits.
How do you know what we were talking?
There's opinion I met?
Also research that are supposed to help the Tanzanian society is being popular among the father.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, you will be true that today in this competition like this, I don't know what I will see you, today is that it gives you a lot of research that have a great importance to the community.
The late God rest the picture that we are doing in continuing with projects we do not want to get capital city directly and that they go down.
In the competition we have together with that students are learning and ask for their work, we become invited to the company, we urge people with industries in one way or other students do not support the student but two days after seeing that there is no great contribution to companies and industries to help them as the ones we are doing.
Among the students who have the work which are good and to give them the sponsorship of the future studies, if he is in a step that is giving them to make sure that we are taking them to some science subjects in its form one.
And also, he is out of how it is out when it happens when she is trying to give him a check of giving birth to hatred in the first time, but the same thing is that every day together with his colleague, welcome him to be for a total of a total of machines last year already themselves are on their daily day.
And wherever he has a new year, we can attain nine years, the reason being in the competition is today they will be required in the days to read it just or not to read it.
We are doing so as to try to make sure that this talents that are seen to be independent in the beauty freedom of science and technology, we want to be noticed, today when he gets to the freedom of science and technology, we want to be noticed, when the head of the competition is of the embassy in the country, as well as usual.
That is a good thing and it is supposed to be commended and to be informed by my grandfather, maybe.
