Today, I wait for a ring, I would like to use it very much, I will see me if I will let me ask you, what I got the late I got the late what I sent him but it's like the Almighty God.
I don't know.
It's like they were back again, I don't know whether you come to check but there is Baboons and maybe the others got it.
Very much, it is same as a way you will look at me, look at me if it got to ask you.
There are some that were done by FIFA but there is where he is where even when it is, you will use your budget to leave your day so that he can leave that day.
The late Almighty God knows me that I was affected here, I was able to know if you don't know if it will be enough, it is a must that we are able to view such as seen.
The late God, but he told them that if the buses are good, I was coming from now, I am not seen, I'm in with our journey back.
Almighty God depends on what I was in there and I have tried and I have tried here, there is a problem that goes with water, "I want someone to go and get money to go to the hosts NPage because it does not know you, there is a long time you know that there is a mistake.
The Almighty God rest the late God, but the ones among them do the mock examinations of life is entertainment.
On that date, but without any money, there is no entertainment that has got it with the money he gets infected.
If you go to the late God is not the yes and Machali also taught us with each person who wants to get married only if he didn't come even if he got even today, another is like it.
The governor.
Can I be dealt with by their women the late?
Same, when I am pleased with their women it's not the yes and I was surprised and told that, why is why he depends on behalf of his wife and he has God's God to put it well.
You miss.
This is a lot of them that we are doing so that we are doing so as we do with each other, then I am very happy and even when I am not happy or when I am happy, I was coming in a friendly match of pregnant women.
Mary lips of hands.
However, I would like to don't know their words at each other.
The late does not speak about.
