
How will when the leaders will let me remember Nyerere passes away?
October 21, 2012

Today, Sunday, October 14th, 2012, the nation being 13 years since the death of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, happened in London City, England, at the St Thomas hospital.

If it has been for 12 years ago, we will use that on today's day to remember their loved one when I think it like a nation, "the" T "three famous as we are where we are and where we are going.

And as it was for the past 12 years, the nation will celebrate this Sunday, October 14, at meetings, seminar and festivals which will partner with the life of the father of the nation, as it was for 12 years ago, the commemoration of Nyerere Day will be adorned with the heavy statements about its contribution in building our nation, his ideas and his family.

Most of them have shown their condolences to the love that they did by that person who, on how he did in Tanzania, I believe I will take a mixture of 51 years to get the girl though it's only 60 percent.

But there will also be leaders (or to talk about our leaders), and they will report on the stage and stop hypocrisy, I commend the president and the Nyerere leadership, while continuing to get all the foundations of the nation, which the old man started building.

My brothers, it's a period like this time where we will hear you even those who were big followers in the politics of socialism and self-reliance because they left that politics, they gave the statement to thank Mwalimu Nyerere on all the year they are encouraged to protect them!

Let me tell you to stop hypocrisy when these leaders know where in the past they were followers of Nyerere, but now they are followers of the Western Region that will decide farmers and poor workers of this country.

Let us start with the politics of self-reliance, I told them that about it, and they want you to build this country for our benefit themselves as a person, we will thank him, but the work of building this country for the benefit of our nation, is not the job of another person. "

I hope I ask you, after the death of Mwalimu Nyerere, October 14, 1999, his followers are still in power or those with great political parties in the country, that is why we believe and implement that concept of being independent in the year 2010 when I want to be a true leader of politics of socialism and self-reliance, where Mwalimu Nyerere passes in building the country at the time of his life.

Therefore, it's not the secret that our current leaders are not true and the truth about the concept of being independent, and that's why their journey to go through, should remember this Sunday's end of October 14th, 2012, and said that they are following how to remember this Sunday, on October 14th, 2012, and said that they are following how to remember this Sunday.

Regarding the construction of socialism and took them to fight against the followers of the teacher who make sure that socialism is not a secret that socialism has remained in the same constitution with big fans singing and playing with a dance style.

It is expected to be seven years since Nyerere went to power to his followers on the field of Arusha in 1967 in order to set up the field of Arusha this year and yet today, this Sunday, October 14, it has already been forced to climb the stage and gave him a statement in Zanzibar.

Those followers have been killed in the field of Arusha and politics of socialism and self-reliance, but all of us know how Teacher Benald Ngonzie.

In the issue of equal opportunities to all, also their actions are not involved with the teacher.
During the era of Mwalimu, every citizen had a same opportunity, and it did not produce wealth or poverty, tribe, his religion or color, but since the teacher entered, things have been changed and at a fast rate, there will need the courage to be self-communicable diseases. "

Even during the election of his party, CCM, the situation is that and the poor children don't have a chance to be the leaders to take an example of this week of the youth union of CCM (UVCCM), Fred Lowassa, George Samuel Sitta, Christopher Ole Nangole, Christopher Ole Nangole, Christopher Ole Nangole, Christopher Ole Nangole, Christopher Ole Sendeka.

That is the current CCM party of the Mwalimu Nyerere party, this situation that urged citizens to start doing responsibility for the party and that when it comes to the issue of the election, then, Mrs Salma, and children should be released shortly.

My brothers, a situation has changed so much, the good example is in education.
While children of poor farmers have reduced up to school because of lack of desks, the children's children or are studying outside the country or in private schools with everything.

Even in the issue of construction of the economy of industries in the country, they have commended the Teacher Mwalimu said recently about industries, "the meaning of today's development of economic growth is the development of industries and industries we have said that the country has continued to continue without having modern industries."

In order to fulfill that action, the teacher wanted the construction of many industries in the country for example, until when he is retiring from power, in 1985, the country had 12 clothes industries, but he refused to return to power, those followers were started to sell those public industries for private individuals, to be able to implement their new policies of the public market.

Its results is that right now is like the industries sector is not available in Tanzania!

However, in the issue of maintaining peace and security, that is the same time to boycott the opposition, it's the same way for Tanzanians standing on the stage and make sure that they build the foundation that is done by the teacher to maintain peace and security in the country!

The whole exercise is why we remember that, Teacher said that "we do not want to follow up, have been made," we believe that peace that we have resulted from the basis of equality that was built and that we cannot stay with if we will leave the gap between those who don't have.

In the current situation, the gap has been a very big time when many people in the country live in different luxurious houses, the rich and other people are unable to buy even one hour, the leaders and the rich people that own approximately luxurious houses and so on.

Teacher got warning about that situation by saying that, "a few when you feel extremely well in the wealth of theft and smuggling so that most of them don't understand the gap between the rich and the poor.

If you go to the issue of land and our resources, the other is the same.
The teacher revealed that making the rights of citizens to own land, but after his death, we have witnessed one acre of land for citizens and those investors at Loliondo, Babati, Manyara, Mbarali and elsewhere in the country.

In the minerals sector, stories are those where the teacher did not have given our mines to visitors and wanted them to prepare well before visiting those mines so that it can bring development to the mines so that it can bring development.

My brothers, can I be able to write three books to explain more things that a teacher entered the foundation of making sure that, but those who had his followers decided to sign him because of fulfilling his death.

However, you will not just say that his relationship will make sure that I am sure if the miracle would like, I would like to see what we are being done by his followers, he will make sure that we are saying, I don't know how many people do not know! "

I conclude by saying that, this is another season for leaders, and remember Mwalimu Nyerere passes away, on Sunday, October 14, 2012 and put up Nyerere on Sunday, October 14, 2012 and put up Nyerere, therefore, it is not the true believers of his thoughts and that it is contrary to its teachings.

However, hypocrisy make sure they make it is due to destruction of their health themselves!
I wish you to see those words and the words of getting to the rules of Doctor Zeno Nkoswe, a vibrant singer of Russia, Boris Pindani Nyalile and if you get health care if the day they will talk against what they believe.

If that is how, then I request all the advisers and others that in the past, the old followers of Mwalimu Nyerere but they did not get its teachings after he died, and to avoid its teachings and all that he did not know where they did not know!

My message to them is this one, they will enable them to cater for their health if they will be careful about the case of Mwalimu Nyerere, to stop hypocrisy when they did a crime and they don't expect a mistake and are supposed to stop more and more than millions of poor people as it is to our current leaders.

A big part of this article was published for the first time in eternal peace, article 207 - even so, this article just got a writer by increasing several things.
