
The wife of the wife of Bongo Flavor, "Thea".

Last year it started badly on the wife of a person whose name did not be found immediately to welcome her husband and follow the husband of the film artist, Nelson Mandela '"Thea" that had caused her to the strength and started this new year.

That incident that led the feelings of many, it occurred last night at the Mango Garden Hall, Kinondoni, Dar es Salaam where African Stars Band "Twanga Pepeta ', had banned the hearts of his fans.
The camera took place this Saturday.
The audience of the former in that hall told Mike Pence, on the other side and his friends while continuing to joy when the joy of his new year during the fee "Kibonge Mdudu 'with her husband and other people doing their thing.
On Friday, they got a little doubt, after seeing the sister, he told her husband every song that will take up and go to Mike then he will play with him.
The rich of the fight started to leave early, after your impatience will see the husband to her sister seems to give him though in a small voice his wife everyone went to play with Mike right.
It was given a warning.
Together with the warning he was giving the husband to his wife just after time, her sister appeared to follow Mike Pence and playing with him again as well as they are playing.
Later, the mother decided to involve friends who were sitting with one table about the behavior of his wife, following him not to play but he still didn't know.
"We say you thank your colleague, she does not want to go to play with the artist, she feels if there is something going on but I don't know what I don't know," said one of the people who were involved in one table with the couple.
He added, "there was a time he did not know, but now he was walking, but now she was going to be a lawyer and then her husband following me, so they should play, relatives do so much."
I love.
After the husband to see anything that was done by his wife in front of people who were sitting with them, he decided to stand up and follow when he was playing with Mike right.
He did not have a need to ask about anything, he arrested his wife and started falling on a lot of strength while many continue enjoying anything like there is no happened.
"It is his wife what those who are Ugali, let me concentrate on these women of Dar es Salaam, I would like you to go to you, what will you know," she was heard saying one person who was close to our fellows.
Blood in parole.
The dock has risen up the other person, he did not choose a place to vote, stop smoking cigarettes and broke up in every part of his body, a situation that caused the blood to look at each other page.
Witnesses saw the blood has reduced, then he got into him and went to watch the fight.
The defense of.
In defending himself, the woman sees her husband by fining that blood for the mistake of playing with Mike saying that he does not see his offense.
My husband comes up for me, I don't have a relationship with any time, and I have no relationship with him, and I have never seen more than in the film, "said the woman.
Mike is Simiyu.
On the side of Mike Pence, when he was asked by our reporter about that incident, he said that he is proud of his wife without the foundation of "there is no boundaries, anyone can play with anyone, that one I can say it is a FGM of not knowing things.
"She has called on the same time, her sister was happy that when his new year's celebrations in which his style of playing maybe if he had not want his wife to play with another person, not to play two times more than to bring problems in entertainment centers," said Mike.
When he was asked, he has not heard a lot of playing with the wife of someone who answered me in a very short time, "I would have?
Some of the claims.
The marriage of Mike "Thea" is currently in a huge conflict where those two have separated with the biggest reason being mentioned by our sources, "Thea said that she has not arrived.
We are still following up this scandal, it is complete, we will play him.
