No by deception.
Mlabu all, 2014.

The law that builds self-driven cars bidding farewell to parliament from Uganda and signed by President Yoweri Museveni who was signed, more than one week has raised issues.

As a result of that law, Uganda has found itself from the conflict and sponsors of the Western countries who believe it takes the rights of human rights including some sponsors have already given donations to the country.

This law is not only one of the sex of the same sex, but also it has set a stern warning which is a sentence of life to those involved and those who will referee a teaser or to help those actions, they will serve the imprisonment of seven years in prison.

While the law led to control the relationship of Uganda and sponsors, the debate has been going on in Africa especially among the scholars about two second being related to each other.

The first second one of the debate is if illegal immigrants are born so or the environment, especially the upbringing has changed the concerned with sharp teeth.

This issue that can't be decided in this important research has been seen because the defending champions, encourage him to prevent them due to the defending champions, therefore they encourage people to protect themselves instead of selling them.

Another side of the debate is to ask ourselves who believe that they are involved in those acts, not to protect themselves with bad luck, but the habit of people who are learning and decided to stay, therefore, these are supporting the government to deal with those acts.

It is bad luck that in this debate science up to now it has not been unable to break the answers while various research has ever been done for answers that we want to support one side or another.

The second part of the debate about caring about him is a question that Christian and African culture is thanking him, it is this argument that is used by leaders of our country to oppose anything which was alleged to be a habit done by the visitors.

After following up this debate in various parts of scholars, I agree that those actions were already in Africa and it is not a matter that is brought in.

One report called "if the Crala Institute of Hoja, who was known in Uganda, Zito Noma," that was organized by an institution called Minutes Network in Uganda (TCG) has mentioned other 21 events in African history that prove the existence of those acts in Africa.

One of those events show the former king of Bugururu, Daniel Mwanga (1890 - 1897), Justin Campos of now, she was doing a love with her men's citizens.

However, those who oppose yourself through the issues of African countries claim that Mwanga will be taught those actions and be careful, although it is the lawyer of the culture of his community you can't have strength, maybe if there is evidence that he was taken against them, maybe if there is evidence that he was taken against them.

Likewise, in history we learn that those who brought the law against sexual violence is the European colonialist, and not African descent themselves. I have not met with information that make the existence of African Community that had gone into these actions and killing them what they did.

The truth of.

If most of us will decide to be careful, I have sure that we are looking for the love of the same sex from the teachings of our religion, Islam and Christianity.

According to our two religious leaders, those acts are illegal and they go back to the Almighty God of Islam for example, those acts are in one of the big sins and in countries that provide the love for a man and the man is death.

However, it is bad luck that some of the religious leaders in the world have decided to see religion to bless you by using this mid-fielder.

The defending of bribery, they have two major issues including bodily shape as well as the second and secondly, they don't know what is part of the human rights (freedom of freedom to choose the love and they prefer.

About praising himself, although there is no research that has given answers that can end the objection, the defending question that supports them should help us as the birthday being questionable.

Regarding the issue of human rights, I believe it has come at the time we are pleased with these things saying we want to inform us because of our religious faith and that the state of us are many, democracy will take its course for the requirements of many.
