
DC, doughing teachers, were sacked from work, yes, then!
May 31, 2012

The incident of the former head of Bukoba District, Albert Mnishi, 14 teachers who have been the great talk since there was a talk because it is a new incident from Tanzania free.
The punishment for the guest of honor was received with a great joy by many people and even so, it is good for the incident a broad view and those with direction on the whole of education and performance of this country.
We agree that there is a lot of complaints among various levels, it's true that people do not know about how the workers are not supposed to talk about how the workers are not supposed to go back to the estates, it's a bad game and that it cannot go back anywhere.
When we go back to the teachers who were cast their homes, they will start asking many questions and looking for answers for example, I asked me the head of the district and he is supposed to sign his duties well as who is supposed to show its obligations in accordance with the provincial heads and other leaders that can't know what they do?
Who is to remove its members of parliament who did not get sessions to parliament while in the streets or outside the parliament of parliament, they should not hesitate to attend the parliamentary sitting until the deputy speaker was postponed the session in the previous parliament?
In the condition of the late or not getting to school teachers who were defeated in school, there are people who stand for performance of the teachers.
So, the county coordinator has already given a report on the bad teaching of teachers?
Questions are many and all that I was told you are supposed to do, even if it is not a tree.
They deserve to be responsible in one way or another of the whole system is bad because they could do work, that we could see teachers who are waiting to arrive at school or not to inspect them.
All the people get the salaries of government funds that are derived from the tax of citizens, the coordinator maybe a motorcycle of getting to school and to improve on teaching in his ward.
Most of them are happy about the punishment for the district commissioner and others are saying it is not enough to go to court and they are supposed to go to court so that we consider the problem of the system that does not work in court.
We do not understand the example that teachers do not live well because of the anger of having low interests or not being employed and they are doing other jobs to increase their income, their work for teaching will be the second priority.
If there is a bad system of economy which does not depend on, to get human resources and when we are saying our resources are very few, there are people who live in a surprise of using the public funds.
The teachers are complaining and it has been changed without lack of enough books since the year 2007. The situation makes them lose hope and they are saying that now there is a desire to teach them, because the discipline for students has reduced because they are prohibited for students.
They have been unable to use ARVs without being given another way to ensure that students have discipline in order to change the curriculum and not to provide good guidelines for ensuring students have discipline after removing its spherical guidelines.
If you cannot control you that you will give him up and the students are preparing to enter the class or not to enter the class or not to get anything.
When getting in the class he wants to listen or not to listen or not to listen to the teacher she does not have the brother to marry off when she gets up or is not at work.
But if the teachers has agreed to work on the same contract that has no low interests, it has no need to continue fighting for their interests while doing an issue and not to continue working in those environments and it's not clear that it has refused to sign the contract more than to make sure that there are some teachers.
The whole system of performance has to be handled in a broader field and not for teachers, the members of parliament have to be able to work through the heads of regions, districts, directors of all councils to work hard for employees every time they should be accountable as required.
If the interests are very poor and let me read it, but the interests continue to be read while the work they are getting.
It is clear that it is good to leave more than to make sure that you are doing so that there is no happening.
12 percent of Mister DC, to have a catalyst to the analysis of our performance system in all levels, we given them well, every Tanzanian has to be fulfilled.
We do not know our obligations in the DC for your opinion, be given to work or to be taken to court, it does not solve the problem of bad performance and if it does not work hard, let us identify which we should do and take action against them.
Each other words have not easily read the bad performance of contraception?
