The parliamentary committee of parliament have continued with its sessions in the city of Dar es Salaam, including preparations for the eight parliamentary meeting that is expected to start on ten o'clock this month in Dodoma province.
Where the permanent parliamentary committee on energy and minerals together with receiving the estimates of the ministry's budget and the institutions concerned can receive information on how the Pan African gas pipeline that will be paid more than six billion shillings which are paid by the government.
The greatest aim was that those funds were given later but the permanent parliamentary committee for energy and minerals through its chairman Selemani Semunyu.
A period of our committee themselves and agreed to be held in Dar es Salaam city, we will be responsible for advice from the committee's advice.
We did not want to agree and be satisfied and that there are those funds, we want those funds but now we need the money we have a lot of money that can be taken by using money because we are requesting the assistant.
Another directive has been released by this committee to know the renovation of the gas pipeline, Mussa Zungu for the lessons they got to distribute them at an affordable cost.
The issue of government giving bail to enable TANESCO to get a loan of four hundred and eight billion shillings being one of the important agenda in the committee.
Ras Makunja has said.
And those who pay more than a billion to tell me what is it?
Therefore, you like that you like some of the companies for example a grader is completely stopped.
For reasons, TANESCO (TANESCO).
The late God is now I can see that we have electricity, but still two months you can not be afraid, we want the government to be.
Almighty God should do everything possible to complete the process of giving bail.
The late Tanzania does not get more than four hundred million shillings.
It can be able to reduce debts and do other activities of "win and remove the chest so that we can be sure of getting electricity for the whole period.
It has been with that for approximately one week now members of parliament have been on their permanent committees as they prepare for the eight ministries meeting that will have the main responsibility of discussing and passing the budget of various ministries for the next financial year and ten thousand shillings.
Bye, Eliona.
Stories.
While having met.
