
What happened in Mbagala is the anger of Muslims?

In two past issues of this full magazine, this column has been very delicious with the religion that arose recently in the country.

In this article, I will start a first part of ending the debate (and the second part of the conclusion, it will be my expectations that this period of these articles will open a wider area, and eventually the recommendations of what should be done to maintain unity, love, peace and solidarity among them.

The awareness made by various community groups in condemning acts of this issue has contributed a positive picture that most of us are supposed to see our country is going to be "a broad way, we can bring about another new debate.

In the previous articles, I heard more that with my understanding, they used to bring back the history of our country. I have tried to return the history of our country, before independence, and showing reasons related to Muslims and employment opportunities for the opportunities of education and employment.

By looking for various donations of community members in the debate about those violence, one of that argument being given priority is one that is claimed to be the source of those violence is not religious.

I request I thank you to put my stand up to be private that I think that the violence are normal as usual although it is not the only one but also there is no doubt in other reasons.

What's the meaning that here is that it is not true that the violence did not depend on the religion but religion is one of the reasons for that violence.

Because in the previous articles, I have risen up more on those ones that are not religious to 100 percent, "in this first article I will try to discuss" a dangerous area of religion as one of the cause of that violence.

I am saying "there is a dangerous area" because if you feel that some of the readers do not accept to be careful, and that we must be able to have a debate on this issue but also we can be able to have a chance to look for solutions.

As it is in elsewhere, (because of it is not Tanzania alone), the analysis of religion is not only to bring back bad thoughts (like that a Christian is not allowed to protect Islam, but the number of residents in the concerned areas, the history of the relevant area, and etc.

In short, and this is just an example, it can have a difficulty of one way to recognize Christianity, by using two provinces of Kilimanjaro and North Pemba as part of getting statistics to enable the concerned analysis.

When Kilimanjaro has a huge number of Christians, North Pemba, it has a big number of Muslims all different times, "I feel it is good by considering the regulations of research" that can bring about results, "we are one of the issues that came out in my research about the activities of Islamic groups at home.

For example, some of the Islamic militants in the city of Dar es Salaam were seen to have the very big issue to speak about discrimination that is being done by what they had explained as the system of Christ, "many of the problem they are facing every day in the areas like health, education and agriculture.

However, the scholars of Islam I have written with the interview he confessed that (I am an interview) "in the villages, issues of religion are not weight compared to the challenges facing the citizens in those areas where basically we are not allowed to know that this is Juma or Petro, a penalty.

When you put aside, an obstacle is that which has brought a lot of difficulty in religion, one of the systems (top boxes) of violence, cobalt, politics, etc, etc, it shows this situation (to his part) of discrimination give birth and then give birth to opposition who can be able to remove violence.

And one of the primary reasons that are told to be in that model that can be able to build an error in the state's disappearance.

The dismissal of the court of Islam can be an appropriate example.

Although those countries were religious, but basically we started to next to address the religious cases "among Muslims (that is issues like inheritance, and others).
But another area that can be able to get in this group is the participation of some of Muslims in the activities of freedom and the participation did not be political but religious leaders because one of its teachings are not only, "Masau boasted.

By touching the participation of the Muslims and religious leaders (despite political parties), they should join them to give birth to a certain kind, that is able to use their religious faith to deal with bad things (colonial).

If I have noted that in the previous articles, I was surprised that "we were on the front line to deal with the colonialists but freedom made it to be under the colonization Organization (Christianity)," can be interpreted as usual.

But it's also important to understand that Islam is not an issue of faith but it's a full system of life and skills show that when a life system will be seen to be in danger (because one or another) can bring awareness to deal with the concerned threat.

Basically, religion give guidance for a lesson on her personal life and in the community, as we agree that Islam like a religious system with any kind of injustice, it is clear that "Muslims get married" can follow the model of discrimination that goes by the opposition.

Maybe this doesn't know that some of the readers thank you in my research (and in some of the other skills), there is a confirmation of the presence of those groups in Islam, it does not mean that the presence of those groups in Islam does not mean to be the high table in religion.

Israel is a Jews at the very high table who don't like to hear anything about Palestinians and say that in America, there are Christians who have a very high position whose level are contribute to "hostility.

Now, at home, those groups of Muslims have no longer stand, "have condemned the basis of the basis of preventing themselves and they will also sell the agenda to be the important pillar for fighting and those that are unable to agree with their responsibilities.

The victims of "have a tough stand, these are not Christians but even their colleagues who were seen to have no stand like them," a confirmation of these people claimed to be getting to Muslims all over their problems (without caring about it is a Muslim or not).

The analysis of some of the leaders of those groups provides a picture of believers who "not the religious leaders," said the girl who doesn't be a Muslim but even a Muslim who deals with Muslims (even when the partnership is no effects to Muslims and their religion).

There is another primary problem when there was a great effort to Christians are blocking the holy Church in Swahili, what does it mean to say that efforts to stop the Holy Quran in Swahili has not been successful.

For now, because it is easy to use a sharp razor to evade any thing, giving an opportunity for people who do not have enough understanding to the religious leaders can have effects.

With my understanding, there are the responsibility of the scholars of Islamic State, but there is a big possibility that some of the leaders of Islamic groups with a tough stand, although any citizen can be a politician, because any citizen is different, because a good understanding of having the authority to lead to others.
In the next season, the last article of this rainy season will look at the internal auditors, to get a solution to Muslims and Christians, and "controversy" in the constitution about conflicts and recommendations that should be done to deal with religious violence in home.
It will continue.
