Raila Odinga, public institutions and hands.
APR of 18, 2013.

The last general election in Kenya, has given birth to a lot of things, so there was a lot of things that the politicians like Tanzania and Mchuchuma project from general are supposed to be discussed especially when this nation continues with general elections in the year 2015.
First, I don't have ever heard that Raila Odinga with the weight that I will be born with them - the body and political parties which come to you like what he bought.
He reached that decision to boycott the national celebrations in the rival sides, Uhuru Kenyatta to be four president of Kenya.
Raila Odinga had a great intention to be there in Kenya's land that Uhuru was handed over to lead the nation. Him and his running mate, Kalile Musomba they felt it was better if they should stop the boundaries and killing them in South Africa.
They said they went to read to rest with their colleague Moses and she got it.
There is no one who helped us because every person knows that they did not accept to be true that Uhuru won.
There are some of the things that Raila Odinga was that because he would have arrived the celebrations to be sworn in Uhuru, they could destroy the grave of his honor and they say that he would be satisfied by the fans of Uhuru.
I don't think that he would have been written on that opportunity, what I believe is that if he was not covered by being stabbed with his opponent who is an expert who failed to fail.
There are some who think that there's a reason that made Raila Odinga, there should be fear that maybe he had explained that Uhuru was sworn in which he could be able to prevent us from suffering from people - his Kenyans and visitors.
With those thoughts, they have a lot of hatred and Raila Odinga, but he would like that so that it would have been a lot of God, Raila Odinga, which has already identified himself by Prophet Issa (Jesus Christ) and a person involved in the chest and Raila Odinga.
In addition to being defeated by being used in prison in the era of President Daniel Sturridge and his administration of the late Daniel Sturridge and his administration put in Raila Odinga, she didn't wait and put on fighting for the availability of a democratic system in his country.
His contribution is not small in an effort to make it up to Kenya when it reached there was no doubt that his name cannot change in history of bringing changes in Kenya.
However, Raila who is also known as a riddle of politics in Kenya, "I do not want it to make it put on his political experience and he used things that are not involved in the previous days after the election results were announced.
I will give a two examples to the first, he made a short speech in big public meetings, where the elections was over.
Secondly, he said issues in the language that doesn't match with his status, some of his statements met and they were able to destroy the nation in disaster.
A good example is the ones that he said on March 4 when he was interviewed by BBC that the victory of Uhuru "had played 74 matches," it was equal to which happened in 2007.
Those accusations have been caused by non-governmental institutions together with civil society institutions in general, it is said that under the poor they have been caused by some of the African countries.
The hands of government of the West African countries came out early in the Kenya elections and it is clear that it had an intention of buying things.
President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda said on behalf of our most of us, when he resigned from International Criminal Court (ICC) and some of the West African countries to inform them who can inspect them and therefore help them to inspect them.
That is a bad game and it is not allowed in this century anywhere in South Africa, we must ensure that if that situation will not be tested in the country during the next election.
We did not say that public institutions have to take care or take them, "we say it should be responsible for the regulations so that it can't be used and to follow up.
