A difficult week in CCM, CHADEMA.
Petit 14, 2013.

Although it is not the general elections but it is a small elections for councilor seat in more than 20 wards in the country, which may fall down now are mentioned to be the political direction, especially to political parties heading to the general elections of 2015, South Sudan reports.
The Revolutionary Party (CCM), the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CUF), are using these councilors elections in different wards in the country to test their political activities and continued to change or improve more success in the year 2015.
The provinces that are mentioned to take over political parties, especially in Mbeya and Arusha is the one that is mentioned to have direction for parties thus evaluation their trend of approximately three years since the completion of the 2010 general elections.
From Arusha, our writer, Paul Ngalinda said that the campaign of that election in accordance to the schedule of the National Electoral Commission (NEC) that started on May 15, 2013 and CUF will be given a great opportunity to perform well in some of the wards despite the fact that, for a long time, Arusha town is expected to be the stronghold of CHADEMA politics.
The candidates who contest at the Green Themi Institute of Melia Wenje, popularly known as Kabende (CHADEMA), Victor Mkonga (CHADEMA) and Manufacturing Company (CHADEMA) and Abbas Darassa (CCM) and Abbas Darassa (CUF).
Elhaj said the candidates who contest for close to Jeremiah Mpinga (CHADEMA), Emmanuel Laizer (CCM), John Bana (CUF) and Edna Mdoe (CHADEMA) and Edna Mdoe (CHADEMA).
In Swaya Ward, Monduli District which for the first time since the start of a lot of political parties, CCM has begun to get a difficult time, candidates with the close competition is Japhet Wopler (CHADEMA) and Goodluck Kimwana (CCM).
That county elections is followed up by many of the primary schools that Monduli region is being represented by Edward Lowassa who has ever been the prime minister, while he was mentioned to have a huge crowd of politics in that region and even in Arusha province in general and other areas in the country.
The evaluation of CCM, CUF, CHADEMA.
Although all the four wards have a big competition between the candidates of the CCM party, CHADEMA and CUF, a big position to win in those wards is for the candidates of CCM and CHADEMA, while CUF can win in two wards.
The wards that CUF are given to 50 percent of winning as Kaloleni East ward where his candidate is Abbas Darassa and Elhaj said that the party's candidate is John Bana, who was the councilor of that ward before being sacked from CHADEMA.
In Msaranga ward, CUF's candidate (Darcoboa) is given a chance to bring competition due to the foundation that is born in that area and he can get a lot of votes using her experience and not them.
CHADEMA candidate, Emmanuel Kessy who has ever been the chairman of the area through CCM, will depend on the political attraction of his party with many followers in Arusha while the candidate of CCM, Emmanuel Melisa, will depend on the importance of his party.
In addition, CCM in that county council has a difficult time due to the step by the council of the city to give a notice to relocate the house of the council to give more than 3,000 people who live in those houses and that step has been sold at the political agenda.
