Now religion has got the seat for.
28th of 13, 2013.

Religion has been in Tanzania for a very long time, if you read the source of Islamic militants, Mohammed Said Ndonge who since 1995, in the presence of groups of Islamic elders of Dar es Salaam City, who were selling religious hatred against Julius Nyerere and the Catholic church.

These elders have tried to get the third time he disturbed Nyerere and his administration but they failed to move forward.
A group of other Islamic elders in the country in America was very high by the union of the country being more high.

However, the elderly and those who failed to reach three times still have tried to disrupt the national administration as well as the Julius Nyerere rule, taking a stern action earlier on the 90th minute and chased some of their children and that one of them are continuing with that issue today.

But there was a feelings of religion and tribalism because some people they felt if they were driving and especially.
The Nyamkazi Primary School, Kibo Palace and Wahaya brothers.

This was also ten years old and the ones associated with it was very high to the extent that Nyerere could not hesitate to resolve it, he made a popular commission of chief Mang'Italia to go through it the claims that he had gone down.

Nyerere explained the danger of bringing up the feelings of religion and tribalism. One of the decisions to fight with it was among religious organizations (lot of alcohol) and at the same time, put a lot of knowledge in religious schools.
The council of witch doctors and preventing to continue with EAGI.

And for a long time the activities of dealing with religion have started to bear fruit and start thanking them, a difference that made it a difference from the colonial era of Blac Chyna and Muslims.

There was a fact that the true problem which the father of the nation sent the necessary weight and to address them and at a large extent, it was successful to make sure that if they sell and Muslims especially towards the age of seventand eighty years, while doing their differences.

At the time the shivered in the streets wanted to own chicken.
He is looking for a youth of Islam to come back so that he does not get tired of someone who was not a minister of the government to tell him that he gets a chicken or goats.

Muslims and they were able to do their things to worship without their brothers, if they get married, they would have been faced with their freedom and we also learned in together with the community that has different meanings associated with us.

This goes with the freedom of people to change our religion and even discourage them, these issues were very private and didn't have a lot of people when that time, if you get a strong man and is called Abdallah people to respect his decision and made her life in his new religion.
Truly for Muslims who decided to get married or get into Uknga region.

For many years, most of us are forced to live together, as to respect their differences and caring about the feelings of other religion as people did not want to say bad words against other religion because they feel it is same as a person involving his own house.

As there are many who like them, they did not have brothers from other religion, many found themselves being forced to have friends of another religion - to be JKT, in school or even at work.

It was not true that Joyce has with her friend Ras Makunja, with his friend Rama Dee is a day of Sunday he went to the church and Friday when he went to the church in charge of worship and continuing with life as usual.

In a large extent, this situation is still ongoing and at the moment there is a problem which happened just during this time of the current administration, we are witnessing religious conflicts and now we have been discussed where we start getting rid of meat.

We want you to look at what we want to share experiences and parliament (one side to protect Muslims.
The other side should not be dealt with and maybe that he is in the ministers' council.

This problem of religion which has been grafness and now has been related to one of the current administration set aside in this situation continuing with them and it is that you benefited from that religion.

It is a big campaign meeting for religion during the general elections against Doctor Wilison Slaa and by bad luck the candidate of CCM, at the time of President Jakaya Kikwete was silent, and now if the country's leader is not silent.
