Refugees live.
The day of the swim.
I have been told to see.
And when talking to well, he told them a lot of jobs, they cut the patient and requires them to find themselves as Honorable Chikawe has urged the authority for Tanzanians to recognize the rights and responsibilities of their country especially to you.
.
The ones which go with.
All of us have a responsibility to this country and you will also be able to fulfill your responsibility to this nation if other Tanzanians don't have a statement on how many Tanzanians don't have the same way to other Tanzanians who are similar to their obligations.
While reading the life of the new phones, they said that they are continuing to remember on ten o'clock and four hours and four that are important at the President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete were completely affected by the statement.
In the end of my own kind, we thank you so much our government to get citizenship, that allows you to get rid of our nation, the late president of the United Republic of the United Nations, the president of the United Republic of Zanzibar, the president of the United Republic of Tanzania that no one will go to a refugee in the African continent.
All of us have been communicating with one in the nation of IT?
In addition to not the constitution of the citizens.
You love me.
We've been given citizens we need to pray for economic development activities if I will go and continue allowing the peace of our country with all our strength.
You need me.
Minister Chikawe has given a warning to the new Tanzanians who were in residence of refugees involved in the business of Slaa's business, and they were forced to get rid of their relatives from Burundi to be involved in business business.
Illegal business business.
All of us know that in the east and west regions, including Tabora province they are faced with a lot of huge problem, cereals processing, even small-scale miners and the surprising fact, they thank the widow.
What can I do?
I was arrested in what things that were done?
And the problem is.
They sell in your end of your end when it was a shop.
On Malindi is given a place of the city.
On his part, the head of Tabora province Mister Ludovick Mwananzila has said that their government has a responsibility to continue improving social services in their areas.
My brothers, today we remember the year one hundred and two hundred thousand, where the first camp of refugees from Burundi started.
Those refugees were involved in fighting with murder in Burundi.
Wildlife.
I request it is enough to be the government of the United Republic of Congo to be given and improve community services.
And make sure that services like agriculture and secondary.
It will continue to be released as it was released at all where you came from.
Palm, other health services like treatment in health centers and health centers that will be released in accordance with the policies and religious leaders in the country in the province will continue to provide water services that are available in the country and to enable citizens to use available opportunities and to involve the killings between people and the old people in the country.
The residence of Ulyankulu earlier on the north, east of Tabora, and every three person in the north-east of the coming, were also available in the district and later on.
Today, it is a big house and big reasons for one hundred and two hundred thousand people who have qualified to have ten minutes.
Mister Cruz is thankful to the Tanzanians of the neighboring villages and the residence of refugees in their cooperation.
There is a day of old.
Who are in eternal, we were cooperating.
There is no problem with the machines to look for now, for them when they put it and get any problems in the same time when they cut it and if we see our brothers to give you a small course which is supposed to depend on well in the house.
The head of its cadres, Mister Kimwana has said together with living like refugees in the capital city of dairy products and other crops being satisfied with the economic activities such as Tanzanians, the second one was very delicious with a person who had been able to run their daily lives as the second one is very delicious with a person that had been unable to move by Sara Shaaban and food.
Their own business is a fox which is maize, Honorable several months wants the government to give a statement like the area of residential houses and now it will continue to save forest as it was previously before being residential.
Money to get rid of our brothers.
The late God see the end of the people they have and said Ulyankulu.
