Congratulating them as we are happy to listen.
Who are required to help the existence of money.
Therefore, he cannot recognize that you are doing well like I know you.
Almighty God is the shop Robert I was the one who did.
Who is a lot of stars but the natural gas of Ghana and we will meet the south, we help so much to continue with a very difficult place in collaboration with Tanzanians of AIDS for now, there is a must that there is a must for there to be there.
There are some of the religion as a fox is seen to use their clothes to an elder of nine factors that I'll do.
It has been a class of people in what because it is proud of a revolution in power, but when a hotel he has not called me but someone have come back to power because it has never done well.
Now.
This is what this thing or not it will help a farmer be taught.
Problems or the late?
On the village doughnuts, it is a meaning, I am saying we are using a unique issue to one person, we know Lesotho, I will help to sell the chicken you will now have benefits because we're talking to the money.
It is poison.
And it's also a cost if you do not use things now to grow and be able to recognize that his life has already been affected by the explosion and I don't know how many children do not know what I do and because those who are in the villages since it is something to do.
Because the sacred heart of the case, I have a pests who are in a situation like that, it is true that is done well and those are the good procedure.
Because there is a way of feelings of teaching and asked him to be a very important thing.
The control of misuse of cotton means that he will go to protect themselves, destructive pests and friends of the cotton industries which are my father to go.
I know he is happy and went to land after seeing the pest.
Now if you were able to come for agriculture and as a procedure, I get forced to get the farmers that I put it up in a little farm just after getting it.
Then it's like they use drugs for irrigation in the area, it is crossing to poverty, later I have changed and we are going to go with other activities.
The cotton prices have been one of the challenges facing the victory and its sector in general.
The Almighty God rest all the stakeholders saying what about the issue of price.
Then you can masturbate here we need to put in the national price early before the first season with the farmer or get a report of the price before harvesting time than getting information.
But this is an issue of its policies to read the instructions of the price as well installed.
It does not have differences with agriculture.
To remain in a short time is to give a loan to the farmer from preventing Chris Brown in three times.
There is nothing to have.
Maybe I think that the prime minister are required to deal with vegetables, even if the cause of the farmer comes or after planting a farmer that he has already completed the price earlier when the agreement will never end.
Also gold did not buy.
That bank at the farm, I said that we don't know where we believe in our government, even if the price is seven hundred thousand, but the cost of one hundred thousand shillings, but the cost of one hundred thousand shillings, the government needs to stop this issue.
According to the agriculture of the contract, we have increased production but the government we request.
In this topic, yes, it has been the party, I said that the party can make groups to stop even the sun and air conditioning.
The private sector that is under the ability of hinder the cotton farmers in the area of poverty if the government in partnership with other stakeholders.
They will be able to help the availability of the contract to consider the regulations of good agriculture including the use of quality seeds and also to make efforts to solve the challenges facing the agricultural sector.
I don't know where one acre to produce as two hundred and fifty thousand to three hundred girls and if the agriculture of Kitonga contract is required by the government and a few primary problems facing research shows that they are able to stop the amount of one hundred thousand shillings to one hundred thousand shillings.
While the stakeholders of the small office of the father have planned to get their headlines to come up with the answers of the questions of the agricultural challenges of a contract and use of someone who are very attractive, what should be done in order to improve their agricultural farming.
What I want to inform the farmers?
I urge you.
We saw it.
For the purpose of getting a certain education, then you want them to attend in order to get that education that will help them in increasing production and also to increase their income and also to increase their income and therefore we need to attend to so as to get the education to have a modern farming for production.
The one was the buyer.
The reception.
He sees the importance of a farmer during the purchase of the farm.
And the farmer also sees the importance of the buyer.
During the next season to look at the price of prices but they don't have a close relationship to discuss the whole issue of developing the sector and I I said it is because of education.
Its buyers and farmers have problems in education.
One does not know that the farmer notes that his factory will get small industries and at the end of the day, the day before yesterday is a loss of a loss that can be removed directly.
If it is money, he has lost but like a factory.
To own a factory is making sure we want to do six months and it is making two months the preparations to get in four months all the factory has not yet been conducting work but also farmers.
Do not know the same and to produce when they get to you, they are the price to look at the whole issue.
The condition of the market is going because there is no reason that is forced to get a certain price while it is a situation of the market to that farmers, we have not know how to produce productivity because we should understand.
We have a big problem that we have the farmers.
And that is why the picture is under education but the farmer cannot get if he has not been given the name.
You miss.
The government has no ability to employ a enough officer to reach its farmers.
Such as farmers do not have the ability to get rid of money.
That we would like to see when that situation is currently available, that farmers do not care for their funds to be completed while Walter said they don't have the ability to buy medicine with no ability to buy drugs at the moment, farmers must be given.
From the name withheld, name is not a must here farmers support me.
In addition to the stadium that is very important because our farmers have failed to get their products because they do not have enough education.
You are able to do well in the parliamentary seat in our African region.
This good thing will be going on services or fruits to come from it is determined, it will help many people so as to talk about the good quality, it will be forced to do so we do not want the government to get money, also there are many ways from us.
Because we will put restrictions that now people want to see you he has planned for this view.
It is not on the view that does not want to get.
So as to talk for him, I will begin I think it is important to put up the previous goals of that project.
And what is easy that we want to increase the production of cotton.
For now, I have more hope more than another time I will try to come out but he has failed.
Farming for the contract depends on how if it was done well, we will continue those containers, but you will talk about the book not to grow and look at the documents.
All the farmers in Mtwara Province managed to enjoy, but when I went to other vehicles at the center, they are starting to see Rich Mavoko who do not succeed easily and I am saying this farming for a contract we need to remove the farmers that affect the service providers in the agricultural sector and to withdraw itself.
Let it put a procedure that will make each one to get one of his rights we have been so if you will see that there will be no noise like it.
I have made a call with the advice from the minister of agriculture, food and the administration of the United Republic of United Republic of Zanzibar, Honorable Chihira has completed the period of drugs for the day of today.
If you ask stakeholders in the small industries sector discussing together with questions and questions and answers of dealing with various challenges facing the sector on behalf of any other challenges facing the sector on any behalf they participated in this period of their own kind that are ongoing here in order to mention drivers of programs that are ongoing here in large numbers.
What should I know?
