And this to the residents getting a load when you get in the own faith, I am or any director who is inside that man.
How does he do then they need to check his market?
When getting in the farm, he writes that right is a person.
Which is the second number.
In its main burial, what we are used to make sure we have made them to identify corruption and distribution of medicine equipment and protocols as part of procurement and distribution of the medical equipment and the list of important medicine in the ministry of health and welfare of the community.
Urine is not shown that drugs and treatment equipment are not registered by the food authority and drugs.
The price and laboratory equipment were signed up by approval by the board of private laboratories for human health, before being ordered to be distributed by other institutions such as the authority of control of public non-communicable diseases, the board of chief chemist of government points.
The commission of strength to listen to this article.
The food and entrepreneurship institution has been successful in the ministry of funds in the ruling ministry of the provinces and the local government, government authorities (crown) of the National Council and Environment.
The National Health Insurance.
And Muhimbili National Hospital in order to ensure drugs for medical equipment and the laboratory equipment have the quality and quality standards.
We agree with us all the ones they have and then they are following the services of good medicine to Tanzanians because if you look for us our work as it is the law to increase.
We can have us to have a heart but we must realize that ethics and you are continuing to understand.
Research that have the authority to be able to control better and that is the whole reason to cooperate with those researchers and why to the youth it is a court because the structure of my grandfather's friend.
Health insurance of the community because it is not that we have been enough medicine and the meaning of the community cannot be good.
And so that the citizens can be able to get the public funds, Paul and livestock on Friday Fungu that is stable that is available here in the city.
Follow up here to us.
I look at a contract with the criteria we had put if they went to war, has been fulfilled.
There is no need.
If he attains the criteria we have.
And if he has not attained one of the one and those that have been fulfilled.
Sometimes you need for himself.
We are taking the samples where we are taking it to the authority.
And if they are said he does not see the ones with professional authorities and the professional to ensure that those things are.
On the side of medicine we are involved in food production and drugs.
And those who know good they will reduce what they used to make sure you make sure that you make sure that you need to check up and make sure that they are supposed to check up and make sure that they are not aware because it's not only bad, but because of the medical equipment to allow them to get all medical equipment in the country.
And those that were taking them is taking an entrance to another authority compared to the holiday.
Or we each other, when we were given another authority like.
And sometimes the equipment are supposed to be operated on so that it is good to see him as well as well as he is a lot of things to fight with us because it is a lot of resources that we shall like the University of Dar es Salaam.
In the areas they did not make sure that medicine was used to play is working together.
You miss.
There are their expertise in the country.
We are getting out of the country to our colleagues saying they were going to undergo the investigation saying they're getting the Masai Laugwa but as it continues, it has said that his road is in a very high level inside and outside the country because everything is in the country.
They will be joined, we have when getting the international standards of the nation.
Which is even a problem.
Welcome to me.
The secret part is in the laboratory through an international nation to investigate the human diseases is at the first when I take care where we are based.
