It is nothing.
It is where the mother is same as the mother was a new president.
No.
Previously, if I wish to listen, I did not depend on well and it's no longer.
Almighty God bless you so much the last one to quote.
I would like to hear and tell me the life and take them.
I urge you and go back to safe, the person should come to the sun that rises at an amount here, therefore let me know what we have got one of the goals in the house, the late God said that he saw this question.
Same but very much, the life of the same, until now, we should do what to be Almighty God.
Secondly, strong winds up in the field of Dar es Salaam, I urge you to cater for your very long time, the preparations should do your friend and even if your friend they will get your friend and then you are continuing to do your friend.
It is nothing.
We should come and I did not depend on well but every person is safe.
You come at when he visited me, now, it is like you can easily read a little voice but everyone is okay, I am very safe.
I would love to ask?
And I would like to ask you a question that Ras Kiduku was to speak to the language of messengers?
Holy Rosary and has continued.
It's a very few minutes, click here in the world there are things that make your voice down in a small area, Jacob I know what are there because he said are Mtambani Primary School thus it needs to be available on the internet.
What they have asked for him at the network, it has caused by public servants, the internet has caused us to welcome me in the machines and the truth is that the news has been written about, where I was told news from XXL and what I love you.
The late God is coming up and they did not meet your second phase, I have talked with him.
It doesn't know what I met yesterday and he said when he went to Dar es Salaam, he said he said that he is a life of beating Tenga, she does not know what I don't know where I don't know your brother!
It's no longer, I know that life is usually a religion because life is difficult.
If you shouldn't confirm if you want to be looking for me, you know this world for their citizens, they do not know most of you, my condolences, I urge you to get a lot of you to see your life too.
We want a sister to know what?
It hasn't identified himself, when I get to me how the state of life is still the same, it has not yet been found, there is a scholar and there is a scholar.
Everyone will make a solution the termite there is the ones that could enable them to improve the farmers.
Ilala town is the previous day.
Then, the Almighty God bless you but you are going to walk.
He said that you are going to work hard to work hard, we must change your friend, let me know if you go through eight in the near future, then you know how to prevent it, when your own life will depend on today in United States.
We need to our efforts to help our efforts so that it can be used in the near future, then you know that we do not want them to do when we go to, then you can redeem themselves and later, you can stumble and focus on what is good.
So that you can say that you can get living a life, when you give your eyes now, we should make sure we go to our parents so that we can uplift people when we are in Dar es Salaam so that we can improve this generation.
We should be taught.
