This is a bad luck, and when it is still not seen.
January 26, 2013.

Some of the issues that I have been looking for now are currently underway.
I have been saying that we are trying to build a small nation in a big country, this comes out now and I have been saying that we are seen to have a quick way to do things like we are going to elsewhere, here is not our place and we are not there.

Currently the company was renovated using the natural gas which were sunk in the south of Tanzania, and we have already begun to see symptoms of countries that are needed because of the wealth, "he said.
When we talk about the debate on how we can benefit from the nation due to natural gas which were sunk in the country (and also another wealth that comes from the country's resources but it is for the punishment for the rival sides to follow up on how to get little compared we had helped it.

For a long time, experts in the world have been discussing what is called "Human Resource Mobilization," or a curse from our country as a result of our country, but instead of those resources changed, this is what is headed to here in the country.
Still we are not aware of sure that the amount of natural gas, we caused it and I have read several issues that this gas is very much and it can make Tanzania be one of the countries with a big gas pipeline in the world without doubt that it would have been a good thing in countries that are run through a stable procedure.
By bad luck, this is not true that we have been witnessing on the privacy of contracts about other resources for a long time now, and there is no symptoms that we will start tomorrow or the day after tomorrow to be more open.
Until today, the government seems to read the content of the contracts that goes on behalf of the contracts that goes on behalf of the society and the government being asked for that contracts is secret between the government and the investors. "
This is the logic that it lost, because the human resources are not government's property, it's wealth of citizens and the government is required to work on behalf of its citizens and the government is required to make sure that it is secret between Mister-farm and the buyer was seen where it is true.
Let us have risen up, for permission to prevent it, basically because we are faced with a deficit of faith, many citizens do not believe their government because it is used to see how it is going against the rights, and several times has shown its obligations in managing the resources of the country.
It has ever heard that the prime minister in the minerals sector visited the gold mine when he wanted to enter the gold mine, but he wanted to go into the gold anywhere but he would like to go back to Dar es Salaam being silent, and he continued with his work of fake ARV.
The Southern citizens have seen their government as required it was at the end of "investors" in various issues, and they don't know that they don't have education to understand what is going on, who is why he does not have education, citizens or his minister?
Sometimes, he says there are people who want to bring politics in development issues, he doesn't know that all development issues are political and private issues are usually asked himself once again, these people have learned and where about politics and operations of the country and its economy?
There are accusations that the project to build a pipeline is "deal with certain people, and that it has been proud that they have been worried about it, but I don't say it is true because these things have been taught in school.
I look at where we are going, and what I think is, because I don't see the keenness of our leaders to withstand the high level of resources like gas and oil is not taxed.
