
2008, this year that was sacked from 29th May 2012.

In the year 2008, those who lost political tensions among some of the veteran players, some have found Prisons and other people getting instructions in the estates, that they can be taught.
It is a historic year for President Jakaya Kikwete of four ministers, including the Prime Minister, found themselves insulting each other at the State House to present a letter to ask for forgiveness from blood which is a scandal.
The president received the letter of former prime minister, Edward Lowassa, who received a letter from the former Minister of Energy and Minerals, Doctor Ibrahim Lupumba, and the former Minister of Infrastructure, Andrew Chenge.
First (January) and the end (December) of the year 2008 for the year 2008, it is like the year that it started for fear among the veteran players and that is how you're continuing.
In the beginning of the year 2008, the presence of fear among some of the leaders had a company of solar energy company.
But in the year 2008, the fear of Richmond Development has also been removed from fear that its foundation is theft of billions to tax accounts of the external revenue (EPA), in the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), and misuse of office.
Players who had survived, be sold at the court until now they should come back their records and be satisfied if they ever used the power he was given nationally.
And without doubt, others who are in the list are supposed to be grateful for a little little in the year to end.
The year 2008, it started when some of the leaders were in fear and not knowing their fate especially when the scandal of an emergency power generation company, led by the member of parliament for Kyela, Doctor Harfanti from Mwakyembe.
Among the leaders who will remember the beginning of the year 2008 together with Lowassa, Karav Dhingra and Doctor Mengi while in February the year 2008, it will be remembered by these leaders, that is the month which has helped them enough from different political branches in the country.
A chosen committee of the parliament that was formed on November 13, year 2007, and given 30 days to complete his work, having for the terms of six terms, he returned them to political leaders.
For those terms of thanks for that committee is together with John Deere Company Limited Company LLC is a company of the activities that are causing it to check the tender to bring in the country and build a gas plant of 100 megawatts.
Secondly, regarding the whole process of how the tender that will be dealt with from committee of the tender to the end, so as to be satisfied that the law, procedures, lack and ethics of the tender that involve the contract of the kind will be followed or not.
Third, evaluating the contract between Richmond Development Company LLC of Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO) to be satisfied with the legality of the contract, considering the cost and other requirements by comparing with the conditions used in the contracts of the kind that had been reached by TANESCO or the government.
Four, to be noted that the services and various donations he was given Richmond Development as it was launched Yoo in charge of credit are supposed to test their validity.
For the terms of the fifth time for the committee, it was able to look and confirm the reports of the institution for preventing and fighting corruption in the country (TAKUKURU), the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) and any other information that contributed to the procedure of electronic machines.
For the last terms of reference to the committee, it was to check any other issues with the whole process of Richmond so as to give recommendations of improving the procedure of tenders for the coming days, for the interests of the nation.
Finally, the report was read by his results as the resignation of those ministers. However, this report broke the feelings of many people when it was read in parliament especially when its chairperson, Doctor Mwakyembe decided to mention things that they were directed and those who interviewed them outside the oath.
Those are other things that were directed by the former Minister of Energy and Minerals, Doctor Bashiru Rajab and the former chairperson of TANESCO Board, Ambassador Fulgence Kazaura, and the former chairperson of TANESCO board, Ambassador Fulgence Kazaura, and the former chairperson of the board of TANESCO, Ambassador Fulgence Kazaura,. The executive committee made 2,316 questions and asking 2,148 questions.
According to Doctor Mwakyembe, a teacher entered illegal immigrants (out of the oath) saying.
"In that issue, he will be a sheep on the same way or with his own words.
"Flash disk" in Kiziguto.
Apart from Doctor Iyyovngchan is also an artist, Ambassador Kazaura called on women Mwakyembe and his great participant and his great participant from the Institute of Ituha and Combating of Corruption Bureau (TAKUKURU), Doctor Edward Hosea, a member of the government, Johnson Mbwambo and some of the leaders in the Ministry of Energy and Minerals.
Doctor Hosea Ndagala his fate was shown the way after TAKUKURU is leading to have ever done the process of tenders for Richard Mwaikenda to identify that there was no errors in the process.
But breast cancer disease did not end there, was caused by having received by the government and the new council of ministers being announced to be announced, some of the veteran ministers and the heavy names were cast.
All this came out in the year 2008 and the collapsed building for those veteran ministers to be buried, "we have requested them to step down," the people wanted them to move forward. "The president is the one who wanted to step down?
Those are together with Mzee Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, Harith Subeit with his fellow ministers, Joseph Mungai and Basil Mramba and other ministers that were destroyed, together with former Minister of Finance, Zakia Meghji, that he could remain in the new council of ministers that was announced in February, but his star followed him in his details about the scandal of theft of the funds from BoT.
In one of his statements about the theft of billions from BoT, Zakia Meghji, the former Governor of that bank, Doctor David Ballana (now the late), had a letter in a letter.
However, this scandal of Richard Miles, from the Ministry of State, Office of Prime Minister, Regional Administration and Local Government (TAMISEMI) to the Prime Minister of the United Republic of Tanzania, we can say that this was a great success for Mizengo Pinda.
Apart from that scandal that he returned them to politicians, a goalless draw in BoT was playing the other leaders, including the former Governor of BoT, Doctor.
Ballness.
As it is for Richmond, NECTA, it put her soul in the involved, some of them have already started being arraigned in court.
Big business people like Jeu Patel has been mentioned to have a close relationship with senior officials of the third phase government, they will not have forgotten that this year from landslides by the Revolutionary Party (CCM) party in Kigoma province, Rajabu Maranga, who was born in the prison for a knee injury.
The former minister of infrastructure, Andrew Chenge, with her in the year 2008, he can serve that as the year festivities.
Chenge, they reduced politics especially after it was revealed that it has paid a huge account of more than one billion shillings in their bank's account in Makandege.
Andrew Chenge, being inspected by the office of criminal Investigation of England (SCA) and was known to own that huge account, emerged during his tour by President Jakaya Kikwete in China, April 19, 2008.
It is a scandal that was unblocked for the first time by the United Republic of England.
He was asked about that scandal, when he gave him, "when he was accused, the investigation is taking place, according to the regulations and procedures of investigation, it is not allowed to talk for them because it is early, let us lose their work hard."
"The primary issue here is that, I have been paid money by the E Networks company (England) in the purchase of fees for the accusations that are very big and that is not true.
When they finish their investigation, asking Mister Djinnit soon, she didn't give your password so I will explain them "believe it is a statement about that decision to deal with them and ask for forgiveness from everything that is not good.
However, when he came back to the country from China soon, he told the journalists that they should not have when he resigned immediately but he told President Kikwete asking for votes.
Lack of politics in Tanzania they believe that the recent decision has resulted from blood from high level and without doubt from the president.

Somanda Hospital on a huge way has raised the feelings of politicians and especially from the opposition camp and some of the activists in the country. Some of the politicians arrived at the office of the Public Leaders Ethics Secretariat.
Those politicians include the chairman of CUF, Professor Ibrahim Lipumba, the chairperson of Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TLP), Augustine Mrema and Erasto Chilambo of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
They wanted to collect forms of assets of leaders shot him in the list of corruption suspects that were scored by the name 'List of Shanghai, "other leaders who passed away in the year 2008 is the Minister of Energy and Minerals in the third phase, Daniel Yona.
These they have been sold at the court, they traveled with the buses that are prisoners and they sell behind in those living in prison, Mramba and Yona Afrika who has been found with the former secretary general of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, Gray Mgonja.
Conflicts between the judges, but apart from two judges, the year 2008, has witnessed conflicts and conflicts between them.
Among the things that has raised the tension and especially between the leaders of the United Republic of Tanzania and those of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (UKAWA) is the issue of Zanzibar is a country or not.
Some of the leaders started showing open signs of red with the current union of Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar.
Among the leaders who showed up on that issue is the deputy minister in charge of charge, Juma Ali Shamhuna, a different times, Shamhuna, no one was forced to break the statement of the prime minister of the United Republic of Tanzania, Mizengo Pinda.
Pinda has been asked in parliament in a period of questions to the prime minister, that Zanzibar is a country or he gave him for going back to the requirements of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania of the year 1977 and he said it is not the country.
Another dangerous tension that has emerged in the country is about the issue of Tanzania joining the Islamic State Union (OIC). It was not a new debate in front of Almighty God, that has ever emerged with their opponents.
But the year 2008, she's tasted the minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation Bernard Membe, in his opinion, Membe does not see the problem with Tanzania to join OC).
Other factors that have been witnessed in the year 2008 is between the business person they visited some of the media stations in the country, Reginald Mengi, and the minister of internal affairs, Professor Rogassian Mahunnah.
Many spoke to journalists in his office in Dar es Salaam city and claimed that in a certain session of the leaders that took place in Dar es Salaam city, one of the young man and a scholar said that him (Mengi) can be able to pay taxes so that they can be able to pay and finally be given.
According to Reginald Mengi, the basis of the recommendations of that minister is from what is claimed to have proposed media houses to support war against corruption.
But several days after Mengi, gave a statement, Minister Masha who was not in the country in a day that Mengi has made that statement when he gave the statement.
He gave seven days, Mengi, to present his evidence and the journalists they asked me, about his opinion and he said seven days are very much.
However, until the year you have arrested the fate of that issue, it is not known and more than the month now has not been released.
The institutions that deals with feelings of the Central Bank of the relevant institution, will be able to attract feelings of Tanzanians including the office of the Director of Public Servants Pension Fund (DPP), the Police Force and the Office of the Chief Justice.
These institutions are swept away the feelings of most importantly, after the accused of theft of dollars in the International Trade Exhibition (NFRA) in the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) and others started to be arraigned in court.
TAKUKURU has been appointed on behalf of the police force and the attorney general of the government who were struggling with us so that the thieves of CCM funds were handed over the report of their investigation to President Kikwete who ordered him to know for them for more action.
Organizations, the institutions that are concerned with the central government of non-driven institutions in a tension with the government is together with the NMB Bank and the Tanzania Education Association (CT), while Tanzania Railways Company has found themselves in poverty to fail to pay its workers.
Money is the foundation of these institutions to find themselves in a tension by the government and teachers through CT who came to enable them to be paid the arrears of allowances, increase salaries and treatment funds.
But when the teachers claimed that, the government decided that, wanting that to take place, because it did not have faith and amount that was mentioned by the teachers being prepared.
Other institutions that land in the tension by the government are in the universities and especially the government of students in the university and the tension between students should be given a loan to education by 100 percent and as it is now.
The government informed those students that it does not have the ability and students wanted them to stop the strike, and its results are public institutions to be defeated.
