Still you're very little, the truth of "Nisubiri" will face a president!
Phares Magesa, 08, 2013.

Apart from the coming of the arrival of retired president of America, Bill Clinton and flexed their muscles, there was no other issue, last week, that was done by media and social media networks in the country, that is under the use of drug trafficking in Tanzania.
The issue was to deal with fire after the social media to put information from the member of parliament of Kinondoni (CCM), Iddi Azzan, was accused of being involved in the illegal international business, and he himself went to police and give challenges to reduce them.
It is also said that last week, we explained that, the youths of Tanzania expects to serve the sections of China after being arrested by drugs, the reports of last week are saying that, Tanzanian youths who are in a sentence, in Brazil for the arrest of those drugs.
Tarimba, these phones are determined, if there are two countries only (China and Brazil) the youths of Tanzania who were scored by the arrest of those drugs is 279 people, and if it is done, all over the world, to know the full number of drugs including the arrest of those drugs?
I believe that if the research will be done, Tarime, the last phone would have written all of us, and we have confirmed what I wrote on this column, my edition I wrote on 8 August, in the year 2010, that Tanzania we are in the danger of passing through Mexico, a country that resulted from poverty and the problem of the drugs.
The problem of the increase in that business in Tanzania has been associated with much for a long time and good citizens, but the government have been satisfied themselves because the step that we will take did not coincide with the size of the cry for many people.
At least I remember that there are many citizens who were forced to come out in public and said that they have a list of veteran players of that business in Tanzania (one of those), but the government did not take any action to get that list.
But the surprising thing and a surprising thing is when our president's president, Jakaya Kikwete, June 5, 2011, while Mbinga villages in the celebrations that are measurable, Bishop Ndimbo, when he met the public that some of the religious leaders in the country are big partners in the illegal drug trafficking.
The statement made a lot of people because if the president did you know the religious leaders who are participating in the illegal business, because they are not arrested, he was arraigned in court for the law to take its course?
And even after the religious leaders got the answer to President Kikwete by giving a challenge of mentioning the names of those religious leaders who are participating in that business, the president made him and decided to be silent until today.
That situation made a lot of questions that until today has not been informed, the president looking for religious leaders who are participating in that business but he also did not want other leaders who are participating in that business but he also did not want to take action against those religious leaders?
There is possible that you will not get the answers of those questions, but it's my view that Tanzania should never witness this fight against drug trafficking as President Magufuli refuses the fear to take action against people who are supposed to be responsible for that business.
And that's why the private sector was going quickly so much by the decision of the last week by the police commander of the special unit of dealing with drug abuse, Godfrey Nzowa he said according to Nipashe, an act that contributes to an indication as the leader of the illegal business.
That statement stated that despite the lack of controlling it in a way it's like the one that was given by President Kikwete in the past, that it is difficult to arrest the corrupt people in the country because they are crafty.
Similarly, the statement by Kikwete and that if he knew that it is why here in the country that are continuing to be arrested on corruption and for being involved in the drug trafficking, it's just a foolish thing "he was left to continue eating a lot of money that resulted from their evil deeds.
I have said earlier that if it will be done all over the world in the world to know which many Tanzanian youths are serving the body of drugs, its number would have been great than 279 people who were scored in China and Brazil but we ask ourselves who until now they are many musicians in Tanzania who use the body of being involved in the illegal business.
If there are for sure, I have for sure they are not three or four words for other words is that, the players of Tanzania who use "hunger" and lack of unemployment here in China, Brazil, South Africa, etc, they are still free here in the country similar to their wealth, though the young people are swimming.
