Kikwete does not want to know or shivered?
May 23, 2012

I would claim that you know Kikwete more than many of his fans who attend his campaign meetings, I had a lot of work in the army with a small government, but I had a lot of work in the party and I do not write a good speech for praising himself on my funeral.
In the year 2005, I was written in a lot of praising him, "he insisted that most of them to compensate his reputation - an appropriate person, a sharp person, the name of God, we have signed up to wait, the savior of the employer?
He denied many votes including the opponents, bishops, youth, farmers, small miners, small miners, illegal immigrants, soldiers, and students well, even when the mother gets easily.
So as to talk about the truth, they warned them open about the danger of there being a very few, and those who tried to do so with transparency, were forced to do so far.
There are a few, even if I believe it is one, I will not be trusted because there is no evidence of those who refused to defend this case inside our party of five years has been of great affliction of us.
We have been canceled that the user was blamed and those who learn to identify, we have been called names, and we have been asked to attend the party meetings and to be written as we did not attend because of our silence.
At the yellow cards, the company is used to ask for us that we cannot be able to return the back, "we cannot go back again, then we cannot go back, but we cannot go back again, then we were waiting for us to know where those who had gone to do, have no qualifications!
I come back to my motion today.
Those close to him in the campaign will agree with me that Kikwete has a stern warning about people that he did with them in the past, he will tell me that he is born where he will not tell me what he is doing or what he was told there is a problem.
When he was told, he has been made, he has been made, to change the funeral or obey the father or the widow of her mother, I remember even I will take a lot of lot of friendship with that person.
This is very happy and our journalists have been directed and ordered to make sure such events have a photo with the Facebook page of the newspapers.
At the same time, Kikwete is a request to make his promise to private people and even to the public, there are some who are claiming that it is not a problem, it is a problem with his executives who are supposed to take records and to implement or tell me. I think it is his problem - I think it is now.
The responsibility of implementing the promise begins by the statement made by President Kikwete, is not supposed to see the thoughts that he said.
When he entered into power, he said that his presidential candidate has no partnership. "He wanted to visit the field where he was abducted by friends.
He wanted to entertain the action of her child Ridhiwani Kikwete looking at the form of looking for sponsors and until here, it shows that if the presidential candidate is the presidential candidate and the citizens of Tanzania.
It is a big incident to the president saying what he said at that event in Dodoma.
It is not true that right now the family of President Kikwete has entered with great effort in running the country and there is no one inside the party and there is no one inside the party or the government does not hesitate to resolve this matter.
These days is not an important thing to see Mama Salma entered inside the sessions of the executive committee of the committee of ethics being read in the headlines, the executive committee will talk about below the delegates of the NEC is then!
