Iddi Azzan greeting a member of parliament or a shop of drugs?
FDL against 1st, 2013.

The member of parliament for Kinondoni (CCM), Iddi Azzan, whose name has been mentioned to be involved in the illegal drug trafficking, has got the wealth of suddenly in the coming from being a driver, her fellow citizens has been told.

Same as the same time, the police force in the country has become a foolish thing "to talk about that scandal of Azzan together with other people who were mentioned to be involved in that business recently.

Azzan (48) has joined the time of two member of parliament of Kinondoni Constituency in Dar es Salaam city, from the year 2005, but the allegations of now is the biggest exams for him, although he has been faced with a lot of things in his short period of politics.

According to the talks that this newspaper has done by some people who know the politician close to him, Azzan has been accused of involvement in various business, but more than to own transport.

"You know that Azzan's case is a very surprising thing for 20 years ago, he was a good driver and it is not good because this is a good rich.

"It is not a normal state and maybe that is why he gets a lot of questions," said the person who did not want to be told his name because of the open reasons.

Before being a member of parliament, Azzan was a leader in Kinondoni District Council (wearing a) and is reported to be among the leaders that destroy the development of football for women in Dar es Salaam city.

However, the other reports are about Azzan are some that concern about the area, they are going to live in the city.

Azzan lives a bullet in the neighborhood with the center of that center where his house may be good than all the other that surround him.

"People have also asked, how come the member of parliament of Magomeni and he has the ability to build a house anywhere in the city of Dar es Salaam and died.

"But he has decided to live a prayer where it is among the areas that violating the business of drugs," said another news source.

Our citizens has also been told that Azzan has been named as a close relationship with the actors of the film industry and music in the country, it's the industry that has been claimed to get into power in that business in the recent days.

"It is a normal thing to see the films passing through Azzan Zungu for the house of Azzan Zungu, that is in Iddi, it is as a sitting room for them.

"The Kimanumanu members eat, they eat and drinking and they are now because these days they have been arrested, I think that is why and Azzan will be mentioned," says another source.

Azzan took the member of parliament for Kinondoni in the year 2005 from Peter Kabende, and according to the research that was done by the institution also Twaweza in a period between the year 2010 to 2012, he was the 200 member of parliament among 344 members in parliament.

During that period in parliament, Azzan asked questions of three primary questions, for six recommendations that they did to cater for several times more times.

In a letter claimed to be written by Tanzanian youths which have been distributed to different media stations in Tanzania through the internet network from the end of last week, Azzan and other people have been mentioned to be involved in that business.

Those youths have been claimed to arrive in prison in Hong Kong, China, due to the arrest of drugs that have happened here in the country.

Speaking about those accusations against him, Azzan said he is not involved with those allegations and that he is ready for the media concerning those allegations and if he will be found guilty, he will release all his positions for the leadership of the church.

"You read the letter looking for the internet, I will see that letter itself has a lot of time because the first they have not mentioned their names.

"What do you do to resolve the time already have been arrested?

"We are ready to take this report and I'm ready for any time and anywhere, if I will be found guilty, I'll be found guilty, let me just like other citizens," said Azzan.

This is the second time for Azzan to enter on the accusations of being involved in the illegal business because for the first time they were unblocked by the former secretary of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Dar es Salaam Province.

Anyone who was alleged to have given that statement in the internal meetings of CCM in Kinondoni district, June this year, while Azzan was claiming that the party leadership of the party in Dar es Salaam are required to release a level because of doing it badly in various elections.
