
Dizziness of political politics.
This year was difficult because the Governor Professor Godius Kahyarara was alive because he fell in court claiming that they were found in court itself to be sent away from office after the parliamentary seat that he passed away.
Professor Sigallah who was forced to get the directive by preventing the Senate to discuss for him and to negotiate with the conflict that came from a mosquito.
Masaudi, assume the order of the court that Professor Shumbusho was forced to prevent them to discuss the decision by the representatives of Muembe Makundi Ward, he believes that the court finished their responsibilities.
Professor Shivji said the claims that were given against him were not primary and didn't reach the level that is needed by leadership.
As they joined Mister Djinnit said that the parliament of Somanga Fungu that was carried out of Trainer from the office after the governor refused to participate in their plans for making the public money.
But MTVs have forgotten the bad use of millions of money from that he said.
That Governor said that in the case he was presented in court that MTVs wanted to buy the money for a citizen but he refuses.
Senator of Maqbool Saro, said the difference between the senior officials of the government of that he said that he had a parliament of he that he had been forced on development.
Masanga told the court saying that they had the leaders that had been accused of using a lot of money that have been set aside, he said that they have been able to use their authority down.
He told me he mentioned the court if he didn't know the court because of what they claim is to protect soldiers who want to be responsible, but even though they stopped the order of the court, they did not do so.
In the request that was presented before the Judge Mounalists, the lawyer of SPC.
He said the governor has been prepared for answers of those allegations.
Judge Nganga ordered that request to be heard in the main court in Rujewa Town, which is facing him.
Governor Pence said it is ready to defend the court and in the front of the Senate because he believed that the claims against him did not have any foundation.
