
The secret of Mwakyembe from Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (31).

More secret about the decision by the Minister for Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has sacked some of the leaders of the Tanzania Ports Authority, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, to visit some of the leaders of the Port Authority of Port have continued to come out, together with theft and other dirty accusations in the port of Dar es Salaam, that leadership is alleged to increase their salaries by 15 percent against the instructions of the minister.
According to some of the workers from different institutions and departments in the Ministry of Transport, Doctor Mwakyembe denied the salaries of salaries on issues that there is no success at the port that is affecting the availability of salaries.
Additional salary increment of media networks are that, Doctor Mwarabu has arrived at the ministry for the office of the minister met with recommendations of the existence of salaries on the port of the port.
"Minister (Mwakyembe) made an increase in 15 percent in the port, there are a report that claims that the high level leader of the port gets an amount of 2949 million shillings and those of a low level will be paid approximately 4 million shillings and for a low level that will be sold more than 1600 Tanzanian shillings.
"That is when Mwakyembe led to them, preventing those recommendations but the port leadership will attract them and continue with their plans according to the theft, poor performance and other accusations that have contributed to the port's authority," claims our journalist who is one of the servants in the Ministry of Transport.
On the other side, another servant told our writer, "Rider to show Tanzania is in number 36 for the port with efficiency and which will be called even by Kenya because we can increase their salaries on the criterion of allegations that have been directed to you instead of the criteria that are directed to you in matters of performance and" research will grow.

This newspaper has given various research reports which so as to be satisfied that the poor performance in the port of Dar es Salaam is true, by comparing to other various port of Africa.
The reports are made to ensure that the international institution which shows performance and efficiency of various port in Africa, institutions' Afrij Jazzy, which provides its research information near every month, shows that Tanzania, because of the port of Dar es Salaam is holding the 36 position.
The leading country in accordance with digital research has been banned in the port, it uses the port of Angola, Dar es salam during the week of July 9 to July 15, containers were able to undergo the process up to reach customers for one day and three, during that period, the port of Dar es Salaam used a day between eight to 10.
The port of Mombasa which is between three to four days in downloading and the normal process to take them to the customer, at the port of Dar es Salaam, takes a day of three to five days, while in the 29th position.
The Executive Director of the port, Ephraim Mgawe whose appointment has been sacked together with his colleagues in order to pave way for various accusations that are being related to their leadership, and even we are not available because it will continue to look for them although we will continue looking for him so as to get an explanation on that issue.
Our reporter also look for Minister Doctor Mwakyembe in order to get explanations about these allegations but the efforts were not yet to bear fruit after it was only by some officers in his ministry that he is in Kyela, where he went for his parliamentary activities together with counted at the census on people and housing which began on August 26, this year, it's expected to last for one week.
In another step, our writer arrived at the Office of Business Registration and Licensing Agency (CDF) in order to be satisfied that the company is alleged to be given an agreement of removing 'dirty oil in the port with instructions of the year 2008, that company of Singinika SCA should be given that job, who is his owners.
That decision by our writer intended to know the truth about the allegations that the company is among some of the leaders of the port of Dar es Salaam, by considering the reports that he had given Doctor Mwakyembe.
As a result of that area, our writer asked for permission to see the managing director of the killing of Estonia Daviki the incident, but he was given an answer that the player is outside the office.
Efforts to communicate with her in phone as well as fighting and even using her short message, it does not have fruits due to his phone not being stolen.
But at the time going on, more information states that the situation is still ongoing in the Port Authority due to the decision by Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, to stop the leadership of the authority to pave way for investigation.
It is alleged that the existence of the HIV virus in the world that comes from the bad behavior of that decision.
"We still need the participation of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) and the parliamentary committee as the executive committee of public organizations and infrastructure so as to get a full picture of helping as some of the things were witnessed at the port," he says one of the directors of TPA.
However, when there was no advice of involving those parliamentary committees, there are those who believe that those committees are supposed to carry part of the accusations that have been directed to the port's leadership and especially considering that, they are the presence of those committees and some of them have been directed at an extent of losing customers.
