
The award is to come out of 3 trillion / - they were lost on 28th May 2012.

While the government has confirmed the ability to collect approximately eight trillion shillings from domestic sources within 12 months starting from the next week, the analysis of tax exemptions in the country shows that approximately three trillion shillings have been destroyed due to international business, together with laziness in the collection of revenue in the country, our citizens have been told.
During his speech, which also has been discussed by the chairman of the NCCR-Revolutions Party who is also a member of parliament, James Mbatia, the Aga Khan institution that runs some social services including hospitals, has been mentioned to be involved in the former Ghanian group that could not pay taxes in a high level.
According to the explanations of James Mbatia, parliament, during the debate of the government's budget, last week, approximately 75 billion will be lost through that former lover.
In his explanation to parliament, Mbatia announced the Aga Khan institution that runs the hospital's services at high costs in the country when it gets revenue tax in the country, Aga Khan also takes services in the hall for various activities in the country, including the Diamond Jubilee Hall, where it is in Dar es Salaam city.
That service (in the hall) according to James Mbatia, it has been charged high costs without caring that the institution has been receiving tax exemptions.
Together with the contribution of handed over to parliament, Raia Mwema has shown an explanation that some of the sectors in the country are blocking the revenue that would have failed to contribute to the country's budget and eventually reduce dependency from outside the country.
International business at the international business exhibition, statistics that are there in which some of the income has been increasing from a total of 359 billion shillings in the year 2006 to 2007.
The government institutions between the year 2011 to the beginning of this year had caused the lack of revenue by a total of 5184 billion shillings while public organizations has caused a loss of 553 billion shillings.
In addition, through that area of the department of data on the international business side, statistics show that some of the religious institutions have collapsed due to 714 billion shillings that are supposed to be collected from non-governmental organizations (NMARI) when they end up to "bags.
The donors who have been part of the loss of great income in the government and in the total level of loss of three trillion shillings, projects being funded by various countries, the projects being funded by various countries, between this year and last year.
And another one of the shortage of revenue are some of the offices of the ambassador of various countries that are in the country and in this area, 4 billion shillings that are supposed to be sponsored by corruption.
Various products that were directed and put in the army of defense and security, where there have been a special shops of various products for the army and it has been revealed that approximately 885 million has not been collected.
But when the situation is like that in the army that concerns the international products that he got in with a company or private individuals in the country has lost more than 297 billion shillings, while investment station in the country have lost a total of 970,089 billion shillings.
The department of internal affairs, that analysis of loss of revenue has also involve the area of internal affairs and statistics show that the area has lost approximately 1 trillion shillings per 5 / 5 billion shillings due to tax exemptions of value-added tax (VAT).
