13 November 2013.

Heavy is the member of parliament?
Welcome him on the internet, and the UVCCM chairperson.

Queen Darleen.
Lema, Arusha and Mariam Mziwanda, Dar.
In a normal state, the member of parliament.
Arusha Town, Mister Godbless Lema, has asked the government leadership of the youth union of the party.
The Revolutionary Party (UVCCM), the nation on a topic of spreading pictures that show.
What would you been done against the Almighty God in social media networks.
Apart from that leadership, Mister.
Lema has also accused the chairperson of UVCCM, Mister Martini Juma Khamis,.
Participate fully, he wants the speaker of parliament, Mrs. Anne Makinda to take him.
Step and claimed that the evidence of that issue.
There is a public.
Mister Lema said.
In Arusha yesterday when he met journalists so as to speak about that issue and insisted that there is an issue.
It has touched me a lot.
"The evidence of the phone number that were involved in spreading those pictures is.
(The representative of Donge County, Zanzibar.
He is involved with the humiliation that was done by the youth of UVCCM, "said Mister.
Lema.
He said that picture.
Be distributed on social media and users of mobile phones.
And the message explains him, while being attacked by his fellow men, he added that, October 29.
This year, his wife by the name, Mrs. Neema Lema, got a picture.
The ones that were sent directly in his phone with a message that says that that is.
The work she is doing your husband. "
Mister Lema said, that issue did not end there because they are.
They were sent to her mother's mother and caused the family of his wife and their parents.
Lack of peace "my wife used this pictures on the WhatsApp network.
Later he distributed more to my voters in the province and claimed that it's work.
That is being done by their member of parliament, "he said.
He added that pain.
It was happening at parliament in Dodoma.
Where Mister Khamis, seemed to sell those pictures from a computer.
(The picture), giving members of parliament, an issue that contributed the peace of the parliament.
That day.
"In this picture.
They are spread, I met with this issue and members of parliament of CCM.
The office of the speaker who confessed that those pictures have caused many successful.
Running the sessions, "I also spoke with the leadership of parliament, I was speaking with the leadership of parliament, I was speaking with the leadership of parliament, I arrived.
Being assaulted by using the pictures that showed up by men.
My colleagues have met the speaker promised to resolve the, "said Mister Lema.
Mister Lema said,.
And those pictures, still do not lie without the truth about.
Instead, he will continue to fight so as to find the ones who are not involved. "
To look for these pictures and distributing them on the internet and phones.
People but they will help the leaders of UVCCM and distributing them in Lagos City.
Public meetings so as to show the citizens against them is complete.
To hold the speed of having a voice in the country, "he said.
At the same time, the wife of the member of parliament, Miss Neema Tawale.
That is a little thing.
Against her husband and those that did those actions put in breaking his position.
It will not receive Mister Rished.
Responding to the allegations.
On the way to Ethiopia.
Mister Khamis said that the community or he himself cannot use his position.
Make those acts.
"I am and Honorable Lema all are members of parliament.
Our difference is in parties and the regions, I will be happy in parliament and not you?
In details, the allegations against me is not true because I cannot do that action.
Which is not human beings even if we have?
Different types of politics.
"I am a Muslim and a religion.
My is not knowing that, then I don't know the computer and.
Lema is saying that he knew that he didn't know.
Now the office of the parliament has started giving training to members of parliament that are not aware of them.
Computer, and I will learn, "he said.
He said that the phone has.
They are two, one is Nokia Symbian and the Chinese ones with three sim cards.
He doesn't know if those phones have social networks.
Welcome him, BwambKhamis, he added that his habit not in close to the group.
That can protect us or to convince him to do those actions, therefore he is ready.
Meeting with Mister Lema in peace, so as to talk with the view that we did.
Therefore, that is not the old man.

"Honorable Lema while looking for I will give a partnership, what did you know.
I, my colleague has failed to eat the popularity because together with the positions he invented.
I do not go very much.
I use my position.
The UVCCM community to build the community and CCM the first time I pray for him because he has already been asked for reasons.
Our faith in me, the second is the adviser of the research, "he said.

He said his faith is that, their political difference can't understand.
Do that action as there is a day Mister Lema can go back to CCM and do.
Work together.
Added that, has come at the time of Mister Lema.
Remember that, different types of politics that are in their party are also available.
Do not pollute the internet.
