
28 December, 2012

From Mulago, Sugu has died.

By Mariam Mziwanda.

The Deputy Minister of Education and Vocational Training, Mister Philipo Nyandugulu, has said that he is ready to prove to him a member of parliament for Mbeya Town through CHADEMA ticket, Mister Joseph Mbilinyi, popularly known as Sugu in the education he has claimed to be the member of parliament.
Mister Kajubi Mukajanga said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he was speaking with the Majira newspaper about claims by Mister Mbilinyi which he has given out to the press that, the minister has education to support him with his full name.

He said the statement by Mister Mbilinyi does not mean any truth but he is a scholar and he is ready to prove that the truth to the public.

I am pleased with Mister Mbilinyi we are supposed to know many so that we want to do everything on it is revealed many especially on her side, I will know you for a long time because I've not seen him in one school, I know you.
Most of him, but due to my wisdom, I did not need.
And him, "said Mister Feruzi.

He claimed to be surprised Mister Mbilinyi, to talk about something that she didn't know but by help him so that she does not continue getting a politician and he is supposed to confirm his education to the public.

Mister Martini added that, it is true when reading was using a name of Am and after getting into higher education, he started using the name Kocha, which is one of the origin where Mister Mbilinyi is keenly, he will follow up on his clan so as to know that the name makes us or not.

He added that his intention is to ensure that the Mbeya town region which is currently being held by Mister Mbilinyi, in 2015 is going back to CCM and the truth will be confirmed to election.

"I am a minister from CCM and member of the executive council NEC, therefore, Mister Mbilinyi, as they do not want to remove those words that will follow up until I fail to implement the policies of my party," he said.

He said the 5th article of CCM's constitution, is leading to make sure that his party win a election of all levels of all levels together with strengthening the parliament of Mbeya Town from the opposition.

"In the next general elections, I will use all the efforts to make sure that Mbeya Town constituency is going back to CCM, my order is supposed to advise Mister Mbilinyi, to learn that you learn from the mistakes since he has already been looking for a lot of days but I had not been given a long time.
But I continued to implement the responsibilities that I wrote, "he said.

He said that the member of parliament and his party were treated with Sussex at the CHADEMA meeting that took place in Chunya District and forgetting that that they took the campaign finally they started moving from Mulago education instead they were closed down.

He added that Mister Mbilinyi was supposed to think about that if they were sent away by SCE who told them that they want to deal with Mister Feruzi.

He said that those citizens claimed to be red with abusive language, Mister Mbilinyi against him and he has no time to fight with him but he will give the answer to evidence.

The statement by Mister Samuels has come few days after Mister Mbilinyi claimed that, education by that minister is to support him since he was born with Mbeya Secondary School, at that time he was called Areas. From now he will continue thanking his real name and insisted that he does not have the ability to defend his constituency.
