To be remembered, I will agree to explain and we will agree with this issue, let me ask you, when I thank you, let me ask me, when he spoke to her home, Othman, here at home you said to be at home, "the late God is looking for him.
What does the work of what you want to tell me if he depends on a house he will go to now he does not want to go to now, he does not want to hear the speech or peace because that is the meaning.
SA has been removed and he says that he wants to work now, whom she has called me, he has called me, that is saying he will be given.
That is the top of you, I have not talked with me, I have not got the opportunity to thank me, I told me what I told me, "she told me that I saw him, I told me what we saw them.
To read, when it was taken to other fees, let me tell me what you know, the late God bless you, let me tell me what I did not do if he did not get him if I know you will get you.
When I think I will look for him that he will be presented in him, he will be sent in him and he will face if he would have made it.
He would like he would like to go back home in Nairobi, he will do a work while in Nairobi, but you know that she is not even someone who does not know that, it will be another problem and there is no doubt that I do not see me.
.
It doesn't know the late God and let me tell me what would you know what to feel that.
It does not lie!
What does it mean?
It's not because she has refused from Nigeria after saying that I would have been reported.
I has used the attempt to allow me.
The late God bless you, Banana Ukonga, which is ending up so that before it?
He was killed in this way, I don't know who once I don't know what I don't know, but I have seen that until now, I am pleased with what I'm in home, I am very happy because I have never seen him, but I don't want me to inform the late God, I would like to tell me that this time has never been identified.
The late God is not I told me that you are not white.
Moreover, this situation is going on by Ambassador Seif.
I decided to inform you, he found the late Almighty God to look for where maybe it is true that if you want to pay 'Imebaki Story.'
Almighty God is still enough and it's enough for how many months?
Welcome two weeks before Beyonce will think until you feel good.
It will be self-reliance, I feel extremely honored and I think it's just a thing, it does not see me, I believe it's just a day you don't recognize him, I have gotten a call on him, he has gotten her on one day.
Then how day they are in that day you must know that his number had never seen.
He has never heard that Ras Kiduku was not known by maybe if she was walking on Wednesday night while he was looking at night while he was waiting for one hour even when I don't know each other at two hours.
This happens when he was not in a house and again you know what happens just like I was late.
Remember, the Almighty God bless you, maybe I was not involved, let me know what is going on.
The Lord does not tell me what the song was looking for you and who is the only one?
While it is looking for anyone who is living with you, you will help each other to pay as?
It's not your friend recently, because you have no friends there.
The elderly are many.
More than you want to live with the elderly.
Now, if those person has decided to forgive me or it is not the whole to what I don't see if I don't know where I don't know where I've heard of them and now.
