
The rule of law should be resolved.
By Dennis Kadama.
All the local government, he said that they will need to form the office of the head of that law, he said that he was directed by the legal adviser if the Senate's law will be convened to be the law.
That strategy has condemned the authority and responsibilities of the law of law, which have been taken to 47 students in the country so as to strengthen the service.
The head of that law, he said that he would be appointed by the governor for permission from the parliamentary seat that he said in accordance with the performance of the office of the head of the law of he said, 2014 was made up by the head of the former law, Amos Makalla.
He said several clubs like Nairobi have given out the announcement of that position after he claimed that he stopped the issue of wanting the governor to form that office.
Other officers in that office include the deputy attorney general, he believes that their number will be decided by the head of the law, he said that for discussions with the board of civil servants.
"The office of the attorney general, he said that he will be responsible for all the laws of he said that he will be responsible for all the laws for a result of signing up on behalf of the government of he said that the song explained.
That chief lawyer has been able to be identified against human beings to ensure that he is implementing his responsibilities without fear or not.
"There is no mistake of criminal acts that will be presented against the head of that law, he said that the assistant commissioner of the opposition, he said that he will implement their responsibilities" the responsibilities of that officer is together with requesting the department of the government to make sure that he will have the responsibility of reviewing the law of he said.
"The head of that law, he said that he will partner, make sure that he will discuss and listen to the documents and contracts of the government on behalf of the government of he believes that together with his department," he continued to say.
To strengthen the cooperation between the national government and the ones that he said, the head of law of he said that he will partner with the office of the head of the law required.
