
Obama is the famous person for the year 2008.
May 29, 2012

United Republic of America has advised President-elected President of the United States, Barack Obama, that he is the famous person in the year 2008 and December 5, the magazine that made a special interview in his new office in Chicago region, together with other things, about his three months plan that is in the Kirombo and how he is prepared to fight with the true world when he is under his former boss Alais Morindat.
Why do you miss this type of strength it was done?
Obama: I think we won the open victory of 47 percent of the American people, they still loved John Lukuwi.
I think we are increasing the authority with strength because of change, it means that the government has not been not involved in ideology. It means the government which has set up the important things of every day that is identified by normal people, their hope and their dreams.
And I think there is great authority in Washington in general, to be responsible for the normal Americans in a way that was not so in the past time.
CAG, when voters are looking for your leadership for two years from now, in a year that you will have elections, they will understand what to be successful?
Obama: I think there are several factors as we have set-up themselves as we have been giving our campaign to our community policies, we will ask you like we have decided to revive the economy from the world economy and to make sure that our economy will not unyielding?
We have made an opportunity to make those that pay well and to allow the family to depend on, we have begun a good step to reduce health costs if we have started what without doubt, it will be 10 years of making the American economy.
We have begun the project that you can be for a long time to unite the system of our schools so that we can be careful in the 21st century but that is how the priorities in our country's priorities.
Regarding the policy of foreign countries, we will ask ourselves, we have been able to travel from whom you are doing so that we do not pollute the way we have refused and put the ratio between the requirements of our security and our constitution that we have made cooperation in all over the world that is doing work?
I have given the American army Casillas and we have changed more of Afghanistan who are not only in the army but are diplomatic and we have asked himself as we have succeeded to encourage international organizations to deal with international security like the changes in the weather.
And two years starting from now I want Americans to talk like "the government is not available, there are things that Obama does not lie in rheteria when I get feelings that the government is really terrifying.
"I feel that you're being informed well about it is the step taken by the government and I see that this is the president and the administration which does it do a mistake and give him the mockery that is due to the fact of political issues and not to do with a special aim of politics."
Reason, when you look at the economic issues that agreed to be in the campaign, do the economic news that you are continuing to be heard your opinion about issues of dealing with them quickly and for example, out of making job opportunities and the issue of energy?
Obama does not mean that many recommendations will not involve our long-term plans for developing the economy, but it involves also what to do in a short period of economic economy.
I used speaking during the campaign about the need to build afresh the infrastructure and without doubt, this will give us the ability to increase employment opportunities in the appropriate time that economy will need to work.
I have talked about being paid taxes by 95 percent of the families doing work and we shall get the money quickly, I have talked about our importance of controlling the health costs and it shows that there is a cost that will be used on the quality of communication.
Therefore, there is no doubt that in many times that I have arrested are the way that will work in a short period of checking the economy and the long-term plan to revive the economy.
Prime minister did his bold appointment in getting the minister of foreign affairs (Hillary Clinton). Like today he is going on here by you and told him that he can implement three responsibilities from starting, it's there that he would start with?
Obama does not know why we are in those talks, I think after one day or two we will meet with him, it is not good to read the first responsibilities in your magazine.
But I met talking about our responsibilities of priority, there is no doubt that it will enable the transition government to recognize that it's only our first priority to recognize that it's not the problem of Afghanistan and Pakistan to India - Kashimba and Iran.
Therefore, and when it comes to the issue of Georgia and we will also make sure that we are doing small development in central region where Israel and Palestine will be a rash on the several time what is in our information when the campaigns are still continuing to have a great importance.
I has already touched the nuclear issue and climate change in the world when I think the issue of development and poverty in the world will remain in the important part in our foreign policy and it is important to our security.
