
The ministry of land has set aside its documents.
With Benedict Liwenga.
The Ministry of Lands, Housing and Social Welfare has started a special project of putting off fake documents in the digital system, so as to reduce corruption in the department to provide documents of owning land.
The Minister of Land, Miss Charity Ngula yesterday said that the government has already has a new system that will be able to make sure that all activities concerning land will be tough and better.
"Kenyans who look for services at the Ministry of Land, they will get a place together with fry onions, inspection and registration," said Mrs Ngapa at a meeting with stakeholders in the land sector in Nairobi.
He said that the government has used approximately 500 million shillings to build registration centers and also buy equipment that are required so as to ease the activities of looking for land for land and also to enable citizens to pay their fees through the internet and their mobile phones.
He added that the action will be taken so as to ensure that documents are not yet confirmed in the Ministry of Lands so as to avoid cheating.
"We want to avoid the habit of preventing themselves so that many from one area to another when we continue with land activities," he said while adding that this issue will reduce the time of enabling the purchase and selling of land from 73 days to 16 days.
He said that that system was not ready after two weeks, that ministry will make efforts to ensure that Kenyans have documents of owning their farms.
We aim to give 1 million documents in the first time for a year so that for three years you will give a three million documents, "said Mrs Ngapa.
That minister complained that since Kenya when they got independence, 56 million shillings only donated by his plan without considering the opposition that will be presented.
He stopped his decision of stopping all the activities in his ministry for ten days saying that the step aims to ensure that there is a right procedure.
"The step of stopping the activities in the ministry of land is good for every Kenyan," he said.
