
The conflicts are going on.
By Bashir Yakub.
Despite the governors who made a special session with President Uhuru Kenyatta, on Tuesday, the conflicts are still ongoing about the step by the president, to give them the ministry's authority to implement the main government agenda in the country that he from their location.
Chairman of the Islamic Council of that country has explained his fear that maybe the responsibilities of the commissioners from that they were distracting the government officers of the local government, he said that if the New Year of Constitution will not be followed.
"In our meeting with the president, we discussed about several issues but still there is fear that local administration which is paid is brought back to citizens and he said that he will not be involved in this process," said Mister Ruto.
Mister Ruto, who is also the registrar of destruction said that the step by the president wants the commissioners from those to report to him directly using the governors who is a sign of distorting the constitution that was given in the constitution.
Therefore, for the president instructed the commissioners from ensuring that the main government policies have been followed in that he is against the law of the local government, he stated that they have a procedure and he will not have a need to follow the government's guide, "said Mister Netanyahu in an interview with one center in the country.
After the meeting was completed, a delegation from the Nairobi State House have quoted Mister Ruto, saying that, "we have no problem with president's instructions to sign the main government activities in the country, yesterday, Mister Byakanwa was unable to assume that position and criticized Moscow to be given by the president at the time of launching the responsibilities of the commissioners in that he said.
"The directive by the president made it time to give more strength the commissioners from those who were written by the activists who continued with an important system that shall begin in the past government," he said.
"There is good news in the speech he made the president and the reports they read in that decision by the government of the government, he said that the decision made by the president is according to the proposed constitution and urged the commissioners from partnering with the main government so as to get direction and direction.
"Under the section of 245 President, the president has freedom to create strategies to strengthen their government's performance and senior officials should not worry if that activity is being done according to the law," said Mister Nyami.
Moreover, Mister Ruto, insisted that the commissioners from that he said that they are not very close to politics and explained his fear that he may be taught the activities of the police officers.
