In the news that were done soon, it is that Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) has signed a five-year contract to fund the national team of Tanzania.
Worth ten million dollars that are equivalent to ten billion shillings.
The money is special for the purchase of preparations for international matches and administration activities at nine o'clock in a long time whereby many will give the best passengers for the purpose of the national team.
That agreement was signed together with the new president, Leodegar Tenga, and the director of their old team, Leodegar Tenga, and the director of their fifth position in the FIFA level, while being the list of two with the English Premier League, being leading followed by the German consulate and there.
After that, yesterday started with a speed in Africa's national team, the national football team won very fast to pass through defending champions Malawi by four and four hours at the price of giving a big opposition to Malawi, her sister became the player.
It has also been said.
ZBC is that they showed a good level for those champions of Malawi.
Which is one of the best teams in the world were able to lead time to time.
Assistant coach Arsene Wenger is a citizen from Malawi.
Mary Kazaula says he is impressed by the amount of all his players' show and they think that the next games will continue to do well.
He said I found it.
Players have played.
Nuh Mziwanda, when he comes out of South Africa, he was sent away.
The late God bless you, I cannot get all the all-wheeled motorcycles which have put it only to pay for the iron sheets to remove his wife's wife, a person, that is known by him.
While the coach of Malawi, then I will go saying that he was waiting for a huge conflict from cashews?
Especially after seeing them being his assistant coach.
He taught the nation why it is a must for the interests of the nation?
When he was found in the sun, he has managed to chew, Tom.
Though from other games that was played in Malawi succeeded to emerge with a win against Zambia for fifty and six goals and three.
While Zimbabwe can be defeated by Lesotho, the six goals will be seven of ten and six.
We are also.
One man.
Parole.
And also the challenge of coach of Network must be a woman like Malawi have shown.
While the defending champions of the Mainland Tanzania Mainland Premier League, Simba Club will leave the country today to go for some time for the repeat game when he promised Sunday was given a report that its striker Emmanuel Okwi has not joined any team's contract with any team of Simba and he has insisted that there will be all national reports about this team or any player of Simba and the club will give reports.
Upcoming stars from the Olympic championships has begun to shine after the Olympic championships that is expected to take place in London City on July this year, the General Secretary of the Football Federation in the country, Freeman Mbowe has mentioned the athletics in Mwanza province together with Faustine Ndugulile in the competition in March.
They know their differences as a result of two others that you have attached the problem of Msondo which is already a lesson in the competition.
The boxing commission after they qualify to participate in the Olympic Games competitions that remain in the game Selemani Semunyu.
He has asked the sponsors to come out to achieve his camp to prepare for the competitions.
Mizinga has given that statement just after participating in the competition to look for the tickets to play for the contest, which took place in Morocco recently, a statement that was being supported by the vice president of the beauty, Changalya.
If not then?
What is it that?
Number is not there.
It is the news agency in the Federation of film in the country, a patient that I have done to do an amount of ten million shillings.
To help the music treatment last week, popularly known as Sajuki who is moving to the country has been three this year heading to India for the treatment of the federation, Simon Mwakifamba said that his blood is continuing to ask for more than nine million shillings to make the treatment of that artist.
Apart from that amount of cash it has been able to get three tickets to go and go back to the artist last week while suffering from skin diseases and drugs in this area.
The provision of education against various diseases through Fatma Mwassa, can bring positive changes and quick changes to the community that have had poor understanding of receiving advice on how to protect themselves from diseases and affect it because our game can grow because Patrick is seeing them.
All of us to be just some time I don't know for the first time the students of Secondary School in which is in Dodoma witnessing the best women's group of Talent, who are giving education about the best way of protecting themselves from malaria together with the correct use of light.
Welcome me.
Try to grow.
It has planned me!
The use of artists in the campaign against various diseases that are not malaria can bring change.
The project for fighting malaria is a shop of cement.
It brought a union which aims at especially is a group of youth.
And you know that there is a good way to get the ball to pay the entertainment they can learn.
However, he said.
Research show that the message has called entertainment.
You can sit very much in mind and they can also keep in mind him from Dodoma Town when I visited.
