
After praying for Zitto Kabwe, DR Slaa on his part in the province.

The leadership of Democracy and Development Party (CHADEMA) in Kigoma province has advised the secretary general of the party, DFAA Brother Wilison A. Slaa to stop the tour of visiting those regions in that province from a bad state of politics.

The report that was released by the chairman of CHADEMA in Kigoma province yesterday, Alhaj Jafari Kasibu, said that the action was due to the great fear that made after the former deputy secretary general of that party, Zitto Kabwe being sacked from the executive committee last week.

Kasibu, said Doctor Slaa was supposed to start the tour in the day after tomorrow but due to the state of security being bad, the leadership of the province together have agreed with the headquarters to move ahead of the tour. "Our meeting was not good, we have agreed with one statement to move ahead of this tour.

"I was waiting for Doctor Slaa to visit all the regions of Kigoma province and to hold meetings not under two years in every region and later the last meeting is the headquarters of the province, the aim is to check the life of the party," said Kasanga.

He said the important things that were seen include security to that leader as a result of the decision by the executive committee against Zitto Kabwe, the delegate of the general meeting, Doctor Mkumbo Kitila and the chairman of CHADEMA in Arusha Province, Samson Mwaruka.

The second issue that was not allowed is to give an official statement in the constituencies and receiving the situation as it is seen in their areas.

He said the leadership of Kigoma province, for one statement made it to the party's headquarters to move forward the tour to give an opportunity for the regional leaders and the nation to visit those areas to see the real situation.

"The leadership of the province requested the national leadership to move forward the date of this important tour to our province, so as to go to the regions and educate the members and our lovers to respect and have discipline and decision by the top level of our party.

Even if this decision has a lot of pain during our constitution, we should be discussed in solving the problem of many views in the province and the party leaders is evident in the decision of the executive committee that is clear that the leaders, "said Kasanga.

He said as a result of that situation, the province was caught and threats after receiving a report from some of the leaders of the province that the situation is not good for a big leader.

"The security situation of our province is not good for the tour of our leader Doctor Slaa to arrive in Kigoma for this period when the members and their lovers think about different statements that can cause security," said Kasanga.

He said that sitting was satisfied themselves by getting opinions from six constituencies as a situation is bad and I advise the tour to avoid the effects that can arise.

Through this session, we have said that it is better to prevent more that treat if the killings are seen, the leaders and especially those of those regions were dangerous to this situation in the province that was worried that they will not be in general even if some of the counties said they are safe.
