
The speaker of parliament for mosquito bite?
By Charles Kimei.
The speaker of parliament, he clarified on Eucharist celebrated every Monday, he disappeared from one hotel in Nairobi where he had gone to attend a work event.
According to the assistant commissioner of the speaker, Elias Kiyoja, Mister Deodatus Balile received phone this afternoon from a person who is believed to be the police officer while the speaker together with the representatives of he said they were inspecting the budget of the financial year 2014 / 2015 in the tourism sector.
Mister Edom Mwansansu said that Mister Rwegashora decided to take a speed at ten o'clock in the evening when he was out of leaving his two phones at a hotel in the city.
Speaking to the nation today through the phone, that assistant said that the defender of the hotel said that Mister Rwegashora asked the place where the vehicle were parked outside the main goal of the hotel and is not known as she left the vehicle or not.
"The defender said the deputy speaker asked the vehicle, number one registration number BK which was parked in and told me that Mister Eucharist did not turn back to the defender and he has not turn back to the defender and has no sure that she left the car," explained Mister Avit Nyambele.
The assistant of the speaker of parliament from that county, Ibrahim Saso said that Mister Rwegashora decided to meet with one police officer with name Mister Nicholas Kay.
He said that when they were not seen, they did not expect to be worried but they started seeing each other, they missed to go through food at the evening a speed at two o'clock at the evening.
We have reported that incident at the police station of Muthir where we were made by SADC in Pangani, Mister Kathmandu, the driver of Mister Avit Nyambele.
He added that the efforts to try to know how the speaker got from a hotel he did not have fruits because the hotel does not have modern camera.
Mister Sinyati Enterprises, said that their meeting was happening, Mackey Hall who is in the Tourism hotel where the different chairperson of the committees of parliament in the country, he said that they have presented their budgets of the budget for the budget and the expenditure of the government.
