
More fuel will be found.
And apologized.
Kenya is currently in the race to join nations that have a huge wealth of oil after the mining of oil in the oil and South Africa has announced the availability of more oil and gas in a well at Ngaka-2, he from Turnbull.
The well that made a 1-7 kilometers from the age of 1-1 which was the first to be available in oil in the country.
At the same time, the trials that were done in another well that was mentioned as Akitanda-1 were forced to have the possibility of producing 500 shillings for a day from that well.
The results have condemned the hope of the availability of oil in the biggest area in the northern region of Kenya, according to the director of the oil mining in the northern region, Mister Civil Aviation Authority.
The residents.
"Success from a well at Ngaka-2 have changed the ones that were found in our first well in the University of Ngongi (1)," said Mister Cosmetics company.
That announcement was issued one day after the President Uhuru Kenyatta to meet with his leaders of Madindo Mlangali Village and tell them to ensure the residents of that area have benefited from the oil being found.
The issue of payment of the land is taken by the government through the purpose of development projects has become a big problem in the country.
President said that the residents can use their land if the payment of owning the shares in the oil pipeline that will be built from BADEA.
The construction of that gas pipeline that is expected to start in two coming years so as to enable transportation of oil from that area.
Mrod Mkono.
Those reports are given a few days after the company announced the availability of oil in Lamu Island area on the well that was sunk into the sea.
In the recent years, the companies of international fuel have reduced their activities of looking for oil in the East African region after being found on a large extent of gas in Tanzania and also Mozambique.
Kenya is now competing with other African countries like Nigeria, Angola and Algeria among other things that have a big amount of oil and gas.
