
21st December 2012

2,008 contractors have been identified.

By Mariam Mziwanda.

More than 2,008 contractors have been standardized as a result of working in East and Central Africa due to the bad performance of work and not fulfilling the requirements of the contracts.
Deputy President Doctor Mohamed Gharib Bilal, said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he was laying the foundation stone on the construction of public servants, which will cost 3 billion shillings which is the government's contribution by recognizing the importance of better health to the citizens.

"The needs of the best house in the country will be discussed more than 3 million in the whole country and increase of 20,000 houses every year, the government servants only are more than 400,000 children so the government's efforts and private sectors will help in reducing the loopholes used," he said.

He urged the public servants who have been given priority to be taken to houses and agents of buildings in the country, to take them well so as to reduce the cost of renovation that can be used in other activities.

"The ones who were shown and swept away from the houses, the shivered to the time so as to build the ability to build another house for the benefit of the public," he said.

Speaking in his speech, the Minister of Construction, Doctor John Magufuli, said that due to the 17th law of the year 1997 to the contractors, the government has been able to continue to remove the licenses of local contractors so as to protect the respect of that work.

He said the government will continue to give the tenders for the local contractors so as to improve the economy of the country and increase employment opportunities for local contractors and wanting the contractor who was given the job to ensure that he continues to build the standards and finish the construction in time.

The chief executive officer of the Construction Agency in the country, Elius Maguri, said the existing goals is to ensure that every citizen is living in a good environment, therefore this year will build 2500 houses in Dar es Salaam, the needs for 1,400 houses.
