
The doctor running a clinic without registration on May 22nd, 2012

The department of health in Arusha Municipality has entered into a scandal of wanting to allow a private health center of Health Insurance in doing business activities contrary to the law without registration and a permit from the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare so as to endanger the health of citizens who are treated with that center.

News about our citizens have been involved in different sources and follow up, ensure that the clinic is in the second floor of the main building of the Qorro and the main market of Arusha has never been signed wherever they are its owner, Doctor Leonard Lutegama Maboko.

There is no official launch about it is when the clinic started providing services, but it has been explained that it started that job at the beginning of this year with the doctor who has been able to use that company and various institutions in the province to get the tender to treat employees of the company and the institutions.

There is also a problem about the ability for the owner of the center who is a citizen of India because according to Tanzania's law, the doctor from outside wants to do that work in the country should be signed by the Ministry of Health after getting training for three years in a big hospital in the country.

Reports indicate that Doctor Mwaka has never done actions in any big hospital in the country, a situation that causes the doubt of his ability in that professional profession.

More news have said that Doctor Mwaka was given a permit for "microcephaly" to run its clinic and the one officer of the health department of Arusha, but using the certificate of registration and other medical documents for the other health center known by another doctor.

It is alleged that the officer and three others who had the responsibility of inspecting the clinic without their work and instead he gave permission to the clinic to continue treating people without having the criteria required after the "insisted.

According to the procedures and laws concerned with the registration of the clinic, health centers and private hospitals, the team of specialists from the area where the concerned hospital are required to do an inspection after receiving donations from those involved and after the inspection was presented to the ministry so that they can be presented with registration after being satisfied.

But in the start of work at the Health Insurance Fund, Raia Mwema has claimed that it is without doubt, there are no procedures followed and instead, that clinic has been continuing to use the documents of another clinic.
Mke Mwema have succeeded to get two medical cards for two patients who were treated with Doctor Mwaka and the registration number of those patients (names are reserved) which shows that the name of the clinic is growing at the entrance gate on that building.

More investigation has revealed at the Nanenane show owned by a famous doctor in Arusha, John Lyimo, in the ballot box, having a certificate of registration from the Ministry of Health, 423220 of June 2015.

Doctor Lyimo is also the popular artist in Arusha town which is also a health center and the Arusha S@-@ ray machine that is in the neighborhood with the Arusha International Conference Center (AICC).

Speaking to Good Citizen, Doctor Lyimo confirmed that she's doing well Doctor.
Previously, a player who once worked with him in the year the day before yesterday and running his Nanenane show but later they were born with separation in the service delivery.
"It is true that the mother was sent and asked to work with me to run a health that you are looking about but we were affected by separation and after that, I was surprised by my documents," said the doctor.
"If the doctor is doing so that then he is going against the laws governing issues of treatment thus endangering health of the patients that are being found there by the Municipal officers are required to take them without any legal action," said Duwe.

According to Doctor Lyimo, if that station would have been legal registration of the government, patients' cards were with the logo of Health Insurance and not otherwise.

Moreover, that health center has also been seen to have a lot of challenges that do not meet the standards that had been put in place by the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare in the country.

Those weaknesses are together with the center being in a building of other different activities that are not independent, something that doesn't be allowed by the laws governing issues of medicine.

Other factors that are mentioned to be mentioned in that clinic is together with lack of enough rooms since the law of the ministry of health explained openly that so that the clinic can be able to register with more than six workers and continue with more than eight staff and continue with the criteria that health insurance has not been unable to meet.

That clinic has no more than four houses and only six employees who are also alleged to have not been taken against them by the ministry of health.

Another shortage is lack of a special area to enter the hospital and also to fail to submit the statistics of patients who were stolen from the health office of the Arusha Municipality.

Doctor Mwaka speaking about this newspaper through mobile phone after the efforts of seeing him were unable to be used last week about the allegations of running that clinic without having registration, he explained that he would like to answer those allegations with his lawyer.
"Who has explained to explain the reports and it has been sent by who did, when he asked Doctor, when I asked Doctor, I request you to give a phone after two days I want to see me the accusations that you are asked by my lawyer," he said.

However, after getting a phone again, the doctor explained that he was in Dar es Salaam by his lawyer and he was also a journey to be given more time.

However, on the end of last week, health officers of municipal urged the doctor to stop giving services at the clinic by scoring after it was revealed that this newspaper was following the reports of that clinic and the owner failed quickly and scoring it.

On his part, the chief medical officer of Arusha Municipality, Mister Isaack Ibrahim confessed that the clinic did not have registration and explained that the situation is due to its owner and giving out false information to the Municipal officers that he used the clinic from the Green Themi Institute of Arusha town.

That owner explained to our officers that he had asked us of the Nanenane exhibition to go to the town area so that they find out when they are doing the concerned inspection, but already they have been made to tell him that he had been made even when he got the registration, "he said.

When he was asked if the doctor will be given, Doctor Ambwene Mwakyusa was unable to put it openly and explained that he does not have any reason to take action against it is an issue that needs its amendments.
"There is no need to take advantage of what happened," small "only, we have been telling him and he has already apologized for the permanent registration and he is waiting for the ministry to stop its registration," he said.

The Director of Arusha Municipality, Raphael Chegeni, who is the supervisor of the performance activities in the Arusha Municipality was found the day before yesterday to explain if he has a report about that health and carelessness of its officers.

And the chief medical officer of Arusha Province, Doctor Sale Toure when he was asked about that clinic he was aired by those reports and explained that she has never seen that there is there.
"That is the first to explain my brothers the news and have been shocked.
I will communicate with Ditopile, (Medical Officer of Kinondoni District, so as to resolve the full report before taking the action, we will reduce and if it will be revealed that there was a violation of the law then we will take action against all the ones that were involved, "said Dombeni.
