
The argument of whom they will not be demolished and a bomb of tears of privacy on 20, 2012.

The group of the Zanzibar Broadcasting Corporation together with the several groups that deals with coalition has said Tanganyika is divided into Zanzibar.
Some of the invited guests are seen ahead, and claimed that Tanganyika has changed Zanzibar to become the colonizers of some people who are seen ahead, and claimed that various economic problems and the state of citizens in Zanzibar are due to the legal problems that will be done by the government of the United Republic of Zanzibar.
They are saying that in short time the union are now on us in Zanzibar and it is the one that takes care of someone and now it has come at the time of the court being stopped.
When we build a lot of argument of how Zanzibar is expected to be used by the structure, the collection of revenue, the issue of oil, OIC, various foreign affairs and even various positions for the union of the union.
They have announced those motion on meetings and because it is not a new argument and it's not a new argument and these are these issues which they ever made him, Mzee Aboud Jumbe said these are these issues that have been provided regularly.
It is just one time, the leader of the mainland has ever been unable to stand on public and to answer this argument without being avoided, "Mwalimu Nyerere once he was talking to political leaders of these issues, he didn't sit down because the union is out and they should not sit down while the union is out and they should not sit down while the union is facing them.
Nyerere explained his responsibility to Tanganyika who wanted the Tanganyika government in which the Gage group that is led by Njeza, and even the argument that when it reached to parliament Nyerere came out and claimed to have openly stated that our government (the union being led by Mwinyi and Para) "have reduced it.
Nyerere passes well in his talks but more by our leadership by our leadership and the fate of Tanzania during this book, he mentioned different topics that were given about Tanganyika and why they were able to do so, "we want Tanganyika."
The truth is that those issues of the book are still going on and until today it has not happened to Tanzania (to be an elder or a youth) who has done its shortage or historic of the body.
Nyerere did not use methods of switching off the motion so that there is no strength!
We are witnessing in Zanzibar Islands today the awareness of urging them to ensure their country will be clean up but the awareness will be in hand in hand with the claims of relying on Zanzibar's problems and not only.
!
That's why I believe that because our leaders have been unable to answer the argument of those leaders, there is no reason for using the security agencies to increase people.
If the Hehe and other leaders (like Ranaldo and Seif Sharif), they believe that the union did not like us and to be the first to inform people who want them to vote for their opinion polls to meet with mental people today and Seif said that "the people should come out to finish the union.
"The union" again, but it is the separation. "
Maalim Seif, Ranaldo and other fellow leaders of Zanzibar to be the first to stand and wants the "separation" if people do not do so, they are doing so when they get to the union!
If there is any representative or a member of parliament who wants Zanzibar to depend on him to release the first level so that he can lead the union or not to protect the union and others want to resign from their positions in the union or those who agree to resign from those positions.
And they can go further and make law (in Zanzibar) which will enable the people of Zanzibar to hold any jobs in the union of the union, and Jussa can bring development of the kind so as to prevent the people of Zanzibar to accept the position or any position in the union.
But in addition to that law, those who want a union are required to meet Zanzibar and others have said they don't want to be sold or walking, they should support the opinion polls so that before the end of this year, the people of the union or a period of time.
"The structure of the union" has called me, we want people who change "the presence of a union."
For us to Tanzania mainland and those who believe we love so much the people of Zanzibar who are our brothers to an extent that we cannot arrest him and insisted that we are continuing to sign him in Zanzibar New Hampshire.
If you stop Zanzibar, let us look for us that the breakup of the United Republic from the pitch to continue so that in Zanzibar if you cannot live in a great country and with the strength of people they will continue to sit down in the union.
Because we knew this we do not have a little problem to people of Zanzibar to marry off their brothers, in the family when he decided to celebrate and her family will be true that the blood is not true in her family and it would have been able to come out and it would have been successful.
Sultan Kipingo, from his government, they tried to destroy the people of Mainland which they felt it was their problem but at the end of the day they were sacked.
Today those who use the hatred against scientists are supposed to find them, at the end of the Zanzibar islands because there are people of Zanzibar who know their own history.
You remember the history can and return again.
