Then Mayweather and Mourinho were left.
May 6, 2015.

Just after the Chelsea soccer club of England to win the championship of the premier league championship of that country, the Head Coach of Manchester City, Manuel Pellegrini has warned that they have won the cup games.
Using her example, Pellegrini has explained how Man City won the championship last season playing soccer and scored many goals.
The head coach of Chelsea, Jose Mourinho, told Manuel Pellegrini has decided to use this Portuguese language that is in our Swahili that can be secret if the noise from stem cells do not affect the elephants and water.
In the world of Portugal's world, victory is just victory without caring what has been found in which way.
I remember so much this saying that he did not kill in the past, "the finals are in the purpose of winning and not playing well." The concept of Mourinho was that, all the days never remember champions and not the teams that played well in the finals.
There is no big difference between the view of Mourinho and a boxer from America, Floyd Mayweather, who on Saturday last Sunday made Manny Pacquiao "a man" she got the last match that left people open mouthed.
In the history of boxing game, there is no match that was announced by making a lot of money more than that last Sunday.
The world has ever played a huge fight against the ones that at the end that you came to play in Las Vegas where the person who once worked with Mike Tyiga.
I'm not just talking about the generation that witnessed the fight between Mohamed Ali and George Simbachawene a man or Ali and Joe Hart during the day before yesterday between Mayweather and Kim Kardashian and the one between Tyiga.
People like the boxing game because they want to see someone she knows how people want to see the spread of blood and we'll see if you have been sent by bees.
People want to see a person when he dies with each other when he fell on the headlines because it's only the only game that is being close to the fighters (Monbusho Scholarship) who were fighting against him in the past years.
Something that many human beings we do not want to accept it is that inside our country, the soul of whether the animals will go in our country and that is why we are looking at the air, boxing and the vehicles.
But Floyd is fighting for "human being" in all the fight is fighting, it does not be found in the near future, he did not be infected with a sharp object.
What he did Mayweather is to make sure that before he went to a ring, he will have a great job of reading all means of his opponent.
If his opponent has great football, if it was for example, he is ensuring that the person did not get a lot and be able to sell his boxing.
If his opponent is very disturbing, Mayweather is doing efforts to give their husbands.
Its results is that he is married by using a mental mind in the game that people were forced to have a bad soul as it was in Race.
It is just same with Jose Mourinho and his ideas in the soccer game.
Soccer lovers like the number of soccer in Uganda, the kind of the game called "Masau boasted."
It is this love that is being affected by Lionel Messi as the best player of the world, it is this love for soccer in the world that concern people that do not depend on Diego Maradona from Nigeria's Plateau region.
People still remember Brazil for TKO in the years of 1980, that had players like Zinsou and SCE will be a full game but it never played the World Cup.
The people who are talking about Holland of Linus, is in 1970, where there is people who had to look for football for one period and to leave the field, he has paid little money more than leaving his hand.
And then there is Barcelona, Pep Guardiola is there while Sir Alex Ferguson said that when he look at there, you have not seen if he is read for a half of a half and he was unconscious.
Mourinho only plays soccer "human being, than people who want.
When he played with Manchester United that had been in a good form last month, Mourinho was discussing the system for allowing the defender to bathe mid-fielder.
The Portuguese had reported that the biggest reason for United to do well was the way the audience used to use the mid-fielder who could not put a strategic plan to prevent Manchester City by putting off his sim card.
