
The executive director of Korogwe, now in trouble, Fabiola Mussula.

In one of his promise during the annual general elections of 2010, in Korogwe district, President Jakaya Kikwete promised to increase the status of the small town of Mombo in that district to be full council, with the aim of moving development to the citizens.
The authorities of the Mombo city was started on September 17, in the year 2004, through the government's announcement in number 353 and the authority was given a certificate of starting the repeat of the holiday on February first, in the year 2007.
Two years after the promise, the process of the authority of that town is to become a council that are headed to have been directed to the leadership of Korogwe district, through its director, Anna Mwaura who is alleged to assume the promise of President Kikwete.
That director is accused of selling 250 plots in the Makondo area without involving the council of the authority of that town, which is the requirements for the grounds.
That situation has been affected by the director of the council and the council of the small town Council which now has written the complaints against that director to the head of Korogwe district, Mrisho Gambo wanting the government to take action against the director.
That council made that decision after his sitting on July 7th this year, to discuss various challenges facing the authority of that city and to discuss and get solutions to some of the problems facing the citizens.
That letter in which President Mwema has got its own kind with history of MMM / Mendes Hospital of 1 / 12 and was played on July 8th, this year, with the head of the news.
"Present our complaints to you about Franklin Roida (treasurer of the council).
In the letter signed by the chairman of the small town council of Mombo, Richard Rwizile said the director Anna Mwaura is accused of delaying the efforts to increase the authority of the small town of Mombo as a full council.
"The District Council of Korogwe has been unable to set aside road funds and to be a nuisance to citizens and also the council has not been able to bring revenue funds more than 24 million shillings for the financial year 2011 / 12 and money for compensation for sources which were canceled by the main government," were easily read in that letter.
In that letter, the council has noted that the town authority led the Makondo area to distribute plots for the aim of selling them to the citizens at an affordable cost so as to increase the revenue sources of the city's authorities.
Those fields were required to be sold at a price of 500,000 shillings per day and the authority unable to get 12,081 shillings and that decision was prepared in the legal sittings of the authority.
"The surprising thing, the office of the director of the council has given the announcement of being sold at those fields without an evaluation so as to compensate the citizens that have been given a long period of two years without compensation," says Rwizile said in that letter.
"The step of preventing the sold at the grounds without involved a council which is the interests of the citizens of Mombo is a violation of good administration, an issue that can bring a solution to peace," he said.
"June 20, this year the director was sent to a session of the board of authorities and delegates requested them to be the right guardian to make the authority to become the executive council to see that the elders of the council see that it is not supposed to continue being the director," continued to be read.
Furthermore, that chairperson of the council was suspended and step by the director to be silent, and even set aside a budget for improving the roads of that town that is leading in being the main source of revenue for the council of Korogwe.
"The roads have been destroyed so much in the small town of Mombo and the office of the director has been unable to set aside a special budget for Mombo and instead we are given a difference like just like other wards without caring for our needs and in large numbers of people living in that town.
"The honorable head of the district we have faith that you and you have the appointment that was done by President Jakaya Kikwete, therefore we request it to provide the necessary weight that issue," he said.
Also, they are complaining that the director is faced with a case at Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court in Kilimanjaro Province on allegations of misuse of power and bribery when he was the Director of Moshi Rural Council, according to the law of public service, he was supposed to be stopped but against the expectations, the government has given them to Korogwe.
"A lot of time he has been involved in his case at the court for that he has for a long time to work to serve the citizens and through a procedure that we know is that, he is supposed to be stopped from the court," added that chairperson in his letter.
According to the regulations of public service a servant who had a case, especially the embezzlement he is required to have been sacked until when his issue will be decided by the law but it was surprised by the step by the director to continue with work as usual, "he asked.
Speaking about that issue, the head of Korogwe district, Mrisho Gambo has confirmed to have received that letter and already he will support the top leaders of the government concerning the complaints against the citizens of the district, because of the complaints, the head of the district has already benefited from the allocation of the plots that are associated with.
"We have intervened in the process of buying of plots, regarding the issue of DED my thoughts while being faced with allegations of the case, I cannot speak about how I communicate with the Minister of Regional Administration and Local Government (TAMISEMI) or deputy secretary of Tanga Province, those who will give you an appropriate time," said Gambo was asked by our writer about that issue.
However, the director with reports from Anna Mwaura did not be found the day before yesterday since his mobile phone called without being greeted by the information that he was going to the meeting in Arusha town.
Our reporter, who was also the acting director of Ramadi Juma, who confirmed about the complaints that had been presented to the head of the district and added that those complaints are not involved in one of the director of the council.
"The issue of increasing the status of Mombo is not the issue that is required to have a quick decision as citizens are happy, the process is long since it involves different stakeholders to pave way," he said.
Giving an example, he said that the Mombo town has only one ward so as to increase the status, the council is required to increase the size of the area to identify themselves in other neighboring wards, therefore, there is need for an agreement between the citizens of both sides that are involved.
