When you go through Easter to watch the late Adam's stakeholders in the end of the claims I thank you here, maybe I started with her people, we cannot go with.
The late?
We know for a time of preparations.
The payments here is that when you give you a long period of time and trials, although it is the age but up to the Friday later the animals will be available for a long time.
Here in Dodoma.
Here is just a campaign thus it is going on.
If you're very attractive, I don't follow keenly, and the current elections, I believe it doesn't end two weeks because they are still ongoing.
It is possible for us to be careful when you go to the net.
It is good for you.
It has not been given true that there are non-criticism that are still needed because of all the party.
Like we continue with putting off the goals of returning to the provinces of the country to know that there are preparing.
And the wife of a person who does not lie so that I will see the whole we are still underway.
A teaser?
And we have no problem with these phones, I have been selected for the purpose of going to see what they were selected will have returned.
For that house, I would like to know that one best to be done without getting answers.
But here they don't know where we hope is to be big for the years it's not supposed to take him that so that I was asked, but even our nation just after going back and prepare for those who put Manchester United.
For a woman be satisfied that I had able to get gold medals in this.
The gold vehicle in the United States.
In which way it is not true, the Best offense and since he was first, we will just wait, I will not have an inexhaustible speed.
I will end.
I will inform you for what we have been in order for you to know what I don't have a lot of time since that's why I can get good players more than when we are still a big offence if we are still a difference, but when we are still a difference, then we are still a difference, but when we are still a difference, then we are still a difference.
And by luck, to fulfill the eyes of the child as they are seen.
They are saying that it will be afraid that you are proud about by Andrew Chale, whose request is like after starting last Sunday again that I think you can get a little it is that we need me to reach the candidates.
They missed the holy martyr.
But every day they woke up in the morning, you cannot know who that leader is saying, he says we will arrive everything that has promised them to get everything that we cannot get every one, you can't recognize that there is a must, you can choose where there are other provinces even when he woke up even to tell him there are few provinces.
There are provinces that are in the purpose of boxing where there is also a person who was in Kisarawe will go to run away and even if I don't know but if we don't know but if we know you, you know that if we change our leaders now, we have forgotten that if you get the leadership.
He was called to know like there here if he will vote.
If you known us to learn and also the day he is a school because I believe that I was not seen, I mentioned you by seeing him, I did not look at a place where I went to Mwanza, I will look for him to get the left.
