2August 2013.

Pinda Aqsa in court.

The chief justice of government.

More than 20 lawyers have organized to vote.

By Mariam.
Mziwanda on the picture.

The Law and Human Rights Center.
(LHRC) in collaboration with the Tanganyika Law Society (TLS) has identified himself.
The charges of the Tanzania High Court, Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, due to the problem.
His statement made he made in parliament for allowing the security agencies to win.
Who are requesting to obey the laws that are provided by those agencies.

The charges were found.
Against Minister Pinda, were presented to the court yesterday by the lawyers.
LHRC, TLS has been accompanied by the institution following the performance of the parliament.
Citizens.

.
In that case, LHRC is being represented by more lawyers of 20far and Pinda.
That was joined in that case is the attorney general of the government.

.
According to the charges of the charges, Minister Pinda has been faced with allegations of claims.
Dissolving the constitution of the country for allowing police to win the citizens.

Speaking to the press.
And the press just after presenting the charges of charges against them.
Minister Pinda and the attorney general of the government, chairman of the board of LHRC, Doctor.
Ringo Tenga, said people with the authority depends on the constitution of the country.
The court is the only referee, therefore the station has benefited from the issue.
In court to look for a goalless draw.

"The constitution.
It is clear that the Prime Minister has broken the constitution that is correct to take him to court.
That is the only place which he will explain the legality of the police to vote. "
He said and added that he joins more than 3,000 citizens who had gone down.
An agreement of putting up the Minister Pinda in court.

He clarified.
That they have faith in the court, therefore they are waiting for the procedures of the case.
He mentioned the judge after those accused were given documents to be called in court.

.
The Director of LHRC, Doctor Hellen Kijo Bisimba, said the statement of the lawyer.
That Minister Pinda has not been sentenced because of the failure and regulations of the parliament.
He claimed that those are political statements.

He said.
The Head has told me that even he has seen the effects of the police to give them an opportunity to give them an opportunity.
Citizens.

He said.
The head of what is required is to give the nation's constitution according to article 100.
It is not giving him a person, "said article 100 of the constitution explains that the body has caused.
The purpose of the constitution, therefore Minister Pinda has been out of the borders of the constitution.
Prevent the creation of the attorney general and members of parliament does not help a human being to stop the court to see.
Against him.

Due to the situation.
Therefore, he said that is why LHRC, he sees no need to take them.
In court, which one was involving the statement of Pinda and another lawyer.
About the results of the parliament, we have written the human rights.

On his side.
The director of the institution following the trend of parliament, Marusu.
He said they are supporting that decision, because the declaration of Pinda is big that is swelled.
The constitution and still believe that it is a statement of the government.

He said apart.
That charge against the Prime Minister, his institution has another charge against them.
Pinda as a result of his statements that he gave from time to parliament that he was tired.

He said they will help him.
For the citizens, since that statement is happy that Pinda has said.
Led by President Jakaya Kikwete, they have gotten tired to lead the citizens.
He can't jump.

In the session.
Previous parliament during the questions there and then the prime minister, Pinda said.

"You do a violence and it has been told to do this one.
Putting them and it will be heard, because there is no other way to go through the meaning.
We agree that the country is being led by legal foundations, now if you have no benefit.
Remember, if you know that you are very stable, you are the most arrogance, they will just vote.
I am saying it is not true because there is no other way?
Now.
