20 December 2012

The workshop of peace for religious leaders can bring fruits.

Religious leaders in the country met yesterday in Dar es Salaam city at a workshop aimed at discussing the bail they have in promoting and protecting the peace and stability that is in the country.
The guest of honor at that workshop was the Minister of Internal Affairs of the country, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi.

In that meeting, those leaders urged the government to see the importance of involving the citizens in the collection of constitution.
New and make sure that all the things that promote unity and solidarity are being put in the same way.

The resolutions were reached by those leaders include them and urged the government to implement its obligations by ensuring that justice has been done, law, regulations and procedures are followed together.
And protect the resources that are there for the benefit of the nation.

Those leaders claimed to be, the responsibility being responsible for the community is to ensure they do their work with integrity and protecting them in order to bring peace and solidarity at all times.

Recently, President Jakaya Kikwete warned people that are using a religion in wanting to disrupt the peace that is in the country and insisted that the government is keenly to ensure that anyone who will try to forgive him from time, will be taken without caring about it's and he comes from.

He said it is a shame to do that violence especially when considering that, bird feathers have refused due to the foundation of love, eat with integrity and integrity where that work was done by the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Abeid Aman Karume.

We are saying that violence arising from a shadow of the religion, are contributing to controlling the country and we will benefit from general.

The peace of Tanzania is the great reputation that we have in different nations in the world and that is the foundation of increase of tourists, investors and the growth of our economy.

The truth is that, peace is good products than electricity and electricity, we cannot borrow, therefore the primary issue for every Tanzanian destroy the foundation of all the strength without caring about her religion, tribe or color.

Religious leaders have a great solution to maintain peace, in order to continue the existence of development of any nation which has for peace and its citizens have no hope of living a better life.

Today, Tanzania is being faced with a lot of challenges that bring development to development which do not affect so as peace that we have refused, hope that we benefit from the problems they are very small.

Peace of Tanzania will not be demolished because on the poem.
Our country is in peace but a primary thing is ending.

It is good where we get from all groups, Christians, Muslims, Hindu religion, other religion, the elderly and the youth with their husbands understood that, peace that we have is a gift.
