
Billions of EPA will be presented to parliament on May 31, 2012.

Approximately six months after President Jakaya Kikwete to address the parliament and put aside the money that had been stolen from the external revenue authority (EPA), in the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) can be used to benefit farmers, the government has presented documents for the use of this week in parliament so as to get a permit for parliament to start using those funds.

The documents for the use of number number was presented to the parliament the day before yesterday on Monday, February 2nd and the Deputy Minister of Finance and Economy, Jeremiah Paul Wandili, on behalf of the Minister of Finance, Mustafa Mkuchika.

In his speech to the parliament, August 21, last year, President Kikwete told the members of parliament that 53 billion have been expelled from the companies that were mentioned to steal those funds, promising to be more money that have been expelled.

Mke Mwema has talked with Minister Mkukuta, who participated in the parliamentary activities in Dodoma town about the decision and he says the government has requested the parliamentary permit to use five billion shillings that were taken back to bring in that amount of money in the use of agriculture as he ordered President Kikwete, August, last year.

"First, it is a must they be sold for extra money and the government wants to use it is a must for the constitutional process because it is true that you can have additional income and therefore it is a must that you have additional income," said Minister Mkukuta, when he spoke to President Mwema, Dodoma at the beginning of this week.

In his speech in parliament, President Kikwete said money that had already been found is Sh. 535,340,546 votes, that were collected until August 23.
2008.

Speaking about what the government gets a permit for parliament for the purpose of more than 53 billion shillings, while there are other more funds that were taken back to government, Minister Mkukuta, said that another amount of money that were taken back to government, Minister Mkukuta, said that another amount of money that were taken back to the government, Minister Mkukuta, said that another amount of money that had been taken back to the government, Minister Mkukuta, said that another amount of money that had been taken back to the government, Minister Mkulabi, said another amount of money that had been taken back to the government, Minister Mkulabi, said that another amount of money that were taken back to the government, Minister Mkukuta, said that another amount of money that were taken back to the government, Minister Mkunde, said that another amount of money that were taken back to the government, Minister Mkukuta, said that another amount of money that were taken back to the government, Minister

"It is true that these 53 billion we need to use the parliament so that we can be able to use all money, it is a must for the purchase of drugs and other things, therefore we cannot use until the end of the final," said Minister Mkulo.

In his speech in parliament, President Kikwete ordered CCM funds to be taken by the government which will provide money in its every year's budget to prepare if it will attain those funds should be used to pay, because the real owners of NECTA are foreign companies, which some have died.

He told the members of parliament that the decision to set aside a budget every year will remove the taproot, while stressing it by saying that, "what I hear you are saying here (parliament), the money for the public, are not public funds, are not for them.

The cases of the theft in VPL have been continuing to involve some of the business people and employees of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT).
