
In that short meeting, they have been prepared to be shaken by Nyerere keenly.

Mount Meru University (Scotland) in collaboration with the Tanzanian Embassy in England and Leseiyo who live in the country, has organized a international meeting to speak Mwalimu Nyerere that will be held on November 9th, this year.
The news that Yoweri Museveni has received from Tanzania's embassy in England, states that it is also the University of Edinburgh Global Partnership in honoring him at the university, has announced a support of the masters degree of Julius Nyerere.
That donation is for the purpose of Tanzanian citizens and already he has been forced to be released for the sake of two people for a term of this year.
That will be the first time for a teacher who died on October 14th in the year 1999, to be remembered for a big international meeting outside Tanzania.
Last year, in celebrating his death, the University of Dar es Salaam got also the teacher for doing a meeting that was attended by several popular people inside and outside the country including a activist and famous writer of books, Wole Soyinka, from Nigeria.
This year, which is ten years ago, died, a teacher has been planned to take place in that village that was born in Butiama, on October 14th this year.
According to those news, apart from preparing a meeting to speak to a teacher at the Edinburgh Global University in November 9, the embassy of Tanzania in that country has also a plan to ban his historical magazine.

"As part of that meeting, the Tanzanian ambassador is doing an effort to ban the Mwalimu Nyerere memorial area that will recognize her gratitude as a leader," said the embassy in a letter said Mwema should have succeeded in getting its copies.
The embassy want that magazine to thank the head teacher of the African continent and outside the continent and especially how it gets in America, it will enable its contribution to the liberation of Africa and to resolve the conflicts in that continent.
That Embassy says that the magazine will help grow tourism in Tanzania due to issues that will be written about the attractions.
Several popular people in the country and outside that were close to the teacher have been requested by the embassy to write this article on that magazine.
Among those people are President Kikwete, retired president, Ali Hassan Mwinyi, President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda, former President of Zambia, Kenneth Kaunda for the former president of Mozambique, Joachim Paisano.
Others are the former prime minister of Tanzania who is also the former secretary general of the African Union (OAU), Salim Ahmed Salim, former secretary general of the East African Community, chief Mark Bomani and Professor Issa Shivji.

However, he said that he believes that the name was given, the responsibility to ban that teacher and that magazine will be distributed to all the Tanzanian ambassador in the world.
Using 24,786 in that magazine will be distributed through the same way, the other will be put on part of the first level of aircraft of the biggest nations in the world, that magazine will be launched officially in London City, October this year.
