Zanzibar would have no other would have been affected by Abeid Karume and Ali Mufuruki.
May 24, 2012

The life of life in Zanzibar is difficult, people live but many of them live in life and difficulty, it has been a solution to the people of Zanzibar today, only brave.
A large percentage of the youths do not have employment, with employment, be paid low salaries that will be compared to their colleagues in the neighboring countries of East Africa.

The people of Zanzibar who are getting water with difficulty of electricity, the same way, the same time.

Problems usually comes out when the government was forced to use a lot of money that you can be able to prevent it or be due to political tensions or operations and bad management of the departments.
Among the problems of Zanzibar, it is that the government does not have enough control to the debts of the government and a bond of those debts.

The Ministry of Finance has a special system of use of an average of an average of an average of an average of the system is to ensure that funds are divided for three years according to the national priorities as a special sector.
Until now, the procedure does not work harder, there are still issues of government financial expenditure, they have been planned for a period of one year and there is no relationship between the expenditure of one year and the top level of the last year.

Although in a period of a few years, it has been found development in the provision of enough health services and education, the level of deaths of young children is 61 among 1000 children who are born live.

It has also been said that now the Zanzibar Islands have approximately one million and a quarter-year, 27 percent of all the residents of Zanzibar and the number of residents of Zanzibar has been increasing rapidly, approximately 31 percent.

As a half of the number of the residents of Zanzibar they live under the line of poverty, therefore, their ability to dodge their needs for everything is very little.

If we get looking at the life of the people of Zanzibar through what is the use of economic experts, they are determined that there is more certainty concerning the life of life in Zanzibar if it is in Tanzania mainland or even in other African countries, unfortunately, the condition of many of them are of poverty.

One of the dangers of poverty that you spread in the community is an increase in corruption together with other actions of eating bribery and misuse of public property, the corruption continues to go down according to the organizations or institutions that are responsible to prevent the ability to decide to take legal action.
Those institutions also depend on the strength of the political parties for leaders who were tested and see that they are their, those with all countries in the country.

That gave their sentiments of property and misuse of their government's property, which are making sure that their discipline and to be paid for laws and to take advantage of the public property, cinemas and fruits like the country enters into losses.

However, and about the problems of all the economic growth, the people of Zanzibar are keenly and they have shown that they have patience and that you be patient and may be great than the party (CCM) party and the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CUF) party and the establishment of the national union.

When he came out of that government, in the year 2010, most of the people believed to have problems in economic and social problems that were preparing to be used for a long time will put it.
Among those problems is growing rapidly, at the price of food and other important products that are important in life, corruption and supply equipment in government, that are supposed to go back, even though the government statistics show the other.
