It is of our kind of water you want to told that her husband had come even if the water comes from here.
The water came out after heavy rains, at the same time, it started and asked for him to understand or know, the father of the performance can be careful when I succeeded to study in this environment, I have seen that this is a pipeline that can be used so that I could be used to prevent you.
Youth but there are there.
So it can be tarmac, that is the concept of not getting me in today, that is good Samaritans who gave them even if there were people's bags.
He would like to eat with yourself when you enter where they get to a hotel.
In the end of this morning, I have ever played just, I got a environment part of the people who go through legs who are not known, Honorable Jussa said the first minister through people should not want to identify the environment; a child, then I have seen to know the environment as a citizen, I have seen to feel that.
I think I would like I want to attend to you so that we can we tell you to tell you.
On the sun, Musa.
The first, thank you so much by giving me this opportunity and I will be said on behalf of my colleagues to be heard.
Heaven is a problem.
There I've heard that I could not see a penalty here.
Perhaps, if it is not surprising even to pay, he says that she is not a good member of parliament but I don't know even if the rice is found not to see the people they mentioned.
And if I will usually do what usually do?
One of the Parliament did the late God to remain, your investigation is still just a lover for eight months ago.
Together.
Welcome him, I was not present for the benefits that they have spread, I request that it comes here and there is no one who was mentioned here in the year when we were seen, they did not want to see that and it is not allowed to create?
When they were in a small business stakeholders in Hong Kong, it is a born of one village, there is a must that she has identified himself as compared to see if I have seen things that are being done we will do.
For a fact, water have been closed here in water if coming from water if there was coming from who she had gone to who's the child called me, they are believed to have done the opportunity, but who will get water to get if it is drinking water.
I don't know where most of the effects are still continuing to break it at the end of the audience.
Now Molde is want to know one thing like this water was out, which was done to come up until they were forced to read it!
The husband turned out as here, I have separated with and there is no water to come from Ras Makunja has said they have been made hard so that the heavy rains sell food and therefore bringing down heavy rains and palm, so as to bring heavy rains and bake.
Get news reporters when the elderly have been done here, and we hope that he is run, are not our services like it was known.
Let it give it here if it does not have an same thing that does not have water while it is understood.
We have said that today you put this one that does not have any defects or one of the children here and then you have no need to give this a solution that does not have water.
We did not be a small person.
The class has already been successful and we have said that, Yaya is, where we are not keen, there should not be careful, especially what this is, but this is why I will leave and we should go as a father.
Or you, and thank you so much for praising God because it is not this project.
