The residents of the village claiming that the municipal threats showed up about the action of the coordinator of the development fund of the society and let me stop for stopping the water project that was unblocked by the citizens and lost their strength and causing the government to loss more than ten million shillings.
The residents have said that the loss came out by the residents to accumulate points which resulted to an amount of money for the purchase of cement from the seven year, where our writer is not supposed to be used in the village and they will make it a report.
News about water was attended by the government through TASAF development fund, since 2005 and seven for the purpose of spreading water from the other source of Msangi, where these were only one of prevent it comes to the second largest in the country but he wanted the pipeline to be used as it started.
And let me remember this word to follow me.
We are looking for the farm it is good.
We have no need to be taught.
They have been unable to go to the young people that the preparations have lost, everyone will have its people to go to crime.
The results are there.
Perhaps even if they were able to have been destroyed by several weeks, the person who had the residence is still at Mister Ngowi they met with Yanga's committee.
He went for pipelines which was bought for while not.
When you go there, there is not less than if we lost the stalls here, the one was affected by the project he started.
When you say it starts from then there is no water.
Others when we go very bad, we don't have water, we have no water services if we have no money we cannot be done by drinking water, is called water.
Which is not very much UNPFA, we are praying for the government to move out in every state.
We request that he is.
When he was arraigned in court, he didn't give him a big loss.
We agree with Bana who is home for now, to make sure that cold is the one with reports about it?
You are used for reasons for allowing us to have no water.
Mike is a modem.
