
Thursday, August 28th, 2014.

Psychology and running mate in the community.

We saw in the last article about psychology and concluded that the matter that was watched by our problems facing our community, lack of marriages, hatred, love, hatred, love, hatred, love, hatred, love, vegetables, evil deeds, how it can be used to solve the problems facing the community.

Education and learning.

Technical education is used to identify the real needs of the child of knowledge, social, and feelings of the body according to its age, by knowing that it's easy to form the curriculum of teaching and education and the biggest challenge has become a way for teachers to interpret the real needs of the child.

Through the behavior of behavior, we can understand how the human being what we believe is to understand and even using his environment to be more better than how the child doesn't understand the language, and the effects of the language on its understanding are things that follow keenly.

Relationship with Benedict Liwenga.

Social problems are involved between people caused by different meanings in the view, ideology, faith, and so that they can be recognized by analysts and the ordinary people should be able to carry out things that do not have problems whereby sometimes they have caused them.

This is when you ask advice, by psychology, when they can be able to help these people to understand the parent of their problems and therefore as to deal with the real cause of the problem which many times do not be dealt with in partnership with advisers.

To change such attitude.

Likewise, through legal regulations, sustainable community programs to change the behavior of people's behavior of living in life with success can be done so as to remove or reduce the behavior of someone.

Upbringing and development of the child.

It is clear that parents are faced with new challenges that are caused by social changes that are ongoing and what is currently in the age of 90, it is difficult to help the parents to understand themselves in a good way to answer the needs of their children and so as to help them to understand the needs of their children.

To enable you a teaser?

There is also an issue of leadership in which way politicians or other leaders can convince the citizens or people who will lead them to their thoughts when the same time caused people of politicians, and make sure that you stop using their political groups, by using its own regulations.

To know the needs of the customers / stakeholders.

In line with that, in business and in the office, you will do the speed of employees so that they can be able to attract customers to love its products through advertisements and if a businessman does not want to attract customers to love their products through advertisements and such a business person is required to change the behavior of people as required by the psychology.

.

In confirming that we can say it is true that psychology is a normal life, you can't understand about someone without using the psychology and even so, together with someone she has not been unable to be recognized by the society and bad luck, bad understanding and so as to bring great effects on the community.

For example, advice getting involved in many media stations, many times have contributed in private experience that you will have with my experience on something, we can be used in other environments with another person who do not be able to answer community problems but do not have high risks.

Together with those challenges, it is still open that this education being given as required by people with correct understanding, a lot of challenges in the community with its background in behavior, such as pain and bad faith that can be taken by that people have an opportunity to bring development to their development.

The writer of this article is the psychology lecturer at the Catholic University of Mwenge (CP CAT). He has a doctorate degree in psychology and psychology lecturer, the University of Dar es Salaam and Communication, Upendo Mwaruka.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
