
A woman did not accept to be close to.
By OMR.
Khajida Kopa, Nigeria got two attacks from the northern region of Nigeria, where they came out to kill a famous woman, when they were shot dead in the army's camp and seven other people entered into the explosion that happened in then.
Soldiers arrested the woman in that woman when he refused to be fed a ring on that camp in Melela Mvomelo ward, County of Gombe, and celebrated a shot in a region, she had explained.
That woman who was a lesson, dressed in the spot, witnesses said.
"The woman refused to stand up and continued to walk heading to the army's goal even after more instructions was given to him," said philosopher Nasir, that lives close to the entrance and the camp.
"Police have arrested a bullet in that woman who added on the speed up to them and when he was going to be shot, a huge explosion was received and even shook our buildings," explained Nasir.
Charles Gombe in the north east of that country has witnessed several attacks from the Boko Haram group in the recent months ago and that camp was also built in July.
An outbreak of Wednesday made the police to spread in the air and caused fear among the residents, Nasir said.
Another resident, Ahmed Babukege, said that where you came out that she had gone into pieces, following that explosion.
"The soldiers did not hesitate to start making them a shot in that woman when he was seen that he will not be able to be eaten," said Babukege.
That area has also continued to witness Boko Haram whom they have added to make use of women.
That group whose name means that "western education has been banned" they have killed thousands since it started its attacks in Northern Nigeria on 2009.
Experts have condemned the ability of Nigeria to conduct its national election in February because of the increase of violence in the northern regions.
Earlier on Wednesday, people who saw another attack said seven people were killed, then it came into the village close to Pickup, and the capital city of Northern province.
"Then it started competing for a fire following several explosions that caused all the seven men who were inside," a resident of Mwepu village, a resident of 60 kilometers from the city, Hambale, said.
However, there is no official number that was given to confirm that deaths.
"We heard several explosions coming from the bus, which was seen very fast on the fire," said another resident, Haruna Shamte.
"There was no doubt that the militants of Boko Haram had been on the way to implement those attacks."
