13 November 2013.

The reception area of Saba Saba.

By Hanscana.
The Tanzania Mainland Premier League (TPL Board), has been removed.
Seven stadiums that were being used by the Vodacom Premier League (VPL).
The First Division League (FDL) for that time will be done to meet the needs.
The matches of football.

Speaking to journalists.
The press in Dar es Salaam yesterday is the information officer of the Federation of Football Federation.
Tanzania (TFF), Boniface Wambura said the decision was reached by the TPL Board.
In his first session that took place the day before yesterday, together with issues.
Others, training the reports of the VPL matches and FDL in the first round.

He said fields which were banned from renovations that are required to take place.
First, so they can be allowed to be used again at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba town.
(All signs are very old, thus endangering health of passengers) and.
The CCM Kirumba Stadium in Tanga town (for players looking for clothes).
The way they have no status.

Wambura, said at the Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya town (part of playing for a draw.
It is bad, at the Sheikh Amri Abeid grounds in Arusha town (part of the home).
Bad news, at the stadium of Ali Hassan Mwinyi (for Maxwell for the use).
Previously the previous primary school, at the Majimaji stadium in Songea, (they are bad) and.
The United Republic of Morogoro (right is bad).

Wambura who is the acting secretary general of TFF, said the club.
Those are using those fields which have already been informed about that decision.
Or we are required to communicate with the owners of those fields, so that they can be able to communicate with the owners of those fields.
The renovations or to look for other stadiums for playing for their matches.

At the same time, the Taifa Stars team and the nation.
Stars are playing today in that friendly match that will take place in Karume Stadium in Dar es Salaam from.
10 o'clock in the evening.

That match is special in Benon, the National Executive Council of Taifa Stars.
And Kim Poulsen will look for ten players from the Muhimbili National Team.
Those who will be added by Taifa Stars, ready for the friendly international match.
That will be played on November 19, this year in Arusha town.

300 viewers only will be allowed to witness the match at the entrance fee.
5,000 shillings for Taifa Stars that is sponsored by Kilimanjaro Premium Larger.
In the camp yesterday, among the players who are expecting to report is a goalkeeper.
Gor Mahia.
