And!
No to attend more training that was done by a little of the daughter.
In different parts.
.
This disease means it was continuing with one rights on the second side, she deserves to be released, maybe the problem is.
Am in the first primary problem, the father of their players showed that it seems that the procedures are not aware because it is a player and I want to know that this is a player and I want to know that this is a player and I want them to know that this day the preparations have gone down.
But they are saying that there are a few who believe that you are doing in the police, maybe this is true that we cannot go to the police because it's not just a mistake, when you've heard that there is no procedures for seeing them and we were doing so directly from if those are our opponents.
Yes, when we start?
The players of that team.
And today you have continued to show that they are depending on them, they still have the ability.
He has released two days I will be able to fall into the field of Maasais' the police will be known professionally.
And others will go to fight with the speed up and after this match, you will be known for what teams were displayed in quarter finals.
Give the report from here to the others in the European Champions League yesterday Membe to be like those who want.
The players of Simba and Yanga they have planned to do a friendly match on a courtesy walk to contribute to the former mid-fielder of Simba.
It was revealed that suffering from tuberculosis has come into the Karimjee stadium in Dar es Salaam city, coordinator of the competition every time they see the former defender of Simba, Boniface Mwaitege, has said the goal of sports is to get money to contribute to their colleague Christopher Alex for the purpose of treatment.
There's no one who stopped the last penalty on another thing or the first time before participating in the quarter finals of the African Champions League that is still underway.
Philip I don't know even if I thank you on some of the pictures that are I was called today, I have taken place at his hundred and I cannot get married but I don't have taken place in social networks and I don't place them on social networks and not support it.
But later, pest is that you don't know that we are not knowing that we are not aware that we don't know what we are similar to the person that you pass from Too Much to ask you go down and take two hundred thousand shillings even if we are not only after being removed from the new video.
You can we have a system that we have not have three hours even if that party does not make sure that we go and give him this statement on behalf of all players, we will die for some of the children, but we have not died from some of them, but we have not died from some of them, especially when I have not died.
It is Boniface Kanemba explained that the former player of Simba speaking in bitterness for the former players, Christopher Alex and the fanaticism are together with contributing.
These issues which will come out is a fan of Simba so that Yanga is friendly in one place Christopher Alex and Boniface Taguluvala Simbachawene has helped Simba for a penalty of two thousand and three days committee of sports and entertainment and show with Joseph.
Our vote is that our players do not like the cost of prices.
He is being raped.
It has come.
If we know you are called Simba and Yanga.
We are not known as a member of Simba or Yanga that is even two hundred dollar, if we join your whole, we will help me.
But when we go to Dar es Salaam, there will be a question and the others can't like you to live in the same way because that is why when he performed well then you should know that there is a plan to help them to live in Islam where the foundation has continued to help our talks with the second term of students of the students' studies.
The Almighty God create a guarantee doctor in FIFA which we have a person to be taken.
The reputation of the reputation.
Most of the people to join training for teaching are used by the document commissioner.
And what do we do to do for money is the first class to three.
.
TID they can request to join teaching.
There are no qualifications.
Then it is there are teachers who have already been teachers in primary schools.
The ones that they caught the teaching are attractive.
And in the past, so as to get the answer, it's not a must to get the first level or second one has no third that these have a chance to join Reading without caring about the bridge found.
Because it is good to improve the teachers that will be paid at work because these they can join Reading Graduate.
.
He did not registered.
And the position is.
There are and their reputation are successful.
Radio.
But there is a third group which is people who finished training.
A person being attacked by no problem.
If you are a certificate of other profession.
Then you feel that royal carpets.
Or has got a call for teachers.
I have read, but a penalty was scored for two years.
To get your seat we have read Janet or Best in the world, and now he wants to join teaching and the position also is to join and use them, but coffee will go back to the end of this month for five years.
Said asked me to understand that the training will continue again for two years as it was.
Earlier that it will use a long time to learn the teachers and we believe that they will be arrested for teachers who are involved in procedure.
