
Probably, the independence parliament, Zitto Kabwe, got a ring, "Ukuta" is a member of parliament and the speaker of parliament and legal authority to break the decision of CHADEMA.

The office of the Parliament has said that it has not got any letter about being stripped off the membership to the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe (CCM).
The statement by the Parliament has come one day after the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), announcing the membership card to Zitto Kabwe, who is also the chairperson of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on the Government (PAC).
Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam city, the secretary of parliament, Doctor Thomas Kashililah said that due to that situation, Zitto Zuberi has said that due to that situation, Zitto Kabwe said they are still a legal member of Kigoma North constituency and that is supposed to continue with its activities in accordance with the law.
Doctor Thomas Kashililah has noted that if the parliament will get an official report to vie for the membership card to Zitto Kabwe, it is a must that parliament to make sure the investigation on the accusations that are facing that is where it will improve their decision.
He has also said that the scandal of the nominated member of parliament receiving membership and his party is not first, because there is already a member of parliament that was given membership by his party but the parliament did not return his membership after completing his investigation.
"If you are the way you are, the party decided to pray to parliament about the membership card, the member of parliament before any decision is to follow the first reasons for resigning from that membership, so as to be satisfied if they were legal or not," said Kashililah.
He said after that, the parliament is communicating with the registrar of political parties so that the office of the registrar can move through the constitution of the party and through the reason of the concerned party that could be presented to the party members and like it true.
"After the issue to be taken to the registrar of political parties, the speaker of parliament gave a decision after completing the decision, it was taken to the National Electoral Commission (NEC) for the purpose of working more," he insisted.
Furthermore, he emphasized that speaker should agree on the decision to revoke the parliamentary seat of the concerned parliament because it was not legal for the nominated member of parliament because it was not legal for the nominated member of parliament, "he said.
He said speaker Ann Makinda, during his term, he has ever made a decision to prevent a member of parliament to vie for a member of parliament even after his membership party.
Speaking on that issue, Zitto Kabwe said on his part he is still a member of parliament and he continues with his work of the chairmanship of the Permanent Committee of the Government (PAC) until it is given the official report of contesting the membership and his parliamentary seat.
I am continuing with work like there is no happened, I don't have any report of getting my membership or parliamentary, this news I have heard about what is happening, "said Zitto Kabwe.
He said that for now he is continuing to lead that committee and yesterday he met with the management of Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO), today his committee is expecting to meet with the Central Bank of Tanzania (BOT) and the attorney general about the revenue collection.
Moreover, he said together with continuing as usual and its parliamentary activities in parliament, he is also expected tomorrow to go to Kigoma for the purpose of development activities in his region, before attending the parliamentary sessions that are expected to start officially on March 17, this year.
He said on his part, he was taking that issue as a challenge that is continuing to improve and entertain at the sectors of politics in the country and all over the world.
On his part, the parliamentary information officer, Tumaini Makene said the party will continue to work on the issue by considering the law and all procedures including preparing and providing them at any letter that runs the membership card to Zitto Kabwe, so that he can make it a decision early.
"For now, this issue of Zitto Kabwe got a lot of people, now we want to use it to work early, so that the decision to be discussed earlier on this issue should be discussed if there are a lot of things to be discussed nationally, so as to change the voters' voters' system," he said.
The parliamentary lawyer, Tundu Lissu who in the day before yesterday announced that the party has married his member of parliament yesterday told the author that a panel of lawyers of that party will be awarded the report of Zitto Zuberi to bid farewell to the party's executive committee by May, this year.
He said, "in living with the schedule of the executive committee to meet every three months, the issue of Zitto Kabwe is waiting for another normal session of the committee that will take place in May.
According to Lissu, after that, there will be a letter to the Electoral Commission (NEC) to inform them that Zitto is not a member of the party again or not.
