The airport of Mwanza Airport were given for 6 months.

It has been written by our correspondent, Mwanza.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

Minister of Works Transport and Communications, Professor Makame Mbarawa has ordered Beijing China construction company (BBG) that is doing the construction of expansion of Mwanza Airport to ensure that he completed their work within six months.

Speaking after doing the inspection of the stadium yesterday in ensuring the directive by President John Magufuli that was released recently in Mwanza City, the contractor to continue with the construction after stopping the lack of money, Professor Mbarawa said the job can be completed quickly if the supervisors will work with integrity.
"The contractor who is required to make sure that it is responsible for work with integrity, the main aim is not to take the debts that are not true while the government is ready to pay the whole debt so that the stadium can be completed within six months," said Professor Mbarawa.
Professor Mbarawa who plays for that stadium together with the Furahisha grounds with a length of five kilometers from Kagera province, to check the effects as a result of the earthquake, he said that the big work that were left in that stadium for now is completion of building and putting anything.
He said that despite those work that are continuing to be worked with the contractor, others that were left are expected to take place in addition to relocate the river which was caused by the road to marry off the plane.
In addition, he said that the cost of expansion of the stadium from a length of 393 kilometers to reach 38 kilometers in the way of buying an airplane, the cargo building and its tower, will cost 105 billion shillings.
"This stadium will be complete, it will help strengthen the economy of Mwanza Province together with the transportation of neighboring provinces together with the countries of Kenya, Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Uganda and transporting the lake farms," he said.
The acting manager of the airport, David Matechi, said that the completion of that stadium will help a big plane to land in addition to putting up oil and taking them to them.
While speaking about the development of that stadium, the contractor who's an advisor, Salute you are said they will need to ensure that the stadium is complete within the next six months as the government had directed by Professor Mbarawa.
In another step, Professor Mbarawa inspected the bridge to sit in the Furahisha grounds together with the roads being constructed in Furahisha Grounds in Mwanza Airport and being satisfied by his development.
