
"Billions of investors have banned the general elections," Masau boasted.

Foreign companies with big capital in the country will cut off the debate on the new law bill of the year 2009, especially the possibility of those companies to contribute towards the cost of campaigns of the party or certain candidates in general elections that are expected to involve stakeholders of political parties and the citizens in general, next week in Dar es Salaam.
In the general elections of the year 2005, investment companies in the country including some of the gold mining activities in the country were alleged to contribute to the campaigns of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), although the companies had denied those reports.
The claims by those companies to contribute to the CCM campaigns were released by the former presidential candidate of CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe, at that time, who in one of his campaign meetings he claimed that the second term of President Jakaya Kikwete, and later CCM denies those reports.
The state of discussion of the kind has started to be afresh during the new recommendations that were presented by the government through that new bill while in those recommendations that have emerged, the aim being to control the process of appointment of presidential candidates, parliamentary and councilors in political parties and to control the use of money and donations to parties and candidates.
The government through its recommendations at the bill wants to be faced with procedures of contributions or donations that are given by being received by political parties and considering the parties so as to provide guidelines for the use of money during the campaign.
Apart from the money, the other things that the bill is continuing to be banned from different equipment that are in the group of the cost of elections that are outside the country and those equipment can be given as a donation to parties including vehicles, food, food and water for the purpose of candidates.

As a result of that trend, the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) through his lawyer, Tundu Lissu, together with the director of youths in that party, John Mnyika has started the open process of that bill before the official day of the debate which is on January 18th, this year, in Dar es Salaam city, where citizens will be allowed to give opinions, in front of the parliamentary committee of the constitution, law and administration.
About the control of financial expenditure, CHADEMA is proposing to be responsible for a correct way to be open about the cost of elections, "the truth about that bill is aiming to eat a little grant, compared to CCM, a situation that is mentioned to be done by CCM.
According to CHADEMA, if the bill will not tolerate political parties non-enough revenue and especially grants, considering that those parties have been presented to the conditions of receiving money or equipment from sponsors outside the country.
CHADEMA is happy to be removed from part of the recommendations of that bill that enables candidates to use their money during the campaign and candidates receiving donations from people outside their political parties.
Also, the party makes the ban on the bill against political parties (Nida), political parties or other institutions, and even one citizen is contributing to a campaign cost, to be appointed.
The freedom of public groups to decide to support the candidate or a political party that aims to put the national interests, it has also been denied on recommendations of the new law, something that is also a solution.
On their part, CHADEMA wanted the bill to ban public servants to help the campaign of political parties or candidates of some party, foreign companies that invest in the country to be allowed to contribute to campaign costs for candidates or political parties.
It has also proposed that there is an official section of the law that depends on media stations to give their rights to all political parties during the campaign.
The bill explains that if there will be a need to receive donations from a private person or the local institutions in the country, it is a must that those funds should be taught in the special account that was opened for elections.
In their recommendations, CHADEMA are questioning the political environment to enable them to be taken through that bill, political parties to build in and start yourself from philosophically and policies.
In that, John Mnyika has explained that "it is good for political parties to focus in spreading rumors, ideology and policies in order to ensure that the coming elections are required to continue to be paid the salaries and their allowances after the parliament had given his time.
In the last election, members of parliament who completed their term continued to be paid salaries and allowances after the parliament had been forced to get more financial resources during the campaign.
He said that it should also be remembered that the procedure of wealth of the ordinary citizens came out to CCM after a political system continues to return to the government when the CCM party was supposed to return the same way of moving the same level especially when the election system started getting divided into different parties.
"If CCM will not implement this responsibility with good intention, then there is need for public energy and it's legal that these assets are required to go back to the church that can benefit from all Tanzanians," explained Mnyika in his opinion polls about the political situation in the country.
He says the opportunity for the heads of provinces, heads of districts and permanent secretaries will give an opportunity to the leaders that involve the opposition and democracy in general at a large extent.
