
Arsenal, "is called back.
After many years of being planned and at the final matches of the European Champions League (UEFA), the round of 16-best matches, Arsenal has dropped by having an opponent "light" while Manchester City for the second time being given rocks.
During the draw of the competition that took place yesterday, the champions of the 2012 season, Chelsea have defeated Paris St-Germain (PSG), youth of Arsene Wenger, Arsenal were beaten by Arsenal as the defending champions Real Madrid being defeated by Germany Robert Kachumu in the step starting on February and March next year.
Atletico Madrid, who arrived at the last season, have been placed together with other German soccer club while champions of Germany Bayern Munich as Barakah da Prince.
Juventus will leave the champions of the year 1997, Borussia Dortmund to Basel.
City who ended up to 16 matches after winning Roma and Italy on the last day of the group stages and have a task against winners of the year 1992, 2009 to 2011.
Chelsea finished their group in front of Fauzia Kullane.
Chelsea won the PSG in the quarter-finals in the last season and match between them is expected to have a lot of feelings especially after the British voted for PSG, David Luiz celebrating a total of 57 billion shillings in August.
Arsenal, who finished behind Dortmund in their group, are meeting with the club after defeating Wenger between 1961 and 1994. Despite scoring four goals, who won the group.
Results of the UEFA matches between Arsenal and Arsenal have been working well for youths of Wenger and the situation is expected to benefit.
After the draw, the secretary of Arsenal Club, David Misime explained the Sky Sports Club, "explaining it is not the draw that it continues to be done, that is how we are able to arrive in this phase of this competition.
"We are waiting for desire to do our matches.
We have met with some of the old rivals in Europe two seasons ago and he did not wait for this draw of jokes.
Monaco did not reach this phase with a miracle but in their efforts.
"Our fans have a lot of expectations and it will be good if we will convince him to move ahead and move forward," he said.
Chelsea's secretary, David Mlenda, said, "we are requesting PSG because we met with them last year and Luiz is also looking for now.
This draw is good as a club and to the fans, "the director of football, Tembela, who is the former player of TDL, he said," we have a lot of faith that we don't like Bayern and Roma and therefore, players increase efforts to live in a good state before those matches.
We have improved our squad and we have talents the good thing on the disease of "Bayern Munich and they have said they will not defend his stand" the aim is to qualify for the quarter-finals, will take it as usual, "said the sales director of Bayern, Andengeye.
The first course will be on February 17 and February 24, while the second course were allocated to be played on March 10, 11, and March 17-18.
Teams that finished in the second position in groups are the ones that will host the opponents in the 16-best stage while the repeat match was organized by the group leaders.
Finals will be held in Berlin town, Germany in June 6.
