
The business people in Telecenter.
That amount was given out in the first 17 months in the phase since they started doing that business at the end of the year.
Nuzulack Dausen, Citizen today, annamatinde @ mkito.
In Dar es Salaam, more than 10,000 business people in the country that are involved in the business of drug abuse, breast cancer have been paid by 35 billion shillings for their work.
The Director of that company in the country, David Kagoli said that the amount was given out in the first 17 months in the phase since they started doing that business at the end of the year the day before yesterday to April this year.
Kagoli said that the funds were able to help the business people that are not in the network of their products by growing capital, to increase financial freedom and contribute to the economy of the nation by providing better taxes and give them employment to the citizens.
The driver, is the goal, I will play in a liquefied mixture of business system that will be done by the traders to make social networks and new customers' products and be paid by Gomez and NLD.
Kaguo has said that since the American American company will arrive in the country at the end of 2014, it has reached 12,000 people in a network that he believes will increase the day up to day.
The chief executive officer and the founder of the company, Mark Bomani has said the aim of his business is to help our business people by focusing on entrepreneurship education as do in the selling of other products.
"Up to now, we have seen many gods are encouraged to use this business opportunities and have been good leaders in the networks that they have started," said the accused.
When he was asked about the success of the game, I will play against 174 dollars, Samuel Mtibua and a doctor of Lubara Hospital in Tanga province, said until now the users have shown to get relief immediately when they go down.
One of the business people who are in the internet, Wley Muntari said that he started doing that business last year, he said despite meeting with several challenges, he has managed to pay him in 5 million shillings every month.
