
Presidential race of 2015 to emulate Kenya, May 30th, 2012

The process of wanting the presidency of Tanzania in the year 2015 has now come in parliament where some of the members of parliament are planning to participate in groups in order to have been seen in Kenya politics.
Mwema should be told that there are communication among the members of parliament and politicians, some of them have communication and experts from Kenya, who together with the strategies that can start being implemented in the next parliament meeting.
According to various reports of various sessions of those involved, some of the politicians have already started planning to announce their interest in any time from now.
"At any time (she is called on the name), will communicate with one of the politicians who has been seen to vie for presidency but he still continues to run for a political reason and told him (she is not known) and told him that she doesn't know each other to his camp.
"In general they have already started planning and they will have members of parliament like 100 people with strength so as to be satisfied with other candidates if I'm importance or to have a voice in the next elections and after the elections, he explains our news provider to be close to the program.
Some of the members of parliament including the current ministers are preparing to use the next parliament to join without caring about the different parties of their parties, including that system from Kenya where for now, the government and the parliament of that country is pieces of fighting for presidential candidates and not to serve the citizens.
The speed will also be in the fire, things that will have been arising from some of the people that will affect the parliament, involving some leaders who have already been dangerous to their presidential camp and especially as coming up to those who are dangerous to their camp is part of the ministers.
That situation has come out while there were complaints among public servants that the parliament has begun to be sold by standing on performance of performance which is the government.
More information say that some of the members of parliament have been supporting some of the leaders of the fifth term government with an intention to vie for presidency in the year 2015, including ensuring their colleagues who have no decision about who to support him.
The report says that it is these things which has resulted in a statement as the President Jakaya Kikwete for the heads of provinces and the districts who met in Dodoma town for special training to urge him to rule and serve the citizens.
"I commend the support of the way involves many things, one of them is to make sure that the rival sides heading to the presidential race is being dealt with especially when he presented his views in parliament," he explains our news reporter.
At the moment, the Revolutionary Party (CCM) is what seems to have dropped to presidential candidates which have been vying for political parties within the party and especially during the operations of its high sessions including the executive committee (CC) and the National Executive Council (NEC).
Other times the results of the camp of camp has been set aside the party to an amount of losing some of the constituencies in the parliamentary level where one camp is unable to support him by the opposition party candidate, a situation that has been improving as the opposition camp.
But different leaders of CCM have been quoted saying that the tension between the party is happening in the country involves themselves back on the basis of the party, something that has been opposed by their colleagues and therefore bringing a tension.
Those going on, the process of being written on new constitution that has been contributing in a large extent to bring challenges and not the kind of work in the groups that are vying for the presidency of the year 2012.
Among the things that are expected that many did not make it to the new constitution is together with permission to the participation of private candidates, recommendations that this newspaper has been directed to explain that the whole city has also been directed by the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
Some of the press who reported the existence of fear that the debate of the establishment of a new constitution can be able to meet with the requirements of the groups that are vying for presidency in the year 2015.
Among those, it is a report that is saying that now there is an issue that if the union will last despite this sequence that is ongoing now in Zanzibar, then the presidential issue of the union was unable to chase them in the next constitution.
In the topics that are provided regarding the receiver on the report said that for now it is good to give the opportunity to Zanzibar because of dealing with fire in the debate of the union between Zanzibar and Zanzibar.
Apart from that, the list of the presidential candidate has been growing every time and now names are mentioned to be Edward Lowassa who led the minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation, Samuel Sitta and the Minister of Internal Affairs, Emmanuel Nchimbi and the Minister of Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe and the Minister for Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe.
Others mentioned are there in those activities, the Deputy Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism Lazaro Nyalandu, and the Deputy Minister of Communication, Science and Technology, January Makamba.
The one being mentioned from outside the government is retired prime minister, Frederick Sumaye and who got the minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation with the deputy secretary general of the United Nations, Doctor Asha-Rose Migiro.
On the side of Zanzibar, the one being mentioned is the President of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, retired president, Amani Abeid Karume, the Vice President of the United Republic, Doctor Mohamed Gharib Bilal and the minister of defense and security of the nation, two-thirds.
In the opposition by the chairperson of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Freeman Mbowe, the secretary general, Doctor Willibrod Slaa and the deputy secretary general, Zitto Kabwe, and Maswa member of parliament, John Sputanza decided to have another party outside the Citizens Party (CUF).
