
President XI of China and shame for me.
Mr, 27, 2013.

In the year 2000, President Benjamin Mkapa, made an interview with the China news agency, Xia, before traveling to Beijing to participate in the first meeting of cooperation between China and Africa, which took place on October 10 to 12, 2000.

Mkapa and his colleagues in that meeting were invited by the former President of China, Peter Jiang.

In that interview with Xme, Mkapa spoke about the long-term relationship between Tanzania and China, as on March 25, this year, the current president, Jakaya Kikwete, has spoken in front of his guest, the president of China XI explaining something during the handover of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere International Conference.

If he got to say Mkapa and recently, the friendship between Tanzania and China was founded by Mwalimu Julius Nyerere on the side of Tanzania and his colleague, chairman Cassim Zoro, on how Tanzania has a lot of friendship, especially in the economy area, and the local economy.

There is a clear example in this issue of internal economy that concern the friendship between Tanzania and China it will be remembered, in the 30th of December, Tanzania and China started a clothes factory which was called Tanzania-China, Tetemesha Entertainment.

Among the benefits of this factory, apart from providing tax to the government, but also it is to produce employment to young people of Tanzania but it's not only employment for the youth of Tanzania but also to put an additional environment for the cotton farmers in the country.

We ask for approximately 40 years since the start of that factory up to now, this time the coming of the president of China, XI explaining something in the country, that factory is still a criterion to be proud of especially the friendship between China and Tanzania?

So, this factory is the main foundation in providing employment and to strengthen the cotton market to farmers? "This factory has given out other industries to pay a big industry in East Africa and Africa as a whole in production or only famous in the film industry which is evident.

Why do other clothes industries that had come to come after this factory, especially the private industries in the country, continue to shine after this factory is, while it is to honor the friendship between Tanzania and China or hypocrisy?

Without shame, today we are expecting to get a new hall of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere's meeting but we are unable to think how we have lost another time, to show a good example of improving economy as it is in a house of their friendship in Dar es Salaam city.

Even if the major ones did not want President XI, it usually comes from their administrative laziness if they could have the factory for bewitching him, but we should know how our leaders are affected.

Our salvation, we should never heard after several years, to see the National Stadium which was built by the Mwalimu Nyerere Hall, it does not mean it is needed because the examples are already and one is the factory for Friendship Fields, Dar es Salaam city.
