
Majaliwa of the government.

It has been written by Eric Anthony, Dodoma.

It has been released on 09 / 2016.

The fifth term government under President John Magufuli has said that it is stable, it has not depend on and failed to lead the country and that it is prepared to lead Tanzania towards great economic success.

That was said in parliament in the city yesterday by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa when responding to a question by the leader of the opposition camp in parliament, Freeman Mbowe, who is also the Hai member of parliament for the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
"The government has not been unable to lead that country, I want it to ensure that we thank the members of parliament and all the citizens that we will lead this country for great success and that work has begun to get great success," he said and being stoned.
The statement by the Prime Minister was to come after Mbowe wanted to know the government has a strategy of helping the whole economy, that is against the country.
Mbowe praised his motion, he claimed that the economy of the country has dropped by according to the Tanzania Central Bank's report (BoT), the importation of products from outside the country, the selling of products from outside the country have reduced, as it is in the construction sector, a situation that said it endangers the economy.
He also said the reduction of cargo which is found through the port of Dar es Salaam.
Responding to the prime minister, he said together with Mbowe told the economic issues, the government cannot speak about that without the evaluation, while insisting that the government will not depend on so as to ensure the economy of the country is growing.
Speaking about the reduction of goods in the port of Dar es Salaam, he said it is not easy to get the real statistics to know, but it is working on that issue and that the parliament had been done.
However, he insisted on the reduction of cargo is not the issue of Tanzania only, saying he met with famous traders of water transportation in the world from Malaysia and which said the transportation in the way has gone down in the whole world, the biggest reason of switching off the price of oil and gas.
Moreover, on the side of the East and Central Region, he said the main reason to reduce the series of cargo from the country of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Rwanda, Burundi and Zambia had a primary reason, but the transition period.
He emphasized that DRC and Zambia came out by the political movement to take them to the elections, a situation that contributed to the transportation of goods in those countries to reduce.
As a result of receiving goods from Rwanda and DRC, he said the speed on economy will continue to rise, because those countries will contribute to the port of Dar es Salaam city. The statement by the Prime Minister Majaliwa was supported by various economic statistics in the country where the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) show together with various challenges in the economy is safe.
On the side of TRA, the collection of revenue from November last year since President Magufuli entered power, shows that different types of economic growth has continued to be in a good ratio including the collections of the month of tax which have never come out of 90 percent of the aim being placed.
Those statistics show that during the period of this year's budget, that started in July 2016, the collection of government has increased from 1,067,888 trillion shillings per month to 1,15,006,500 shillings per month to 1,15,006,670 shillings in August this year.
The economic analysis of economy is saying, the statement by the prime minister, Majaliwa is also necessary as compared to the direction of government revenue for a period as this year, the government of Magufuli is doing well economically.
While statistics show that the collection of July and August 2015 which was 938 billion shillings and 2331 billion shillings, the collections of the period as this year has reached 1 trillion and 158 shillings.
On the side of foreign countries in the world, experts say that Tanzania's economy is still needed so much, "even this issue of growth of the national income which many believe is a bad thing, in order to continue providing loans for the purpose of development projects," said Professor Haji Semboja.
The Prime Minister also said that the government will ensure it continues to strengthen peace and security in all areas in the country and that the media are poor.
"All people who are involved in criminal acts including the killing of being arrested wherever they are and taken against them," he said and urged them to do their activities without any fear, since the country is safe.
He said despite the government expressed his disappointment with the killing of people who are not guilty, starting from Tanga, Mwanza and recently, Dar es Salaam and Vikindu, Mkuranga, Coast Province, citizens should not be afraid that all the involved will be arrested and taken to state agencies.
