
Efforts in Ndonga FC got a new gift of the new year on the left wing.
By Dojo Janja.
The race to run for the crown of the Honorable Duncan, who is the leading leader in the parliament of Nyereregete, he confessed to dock at the end of the week at the end of this week.
A total of ten and four teams participated in the same period of one month being divided into two groups from Kiango, in the first group, both teams were together with Scorpion; you are Stars, Kanye West and Maston.
In the second group that took place in Ndevu, Ndaiyo, Ndembeji, Pleixity Records FC, Mbijima FC and Azam FC's soccer club have been organized in Ndevu, Ndevu, East Africa.
In the final matches with an auspicious event between the veteran striker, Ndevu, Ndevu, Ndeki, emerged the winner by scoring 2-0 goals.
Those goals were sent away by Stephen Koke and David Moyes was previously in the final stage, the first semi-final, Atlabara Club emerged victorious with 2-0 goals while his colleagues were 1-0, winners got cash, jersey and balls.
At the time of those finals that were attended by thousands of soccer fans from every corner of the Kiroreli village, Honorable Gahura who is the representative of Muembe Makundi Ward, Mkwavi wanted players and soccer fans to be same as those will be held recently.
"This cup will be underway for the time the league has a sister to honor him in the case," he said.
In addition, the leader said the international matches, Immigration and the semi-kilometer race will be held next month, not only in the Kiroreli village, he said that he had gone into general.
They had promised the best soccer teams that increase their actions in participating in the premier league, he said he was forced to help youths against drugs.
However, he told me that he will be on the first line to ensure the money that have been used for sports have been used fully.
"I will make the funds of sports in he said that Nyereregete, have been used as required.
He said it will not be surprised that in the same time he was surprised that the games in the overall winner in Nyamilima primary school compared to Meek Mill.
In the Mathius of the league of Mathna Wanawe, that is participating in the regional league used well in the regional league used well-0-0, Mathaldine Soulaimane while two goals were scored for two goals in the first half by Wole Soyinka.
In the second half, Francis Kipilimba had gone into his White House as he scored the third goal.
