2August 2013.

CWT gives priority to the teachers.
Gladness Mallya.
Yams flourish with Thehabari.

President of the party.
Teachers in Tanzania (CT), Gratian Mukoba has said bad results of teachers.
Announced by the National Examinations Council of Tanzania (NECTA) are not taxed.
It did not tell the government that it is taking them to students with good success.
But he does not make it so.

He was a statement.
That was given yesterday by Woba when he spoke with the Majira newspaper. He insisted.
Despite making noise about that issue, but the government has been going on.
To take any other students, therefore, it is set it.

Al Shabab.
I will be safe and more than 1 billion shillings and it has also been contributed by the government not to listen.
They have been said since last year, teachers and government have been gathering.
Answers.

He added.
He said that the claims that were recommended are together with an amount of 100 percent.
The allowances for teaching, 50 percent of difficult environment, but up to now.
They have been given out 8 percent only of the salary increase.

Mukoba said.
The colleges that are the great job of teaching the teachers is the victims.
The greatest one as a result of not getting into the ranks, lack of salaries and not.
The money for cargo, holidays and treatment is seeing the situation causes.
Small.

"The sacred heart.
That you're supposed to qualify, not the first time this situation is getting, the government has continued.
Look for a very important issue like this issue of education, while holding the nation to go.
Far, "said Mukoba.

He said effects.
This situation of bad results of teaching the community will not have faith in teachers and even.
The one who wanted to get into the field of teaching can't have?
Again.

Mukoba added.
The blood of the nation is education and when it comes to the nation it will go, therefore the blame is.
You have been asked the government because it has been given enough advice but he has never been given enough advice.
It is from the sun.

"I have faith?
In these results, they will not take a correct step, more that they will make the commission.
It will give the results they are doing so that we like CWT cannot be satisfied.
For him to allow the nation to fall in our country, we must take this step even if you are.
These will not have the sweetness of sweetness, "said Mukoba.

This was speaking with some of the teachers who did not want.
I mention names.
The newspaper said that in those results there is no new, because.
What does it mean to what they want.
