
A threat to the wildlife still continues.
By Bashir Yakub.
One man was killed by poachers of the park.
The government of Kenya has claimed that there is a big international market from Asian countries, where many times are being used for traditional drugs for treating various diseases together with making products of cosmetics.
According to the United Nations, the number 189 in Africa has reduced from 3 million to approximately 400,000 shillings in the last century.
In Kenya, the number amounting to 85 percent in the year 1973, 1989.
Kenya is one of the 19 countries which are listed in the international board of control of the wildlife business, because it does not make enough medicine to prevent illegal business people in other countries including Tanzania, Uganda, Democratic Republic of Congo, Mozambique, China and Ethiopia.
In October this year, the Police International Organization (INTERPOL), announced the plans to start a special squad so as to aim the illegal drug abuse and in general, destruction of the environment in Africa.
David Hunter, the head of the environmental safety unit (INTERPOL), said that the squad will help countries of East Africa in their fight against "big events of illegal immigrants from one country to another."
In the mentioned case that they could not involve in history, January this year, the court of Kenya got a fine of 20 million shillings to one Chinese citizens for being involved in illegal drug trafficking.
This punishment is as a result of a stern legal action to control importation of wildlife.
Taichako said that he was arrested with elephant tusks worth 394 kilograms in his box, at the international airport of Jomo Kenyatta.
The verification of people in Kenya reached the elephant's business since 1995, but there has been an increase in illegal business in the recent years.
Make sure that illegal immigrants have been mentioned to have an international business that does not pollute the country especially let us buy and go down in plenty.
The crime was seen to have been seen by the boundaries, a person known by the name Josephat, was killed in the Nairobi farm, despite being tough security.
He was a total of four years old people, officers of protecting the wildlife said that the killing of Joet has been a stern warning since there are young people who have a great importance in increasing the number of those animals.
For a period of one week in the country being reported in four incidents of illegal immigrants in different meanings.
Ten percent of Kenya's economy depend on tourism, and if Kenya will fall down and rhinos, then tourism sector will be affected.
