
Several witnesses have confessed to give false accusations against the deputy president.
The leader of the prosecutor in the International Criminal Court (ICC), Fatna Bompunga Padou got a big blow this year when several witnesses come out of the court to be the evidence who gave him against the Deputy President William Ruto, termed it.
Those witnesses are among nine those who already joined the court to arrive in front of him, though they had announced earlier that they are unable to continue being witnesses.
The situation that happened was a blow in that case due to that some of them had been used to give a decision that there was enough reason to believe Mister Ruto, involved in making the violence against the 2007 election in Race.
One of the witnesses who was attacked by the court like "P-Razgrad, confessed that he left the two meetings, one at the home of Mister Netanyahu and another in the Sirambi Hotel where the violence erupted.
Lawyer Karim, who is representing Mister Byakanwa, in those cases presented the documents to the court which he said that himself confirmed that the witness was on the charges of charges later he did not attend the meeting that he has told the meeting.
You recognize that the court's unit has decided that there was a case to answer that there was a case that was there in the two meetings to confirm that these cases have been done here on charges, "said Mister Khan, when mentioning that witness.
The game is born at the Old Trafford stadium on December 23, and another in the 64 minute, Elhaj said that on December 19 or 20 (he had not remember the real time) according to Miss Aubameyang.
Listen to me, he added that ODM Party had only two meetings in the 64 stadium during the whole period of election campaigns, one was organized on August 19 and another on November 10, 2007.
He continued to say that on December 23, 2007, on the end, when the witness was there were Elshamy told the meeting, Mister Ruto, together with Musomba, who had political parties during that time they had a campaign in the western region.
According to the, the leaders later admitted to Nairobi in preparation for the final meeting of public meetings which were allocated the next day at Shabiby bus.
Other witnesses who have been forced to arrive in court explained to the court that the evidence gave it was false because they wanted to use the money provided by ICC so as to help register their lives when those cases continue.
