
"Joy by touching the chest with the deal.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

The directors in the country have been asked to be careful with the deal due to being the great responsibility of helping the president in bringing development to its citizens and they should not work without fear.

That statement was issued yesterday by the minister of state in the office of the president, regional administration and local governments, George Simbachawene, during the swearing in of 13 directors of the District Council, town and the municipality who were chosen by President John Magufuli, last Saturday.
Those directors were sworn in by the assistant secretary of the office of the president Secretariat of Public Leaders Ethics at the central region of Dodoma, Cathriona Makaka on behalf of the commissioner of ethics, retired Salome Urassa.
He urged them to go back to be careful in their work performance especially during the signing of contracts and various payments so that you can't have faith, people do not have money, then there are people who love you, then there are problems, "said Makaka.
He said a big conflict in the council is conflict of interests.
"The councilor or chairman of the council wants the tender is of great strength to get the tenders for the tender that will be used directly," he said and urged the directors to stop playing in the office and instead they put up various areas to inspect the projects and see the existing challenges.
He said that the authority should make sure that the ability to be given out of the required income is the collection of revenue and in the area, there is a big shortage of revenue that are estimated to be sold to the council because the main government does not take advantage of those revenue.
Minister of State, Office of the President, Public Service Management and Good Governance, Angella Kairuki said the appointment of those directors is a great honor to the president and also urged them to work on the instructions of senior leaders of the country including the president, Vice President and the Prime Minister.
"Mkingie has done an application on how to not less than any kind," he said and added that as a minister of bail, the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (UDART), the Ethics Secretariat is under him and he has been getting complaints due to the performance of the directors of performance, discipline and bias.
Directors who were sworn in are Godwin Sharau) (Iringa Municipality), Elias Ntambala Riders in Tarime District, Yusuf Semwenda (Igunga), Yusuf Semwenda (Igunga), Yusuf Semwenda (Igunga), Yusuf Semalenga (Igunga), and Fatma Latu (Bagamoyo).
