
President Kikwete and Kenyatta has done a division of the Tanzanian car which is allowed to go in Kenya with the journey of an airplane of Kenya's plane, which was given a penalty.

President Jakaya Kikwete and Uhuru Kenyatta, has intervened in a conflict that is there between those two nations about the issues of transportation and tourism.

The agreements that were done by those presidents include Kenya to allow Tanzanian vehicles that get the journey to take visitors and tourists, popular as "Shree Percent" to take them and take tourists at the International Airport.

Other agreements are for Tanzania through the Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA), to return the journey of the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (KQ) from 14 days to the previous days.

That has been explained by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Bernard Membe when he was speaking to journalists about the session that brought together two presidents of Namibia, Namibia.

"Starting at 4 trillion Tanzanian shillings today (yesterday) all the vehicles of Tanzania have permission to enter Kenya to take and take the tourists at the Jomo Kenyatta area and Kenya's planes from today, to fly its aircraft as normal in 42 days instead of 14 days," said Minister Membe.

In addition, Membe said in that session, they were talking about two important things that are the sector of transportation and tourism, where they have also agreed in four weeks, ministers of foreign affairs of those countries have agreed in the meeting that involved ministers of transport, tourism and officials from the offices of presidents.

He said before giving that report, they communicated with the ministers of transport and tourism where also the report has been announced in one time here in the country and Kenya.

Minister Membe said that the first meeting will be held next month in Dar es Salaam city, where he said in that meeting where the cause of that conflict is revealed.

"Tanzania and Kenya are brothers, are people who should not agree that they are separated or to show our differences by telling them, if there are good we ask for them and let them be silent," he said.

President Kikwete and Kenyatta have met with MaxCom, where he went to attend celebrations of 25 years of freedom of that country and sworn in to the third president of that country, Doctor Hage GeitaMGODI.

The step of that conflict is as a result of the government of Kenya to ban the vehicles of Tanzania to enter the country, to take them and take tourists.

However, the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) has reduced the number of trips to the organization of that country from 42 this week to 14 weeks.

The conflict has had economic effects and the lives of the citizens of these two countries.
