
President of Senegal, Mrs Salma Kikwete greeting journalists covering 29 trillion shillings.

Two weeks ago the forum for leaders of the African Union (SELF) under the sponsorship of African Development Program (Ami), invited journalists and media leaders to participate in the fifth meeting of Vital Voices Global Partnership in Dakar, Senegal, Elias Mwandu participated in the meeting with these are some of them.
Similar to the president of Senegal, Macky Salay (52), put aside two two goals to carry out the vision of his South Africa's vision.

Two weeks ago, apart from where he wanted Africa to do, especially in the relationship of the government of that continent with the media, President Sale said and doing several things to be remembered.

It is happening in Africa, the general leader of the country to interview with about 400 journalists from different countries in the continent, with transparency, without their people not to make questions, he claimed that they had not allowed the questions and opinions of every kind, and then he requested for forgiveness for some time it has reduced, they could not sit more.

It is not normal in Africa, the president of the country to announce that he is expecting to reduce his term plans including his first term.

It is not common to listen to the leader in the African countries he announced openly that he intends to start a system that will enable some people to be opened against journalists so as to enable them to work their work without fear.

And another, that President Salay was surprised to be a grant from the media.
He told him that political parties get a grant, because the news agencies have a grant to run itself so that they can't fulfill its objectives for the construction of small industries?

You can't see a lot, but at least these are the beginning of this month, the president of Senegal, Mackey Salay, who performed poorly in his meeting with journalists of the African continent (Ami) who are in Nairobi, Kenya, being led by chief executive officer, AID.

Previously the chief technician from that meeting with journalists and President Salay, founder of Mo Dewji Foundation, rich and South Sudan, Mo Ibrahim, had requested President Salay to talk about his relationship with the media in Senegal.

MO Ibrahim had returned problems affecting the media in the whole African continent when they enter the market and announce issues that cause the government.

He said the media is common inside the community, "you is looking at the mirror of a bad chapter, to know the truth, it has a bad shape."

In his answers, President Salay said his relationship with the media of Senegal was good and that he was fighting for some of the people being opened against journalists with an intention to support the media so as to continue to make her own the government.

But as usual he said so that those goals are taken to him, the media stations have a look at home, including having a working ethics so that those violating their values.

And in another step, the organization of Mo Ibrahim Foundation announced the former president of South Africa, Anto Mbehikya said that the third winner of the year 2012 with a gift of 50,000 American dollars (approximately 80 million shillings).

Announcing the victory of Mbeyela Secondary School, the leader of Mo Foundation, Doctor Salim Ahmed Salim said the work he gave to Mbehikya said that he gave him to Mbeyela Secondary School, South Sudan and South Sudan.

Mbehikya said that he is the second citizen of South Africa to win that award after Danny Sserunkuma, who was the executive director of the team that made a chance to contest for the World Cup championship in the year 2010.

Others who got to win that award is the doctor of mothers, Denis Ssebo, who have participated in doing surgery and identifying mothers who were being involved in violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in the year 2008.

In the year 2009, the award was taken by Doctor Timbo Kalugira of Nigeria, but he had already died, in recognizing his contribution in fighting for the future of the African continent.

The winner of last year is the former chief justice of Niger, Saul Kinemela has said that mother's wife who led the court in that country to sign a judgment to oppose the efforts of the president at that time.

According to Doctor Salim, a panel of appointment of winners of that award, that involves itself in different parts of the education sector, it makes a lot of normal people who are not normal.

"This year in our resolutions, we have decided to send a person who is ready for many years old but who in the context of the Sudan conflict, he has given a contribution that we have done to be normal," said Doctor Salim.

Apart from that, in another important event, Ami has entered into an agreement of cooperation with the country of Turkey.

Maasais' that were involved in those two sides in the contract that was signed during the meeting of SELF and Chief Executive of Ami, Solo, on one of the Deputy Prime Minister of Turkey, Blacks, Arnautovic and on behalf of the government of Turkey.

Speaking during signing those agreements the Blacks, Arnautovic and his country wants to strengthen more relations with the African Continent.

"We want to strengthen the relationship between us and Africa, the media has a special responsibility to this relationship," he said that his country will do everything so that he decided to continue with the relationship.

May this year, Turkey was the host of approximately 400 journalists from every corner of the African under the sponsorship of Ami.
