
Members of parliament do not know the regulations, Doctor Kashimba.
Sei, 26, 2013.

Parliamentary secretary, Doctor Thomas Kashililah has said the bad trend of parliament is caused by members of parliament not to have no regulations.

His statement has come, being approximately three weeks after the heavy violence erupted more than all that has ever happened to parliament, whose source is being held by the leader of the opposition camp in parliament, Freeman Mbowe, speaking.

Mbowe was accompanied by the deputy speaker, Job Ndugai speaking during the debate of the bill of constitutional changes of the year 2013.

Speaking about that event, Doctor Kashgar, he said the problem that is in many members do not know the regulations and they do not want to read it and because of not knowing them, they have been studying conflicts between the speaker for time to time.

He said that on the incident of Mbowe, many members of parliament believed that the parliament could be postponed due to the bill that would continue to pay a matter which is contrary to the regulations that allow member of parliament to be released outside by the parliamentary session.

He clarified that there is no regulations of the parliament that says that the leader of the opposition camp in parliament has a special certificate, instead it is given a chance to the current situation.

"Regulations are required to be a member of parliament for the offense that he does not be given outside, he is married out of the parliament.

"The problem that is in many members do not know the regulations and because of not knowing them, after that decision was taken by the seat that the parliament could be postponed and the bill will not continue.

Therefore, it is an offense of members of parliament for not knowing the regulations.

"Mbowe urged the 60 regulations, which is his first origin, he says that the member of parliament wanted to be a member of parliament he would like to listen to the chief speaker, (right) to stand for a place there.

The second origin explains more that apart from any member of parliament he will not start talking to him by the speaker or by the name or his position and allow me to say and when he will give him his words to the speaker.

"Now if Mbowe had a motion on why he did not give information that he cannot get to the table is the speaker," said Doctor Kashgar.

Speaking about the stakeholders of Zanzibar not being involved in the opinion on the committee on constitution and law, he said that they were involved but there have been a great importance being done by some members of parliament on how the parliamentary regulations are doing.

"It should be understood that the committee did not follow the stakeholders but it gives the call for calling you and they are supposed to arrive at the place where they were directed by the committee and stakeholders from Zanzibar who were called by the committee and arrived to give their views.

"At 114 (9), says, the normal activities of the committee will be run away, whereby it will give stakeholders to get opinions and advice to improve the bill or something that will be dealt with by that committee.

"It is in the year 2011 until soon, the speaker called on laws and wanted the committee to follow the stakeholders.

"You shouldn't want people and especially the members of parliament, to understand this well, the people not allowed me," said Doctor Kashgar.

This is the first time for Doctor Kashimba to talk about the violence that happened in parliament recently, and this statement shows that there is a big problem of the use of parliament to the members of parliament especially those of opposition who have been admitted to play against the seat of the speaker.
