
5 are waiting for Onderstepoort.
By Luteni Selemani Semunyu.
Five people who died in the Kapama estate, Naemy Silayo, waiting to have a request to vote during a service led by Prophet Mohammed, David Mlapa.
The head of police in the area of Naimu Kikula has told the nation today that the arrest of those had were transported to go up to the clinic and their relatives who came out to beds in the hospital despite advice from doctors against those steps.
"I can confirm that they were in that stadium and all of them were so much patients, we have seen their documents showing that some of them have been in the hospital for several months," said Mister Kicheere.
Despite the bodies of the bodies, have been caught in the police vehicle while the believers witnessing, thousands of people continued to arrive at the stadium for three days, buses and others using personal vehicles to receive the wonders.
Doctor Masumbuko Lampard, who went to sexual excitement during his arrest, was accompanied by his former group led by Doctor Catherine Messy won from the University of Egidius Mwei, from Huria University.
Other doctors were a professional expert in AIDS, Doctor Osinde Mlaki and, Doctor Zakenda Kasanga, who is an expert in cancer diseases at the MOI hospital, and Ryszard Kapuchinski.
"Doctors from high status have showed up and confirmed that patients with great diseases have warned through the request of all the arrest of all the prisoners here in Kenya, the patient is important to have a patient who will give 500,000 shillings," said Doctor Pindi H.
"Some of Ranaut have been supported by rigging, this is the only way to confirm that there is the blood of Jesus.
This is the evidence that Jesus will be buried, it will be demolished quickly so as to support a lot, "he said.
Doctor Abdu Hyghaimo, added that the Kenyans are continuing in public and said that it has come of looking for God and assume the differences that will destroy the effects of God.
Previously, Doctor Kizza Besigye who is a member of parliament for that church, she told the followers that were unable to sexual excitement as health experts can't explain how some of the patients with a big diseases that are warned by the rapper.
He mentioned that the ability to Doctor Magufuli is very delicious with a good sign of helping health professionals.
And Doctor Koi, said he witnessed patients with special seats between the year 2003 and 2010, but when Doctor Kizza Besigye is when he visited that hospital, most of them feel.
The doctor praised the rapper and said that he confirmed the 100 cases of patients who are warned, a situation that made him to change the God.
"We are standing here as health experts, the servant of God, Doctor Masumbuko Lamar, has brought about the truth," said Doctor Kizza Besigye.
