
The journey up to reach the draft constitution.
Deodatha Makani, 2013.

While the commission of constitutional changes was going on and its procedure of collecting opinions on the existence of each other, here and there between the commission, Constitutional Forum (JUKATA) and politicians especially the opposition parties, especially the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).

Among the events of checking the words of each other or a difference between them is the chairman of the commission of constitutional changes, Judge Joseph Warioba and other stakeholders.

Those stakeholders include Deus Kibamba, who is the chairperson of the Constitutional Forum, Freeman Mbowe, is the chairman of CHADEMA and the leader of opposition camp in parliament, together with Tundu Lissu, senior inspector of opposition camp in parliament and also the member of parliament for Singida East.

While Deus Kibamba, he was quoted by the press in the country saying that, the citizens of Zanzibar and Pemba islands have decided to give any cooperation from the national commission of constitutional changes as well as being prevented from giving opinions and finally the arrest of 12 people who wanted to give their views about the new constitution. "
Judge Warioba also was quoted by the press explaining by saying that, the forum and because I understand it is a collection of various institutions and some of the institutions have been able to form the plans of the constitution of the institutions and institutions which have a desire to know now on this platform, who are and especially. "
Other issues are the one that was given by Kibamba, who said that if the constitution commission will ignore the opinions and their advice together with other stakeholders, then he will also go to court to stop the whole process of the constitution, Kibamba said in several areas, elections of the delegates of the constitution that is caused by religion and tribalism.
Ludewa member of parliament when he was presented to the opposition views in the debate of the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, he said that the official camp of opposition in parliament from huge sadness would like to thank the parliament that during this period there is a loss of several events inside and outside the commission of constitutional changes that shows that the commission does not have professionalism, intentions and intention to supervise the free electoral process.
But in wanting the answer Mbowe and especially the issue of delegates of the commission, lack of professionalism that led a big debate in parliament and outside the parliament, Judge Warioba answered that, "I will answer the commission with people with professionalism and integrity and the citizens know this and the truth, they will support him."

And Tundu Lissu emerged victorious in parliament saying that, "CHADEMA was not only to be in the process of the creation of a new constitution, but they will visit the whole country to encourage citizens to participate in the exercise because it does not allow the constitutional process to continue because of CCM."

In addition, Judge Warioba also answered that "every person has a right to go to court, we are ready to receive advice but we are not ready to receive reports but they are saying that we are going to join all citizens through their groups.

"We are supposed to say that after releasing the draft constitution, but for now it is like we would have been done to our work because there is no one who knows how it will be done and there is no one who knows how the commission will attract what to participate in accordance with the views of the citizens, especially the issue of unity and power of the president.
