
The members of parliament are expected to kick off in work.
By Charles B.
Members of parliament yesterday made an appeal to the chairman of the commission of ethics and the war against corruption (EPOC), Doctor HMatemu after the commission opposing their conduct of participating in the fundraising.
Being led by the leader of the opposition, Thomas Kiliberali has said the members of parliament said the statement of EPOC that they broke the law by running contributions for money has no merit.
"Mister Matemu.
According to Mister Nguji, members of parliament have been participating in the fundraising so that the poor in the society will be avoided, even at the end of this week, the President Uhuru Kenyatta will be in my parliament to lead the fundraising for the construction of hunger and I don't know Mister Matemu.
The members of parliament were given a letter by Eucharist celebrated on September 17, 2014, saying that the trend of members of parliament to participate in the fundraising is a man of leadership and ethics of the year 2012 and the ethics of the public officers of 2003.
According to that letter, parliamentarians should not use their offices to collect money from the public.
They are going to do that through the directive by the president and those funds are forced to participate in the fundraising that will be taken against the leader of public servants, Mister Aden Hazard, urged the members of parliament who will continue to participate in the fundraising.
And the member of parliament of Kinapa Ward, Kyoma, said that he will contribute to the parliament because of the aim of seeing the members of parliament on the list of government officials.
He said that the step of he likes to fight against Eucharist in the picture by preventing the fundraising will give the loopholes to their opponents to use that event to give their reputation and therefore defeating her in the 2017 general elections.
"This is a prayer for EPOC to give our opponents the weapons to make us from power in the next general elections because they will improve the fundraising so that it will give birth," said the member of parliament who confessed that he was elected as a result of the fundraising which was running in his area.
One of the student takes place at the guest of honor today is Mary.
