Stakeholders for contributing to that donation have been connected to a certain area.
Some of the sports lovers, some of the sports lovers have arrived at the beginning of Leonard Lutegama Maboko to come out in the construction of let her biological father to the Almighty God to build it so much, we urge you to speak with the decision of the court.
He has done well a lot of an extent that the punishment is not to move forward.
To build this stadium also I call on other different stakeholders that they will defend him.
Most of the rich people but it's a few like the nurses and also with two hands how to do it.
Also that is not great in the district.
The districts that are just here in Mbeya province what will they work hard.
It's be remembered that tomorrow will bring you the ones who are requesting them to take place in Sudan, regarding the exhibitions so as to continue with this issue.
He took it.
The speaker for those sports news and entertainment that we are looking for us to continue with our talks to talk about the upcoming conference, finally not the gospel who came to them who is the director will continue to know what they are facing.
I will see who is one of the winners Tunda Man is doing well.
Two ten o'clock in the morning will be held in Dar es Salaam.
I have explained difficult for the youth the late God bless you that she does not have the fiancé.
Irrigation in the areas like Shinyanga.
The late God rest his phone to go and go through James the day before yesterday to address the nation's building after form one.
According to the law.
Therefore, to get an opportunity to carry the drawing of the environment that we give him the victory of God but we will go against the deceased.
Therefore, that is not a must.
To make it mean?
And you are doing work, there are some words of giving thanks for the reasons we have been able to work there and there are some people who do not work when there are some people to come and that you will not look and how to be able to say every time.
In doing the country she has gone to that because there is no city, after every one if there is the chairperson, he was given.
The problem was sent and there are different secretaries who won that there are different districts that have reduced, different from taxes because of them that there is a reason to hear us get water from chicken.
Therefore, there are many people who came to look at and it is used to also seek because it is a period of what I have started to know or maybe by the benefit of the child's property and that this is used in areas.
If water comes out of wealth, the way I said on that if there is all the days that Manumba has risen up for a long time to cater for a long time to save it, maybe he is waiting for many procedures where he will pay you and have been satisfied with your research.
For water it comes to you, and can irrigate the farm, a model is forced to return to the farm because it is not a commission that makes these equipment not to say, maybe that maybe the water is not enough to say that maybe by bad water.
At the end of checking.
You want to give me.
The conference in the conference of this year is alleged Hamza Johari in the conference.
In this conference that is happening is that we have about two hundred students, Paul and different provinces where we have come to show their work of invention that has been doing so that there is a lot of research for more than one hundred and I can't mention all, but for example we have our colleagues from Zanzibar.
There are one schools but from Zanzibar themselves, Almighty God rest the way it's at home or in the restaurant is the availability of many diseases that you can attract many diseases in your environment when you're blocking the oil.
You know more fuel and eat it well and put it well in the water there is how they get to them and the ones that are not attractive and be able to prevent it.
Here to know that these are students who are studying the behavior of how to go for.
They have said that for the environment for the growth of the growth and their behavior, and if they have been asked to use different things up to the spot under it, what will you return.
The spread of water and taking them.
The an average in the environment came out is that?
They have done research that is called because of many people.
There are research intern.
Issues of fields are even high machines.
To come up to a place where you find people Rupia on the hands is getting problems and then the expectations have repaired the people of doing things like that.
How are you got into research?
The type of food that children are using one hundred thousand students up to two years to look for foods that contribute to how many people do not have a permit.
