
The land conflicts in the Hanang province "are first farmers, now the farmers depend on 1st, 2012.

After the community of the farmers of Kibuko ward, Mendes Hospital in Manyara Province will protect the government in the district to cater for their land, the conflict now has come to the farmers of those villages, after the committee being unable to destroy the land for those farmers.

The farmers of Kibondemaji, between December 16-19 this year announced the war "against the government to oppose the building of the Hanang District Council to distribute land for the wheat flour project which is worth 1665 shillings.

Those farmers attacked them with the weapons they were rushing into the forest that is in the neighborhood with that village after the police have arrested some of the farmers including the government officials of the villages.

Those citizens also gave heavy allegations as police and executives who had been running a operation to arrest the human rights by beating them, denying them food and to stop the prisoners for three days without getting them in court.

However, after that violence and cared about the spread of the blood pressure, the leadership of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Manyara Region being led by the chairperson Lungwani Market, made a special committee to look for a solution about that conflict.

After the happening of constitutional changes in the whole week, the committee agreed with the citizens that the council has stopped the plan of distributing the area that had been set aside due to lack of land that has reduced up to farmers.

In those recommendations, the committee resolved to be farmers who had major areas they would be set so that citizens are driving from the Hanang province to be given.

Ole Nashi has asked to the citizens of Mwema, he said it's true they had agreed to do a exercise to verify people who came out in land and the size of their areas to the citizens who require land.

"The exercise has already started starting from 5 in January and is expected to be completed, Mashuri so that the citizens can continue with the agricultural activities because this is its season," he said.

That chairman said during the implementation of the exercise, leaders and executives of the government will partner with the traditional elders of the Who Lives Fores and every farmer will be forced to stop in his area.

"The main reason for doing that is due to the claims that there are some people have been given major land areas during the first level that was supervised by the leaders of the villages," he said.

Ole Sendeka said CCM as the ruling party decided to look for a goalless draw, due to the environment that came out where the citizens wanted to take action against the law.

However, the chairperson of Mogherini has said that he is involved in those recommendations at the explanation that farmers could have reduced their land as well as the purpose of those citizens and those recommendations will cause the crisis from the farmers to farmers.

"First in the availability of land that was done by the leaders of the villages and their land committee is legal and you focus on the laws of the countries concerned with land issues, and the ones that contribute to the abattoir so as to get the meaning," he said.

That chairman said in the loan that took place in the year the day before yesterday a total of 1014 citizens that were issued by the government from the Hanang province "received land in different areas of the villages.

In the allocation, we distributed the average of 2-4 acres in accordance with the needs of citizens listed and there is no one who was given more than four acres, but when these are claimed that they are marrying them, farmers, and failed to understand themselves from land, "he said.

He added that if the recommendations of that committee is the same as a result of a cargo from the head and moving them to the field while the weight of the cargo is that same as the girl.

He said that for now, he and his fellow leaders do not look for ways to end that conflict through the legal way by opening a case at the High Court in Arusha region to bring about that government's plan.
While giving clarification about the crisis, Dahi explained that basically the council does not have the right to intervene in the area since they were given legal by the government in the year 2004 where President Benjamin Mkapa made a letter and even the decisions of the farm was taken to the leadership of the village.

"The government of the village carried out a better use of land and at least fifty acres which were set aside for agriculture and one acre of livestock which were set aside for agriculture, a step that gives them to other people is an act of land ownership of the citizens," said Deddy.

He said the directors of the council have been unable to respect the decision by the citizens so as to go against the regulations of good administration to the citizens to make their things themselves.

But the Provincial Commissioner of Manyara Region, Henry Lieberum, speaking about the conflict explained that the decision taken by that committee is correct and it is a must for the verification to take place so that they join the land and given to those involved.

He said that the conflict that you are running and more than non-governmental organizations have had a habit of finding citizens about different issues and that the government of the province will start using those organizations.

"I don't want you to inform those organizations for now because those organizations are source of conflicts, the government will make investigation on the activities and participation of those institutions before taking action," he said.

Shekau explained that some of the activities of those organizations are giving doubt and giving an example of Yakemikali ward, in Mbulu District where there are non-governmental organizations, but there is no reason to fail.

That head of province said citizens who are opposing their colleagues were given a plot because land is still public property, and every Tanzanian has the right to be given without caring about color, religion, and tribe.
The sun's farm is one of the six farms which had a huge project of wheat flour during the first phase government in 70 and 80 years, under the Tanzania Food and Agriculture Organization (NAFTA) which had died in the beginning of ninety minutes.

Other farms in that project that had a total of 100,000 acres which were sponsored by the government of Canada was from Mulago, Morogoric, Saso and Snowden?

The project had a huge project in agriculture to have been started in the country during the first phase of the first phase and had the ability to produce many tons of that product and meet the needs of the country while others are outside the country and the government to get foreign funds.

But the project started to Nakalega after the experts brought by the government of Canada to manage their homes and in five years after realizing that the project was not ready and it was beaten in the past years ago.
