
The armed officers to be taken against them.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
The local government officials claim this soon after the Chief Executive Officer of the government, Edward Otolo, said that an amount of 22 billion shillings that were collected from paying tax in the financial period that happened on June 2013, it did not reach the national executive committee, is the surprising fact.
According to the report, out of 815 billion shillings that were collected from revenue authority is being taxed (KMU) in that period is 821267 that were praised in the national high level.
Moreover, the report shows that an amount of 94 million shillings were discovered to be used in development projects, they were arrested.
An astonishing matter is that more than 800 billion shillings of the income that were collected from Kvitova in accordance with the documents of half-communicable diseases.
Although the report of the Chief Executive Officer of the government has not been chosen by the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, explaining that the donation has given the authority to collect tax from the Kenyans who live a life of a tooth '.
That committee is required to investigate that report very keenly so that to be noted that the truth of these issues are cases of corruption that are being implemented, the involved do not be taken against them.
Strict actions, since the establishment of the value-added tax (VAT) on September last year, the cost of life has risen up to an extent that citizens are inspiring.
Earlier this year, the government was forced to mark the money that is used to pay public servants, it is a lot of money, therefore, the Deputy President William Ruto, together with ministers to announce their salaries as one way to deal with that problem.
Meanwhile, President Kenyatta decided to announce the heads of public organizations who could have refused their salaries being reduced.
These efforts to reduce the funds that are used to pay public servants, will be free if public funds will continue to get aroused.
In October 2013, President Kenyatta launched a website where Kenyans came to report about the public officials involved with corruption, we would like to see this website of the president requesting the officers that are the concerned officers and eventually take stern action against them.
