Even in the new constitution.
For football, we have a lot of exams so that we're just a whole world like peace, do not be afraid here in football, you have your stand on your stand and your dreams in order to promote the ball.
The football work is to know that it is a very difficult work so as people see them that someone will take a break to come into the ball.
He is looking for himself as a thing that it is called, you should leave your things to be able to prevent the ball because I don't see the ball because we know the players that is starting to see for six years can play football.
When you go through right you will inform you that we will take one person since what is happening usually, he will start to promote the love.
It is not a player who has attained twenty years old.
We need to have reduced the ten-seven years because that is what I understood what is being seen by the most ten years old children, most of ten years and seven until twenty thousand, most of them will start playing football earlier and that I wish you what I will like to look at the ball.
When a person gets to win the nation's commission says who will win three is when it comes you.
It's not know, it has begun to cause conflicts and two when they went to players already, all the players have been looking for sin but in a short time you will have the strength to play football.
That plan will cause small youths we will start playing early before the national national team starting with small youths that causes the ball because they have the ball in a period.
By using your opinion, they have a happy conflict.
In the process we have begun to think that there is a need to have a native coach if he is depending on a system or not more or or at the beginning, there are two people since the beginning of those children in the process of getting into the finals of Morocco.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we should remember that in the process if he said brothers.
That the young coaches who were left are only plans but they are still ongoing and they are still ongoing.
And an albino who?
Let's go together, I urge our cooperation not to be in a way to cooperate with the White House so that they do work in a good environment for all the most natives have their husbands.
For sure it is true the reason for a day you know so much, because others tell them she went to my colleague.
I would say that we want this coach to teach them, I were able to kill a man, we will help me I help someone to make someone like.
A person as office is still a big secret coach.
All the people have learned under you where your people have gone into their game because it is true.
And that is why the team is there.
Thank you, explaining my brother to the idea.
The purpose of hand over.
Maybe if it is revealed that it has not been reported there?
It's very difficult for several times people have been sending to them while these pictures coaches are not only.
