
Authorities like to rule as on October 18th, 2012.

There are the famous weather in Tanzania, climate, which has reduced the lung of some of us hope that it is possible for Tanzania to bring hope.

Am talking about an entertaining speech of the new member of CHADEMA and the lawyer, Esther Wassira when he visited the Mwalimu Nyerere memorial conference, that was held at Nkomola the University of Dar es Salaam.

Wassira has joined CHADEMA recently in an event that he had her sister found themselves near the media especially because they have a relationship with Minister Stephen Wassira, who is among the veteran members of the country.

Wassira said his sister was not present at the family of asking for the families of CHADEMA and those who remember even Minister Wassira said that the opposition part (not a member of NCCR-Revolution).

After that incident, there will be forgotten in historical records which will last two days very fast, this is this day the day before yesterday, I love my heart in another way.

Esther Wassira has given a speech that it is not true, it is not a normal speech when I can make the whole event to increase the speed of change.

It is a speech that has been very disturbing, why is the current situation (in the middle), it's not supposed to continue being there because its results are bad, it's a argument that if we look at least we can see that it has been late to come, but he has come to come.

In the first part of his speech, he explained what I would see what is the meaning of the revolutionary people, the revolutionary people must know where he is correct even if others don't see so, Mrs. Wassira explained this on how to remove those who don't accept so.

He says that "there is easy to learn, and it is that one of the important pillar for leadership is to accept to be satisfied by your leadership and even if you are seen, it is one of the challenges that we are doing so that we are doing things for our sake and that we are doing things for our purpose.

This is a very big difference with the foundation of our leaders and religious leaders which have made great steps and the foundation of doing good things is to look in the community so that you want to see that those children are needed in the community so as to benefit them and you are now.

Think about example, Esther regarding the example of education, he says that the current government has caused two primary schools and the first level is that one of the rich children in a good school, with laboratory, toilets, and primary schools, teachers have been sensitized.

Unfortunately, this bridge is very small, but the one that brings the children who will come to fill in our university universities, but there are no wonder where these schools have finished in these schools, where there were 90 percent of children who finished in these schools they got to win against 1 (2).

Now, this is a matter which is a huge scandal, more than billions of dollars in the Tanzania Central Bank of Tanzania (EPA). Many people do not know if they have been forced to know if they are still a human being and from there they need to know if they are not a human being, then they have good rights!

The system of education in the country has been trying to make a group of a few people with power and therefore, most of them have used the books to serve these people until when they decide to hold books and learn from them when they expect it's end to the end of the rule.

This is true that there will have major political changes, where those who don't know they were given the opportunity to know where Steve Nyerere is in South Africa, he used them to identify these youths they started denying things that were already been successful.

Esther what he said - and I believe it is true that the current system that has been able to build a good education and those with poor education but it is also involved with corruption and making a group that doesn't change because it doesn't change because it cannot rule.

Another thing that I believe is very much, who has mentioned many times in his speech is the need for youths to discover and lead the process of creating a system that is needed to be a pillar for the next system.

He says that currently, "he is in honor to the teacher, when it has reached all youths that make him be stable, we are the strength of this nation, to refuse to ensure the contracts that he got in with the visitors is needed to benefit the citizens of Tanzania, we are looking at the colonial era of liberal and Maasais."

Esther is correct for one side and on the other side is not correct (if you will show here). If the youth have a catalyst to change and be the catalyst to the good things that they want.

Further, they are required to be the first to oppose the dangerous system of corruption and to be first to show not to be completed in this system.

The problem is not old and the answer is not the same kind, therefore, Miss Wassira is doing an offense that I have seen him present at the moment, and that the youth can lead you heading to the success. "I request that he is not true.

At the time the youths can have a lot of strength in the body, this does not want to have a lot of mental ability and to think it is true they have the great ability to think and learn more, but it's a long time you give them enough experience.

The youth of their origin are pregnant, as well as analysts, are small and know more, this issue is helping them to see things that are close to their family and even their brother, maybe they had not seen it.

After the murder of a youth Khaled who is in the city of Alexandria in Egypt on social networks followed up by our body's photos that was carried out by young people that had contributed a lot of violence that was started by the youth that contributed a lot of violence in the field of Tiananmen Square, where the youth with their thousands gathered to resolve it.

Most of the elderly did not believe that the youths they would have shook the police for a period of 11 days as well as being set aside, he refused and defending the regulations of wanting to live in a free country and to protect all its citizens.

However, GNP has not been President Egypt today when he could not want to contest for that position or even to give a certain leadership due to his popularity, but instead citizens of Egypt had appointed Mohammed VI is not a whole person who has faced different types of democracy and stop.
You can ask ourselves how come the revolution of youth, that brought together with the youth instead of taking them to the youth in power they are putting the old man as an albino is not?

Another youth Mohammed Bey of Tunisia who found themselves living a poor life and put up on how he is the first lady of the United Arab Emirates, recently, the youth was on 26 years only when he found himself up on life after the forces of the municipality are looking at them.

He was a scholar from the university or a politician of any kind, but he discovered that he and her family deserve to live a better life and after failing, he does not want to live on the first round of Ben Ali, the first lady of Tunisia and Mada Maugo by Ben Ali, the first lady of Tunisia and Inuka group.

The results of Tunisia led in democracy of the true election and the new general election was done, where it brought to power, new leaders and a new party Honorable president who was elected through a transition period is a activist and a scholar who has gotten tired with his new thoughts and therefore they should be unable to stop the youth?

This is true that America Barack Obama who was celebrated very much by many youths and being talked about by thousands of youths in the year 2008 when he came to power he had 47 years old and if he will be elected again he will have 51 years.
Now, this is to show only old but it's not a disease with someone that a youth is not medicine! We can look for examples anywhere in the world like the youths who did well with the elderly that did well.

Therefore, when you enjoy the awareness of the youth it is good to look at their issues well.
That a youth and a political awakening is not true and being a good leader.
However, they are able to build well that issue and even discourage them on stage, it is not same as a good leadership.

The leadership like King Suleiman said that he is looking for me is first and more than wisdom, a youth with wisdom is better to take and be a leader than an old man, a scholar and wisdom, it is very better than a young man, a scholar and a foolish thing.

The youth should stay with private elders I request to advise that the youths who had gone into and sit with the elders get a good opportunity to learn in front of George Washington, the father of the United States of America, and that one was forced to be the third president of America, and he has been forced to be the third president of the United States.

On the side of CHADEMA, his youth have given the heart of their own kind, and with their thirst for change, they wish them hope that there are good things that do not hesitate to sit with their elderly and see as old is a certain disease.

They can't (with maybe, they have succeeded to convince other youths that if they get the elders that the name of the party is a very big offence if CHADEMA wants to lead the country well, it is a must to lead the country well, it is a must to be in the hands of the elderly and his youth who ran into their front.

Nyerere who led the process of change while in the same same type.
He was 36 years only when he got into parliament but he was going to the parliament but he was going to lead Tanu with 31 years since he was a young man for every time, but his secret was in the same same?

Anyone who is the history of our country will lead you one important thing, while Nyerere passes away from the elders that he addressed the elderly, he learned them and asked him.
Until you came to power, he released the procedure of our presidents to speak to the elderly (not to address them as these are now). Nyerere sat at the truth - this can be read well in various books.

The youth of CHADEMA, especially those who want to bring change is a must that they have ready to sit and learn in front of their elders, it is true that they can have many lovers, but without the elderly, they can have lived in this issue of praising the same child.

All the elders have ever been youths in all youths who have never been the elderly!
