That order to continue being difficult, has caused some people to relocate the members of parliament, while the emergency unit at Muhimbili National Hospital continues to receive reports of patients.
The grave of the mayor of Mushi that will be able to cost it later once he will be.
While the situation is like that in Dodoma province, the directive by the Prime Minister Pinda has been received with different feelings of some doctors in Dodoma Provincial Hospital have come back to work and sign a prayer book but they did not want to serve patients in work areas while those who were found to provide services to patients will be taken immediately against our journalists.
At night in the morning at the referral hospital of Dodoma province, the situation is different where patients has qualified for the services needed to continue different from few days ago where some decided to join that hospital and many areas of special services were open.
In the ward and other areas on a large extent, the appearance of work while some of the doctors and nurses from groups without doubt in the debate is to implement the government's directive on going to work.
Maybe, I say you are saying that the state of Dodoma is not supposed to be doing.
Now, this is does it mean?
Yes, I will go again, I said if you believe that we are not going to work with a person talking with a patient, you cannot defend someone who is not seen to do even a day.
Up to these hours, we are doing a service because he is giving them to work, we have plans to provide our services to our Africa that you are not amant or those people are not in work because of the signing of we have faith and the government we have no need to come up and end in use of our primary issues.
Others they decided to fulfill their stand but their claims will still continue.
To give a service to our ability, we have now faith?
That is possible for a short time.
The Prime Minister.
The late Adam as he had promised not to be bullied.
What does it mean?
In order to inform us.
The situation is so that the patients were forced to get a lot of services related to equipment.
Today's service is good but it's just a good reason why they are unable to work with my working environment, they are saying it is difficult for my work to do my work I will end there, or anything I want there is an inexhaustible work and can be safely but to work hard.
That is why then we will talk to you.
The chief physician of the referral hospital of Dodoma province, a doctor with Jeffery Webb has confirmed to go back to work to those doctors and said that their those who will entertain.
I have not got a report of a person even one who does not have.
The late does not call the doctors who are employed.
All of them are in work.
Those who are usually coming from the few, those who did those who are at Shabiby bus.
And themselves we will look because they have their procedures to cater for different departments they stand for they will do in accordance with their supervisors, they will see that they will not be six that will take action in accordance with the contracts.
From Dodoma where he was awarded Edu?
