Terrorism was three times and there is no responsibility?
Brightiles 21, 2013.

In another time, Tanzania has also witnessed a terrorist event that led the deaths of people who are not guilty, last Saturday, residents of Arusha town were faced with a terrorist attack after a bomb that was presented at the CHADEMA campaign meeting for the purpose of the councilors' campaign.

In the quick action, the terror attack is the second that happened in Arusha town for a recent days, and three we find together with the one of the killing of Padre Pius Mutakubwa us Mushi in Zanzibar.

Surprising thing is that until when I have written this article, the justice has not been released because despite the arrest and opened up, one of the cases led to the occurrence of those cases and feelings among various citizens has caused the feelings of the rights not by or / or to be identified.

Even if the rights would have been successful in the first two events, the truth that today we are talking about another terrorist incident that means only one of our security institutions have never been able to deal with the threat of terrorism when I believe that they were heading to our country to witness those attacks.

And if I have heard of us, although I asked God to inform God, that without any actions, we can witness the terror attacks, but by bad luck (without bad luck), at the end of the week we have seen to be a continuation of those events.

And although I wouldn't want it to be like that, there is a possibility of the situation to continue because there are some that we got a bond of dealing with terrorism they have failed to be the important responsibility.

But on the other side, we were talking to terrorism, a quick issue that can destroy the case against the director of security of CHADEMA, Wilfred Lwakatare, who despite being released on bond by the court, director of criminal Investigation has shown an intention to oppose that bail while wanting that leader of CHADEMA to be to be shaken.

Maybe the reader can ask you like, right now the priority of our nation for now is to continue with that case, "political" or deal with the real threats of terrorism which have already been lost life of our fellows?

It does not need the great desire to think that the case against Lwakatare is very political and which essentially is supposed to be removed because some of the CCM members of CCM are not worried that it's not a terrorist.

If you put aside the issue, "Lwakatare is claims of CCM that CHADEMA is a terrorist party, I have several questions that maybe by making them open, maybe by making them not to get answers but he also gave him a new look about the fate of our country security.

After events of the terrorism incident in Zanzibar and finally Arusha, some of the citizens advised the government officials to be held together with the minister of internal affairs, Emmanuel Nchimbi, the chief executive officer of the National Security Department, Rashid Othman, and the executive director of the National Security Department, Rashid Othman, and the executive director of the National Security Department, Rashid Othman Makungu and the executive director of the National Security Department, Rashid Othman Makungu and the executive director of the National Security Department, Rashid Othman Makungu and the executive director of the National Security Department, Rashid Othman Makungu and the executive director of the National Security Department, Rashid Othman Makungu and the executive director of the National Security Department, Rashid Othman Makungu and the executive director of the National Security Department, Rashid Othman Makungu and the executive director of the National Security Department, Rashid Othman Makungu and the executive director of the National Security Department, Rashid Othman.

In this, it is difficult to prevent President Jakaya Kikwete because he is the one who had appointed and he is also the one with the authority to kill to know, if we believe that those directors have refused to make her own themselves.

Because those directors have refused to be accountable, and President don't be careful not to have a plan to kill to know, and so many of our country continues to be in danger because there are no major efforts to ensure that terrorism events should not be blocked but they are being blocked.

But also the recent incident in Arusha has come at a time when Tanzania is in the "war of words" and Rwanda following advice (only good intention) of President Kikwete in Rwanda to be satisfied with the murder of Kimbari of the year 1994 to 5.

In addition to agree with the advice of President Kikwete, but recently our country is not seen, "it should be a prayer for peace and security of the Nyamitwe," though I did not wait for fear of terrorism events that are no signs of not starting again?
