In the general leader of all the institutions, the institution has heard this world to attract more close to those who are a leader.
The secretary general of the East African Community, doctor Richard Sezibera, he signed a contract between the East African Community and the institution to build the University of medical and education in the province that fell without male and downloading easily.
Speaking about the coming of that leader, the president of the University of University has not heard all.
He has said that the son should forgive him, he has signed a partnership of partnership between the German government and the East African Community to help economic issues and health for the purpose of development of all countries of the community.
Now.
The students stated that the big project of construction of the university has started in the previous steps and security is expected to start within three years and when it completed the university it will give a higher education and diploma level in the field of education and health.
I will not wait and I don't see if they come out where there is a reason for the bank.
Leave the projects covered by me.
Here, we took the hospital which will fall into Lootah.
Speaking about the construction of the university, it will be completed the head of Iringa province, Magesa Mulongo has said that it is a great relief for the province where he has called on the residents of the province where he has called on the residents of the neighborhood to the area that will be built, they had helped them to cooperate and make the construction of the university to allow the construction of the university.
Arusha is a solution to get the University of singing.
Which is being built by our colleagues.
What is the need?
It will be a big program and the death of death.
Chacha, its operations in the time of us and as a not less in addition to the same.
If the Christian university, there will be more employment opportunities.
But it's not only that to give every kind of training I remember now one eyes will find the picture of Nelson Mandela, we have faith that it is not true that there will be true in bribery we have managed in action.
Again.
From BADEA. I know without stopping.
