
The government has been banned by a warning of not getting to Kenya.
By Bashir Yakub.
The government has ignored the step of the American nations in England, France and Australia to give a report to warn the citizens of Kenya.
The secretary of the ministry of foreign affairs, Doctor KaraKibondemaji, said that Kenya has continued to maintain good relationship with those nations and told their action as required to give the terrorists.
"We have learned with the step by the American government, England, France and Australia to warned their citizens against Chile in Kenya on claims of the increased crime of crime in the country," said Doctor Kibondemaji, in a report to the media.
The British Government launched a report on its website showing its citizens against visiting the areas of Mombasa, Eastleigh neighborhood and other areas that are close to Kenya and Somalia.
The report was mentioned in the Kibera area, Mathalt, Msangamkuu and Msangamkuu and Msangamkuu and Msalika as an error in the security and urged his citizens to avoid themselves.
The British citizen in the country, have been advised to evade the streets of Mombasa as it gives them, Too, Lamu, Lamu and was required to undergo a investigation when they get them before visiting Kenya.
He wanted those countries to cooperate with other countries to deal with terrorism instead of bringing about tired of the murder to those who want to visit Kenya.
Doctor Kibiga said that the efforts to deal with terrorism need the cooperation and added that the step to provide information may not be worried about the fear they are not fit.
"The government of Kenya would like to insist on that it is dependent on the security of each person including his friends and we will continue to deal with any threat in disrupting peace, all visitors are invited to Kenya and we assure you that Kenya is safe for their lives and life," he said.
The Spokesperson of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Mister Mwenda, has thrown out the reports and said that every part of the world has the danger of being affected by terrorism charges.
"Here in Kenya, we have made steps to deal with terrorism and reduce by a large extent the possibility of the occurrence of those cases and the step of any country to give a precaution if those countries is not fit," said Mister Njoku.
