Member of parliament had survived roughly 300 million shillings.
Sep 5, 2013.

The nominated member of parliament on the ticket of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Leticia Magula Nyerere, is faced with the attempt to get 215 million shillings and Fauzia Kullane, a resident of Dar es Salaam.

Already the attempt had been reported in the Police Station in Oysterbay, Dar es Salaam and Fauzia Kullane and taken to that station for the first time in order to provide the previous information about those allegations, August 23, this year.

Leticia Mosore is explained to give those funds to Fauzia Kullane on December last year, through his business person, Lilian Oel Mhanga, with the aim of buying one of the government houses that are in Kijitonyama, Dar es Salaam.

Lilian has spoken to this newspaper and claimed to be given that money by the member of parliament for that purpose, according to Lilian Mapfa and Fauzia Kullane.

He says that due to the friendship between him and Fauzia Kullane, December last year, Fauzia Kullane about the existence of the government's house which was being sold through the secretary general of treasury at Isikizya area, worth 400 million shillings.

Lilian Kisasa says that he didn't have an amount of money, he decided to communicate with his business person, member of parliament Leticia Mosore and thank you about the deal, "he said.

Leticia Mosore after getting a good news, "stated that he had decided to give out a early payment of 31548 goals by the promise that the only thing of 8550 goals were able to be available within two or three weeks.

In a bad state, it was stated that the government's housing agent, "Fauzia Kullane, he wanted the Lilian Liundi to the whole amount of money that it has cash, because of without getting the bank, and also without getting married anywhere in the time of handing over those funds.

Leticia Mosore when he was asked about these news, first, they showed up and refused to get in details on this issue, before acknowledging the existence of that suspect in her body, but saying that those funds were not allowed to hear the suspect from his hands but he asked me to communicate with him before saying anything.

"Those funds were connected to another person, and that is the one who has contributed the reports on that incident and to make his arrest, then I cannot say anything, let me communicate with him, then I will let me talk again.

Just a short time after our writer speaking to the member of parliament through his mobile phone, our writer was called a phone with Lilian Liundi and said, "Honorable has called me, he says if he would like to see him anywhere in this issue.

After our reporter told me that those famous people are the news that if the truth, he made him, Lilian Machela, but there are many popular people who have been infected by this mother, I can be written, then you will leave it. "

Kinondoni regional police commander, Cindy, Wambura, has admitted the existence of that case at that center, but he said that police were still working on this issue so as to get his truth, and I advise that if this issue will be written on that investigation.

This is a person (Fauzia Kullane, we know that it's true that she had conned Doe or the way you said and printing these news earlier before completing the investigation can cause our investigation, "said RPC Wambura.

When he was told, the work of journalists about investigations are the ones that have been forced to help police and other media stations in making their investigation, and therefore, to be written in these news earlier it could be filled with police, RPC Wambura said.

I know you know the journalists that you know more things about this person, but it's true you are our important stakeholders in this investigation issues, but I advise that you have any information that also involve this person, "said RCO, the ones that make those reports are the wealth."

However, several news sources from the center of Oysterbay, states that until now Fausta Mohamed has not been presented in court to have the accusations that are facing him since he started fighting on August 23 this year, on claims that the case that was opened in that station against him are the complaints against him and any oppositions.
