
Sitta wants to give him Lowassa, the governor.
January 17, 2014.

The Minister of East African Cooperation, Samuel Sitta, has said he has helped to give his fellow politicians, Edward Lowassa with the head of Aziz Abood, at the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in their actions of corruption.

Speaking to Good Citizen this Monday, Sitta said that he has already made the illustrations for his evidence in the party and what he is waiting for now is the answers of those accusations.

"We are ready to take my information to the party for the purpose of taking action against these issues which have been talking every day, but it is true and I have the illustrations that he has done to the party," said Sitta, a veteran politician who has met the speaker of parliament of Tanzania.

Sitta did not want to get in details of the accusations that he made by explanation that he is waiting for the party to follow the answers of his motion.

In his talks with this newspaper, Sitta explained that although the Prime Minister who came to him, Edward Lowassa, the former member of parliament for Igunga district and a rich person, is what he released now on allegations of corruption, he also decided to mention them for now.

Sitta was responding to the accusations of the former secretary general of CCM, Yusuf Makamba, who talked with this newspaper the day before yesterday and claimed that the party does not have corruption and that they are saying, thus causing chaos instead of strengthening.

In his explanation, Makamba said that as women Lowassa had been successful, they would have been taken against the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (UDART) or other media stations.

"If they are not taken to the steps and still the legal leaders who were approved by the party in their positions, then those people are not corruption, but those people are not knowing instead of using that word to speak about it," he said.

Speaking with calmness, Sitta said politics, the person did not depend on the allegations of corruption because it has not been arrested by state agencies or evidence of its allegations it has not been found.

"In politics, a person who is known as the ones that don't know or not to benefit from the relevant agencies, it is a habit that you have shown in the community is a habit that does it mean to the community.

"Is the reason, Mwalimu Nyerere once said that the wife of the Kauffmann are not accused of dirty and even if they were not wrong, there was only a mistake.

"By good luck, I do not know well, Makamba said that they are among the people who have been receiving money from Lowassa and the head of the country, when it comes to public with me I don't see a wonder.

"People like women, Makamba are on fighting corruption in this country, when I say Makamba is a guardian of corruption I would state so much but because I know the donations they should give him," said Sitta.

Speaking on the issue of the arrest of corruption, Sitta said that it has no difficulty because, with the behavior, corruption are crafty people who do their things on the privacy of people who are in the system.

He said that if Tanzania will not be ready to fight with the existing system that you're on the corruption and corruption, it will be difficult to deal with bribery that he said is the norm for the country at the moment.
This is not the first time for politicians to put publicly over the allegations between them, the first time was for the member of parliament of Singida East, Tundu Lissu to claim the member of parliament for Musoma Villages (Nmrod Mkono) together with other things, blocking the former CHADEMA candidate in Musoma Villages in the 2010 elections.

As a result of those accusations, Zitto Kabwe was tough saying he is self-employed and he has also told Lissu that Mbowe had once bought several billions from him, despite being supported by the party to be the corrupt.

In his opinion about those accusations, Mbowe said that he has decided to give him to Zitto Kabwe, he said that they will take money from anyone including President Jakaya Kikwete or CCM is not a problem but the problem is a great intention about the money that you are taking.
