Mbeya has a pain of electricity.
August 10, 2013.

While addressing the citizens in Mbeya City to bid farewell to the year 2012 with severe pain of poles because they are forced to electricity, their colleagues in Momba district, Mbeya rural, Songwe and Chunya District is supposed to be insane.
Some of the residents of that town have decided to open and explain how that they have been forced to pay for electricity prices by some of the workers of the Tanzania Electrical Supply Company (TANESCO) in the province, payments which will not be sold at the documents of the organization.
The former manager of TANESCO in Mbeya Region, who for now has been moved to another province, he has admitted the front of the Deputy Minister of Energy and Minerals, George Simbachawene, that they were forced to cater for their cost of poles, but believes that they are doing so, it gives the organization documents.
However, some of the citizens who talked to our citizens, have confirmed to be sold at the cost of the poles and some added up to while testifying on the cost of the deputy minister, to provide money documents that they pay for the cost of electricity connection.
He said that about paying the electricity pillar, there was also recently in Isakweza village, where citizens were revealed to be filled with electricity in their houses due to lack of poles.
Sifuna village is in the project of distributing electricity of Tembela, which is needed by money from the MCC Fund, in accordance with the program, 25 citizens in every area of the project gets lucky to be free for free.

The leadership of those citizens involved the deputy minister, Simbachawene, so they are forced to put that issue openly by explaining the citizens that the issue of electricity pillar has not concern them, but it is the responsibility of TANESCO itself.
"The pillar is not the issue of a client, but it is the responsibility of TANESCO, because it is banned from paying the cost of the poles," ordered George Simbachawene just after closing the reports of some of the workers of that organization to resolve the cost of the pillar.
Simbachawene gave that directive while on his work tour in Mbeya town recently, where he visited various projects in Mbeya Town, Mbeya Town, Momba district and Songwe district.
However, it was stated that hatching of the cost of electricity prices is not a procedure for TANESCO but it had been done and claimed that it's failed and they are responsible for their contributions from within to out of that organization.
"Vaquina, there are outside and inside TANESCO, again the others are leaders," noted one of the top levels inside that organization in Mbeya province in an interview with Raia Mwema.
The order to prevent customers to be sold at the cost of poles, together with a good news to the citizens in this province, especially in the villages where they are expecting to have electricity through REA and MCC in July this year.
The high level of electricity connection was started to be used in January this year, it is 1200 shillings for a distance of 30 meters from the electricity pillar.
In that plan of the government of distributing electricity in rural areas, Momba district, Mbeya Region, is among the 16 districts that will be given electricity by July this year, so he likened to one of the reduction in line with the order of the minister for TANESCO to stop paying its cost of poles.
Other areas that will benefit with that program in Mbeya province, is the Songwe province, Chunya District, where citizens have been living with power, hope, as a result of the pillar that is admitted at the road for more than 20 years now.
In the 1990s, the electricity pillar was admitted to a special road from Mkwajuni, Mkwajuni, which shows the start of taking electricity to the area be rich by agriculture, livestock and fishing in the Rukwa region, a step believed to be more political, by enabling citizens to continue to elect the member of parliament.
The acting manager of TANESCO in Mbeya Region, Engineer Julius Sonero has noted that it is not the organization or ministry that had the information and the project of distribution of electricity prices in the Songwe region as well as Mbeya rural areas, and that it is because of that situation, it was not seen to be distributed for all the years more than 20 years.
The information from the Ministry of Energy and Minerals has noted that the projects are just some of the political projects that the members of parliament use their plans in their activities of persuading the votes from citizens.
