
JPM intervene in illegal immigrants.
A series of illegal immigrants were increasing this year, with foreign citizens, especially the Chinese being accused of being involved with wildlife products.
In addition, the fear of students following reports that more than millions of money has reduced in illegal immigrants.
On September, two citizens of China and a Kenyan man, have been accused by being found with elephant tusks worth 86 million shillings.
Mister Gao Yun Lekei made the name of Mark Joseph Mabisa, who was set on a bond of a total of 15 million shillings.
Those suspects who were arrested at the international airport of Jichunge.'
On April 13th the citizen of Guinea who supervises a car which was caused by a Kenyan Kenneth Kamnada, by being found with elephant tusks worth 78 million shillings in Nairobi.
It was claimed that, it is determined by 133 corners that are contrary to the law that they went on the lorry that was parked in the fuel station on the Lakemikali ward, Nairobi.
On how to proceed this is the nation and the whole region of East Africa participated and lost consciousness and rhinos at the beginning of last week, businessman Feisal Mohammed was arrested in Tanzania.
Mister Ali was involved with elephant tusks worth three tons of that product that were arrested at the port of Mombasa earlier this year.
He was looking for a period for many months and he was on the list of people alleged to be used by the INTERPOL's squad for being involved in sexual violence.
By Tariq Khdeir, a citizen of China was arrested in the beginning of this year and was arraigned in court for being found with 394 kilograms of ivory comes inside his car at the Julius Nyerere International Airport.
He was charged a fine of 20 million shillings or a period of seven years in prison following the new law to deal with illegal immigrants in the country and local businesses.
On January 17, 2014, the police have arrested another suspect from China, by the name Xia who was brought back to China where he believed to have the charges of being involved in that business.
The elephant's business has risen by China due to the increase of products that are made by the animals, a situation that has fallen in possession of illegal immigrants in East Africa region to continue.
