
CHADEMA to boycott the Constitutional Assembly, explaining the heart.

When the CCM's chairperson, Freeman Mbowe said that his party's members will start in the sessions of the special constitutional parliament as a result of the establishment of the three government will be attacked by CCM members of CCM, the representative of Mkongwe town (CUF), Ismail Jussa Ladhu said that he had given his hand in unity.

While addressing at the Tansort Stadium in Morogoro town the day before yesterday, Mbowe said the members of parliament of his party will participate in the whole country to give information to the citizens that their opinion has been contaminated by members of parliament of CCM who are many.

"We will help them to inform the citizens that the views of CCM is seen because of the citizens who are many more," said Mbowe at the meeting which is part of the operation of the movement of change - M4C).

He said the commission of constitutional change was collecting opinions and discovered that 62 percent of local tourists want three governments for Tanganyika, Zanzibar and the United Republic.

"The government of CCM does not give him three governments words, they are saying that their policies are two governments, they are doing everything to try that issue and I think that they are doing so that we will be able to sue them to the citizens," said Mbowe.

He added that they will relocate from Kagera to Mtwara to explain the citizens that their argument has been kidnapped by CCM.

Mbowe said some of the leaders of CCM have been giving a scandal against the chairman of the commission on constitutional changes, Judge Joseph Warioba that he has taken his opinion polls.

"The Teacher said that she is not the opinion polls, but it's the opinion of the citizens, Warioba has put aside views of citizens," he said.

That chairman said the constitution that is being wanted is not only by the party, but it's impossible and it's surprising to CCM to measure the issue of three governments.

"If they fear they agree on the issue of three governments because they know that it will be the end of being in power," said Mbowe with all those by the followers of that party.

He said CCM should understand that there is three local government to win Tanganyika and CUF Zanzibar in any election that will be called.

"Therefore, for now, they are very worried that you are looking for every way to contest for three governments, but you know that we will allow you to be followed closely," he said.

He urged the citizens to follow up the special constitutional parliament, they will start next month so as to check the members of parliament they consider during the important issue.

However, Mbowe said the party had won in the year 2015, it will not hesitate to revenge and take legal action against the leaders, but will not look for development.

"Jahazi will not be afraid if you want me to forgive me if he didn't forgive him as the president of South Africa, Nelson Mandela." We cannot change when we get in the State House because there is no human being who has no mistake.

Jussa said.

While addressing a campaign meeting at Mwibara province yesterday, Jussa said there will be no development that will be done in Zanzibar with the United Republic and Zanzibar will not return.

Jussa who is also a member of the National Executive Council of CUF, said Zanzibar with 15 people, cannot have a problem of lack of employment but the policies and economic plans have been stuck because of its implementation because of lack of full authority.

He said Zanzibar cannot borrow the international institutions without being supported by the Minister of Finance of the union while Zanzibar is the country and urged citizens to use their votes in the general elections of 2015 to bring administrative changes.

"There is no reason for the youths of Zanzibar to lack employment, there are people under 15 million, unity has come at 15 million and is the barrier of the development of Zanzibar and its political people," said Jussa.

He said that any project that lack of the Zanzibar cannot get the sponsor without being operated by the government of the union and stuck for all efforts to join international community, giving an example the international community of Islam (OIC).

He said the president of Zanzibar has lost an important things under the system of the union being together with the planned to be given 21 computers while outside the country including the Zanzibar flag heading to parade and voted for a national song in Zanzibar.

"These are now not the full authority, where Doctor Shein did when I was called 21 kilometers or when he played for the Zanzibar flag during his foreign journey," said Jussa.
