
Arusha wants to fight with diabetes through 11 o'clock.

Starting from the year 1980, now the disease of AIDS has been known as one of the dangerous diseases in the world which have condemned the lives of millions of people especially in many countries of the African continent from lack of treatment.
Although the recent news say that close scientists are getting permanent treatment, the disease of AIDS is still a threat to people's lives especially in the poor countries of Africa and African countries.
Scientific hope that we ensure that various researchers in the world is that for now there are drugs that have shown hope to reduce and prevent the infection of AIDS.
While the world is still complaining about the fate of the disease of AIDS, diabetes, according to the health experts has emerged as a new threat in the life of a human being.
According to the report of World Health Organization (WHO) the diabetes disease has been increasing at a fast rate in the world where statistics show that until the year 2011, 366 people were suffering from diabetes and the year 2030.
And on the side of the African Continent, 14 million and a half million people have died from the disease, while the number is expected to reach 28 million, for the year 2030, being an increase of 90 percent and therefore the disease is seen to be a new threat in the life of a human being.
As a result of those statistics, the health sector in the world have started to give a huge warning to the government and health stakeholders about the danger of continuing to spread in the speed of that disease together with the effects of its economic and social effects.
Last week in Arusha town at the AICC International Meeting Hall through his hospital building a campaign to test for free diabetes for the residents of Arusha, in order to help the citizens to know if they have diabetes or diabetes, they are in danger of suffering from that disease.
That campaign was held at the AICC hospital where doctors in the hospital in collaboration with doctors from the who attended the meeting of the Federation of international doctors and diabetes who attended the exercise of that test.
The health experts and diabetes doctors from more than 70 countries in the world met in Arusha town with the aim of educating their voice about the danger of the spread of the disease which is now explained to be a big threat to people in all the two countries in the country, and those that are ongoing because it has no treatment.
A large number of residents of Arusha came out to test their health insurance at the hospital grounds where also leaders of the government in different levels participated.
Doctor Julius Onesmo Ngowi is an expert and diabetes coordinator for the northern region told BBC Mwema, in an interview that the AICC station is expected to run the exercise as one of its responsibilities in helping the community.
Our aim is to help people to know their condition as a result of the disease, to start being a big threat to many people and their families and also precaution should be taken to deal with them, "said Doctor Onesmo.
That doctor explains that according to the statistics that are in Arusha province, it is estimated to have approximately 1949 patients who are getting treatment in different hospitals in Arusha town, Karatu, Monduli, and Meru which have a big number of patients.
"For now, we have started the clinic every week for that disease at the Arusha Provincial Hospital in Mount Meru, Monduli District Hospital and West Meru Hospital located in Arumeru district," added that expert.
He said that the patients attended to the clinic are those who have the disease in different levels starting from the first type of diabetes which will be aired live as usual, a diabetes day for the servants of immigrants.
While explaining more about the diabetes type, the doctor explains that diabetes is divided into two main parts, diabetes, birth or a baby (on the picture), the objectives will sell us) with the most popular diabetes or a girl or when the objectives will benefit us. "
"The birth of the birthday is seen many times since the age of the age, on how it gets completely, this situation can cause several people due to the destruction of the pancreas, an accident that will try to make the pancreas, an operation or disease and therefore the body being unable to make on the pancreas.
He added that more than the more diabetes results from the body being unable to make an amount of enough price in the body or failure to stem cells to follow the instructions of the body and that situation is facing many patients at the moment.
"According to AICC, if the institution has explained the importance of collaborating with the community and we are taking those steps because the number of people facing the disease is increasing rapidly, according to our statistics, this situation is due to the changes in behavior of lives of many people at this time," he said.
The doctor says one of the reasons for many people to get diabetes is smoking of food, and many people not getting into him and do exercises every time so as to destroy the body in a bad state.
"There are diabetes patients who have given that disease due to the family of the family of their bodies but many new patients are those of their diabetes comes from the reasons that were mentioned previously," he added.
According to Doctor Onesmo even though the diabetes disease has no treatment, still a patient can live by considering advice and instructions of health experts and an important thing is to protect the level of the required production in the body.
"This is possible for considering the types of foods that are spread, exercises for the body, the weight to each according to the sun and when it comes, the use of drugs to help reduce the sugar of blood," he added.
"Diet, advice was given someone with diabetes, it doesn't be a person who doesn't have a person who doesn't have diabetes because everything is possible and human organs needs exercises so as to enable you to do its normal work," he says.
For people living in the farms where agriculture and livestock activities are normal, this is an enough exercise, so, people living in cities, people living in cities, people living in cities, teachers, to visit the customers and those who are enough exercise.
People who need exercises for other organs in the body is like the employees of the office whose time they used to complete the activities they have paid for a long time, the boss, the departments, the employees of the bank and the drivers of the long distance.
And the Executive Director of AICC, Elhaj said, "the AICC hospital recognizes the importance of health of the residents of Arusha and Geita provinces and that is why we have seen it is good to do this campaign to test for diabetes, far and to run this campaign, where doctors provide treatment services and advice to patients at an event that will be done every year.
We believe that after this campaign, citizens will have read about their health status and to use well the advice of doctors to protect themselves and to remove the effects of that disease, "explained Kaaya.
