
The Catholic church in Tanzania saw politicians by Pope, May 31, 2012.

The archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Songea, Cosbert Mwinuka has presented a topic at the international meeting of Vatican, Italy, an appeal that led to political leaders in Africa including Tanzania, and explained that many of them are involving themselves from foreign affairs of their countries being the ones for poor rights, especially farmers.
In what they can be interpreted as a result of a long period of the Catholic church in Africa, Bishop Hans Poppe has said that the African leaders "peace and free elections have been carrying a different outlook which is known for many ordinary citizens.
He says that for those leaders, the desire of peace is difficult, that will enable leaders to prevent and destroy the funds of those countries and the free election, to give them an opportunity to vote for not knowing their rights, "stated Bishop Ngalekumtwa.
"To politicians in South Africa, it means that it is difficult, that will enable her to prevent and enjoy billions of billions to vote without employers and politicians believe that his wife is to be given a ticket for caring for the country," says Bishop Ngalekumtwa, during his topic and added that.
"Many people are oppressed, as being affected by murder because most of our faith, there are no reliable laws to protect themselves, but some of the leaders eat food and witch doctors in order to achieve their debts.
He gives the advice from saying, "there is need special advice to the government and leaders."
"
"It is a must to have their own rights and to be given at least the infrastructure and the primary needs in their activities and their produce as well as the market, plans to give sure markets through their political parties," said Bishop Ngalekumtwa.
He says tribalism is cancer in Africa which is a must to be handed to obey them and be resolved to them and take other legal action.
As a result of that topic, Bishop Josephat Gwajima is clear that the Catholic church in Tanzania is improving its plans to ensure that the division of resources of the country is taking place quickly, it has already given a document to citizenship to the general elections this year.
Just after giving an agreement on citizenship, earlier this year, being a long-term procedure for the church to do so, the social groups in the country including politicians who gave different opinions about some of the others being supported.
Winfrey has been insisting that it is not work for the church to provide voter education and that it is a work of political parties and politicians, the leaders who are together with religious leaders will continue to be allowed to bring in issues of faith in politics and that it is not true that Tanzania has been caught up.
In their details they put into the action of the Catholic church that is being contested without fear by the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere if he would have been there and that the church is good to carry out the document.
However, when those politicians receive their motion on goals to oppose the leaders of the Catholic church, his Eminence Polycarp Cardinal Pengo, Bishop Method Kimomogoro made talks in public and explained that the church's letter is aiming to provide voter education and not to direct the leader to be elected as a political party.
Those leaders went back to interview reasons especially for political leaders to fear for the citizens being given education to citizenship and especially during this period of heading to the general elections, while the government and CCM should support the debate, including the vice chairperson of CCM, Pius Msekwa.
The leaders and community members who joined the document have been explained that although it is not correct for religious leaders to convince him to be responsible for political leadership but it is their right to provide voter education as the document is taught.
As a result of that tension, in the last session of the executive council of CCM, in Dodoma, it has been recommended by government officials to meet religious leaders so that they can take recommendations or complaints to work on them.
However, the stand seems to be trusted by the Catholic church through the senior bishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Dar es Salaam, Mister Ofosu Cardinal Pengo, who has said that it will be a surprise issue to religious leaders listening to them and requested them to fulfill their responsibilities.
That stand of Cardinal Pengo, was supported by Judge Joseph Warioba who in his talks recently with the journalists explained to be surprised by the idea of wanting religious leaders to greet each other and politicians before talking about issues that are questioning the community like bribery and corruption.
According to Judge Warioba, that was written in a document about constitutional education, the effects of bribery and corruption have the cause every time the religious leaders must join each other and politicians about their activities. "
"I have read a document I don't see his problem, I have read for a long time since the year 1994 to me, although I am happy, I am happy because I am happy and say that the document will make the country to have been caught up on.
While the conflicts are going on, the group he has also provided guidelines to the believers of that religion, but they denied their believers to choose a person who will bring the interests of the group at the general elections in the year and that those believers can work together.
In his talks with the citizens during the period of questions to the president, President Kikwete said it is not wisdom for citizens to vote in Christianity or a person, and that the situation is so that nation will have reduced.
Other leaders of other religious denominations are forced to put their stand open by supporting the Catholic church, including Bishop Valentino Mlowola.
However, other leaders including Bishop Zakaria Kakingo, who in the year 1995, was involved in one of the politics by supporting the former presidential candidate of NCCR-Revolution, Augustino Mrema, when he opposed the document, saying he had directed the nation.
The decision by Bishop Kakopi Kapesti 'against the Catholic church was seen to destroy the Catholic Church to an extent that Bishop Gwajima was reported by media saying he cannot talk about someone who does not know where his bishop has not found.
The state of things at the moment are believed to be faced with reports of existence of recommendations of the establishment of a special council that will make the religious leaders and the government in order to discuss national issues including cases that can be the source of violence in the country.
Those recommendations have been given by the scholars of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) after doing research and printing a book that is called "mystery" (religious and politics) which those recommendations have been given.
Already the religious leaders in the country have explained their stand about the establishment of that agency because of their rules and that the agency was started by religious leaders and not the government.
