Three governments, we've started thinking with skin rashes.
Petit 14, 2013.

The important foundation of the democratic system is requesting all the requirements of the whole system to agree on, although the issue can be difficult for the few people with different thoughts, this issue has caused 107 deaths, including Ackyshine.

Without doubt, this issue will be taken to our national debate in writing the new constitution, by considering the draft of the new constitution, many issues that was on a high level for example, we remember Pastor Christopher Mtika but by leading the fight for a free candidate (private), and finally the process has been given the constitution.

Without doubt, there are recommendations that follow in the draft and they will be discussed by other stakeholders, but I would like to discuss proposals for the union system because of the Federation of three governments.

The writing of the constitution once you deal with various interests, especially the political party, this has come open and especially in the issue of the union, the report of the commission on constitutional change is clear that many political parties have had different opinions on the system of the union.

For example, as CUF wanted the union of the third government federation, but since the year 2010, he changed and wanted the union of the agreement with CHADEMA that they believe in the third government federation also, while CCM have already succeeded and insisted that the United Republic of the government.

So, the creation of three government is a victory to the opposition parties because if we think, but the recommendations of the three governments have a great dangers to our political parties as we see it is good for you to discuss this issue such as usual.

The commission on constitutional changes has proposed the creation of a third government federation because this commission claims to reach the decision after evaluating the issues of those who wanted the two governments, who want three government and those who want three governments.

The commission claims that the argument of those who want the current system to continue being heavy, except according to the real situation, they also urged three governments not to achieve this decision, and we did not give this debate to be open and these issues are not aware that they will make sure they get all over.

On the other side, those who supports the union of three governments have noted that and especially by considering the freedom of Zanzibar, maybe this structure will give a lot of freedom to Zanzibar which was allowed to be called "inside the government of the United Republic.

And maybe the others that supports this structure as it will give a lot of leadership opportunities so that those opportunities are increasing more when Tanzania mainland will strengthen its administrative offices as the presidential candidate of the United Republic are few which will play for the parliamentary seat in Tanzania Mainland.

In addition to the presidency, a minister and levels of other levels, even so, it is not good to agree with this argument of opportunities in details together with its cost because the issues that the commission will not affect more than these recommendations of having three governments.

The commission will not understand that we need to have three other dollars, the parliament to make laws and the court that will lead Tanzania Mainland, which is more than 43 million, not to talk about small and small institutions.

For example, Tanzania Mainland is estimated to have a total of 182 constituencies as it is obvious that the members of parliament in Tanzania Mainland together with the nominated members will be under 200 shillings and due to a reduction in unity issues, Tanzania mainland will have at least 20 ministries.

You can baptize and another institution, it is clear that the cost of running this government will continue even those of the government of the United Republic of Tanzania, the father of the United Republic of Tanzania, the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, where he has been informed that they were accused of making three government because of the ratio between the residents of Zanzibar and Tanganyika.

He noted that Zanzibar had 300,000 citizens when Tanganyika had 1,06,000,000 citizens as the establishment of the third government to pay Tanzania, a responsibility to carry the heavy cargo of running the government that match the coalition.

This argument has never been done in large numbers of the people of Zanzibar, but the reality of the cost of running the government, the father of the nation, who was also leading the country for 22 years, because they think it is possible for people to use their interests and not the national construction, for the interests of the future generations.
