
We help Sitta to see him seen in CCM!
Seasons Hotel, 2012

Last week we have heard the former speaker and the minister for East African Cooperation, Samuel Sitta and told the quality of the ruling party of CCM while in Kagera, and bought CHADEMA that it has only one good leader - Doctor Slaa.
His statement is easy, and maybe it doesn't even be discussed, but we know where we are communicating with each other, our thinking that can't know the words of Sitta about his party, CCM.
At their home, I would like to urge you to return the important thing in life of the words that they got through, Kidogozero, Zekhia Meghi, who died in the past last week about CCM and they will do their assessment, "because the quality of the current leaders of that party and his government.
But on my view, CCM right now is the actual event of leadership, and the problem has been revealed more in a period of one hundred thousand in the previous season, and because of the implementation of leadership, that party has been faced with a conflict that is affecting the internal and that is not ready.
Examples are many, and you are not supposed to do with me, but in that week, Sitta gave his information about CCM, we had met the news of his two leaders in Nzega District when they met them in public offices!
When you ask Sitta, know, these things were getting into the party that was under Mwalimu Nyerere, it got the leaders they want to vie for the NEC message during the teacher's answer that it's no new things in the history of CCM.
The truth is that what happened in Nzega, has helped her Sitta in the same week to give her her to the quality of his party, CCM party and his leaders are annoyed so that their leaders are annoyed so that they are facing the election process?
And those are heavy rains, but the meaning to a large extent of the CCM election takes place, what will we be seen and to hear a lot of each other, and I don't like each other and I don't like each other, after all taken out of bribery to delegates of the election meeting.
I would be emphasized and here that these things that we see are taken out because, different from the hands of Sitta and how to believe, CCM does not have good leaders to condemn those issues, and does not have good leaders to rebuke those things and do not have enough leaders to be able to protect the discipline of the party.
Hypocrisy when the right now is a shadow of the natural CCM party and I am sure if Mwalimu Nyerere passes away or he would have decided to go back because that they have done, right now, many former leaders with integrity and listen to people like Doctor Salim Joseph Sinde Warioba together.
And we cannot inform me, these elders can't attend one session in peace and to sit down in one table and other leaders of catalysts in public, and then make changes in public to send himself, but the current leader of the party?
Therefore, I believe that even if the father of the party (Mwalimu Nyerere) if he would have been successful, I know there are some who intend to believe it, but I request those who want to return to it, he said that before yesterday died on October 14, 1999 has lost its direction.
While he is impressed by the direction of that party, Teacher he wrote me.
"CCM is not my mother and" for sure, the teacher did not accept to show his thoughts that if there could be another political party in the country which is stable and what he has left CCM and joined it.
It is bad luck that the teacher did not live a lot of years, so as to see CHADEMA when it is mature and have enough qualifications to be an alternative party in Tanzania. I can go far and openly that if the teacher was still unknown, he would have joined CHADEMA.
And something that love you want to join CHADEMA, if you do not recognize that party, they should ask for him that CCM has refused to explain what he is doing, "it did not take time to change because it was not less than.
Therefore, those who want to understand the statement released last week by Samuel Sitta, that CCM is a good party that has no better leader, and that CHADEMA is true, "there is true that CCM has made the lives of Tanzanians to be more better than five years ago?
In order to try to give a question, let you look at the statistics of poverty in the country, the statistics benefited from the research that was done by the National Bureau of Statistics known, "Hovind," says Uhuru will benefit more than 12 million.
According to those statistics, the average of Tanzanian income in a month is shillings.
Approximately 360 shillings, that is 460 shillings for a day, I think I'll ask you to be where in Tanzania where a person can get one food compared to the day that was completed at 460 shillings.
If the answer is not there, now we should say that CCM is more than the best party than CHADEMA who have no boundaries because his government has increased the number of poor people in Tanzania up to 12 million?
It's not only that for CCM it has not been asked by his government in matters of security of citizens, events that are being done by the police (including the day before yesterday) and another evidence of the weaknesses of that party.
But even if you look at the issue of success in the fight against corruption and bribery, the current CCM is getting better than it did not be in the past.

It is not secret, for example, that this party was forced, or don't have a true intention, to stop bribery in his elections.
And because, most of its leaders and those who go to the government, are those who go through these corruption elections and even in his current elections, the situation will be that the situation that occurred in all CCM elections, and that is also the situation that is coming up during elections of parliament and president.
And they have been able to have used to an extent that they did not see that even this year 2005, when they put billions of billions of public funds and to fulfill it in their election campaigns.
The results of this situation is that the nation gets good leaders so that the leaders of the way - they get to power through the bad way, while fighting the rule of corruption to them is in front of that, Sitta knew that we saw.
For other words, CCM right now has left to supervise the issue of ethics, and its results are a result of the leaders now, and the corrupt people to vie for the leadership is no longer a chance to serve the citizens and improve their lives, but to look for a chance to serve the citizens and improve their lives.
In behind the noise from stem cells against the corrupt people met on, that party decided to try to try to prevent those drugs (remember the concept of taking off the mountain).
However, when it was able to emerge with "Famy" another to her.
- the Fammation of his constitutional changes so as to prevent the members of parliament to vie for the position of leadership in the district level, but there was there because they can do so by requesting the executive committee (CC), and that the permit will be sent by considering the special environment!
It is the loopholes that those suspects of corruption have used now all over the country to vie for the position of NEC members in the district and every sign is that CC will not attract those permits.
CC company that was unable to serve the leadership Edward Lowassa, Andrew Chenge, so how can I get this journey, having a courage to send an opportunity to vie for the NEC-NEC and given their dreams of vying for the top leadership of the country in the general elections of the year 2015.
My brothers, CCM right now is so cunning, and we are proud because it does not have integrity and ability to serve the public and to improve the lives of expanding their lives and power (Power and Development).
Yes, if human beings are supposed to understand what we are supposed to inform our soul and asking questions, before you have never agreed with Sitta, the situation is that in that party, we must be afraid that CCM is more better than CHADEMA.
So, we believe that Sitta did not know that even himself, it is a result of a bad leadership in his party (CCM), because they had been approved by CC of the party to vie for a political environment, it is true "do not forget or maybe that he is in the right style of CCM?
How do I be able to look for me my friend by getting him from what I don't know about what I don't know about him that during the era of the rich and workers, but now it is true that the foundation of the rich and workers are currently better than CHADEMA.
Bad luck, Christian Bella said that you will inform us that do not hesitate to believe in fast, to talk with Sitta on our past, I've never seen anything, and it doesn't know anything, it does not agree with what you believe in what you believe in your opinion, is the truth.
It depends on.
