
If China. I have been able to know why our people can't understand?
Dec 20, 2012

Simon Tyosela said that the revolutionary party member of Vaquina, who passed away on December 17, year 1830 while there are those who believe that he had died from the age of 47, among them is Hugo Chisholm, the president of Vaquina, who at the moment is getting off from cancer.

October 7, this year, Chisholm, for the fourth time he won the presidential election.
He won despite that donation of not less than 50 million dollars which are said in America this year gave their opponents to win.

But he is the one who attacked them in the central elections that was done on Sunday last Sunday, his Democratic Party added the number of internal auditors.

In January, if he will be a whole, Chisholm, who will be sworn in for another presidential term, I will not vie for him because he is proud to be careful, he is proud to say that she is proud to say that his politics of "Masau boasted.

Other news agencies in the United States and its spherical guidelines have been used to a big margin and brought down in Chisholm, this is not true because it is normal for failing to ridicule everything that is common for failing to sit down and go against the real life of the world.

Certainly, Chisholm, that he started to be operated on when he announced the first time that he will vie for presidency in 1998, he said he wants to build him in his country for new foundations, most of them were misled.

On their part, in the beginning of the 21st century, Bill Nas said she was a person with severe bed sheets that are outdated, and if he was the revolutionary party left, who was being supported by if they scored the few who died in his country and six groups of the Socialist Republic.

I think Tanzania today we are running a person and said that he wants to kill him which he will be seen by Joseph Kabila of the new kind, therefore, most of us have been able to be dealt with by the wave.

Explore the pomp of various kinds which have already made its own kind of leadership that is facing him, but those with him did not loose the great joy.
Her enemies are saying that anyone doesn't have severe pain.

The important thing is that he is among the few leaders of this world who are caring about their people.
It is alleged that his country is five, including Finland and the residents are very happy in the world.

China- I have been able to reduce the rate of two important steps, the first one is to be taken by the Tanzania Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency (IAGRI) and the second one is in the wealth of our nation and not to benefit a few percent in the community.

In brackets to be closed down from 40 percent in the year 1990 and up to now a percentage of seven percent of the year 1990, 77, 7 percent of children were special, but now the statistics has reduced and it is 29 percent.

Since Chisholm, the number of the population and employment has reduced from 11,07 percent and being 77 percent in a period of 10 years the economy of Vasco, 7 percent and today the economy is enough to win the American economy and several countries in Europe.

There are other achievements that VASHARI is being led by Chisholm, the elderly more than two hundred and one hundred and one hundred thousand shillings, and that number continues to increase.

Education is free from nursery up to the University for five million citizens, they are supposed to be free by the government at Vasco, drugs are available at a easy price while growing food and other things at the low price.

The question of asking themselves is Mrs Mkora or under China. it will be able to make great steps thus in a short time?

Maybe if you know that the country is performing well with transporting oil and therefore it is getting great revenue from South Africa, Algeria, Angola, Kenya, South Sudan and South Sudan, Zimbabwe, Congo, Kenya, Kenya, Zimbabwe, Congo, Kenya, Congo, Kenya, Kenya, Congo, Kenya, Kenya, Congo, Kenya, Congo, Kenya, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Congo, Kenya, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe, Congo

When he entered the State House the first time in 1998, Chocha speaking with basketball for the promise from his girlfriend, he promised that he will understand the corruption that had been using his country as it is in Tanzania.

He promised that he will have alternative policies for his country, policies which will rise up with the level of the economy of Kiliberali that was followed in that country and which we are in Tanzania and elsewhere in Africa and insisted.

Instead of depending on the effects, the use of the market "and globalization, its government started planning to plan the development of the country by using its resources and not by touching the authorities of the World Health Fund (IMF) and the World Bank in the running of economy of his country.

What he did is to confirm that there are alternative economic policies that can be dealt with by countries like our instead of these we offer.

Another one that was made in China.
