
Parents have disappointed Ndeki.
The secretary general of the national party of parents, Mister Musaa Ndeki, yesterday was identified by the party officers of the teachers from west of Kenya and also some of the parents of Pwani province for what they mentioned as the attempt to stop the strike of teachers.
The officers of the national teachers' association (KMU) from Kisumu village, Kakingo, Kakingo, Hoja, Hangi Oyster Bay and Mombasa, said the Secretary General is not supposed to be involved in issues of their party.
The association of school teachers of secondary schools (the red carpet), equivalent to their colleagues who were surprised about his authority and how it was selected for that position.
"He said he is complaining and we are not aware of what he is paid for us to stop this procedure of claiming our payments.
Mister Musaizi says that Mister Ndeki will not be a parent to anyone because "there is no one who has voted for him to vote in Delhi." The chairperson of the red carpet, Shaweji Mketo, saying that he had already been paid in Ndeki.
However, Mister Ndandavala said that his party does not affect the step of teachers to increase skills, but what should not allow it is a strike to affect the training of students.
We need to respect the constitutional rights for every time to go to school same as what we respect us to claim the payment of payments, "said when he was called a phone.
The party of Mister Ndandavala, was going to court on January 2 and got an order to prevent it.
To winners of you or all of them now they will arrive in court for a period of 14 days to explain why you are not able to agree with the lives of teachers and prevent a strike, "said Ndevu, he told the journalists in Nairobi at the end of the previous week.
Who will visit in the courts of industries is together with the Ministry of Education, the commission for employ teachers (Tati) Kekeletse Phoofolo, the Ministry of Lekule.
In Mkwajuni, Delhi, the chairperson of KEC Company, Mister Dickson Maimu and congratulated the teachers in the attack, Mister Ndeki and said his party will not be removed.
And the chairperson of Henet Ward, Eliud Sanga said a question that Mister Ndayisenga says if the government of the government is being used to weaken the party, while the suspect was forced to mobilize the parties, while the accused of the parents because his party is not legal. "
