The government entrusts Mil.
Brightiles 22, 2012

The government has disgracing the international activities in the ongoing investigations regarding the smuggling of billions of money that was done by the fight.
Some of the IMF are supposed to go to land in Switzerland.

The money approximately 3155 billion are believed to have benefited from some famous leaders in the country together with some of the business people that are mentioned to be affected by legal ways in the country.

The government has reached the decision to intervene in international sites for explanation that it is a bad use of money, being approximately one week since parliament put a declaration of urging them to reduce and then submit the report of the investigation at the parliament meeting on April next year.

Speaking at a meeting of the leaders of the East African Anti-Corruption Bureau (EAGI) which she fell in Mwanza city the day before yesterday on Monday, Minister of State, Office of the President-good administration, George Mkuchika has also insisted that they are claiming to have a list of those people to present those names in the government.

"The names of people that we will bring him to do work, this is going to study in football," he said.
When you know (because you are sick) when people are saying that they are names, not that you will bring him, even we have been doing so that those who are you will come to say we are using the money for the public, "he said.

Last week, the government of Switzerland has been quoted by different media houses urging the government of Tanzania to take names and confirmation of people that are accused before providing cooperation in following those funds.

In addition to names of alleged to be accused, Switzerland government has also gave a lot of lack of billions of billions from bribery, and evidence of who made it to who, how the bribes he was brought and if it involves companies to buy oil and gas.

When he was asked if the government will be ready to fulfill those procedures, the Prime Minister Mkuchika said the information that they know is Switzerland to ask the names of the suspects but those conditions are not aware.

"The report that I asked me is that we the government cannot get names, those others should remember now, and that is the meaning.
We have made a cry even inside the parliament that one of the names set aside in the government, "said insisting that without having those names, it is difficult to get funds from Switzerland Bank, on the explanation that there are many who want the bank's cooperation and put money outside the country not for a offense, because money was found.

When he was asked if they have given names, the government cannot move forward and identify those involved and if not disabaleta was silent without any action, he insisted that citizens should stop names so that the government can work.

"We thank you, why you want to say that you want, because we are talking to you, because there are people who say that they are names of suspects that are not aware that we should never work," he insisted.

While the government with that stand, the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe, who also gave a private statement to parliament about billions, he said there is no new issue in that government's statement of Switzerland because it is the answers that they have made all days to all countries.
