Benefits of cassava leaves the meeting of stakeholders.
21st of 21, 2013.

Among the things that the member of parliament of Kisarawe county, Suleiman Jafo, will fall into his political life is a great success of his private argument about the benefit of the members of the Social Security Fund in the country.

That member of parliament given that statement in parliament last year and after a huge discussions inside and outside the parliament ended the issue by passing a special document to the Social Security Fund which was not a benefit of the benefit of the benefit.

Together with that step, the government and the political situation of Jafo, but the argument has continued to get great opposition from politicians, leaders and experts of the Social Security Fund in the country.

That argument of voluntary benefits was the foundation of great discussions between the participants of the third meeting of stakeholders of the Social Security Fund (NSSF) that ended in Arusha last week.

In that meeting, he continued that stem cells of the heavy debate while the contributes from the steps of the government to allow the benefit of this benefit.

Among those who participated in the discussions is the Member of Parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe (CHADEMA), who noted the step by the government to accept it easily as it was unable to get a easy way for politics.

However, when that issue received the opposition from the stakeholders of parliament Jafo made another argument that if the Social Security Fund is seeing that the benefit of the benefits will bring effects to bags, later, all bags in the country can benefit the benefit of employment (not pictured).

"The foundation of my previous argument was how employees come for a long time in companies that do the end, because most of them are unable to register their lives and their families," said Jafo.

"My aim is to come up with that issue, it was a lot of many Tanzanian workers who were being faced with the system especially those who do work in the private sector," explained that member of parliament.

He said that in the previous law, the employee was supposed to contribute to 180 months which is an average of 15 years which is when they love the bridge to be paid its own benefits, which is an average of 55 years.

"There are employees who do work in the mining sector where their work environment is very difficult, it was very difficult to get another employment opportunities quickly so that time when his employment it is in a difficult environment and his family," he said.

He said it is true that they can have effects on the availability of the contributes to the ones who get from the community service in the country to start the benefit of employment so that members can be able to register their jobs.

"If a leader don't understand the environment of Tanzanian workers when it gives 30 years old people, it will be given its benefits to AGAPE, but its meaning is to try to remove his right to live," said Jafo.

Earlier on his topic, Zitto Kabwe together with opposing the benefits of inheritance, he explained that there is a need to agree with the idea of starting the benefit of employment.
"The solution to the challenges that are there in the community service system in the country is to improve the benefits including increasing the benefits of employment (not in the picture) to members who are looking for another job," said Zitto Kabwe.

That member of parliament added, "to improve education benefits including enabling members to use their contributions to increase education, the benefits of loans for members and the benefit of contributions as part of getting loans including loans to build houses."

He said that the issue of the voluntary benefits will be built and support because it is obvious that the government does not affect the funds, funds should not be shaken, and there have been huge complaints from members about investment of the pension funds which the citizens are paid.

I look at the accounts of all the funds here in the country every year, the government is alleged to have been very much by this bags and its debts from the Social Security Funds, the country that was banned for a total of the pension funds in the country, that it is illegal to give the government loans without contracts as it is now, "he said.
He added that in the construction project of Dodoma University only, the government is alleged that more than 1 trillion shillings and all bags in the country and also the PSPF fund are expecting more than three trillion shillings due to paying for the benefits to the servants who have joined, but they did not contribute to the pension funds.
