
The oath of revolution in Zanzibar and the history it has been reported on May 30th, 2012.

The celebrations of the Uhuru of Zanzibar, December 10, 1984 was attended by famous people from 70 countries, including the queen of queen of England and Agha Khan.
That day, England's government handed certificates of Uhuru to the coalition government that was formed by the parties of Zanzibar, I don't have political parties (Zigamba) under the prime minister, Mohamed Shamte.
That step was made following a victory of those parties in the general elections of July, 1963, against Afrima party (ASP) that was being led by Abeid Amani Karume.
Something that led by many that day, are the celebrations not attended by any East African leader, and in another surprising step, a person known by the name Abdulrahman Mohamed, a leader of the public party (UP) followed by the crowd that made her greetings.
In the same time, we believe that the truth of the truth is what happened to the people of Zanzibar, under their public party party, they are waiting to win the freedom in their hands and when the time comes. "
34 days later, on Sunday evening of January 12th, there were only one person who identified himself through Radio Zanzibar as' field, "John Okello, announced that the Zigamba has been launched and that ASP and the public party will not make it a new government."
The second day he announced that Sultan (in Zanzibar) was chased away again, and that his building and his property had been confiscated by.
"His son did not return our land again."
While he requested citizens to wait, Okello, he announced that four former ministers are usually hanged when he visited the Abeid Amani Nje stadium to take his position.
"
Others what he appointed is Abdallah Kassim Hanga, who was the deputy secretary general of ASP and a big friend to Babu, as the Vice President, and Babu, was appointed the Minister for Security and Foreign Affairs.
The top positions of a minister involved, they were taken by the leaders of ASP and public, while there is still a riddle of looking for someone who led to Zanzibar Revolutionary Party, under the leadership of Karume, under the leadership of Karume, which was doing that job.
But they are also saying that, he is a public activists party, Abdulrahman Babu, by partnering with the activists of ASP Masoko, which they have planned to join that revolution.
Others who claim is "walk with me," John Okello, who before the revolutionary party was not known so that, in collaboration with the youths of ASP and public party, without informing the leaders of those parties, by fear that they are preventing the person who led the Revolutionary Party.
You cannot get the answer to this question and the revolution reason, without considering the way the government has been launched when they got in power, December 10, 1983.
It will be remembered that political politics of Zanzibar have participated in two universities, Zigamba has been set up in 1957, and ASP up to 1957, and later the third party of Zillax.
Zanzibar was the first country in East Africa to do elections under the system of democracy of many parties in the year 1957.
All elections between 1957 and Uruguay was not given a winner as a result of parties being unable to get enough votes or covered by violence in the last elections on July 23, Zanzibar with 1665 votes were registered themselves so they have been registered themselves.
The results were that the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (430 kW) took place on 18 constituencies against 13 of ASP Masoko and although ASP Masoko was defeated in parliament seats, it got 54 percent of all the remaining votes.
In those results, the leaders of ASP are expected that they would have made local governments instead of building a small opposition party in parliament, therefore they communicated with the Zohra Moore (430 kW), but their request was presented on behalf of the loopholes that were presented by ASP at the constitutional meeting of London town, 1962, but ASP Masoko.
Following the victory, the England government has requested Tanzania Electric Supply Company (PPP) to form the government and therefore it was given to freedom under the leadership of the first Prime Minister of Zanzibar, Mohamed Shamte.
I wish you not openly say early here for the benefit of many people following, that, several months before the election on July July, another party of the communist party of Tanzania party (UP), was made up with young people who entration from Zillax.
Grandfather was the one who told the new Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (PPP) on freedom that the people of Zanzibar were waiting to play for independence, at eight hours when the time comes.
The public did not participate in the elections of July 23, but there were far apart from some of the activists in ASP Masoko.
Public party sitting with his opponent, Zohra Moore (PPP) and Sultan after independence, to an extent that at the beginning of January there, the government completed the arrest of robbery, but he was rushed to Dar es Salaam.
The public party got a capacity to be supported by the whole country, the whole country of Kiziguto together with opposition parties' groups like the Federation of staff Zanzibar (Zigamba), activists of ASP Masoko, media houses and the party of journalists in Zanzibar.
According to the public party, it was able to be a great coordinator and great impacts on the media and these institutions in the whole period between July 23rd and Revolution of January 12, there were only that time ASP Masoko due to internal conflicts.
While ASP is going to treat injuries that failed to be demolished and it was born to form the local government and Zigamba / Ulingo), with its leaders waiting for each other for losing the elections, it used the beginning of violence in the country to oppose various government actions in the community of the whole community.
The possibility of ASP participated in the violence, was little due to the division that caused many ractory groups on the fate of politics in the islands.
The first group wanted the talks about the establishment of the Local Governments Loans Board (TSNP) Kagyabukama Kiliba and left roofless from the advancement of all power before that party does not have faith to the citizens.
The second group of leaders that was being led by the president of ASP, Karume, was continuing to opposition in parliament with power, but the great importance to the government, so that they can be able to take advantage of the government to use the law and police of their party.
The third group wanted the opposition to be open in close partnership with the public servants who are involved with procedures of infrastructure and the fight against the government in power.
Up to that, it is clear that ASP was carried out the chest without knowing the way the situation goes against politics, it did not have a great party to deal with the Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (PPP) since December 31st, just before the revolution.
Any Revolutionary Party, a revolution in the blood contributes to the preparations for the enough time. Here we see that, Zanzibar got independence on December 10, compared to 34 days later, but if there were enough preparations, it started when the party is involved.
We have seen on how ASP Masoko as it was so cunning, as to lead the revolution.
So, we should agree that the public activists party in collaboration with those of ASP Masoko are there and leading the revolution without the consent of their leaders?
If you see Karume who did not identify the violence and the blood poured and given the revolutionary party party and his leader Babu, was a revolutionary party in the process of talking about the revolution, or to participate in the plans?
If Karume (ASP) and Babu (UP) did not plan or be able to participate or know early about the revolution, we should agree that "
