
6,400 have already died from Ebola (WHO) of Geneva, Switzerland.
Geneva, Switzerland said about approximately 400 people have died from Ebola until now, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Wednesday, with a total of Sierra Leone.
The United Nations Health Organization (UN) in the country, in order there were 16,000,200,000 dollars every day in different nations that were affected by December 7, whereby approximately 388 offenders were affected.
All deaths, but 15 were left with Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.
By Monday, WHO was said that there was 4346 deaths due to approximately 34 trillion shillings.
New judges at that time Sierra Leone was reported that 397 percent in the week was completed on December 7, the number that had three times more than Liberia and Guinea on together with WHO.
The country now has information officers, "the picture of AFP 997 percent of Ebola caused by 1,743,830 deaths according to the statistics that were given on Wednesday.
Thwaites came out one of the new infections, which are five were injured in the capital city of Freetown city.
Sihana Nkinga, a one that passed away has said that the country has a huge number of more than a few weeks ago and 1,319 of new weeks before Sunday.
WHO said that the spread of Ebola is still a big issue in the whole country, except that for example, the area of Tunduru district in the southern region has had only one event of infection since November 1.
Liberia said that the ones that were affected are also a huge shortage of Ebola that will help Ebola.
Last period of one month.
T a Fm, who were given out by December 3, were discovered that country had 7,719 goals of Ebola disease and 3,3077 deaths according to WHO.
The new infections that were injured in all over the country for the first three days of the month, where more than half that were in Melela Kololo, which includes the main city of Plasmodium falciparum.
Liberia had several new events in a period of three weeks that was completed on December 3, according to the WHO, that stated in Lali the offer has already been affected by the new infections for six weeks.
Guinea who are still started approximately one year ago, there were 2,316 infections and 1,428 deaths by December 7, according to those statistics.
