
Ukawa permission to work in Zanzibar.

Finally, a meeting of the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa), which was denied to pave way for union celebrations will take place today at the Kibiga Stadium, Unguja after getting the police force.

The previous meeting was to take place on April 19 this year, but it was blocked by the police for explanation that they still have a threat to people's life, therefore, it has been advised to be a threat to the life of those people.

However, April 23, which was planned to take place in that meeting will be accepted by the police on claims that soldiers and police officers were in Dar es Salaam in the commemoration of 50 years of the union that took place on April 26, this year.

Zanzibar's police spokesman, Mohamed Mhina has confirmed the completion of that meeting and urged the citizens who will attend to be calm before the meeting.

"We have seen them to do that meeting but demonstrations will not be allowed," said Mhina.

The Deputy Secretary General of CUF (Mainland), Julius Mtatiro said the meeting which will start at 8 o'clock in the evening will be attended by Professor Ibrahim Lipumba of CUF, Freeman Mbowe and Doctor Willibrod Slaa's member of parliament, Pastor Christopher Mtibua and Doctor Emmanuel Makaidi of NLD.

Others are the first vice president of Zanzibar, Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad, the chairperson of NCCR Revolutions, James Mbatia, 10 representatives from the group 2030 and various members from that union.

We're going to educate citizens what is the meaning of the constitution, how to protect their views that they given to you by explaining to what we decided to come from parliament, "said Mtatiro and added.

"Tomorrow (today), we are doing a meeting in Unguja and the day after tomorrow (tomorrow) in Pemba, and we are expecting a list of various meetings that will take place in Tanzania mainland for different groups," April 16 this year, Ukawa led by Professor Lipumba got in the constitutional parliament and from outside claims not being satisfied with the movements of the debate of that parliament.

After getting from parliament, they were announcing to do meetings across the whole country starting in Zanzibar.
