
Kikwete, "tells you the big debtors in eternal peace.
August 19, 2012

The chairman of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), President Jakaya Kikwete has been surrounded by the veteran network including the accused of corruption that are alleged to continue to build a bad life in the party and even in government, three years before the general elections of 2015.
This newspaper has been told that in the "Nisubiri" there, those suspects have been questioning the leaders of different levels of that party by using money, sexual abuse and various promises in order to make corrections on how to promote the network of the year 2015.
"We have been bad luck, if there is no one to take action and sometimes they see the truth and even the chairperson (Kikwete) without any fear and even the elderly," says our news reporter in the government who is near the top leadership of CCM.
According to the executive director and different media sources in government and in CCM, even several ministers inside the government, leaders of the provinces and district of the party and government, have cautioned citizens' energy to an extent of receiving an order from the suspects of corruption and making the government to be seen to be demolished immediately.
The senior executive officer in government has told Good Citizen this week that, at the end of this week they have been explained by the action of some leaders inside the union of youths of the Revolutionary Party (UVCCM), who have been seen to have a private ability to use money in official activities of the union without following procedures, an issue that has already been sold and become a culture inside that party.
Permanent secretaries in the provinces and district executives have met in Dodoma town at the end of the week in a special session with a seminar that was scheduled for preparations for the party's elections this year, elections that already had all signs of being removed and bribery they have already benefited from the whole country.
"We have already been announced by the step of UVCCM leaders including the acting chairman Benno Ndullu said that they have the private ability to fund the union, but we asked himself they are getting the money," Benno Ndulu said that all the delegates are 180, a special draw which they were prepared earlier.
"In the same session that UVCCM has been able to look for sponsors for their tuition fees, Hussein Bashe, announced that all the delegates of 50,000 members, Hussein Bashe, announced that all the members of 50,000 people every year, but we asked himself from the preparations and we are told to know where we are told to meet with great greetings to the delegates," he says.
Apart from Malisa, the chief leader of UVCCM, Dodoma province, Anthony Mavunde, who is said to be prepared to take the position of chairmanship of the union, made preparing for all the special food that was accompanied with drinks at the Royal College of Midwives, situated.
"Someone known as Mavunde, gets where the fear of preparing for food and drinks is even if he invented the ability, where the ethics of the party and the nation?" He told the executive officer, who was also working at the time of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.
The executive officer said that all those are open signs associated with the chairman Kikwete and those suspects, saying UVCCM started in Arusha where they held the protests without a permit and without informing the party (CHADEMA) and there are no any action taken against them.
"If they live in Arusha town, they started in Dodoma during the NEC session, now they have done again in Dodoma in their meetings, you will give you a big issue before or even during the process or even during the process or even when we are continuing to grow," he says.
While addressing a general meeting in Dodoma town at the end of the week, Benno Ndullu said that the nation and UVCCM is faced with a lot of challenges that it did not have any other time and emerged as the ones I have tried to explain or explanation where if the nation we have been done to now.
Your "you are saying that the nation is in the chest with others because of being filled with fear, they have reached an opportunity to explain the situation that we have reached, as a measure of their national hope or even giving up," he said.
While talking about the power they have political youths, Malisa said that the youth are supposed to confirm and doubt that the upbringing of the political and economic growth, leadership and ethics is enabling the authority to say or do what we do hard and to believe in themselves. "
Malisa explained the project of UVCCM buildings, the project that previously Nape Nnauye (right now, secretary of ideology and propagation of the party, once said that they have the smell to believe in the leaders that were involved with them, before the agreement that were involved with them.
