
Dust from the Songwe International Airport, Oljoro 31, 2012.

The step by President Jakaya Kikwete to use Songwe Airport, in this province that is going on to be completed, it has set aside a dirty environment against that important project for the development of the nation.
The hopes of the citizens in Mbeya province about the completion of the stadium, get more strength when that project was set aside 17 billion shillings in the budget of this year.
However, when the hope of the completion of that stadium being great to that amount among the citizens, some of the specialists studying the criminal issues have noted that, there is still a huge problem from Songwe Cement Company which is neighboring the same field.
"The entrance fee since the Songwe Cement Company is not good to the aircraft, it is dangerous to the planes of the plane," says a professional expert in Mbeya City, who did not want his name to be written in the newspaper by explanation that it is not the spokesperson of the Tanzania Airports Authority.
That expert, even so, he gives a solution to the problem that it is changing from the headlines (on the ground) instead of leaving it not to be in the air.
"Tanzania Airports Authority is the ones that did the research and decided to know that issue, a factory can lead that issue so that the factory can direct it from the sky instead of stopping it not to be on the sky," says the expert.
Apart from the Malaria problem, the internal reports of the Tanzania Airports Authority together with the ministry explains itself for the government to officially announce the completion of the project, due to the lack of sure the completion of all the equipment that are required in the operations of the aircraft.
The Minister for Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe is taking a precaution on how he was interviewed about the completion of that stadium, a warning that stakeholders in the air transport have explained that due to the minister not having sure about the existence of equipment when construction then they've been completed.
According to the company's coordinator that produces in that stadium, Paul Makonda, ready to 85 percent of the work is complete, the ones that remained is 15 percent only, which he says they need five billion shillings only to have completed.
He changed the work that was completed as well as the construction of the road that takes place in Uknga region, Kilwa road (ACIB), area of making vehicles, while the location of the aircraft (matron) has come from the last class of humor.
The Songwe International Airport is being constructed at the western region in Mbeya District, approximately 20 kilometers from the center of Mbeya City.
The project of construction of the stadium took the political step towards the general elections of the year 2005, some of the politicians inside the Revolutionary Party who had the intention to vie for presidency through that ruling party who stopped the war with the political party, Professor Mark Mwandosya.
Professor Muhongo was among the members of CCM who were vying for the presidency through that party in the general elections of 2005 and due to his position in government, being the minister of communication and transport (at the time) was involved in one of the management of the construction of that stadium.
Dirty politics heading to the elections are mentioned to contribute to a huge level up to the construction of that stadium for the lack of enough money thus causing to use more than 10 years at that stadium continuing to be built.
The report of the acting executive director of the Tanzania Airports Authority, Suleiman S. Suleiman, explains that the contract for the third phase of that project was set aside by all the concerned sides that was signed on September 12, last year while it was expected to take 18 months until its completion.
The acting director said the reasons that contributed to delays, the project include delays, the previous payments from the government, have a big increase in working and studying soil a non-communicable diseases from 800,000 American Dollars.
Another reason is the changes in the foundation of primary and Base Airport that is from using abusive language to use cement, access to tarmac roads and the contractor to stop the construction activities due to lack of payments.
The internal reports from the authority seem to blame the treasury at the ministry of finance, it has been noted that during last year's financial year, for example, the contractor presented the certificate of claims of the work that was completed by 51 billion early, while the airport authorities decided to take advantage of them, but the payments are enough for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are needed for them, but the payments are
That process is mentioned to affect the high level of completion of the construction project of that stadium.
The construction project of Songwe Airport started in January 2001, with its infrastructure being able to enable a type of 50 planes to land and sell it, but before the start of the second phase, the government decided to be buried on the second phase, the government decided to cater for 6737 machines.
That decision by the government caused change to the stadium infrastructure and therefore forcing an increase in time to complete the second phase of construction where now it started in the year 2004 and to be completed in 2008.
In the second phase a contract with the construction of the road safety building, destruction of clean water, the purchase of clean water which was done by Tanzania Geothermal Development Company, while the road construction work is being done by the company from Kenya, Ephan Singh Hanspaul company.
After the completion of that plot, it will have a road to land and takes a length of 334 kilometers and a 60 meters long-inch width, a road that causes four planes of 737 together.
The Songwe airport will have all important buildings including the new building of passengers which has the ability to cater for 300 passengers for a hour, the building for traffic lights and the building of the weather forecast.
Some of the pilots in Mbeya province have shown intentions to use that plot for now together with not being completed, including the absence of important equipment for air travel.
Captain Dominic Bomani who passed the plane that brought President Jakaya Kikwete in Mbeya Region recently confirmed that for now, the stadium can be used by passengers.
"The National Stadium is very good, there is a very long time, there is a good area, there is a good area, there is a good area, there is a good area, just after landing in that field and a type of 28.
The Songwe stadium despite its size, but there is still a big opportunity for the expansion there later it is a stadium that is in an acceptable area and planting trees due to Mount Mbeya, visible from far.
If the president has used that stadium together with not being completed, who will continue to stop the completion of the construction of the stadium this year, because citizens believe that the action of President Kikwete will use that stadium is an order to ensure that the project is complete early, before the end of this year.
