
We have been "this disease of East Africa"!

One of the few statements that got into shambles was made by the third phase president, Benjamin Mkapa, is that "we are not only the effects of thinking."

Although the statement made many words, especially in the environment given, but all of us know that there is true inside you and we can baptize, but some of us have no objection.

The previous edition I decided to show a way we have been getting tired of thinking about what we have said, we are requesting them to make sure, our salvation, Kenyans and other alcoholic beverages.

Today, I would like to insist on another issue and it is that you used the laziness of our minds to our leaders (including our leaders) have made our country to be responsible in faith, witchcraft, faith that are fruits or not thinking.

The research that was done in the year the day before yesterday by the American organization whose headquarters in Washington DC called PEPara, shows that 93 percent of contraception are believe in witchcraft or witchcraft.

Between 19 countries of Africa where the research took place, Tanzania has taken the first position by having a huge number (93 percent) of people who believe in witchcraft being followed by Cameroon, with 78 percent.

That research shows that 93 percent of Islam are there in witchcraft in superstitions in Kenya is 27 percent and Uganda is 29 percent.
This is in one way or another, it greatly increase the weight in my motion that Tanzania we have been, this disease of East Africa. "

I would be able to have doubt and cause conflicts in that research, but events of times in the country, such as albino killings that are accused by people who are accused of destroying the elderly in faith that it is witches.

I would be able to instill doubt in that research, as it is not a recent years that is accused of witchcraft in parliament on Wednesday night to place him and "said Othuman".

I would also need to instill doubt in the results of that research that shows Tanzania being the head of witchcraft as it is not the incident of last year of thousands of dairy products to get a cup.

My brothers, all that in general you are removing any doubt regarding the haphazard use of these data.

Now, 93 percent of we believe in witchcraft in superstitions and in that situation called a miracle, we can say that if we are called the brain of thinking person believe that the Albino mid-fielder can be able to get a quick wealth?

Currently, the patient with AIDS or cancer or diabetes has no doubt because thinking can believe that if my grandfather was shown "by God if my grandfather was seen to have told the media that put him in his camp during the time of getting that cup.

Another thing that tells you the laziness of our thinking person, is how you want to deal with newspapers in the newspapers is not true but it's not true but it's not true "he made."

A good example is during the time of you of the cup for Babu Tale, where one newspaper knows the report that emerged with the news reporter what should be easily read by my grandfather's grandfather, "the patient will take him as a patient.

I'm told that they do in the newspaper impressed by more than other newspapers reports about that day, because many of us have bought that newspaper, that a patient is found to recognize the news that a patient is not a lesson to anyone who can't know that news?

But even if we go back to the issues of religious faith, they emerged as a result of a lot of hunger here in the country that is led by the people who call them, "it is the results that drive out laziness of our minds.

I have been able to read several times, to attend the funeral of some of the "couples, and to be surprised by the way many people (especially women) who fail to send it immediately or corruption, the ones that seem to be false during their reception.

When the crowd hear you say the ones that were put in great shape of acting, again to kill them, and sometimes they were watching the mouth, and sometimes they were watching the mouth, and sometimes we think about anything, they don't know what they did, "he said.

And if you want to communicate with those believers, we tell you the research reports that you done about the life of "I could not believe that here in Dar es Salaam city living a luxurious home for low interests, and that they can see if you get pregnant, and therefore they thank God 'unable to see if you are the devil of Jesus."

Why they can be rushing to me, "you failed in the name Jesus Christ," it is because they don't have time to think and think about some reports and think about your research that made him about the life of "I told them.

My brothers, we have been questioning the thinking of thinking that we are unable to avoid bishops and the loved ones with bishops and the arrest of fraudsters who have already been hurt by God, but we do not want to use thinking and think.

I am sure that the beautiful lady wrote a famous request for the United States, David Banda, he would have come to Tanzania and do one of the talks with his request, as a result of walking on water, unfortunately, most of us want to believe if he would have told them that he would have been given the strength to do "the miracle of the song and Jesus Christ!

They have talked to us despite what he is doing, David Banda in the field is the same way and it's just a request that makes you know if he is running on water while it is not true!

We believe that quickly the issues of witchcraft in superstitions has been a shame, because we are getting tired of thinking and we have been involved in those issues, an issue that makes more strength to our leaders, and to talk to our leaders, that is the big believers of the issues of witchcraft in witchcraft.

A good example is during the time of what is the cup for Babu Tale and we witnessed several senior ministers of the government entering up to Loliondo to get a cup for Babu, an act that lasted for me, cancer, diabetes, and even!

These ministers do not have a lot of believers that was called lice and they did not even ask for forgiveness from that cup and even when the Party of doctors in Tanzania announced the report after his research, that the cup for Babu Tale is not anything or anything!

All of us know that hundreds of the patients of AIDS who had a cup for Babu and stop using ARVs or diabetes who have left their menstrual periods after getting the cup, later they could have died before the decision to stop using those drugs, they will arise and on the truth.

But another solution to that our senior leaders in witchcraft in witchcraft being a statement given at the government's governmental event last week by the senior minister, John Magufuli, that he is not feared.

The minister gave the statement that he did not understand the meaning of her meaning that he personally believes in witchcraft in witchcraft, and that is the basis of his statement that he is not supposed to be careful "and that we should not forget yourself, that is a scholar.
And it's not only Magufuli, because even the his wife to Doctor Slaa, Peter Jiang (I don't know why CHADEMA does not pollute the woman), was quoted last week, claiming that there is no problem in believing the presence of poison that killed procedures, but I have no problem to believe that the mother's fiancée!

For sure, the biggest story to be involved in superstitions is a lot of information, for example, that most of us has a big surgeon who is looking for him even if a panel of specialist doctors have changed to believe that the operation is important for the strength of his health and later.

My dear brothers, that drive out laziness is the one that enables you to move out of poverty and we should also be the victims of conmen and "the ones what we are going right without thinking we will look for a miracle!"

These things, in general, contribute to making our country that "our country's disease of East Africa" and it is difficult for this nation to get treatment like our leaders themselves as the leaders of witchcraft, dealing with other things related to those.

I don't have sure that my fellow readers have ever read it in the past the day before yesterday and Herve Renay, a situation that shows how the death of these new countries, how it is successful to make some parents in Nigeria to destroy their children by seeing them.
The "devil of" inside the family and hundreds of children of that kind now live in the streets of Nigeria.

That is a problem here in a family - for instance, the parents do not think and think about the source of that death, and instead they intend to believe that "the name of the church, and so many times the child is usually recognized by the song 'Sura Sirambi' and therefore being sacked from home and parents!

Sporah Show of Africa's ovum?

Recently, I remember that the team after hearing a report of one school in the country having two fire events in a short period, and then the parents and teachers failed to participate in the fire and faith of witchcraft.

I have been said, in these issues of witchcraft, there is a bit tricky subject between Nigeria and Tanzania, from Nigeria who are involved in witchcraft being children, but in Tanzania are suffering from the elderly.

When he knows that where it is also the actor that made Nigeria's film to get many fans here in the country, there is a lot of patriotism but if the film involves love, then inside, there must be issues of witchcraft.

We thank God only about the colonial history of Nigeria not to make it not to go in large numbers in our country and to start their television stations and radio stations because their film can make sure we can make sure we use the issues of witchcraft.

Maybe I conclude that, the research on the PETS company in the city of Washington DC shows that 93 percent of we believe in witchcraft in witchcraft, though neighboring countries of Kenya is 27 percent only and Uganda is 29 percent.

So, it is not true that, for that evidence, Tanzania we have been the country's disease of East Africa "that led to the citizens who are illegal and thinking?

So, we can move forward if the nation in this world of science and technology like the most of us have been getting tired of our thinking, and that lack of witchcraft in faith of darkness?

So, if a nation is disease, our leaders can do your treatment though they are the leaders of witchcraft?
