
Sitti Mtevu, four hours they are inspiring.

At the time the government through the Registration and Licensing Agency (RITA), saying that he will cut the birth certificate of Miss Tanzania 2014, Sitti Mtemvu, reports indicate that he cannot continue with that crown.

He has confirmed that the decision has been on the place of Sitti Mtemvu that was buried in the special environment, a decision that is expected to be announced any time from now.

However, it has not been known as that step will be taken by the Arts Council of Tanzania (BASATA) or Sitti himself after it was revealed that the title will continue to put up the family of the member of parliament of Temeke, Abbas Mtemvu, who is his father.

It has been revealed that even the previous step of contesting for that crown was taken by Sitti and some of the family members were not involved in the member of parliament Mtevu, something that made him earlier on the participation of Miss Temeke.

It has been informed that the member of parliament Mtemvu has opened up with the situation that is going on together with the presence of a wedding certificate of her child Sitti Mtemvu and that he is responsible for what he is doing because of more than 18 years.

On his part, RITA has said that it can remove the certificate of Temeke and took legal action was revealed that he gave false information at the time of submitting the request to sell the certificate.

The chief executive officer of RITA, Philip Salnero Hotel, has said that for now, they have completed its investigation concerning the certificate, after emerging a result of reports of existence of two different certificates as compared to the birthday.

After emerging with the controversy, RITA started a special session of documents that made Sitti Mtemvu at the CHADEMA offices in Temeke so as to identify the legality of the certificate, before looking for the truth about the reports presented under the oath.

According to the law of the registration of births and deaths in the album of 108, the edition of 2002, it is an offense of criminal offenses to give false information to the registrar and also a criminal offense.

It has been explained that the biggest reason for the delay of that investigation is because of the investigation is involved with all children's documents who were born in Temeke in the years of 1980, the period of Sitti claims he was born.
