
The Dowans Company, TANESCO and marijuana in Taifa Stars represented by 2 trillion shillings.

Close to each Tanzanian knows that smoking of marijuana is dangerous to the law of the country and that is why there are many youths who are inmates garments as he was found with a lot of marijuana since it was found with a mixture of marijuana since they sell it or shivered.
We can get into a argument about injuries of marijuana because there are those who believe that the breakup of marijuana that will not affect the head for seven years, there are those who believe that the shivered.
They are giving an example of our brothers to entrepreneur to look for him that is proud to have really appropriate more than many people who are not wrong.
But also there are some who start with the ones before you take me, "marijuana, then I think it is very bad," and the truth when you can get married but also the strength to fight with anything even if it is Simba.
Recently, it has just came out the issue of some of the Taifa Stars players to be involved with smoking marijuana before playing in the match.
I believe many people have been able to discuss this issue in way with different types, it is clear that we use many people like football and especially when it comes to the nation of Taifa Stars to play with foreign teams that are usually clear.
You will see them on that day not to get clothes with the national flag and the others who have raised the flag in their vehicles. It will be careful, there is a big possibility of those fans who in the morning had a big possibility of fans who live in Tanzania while considering the Taifa Stars.
But it's not just that day, Taifa Stars to wear while on one time is that people have left them to talk about Arsenal and Man U to come back home to discuss the national team.
You will see you saying, 'kettlebell', "others may be apart from saying," I think these players say it's why Tanzania does not hesitate to play another match with another team and then I wish you people to discuss home at home.
Now, it has written the secret and yet it is possible that we could make research, very important research and experts of soccer in the country, does not hesitate to sign him that it has helped more than Taifa Stars to do well, or coach or highly commended.
And here when it comes to a primary question because Taifa Stars have been doing well from the fourth phase not to enter into power, because every victory is determined because every win is determined because they get ten more than 30 million because they get more than 30 million shillings?
That does not be discussed if we have been done, as a nation, we start to think that we can change our country's laws for the purpose of buying seedlings and power so that we allow some of them to kill them, then you will look for instance, so they can be able to sell marijuana since they are found.
This is true today people with a sober mind have continued to discuss that you were bought or not using the Dowans Company to make the country put on the darkness, but when it comes to what we want to discuss?
The presence of 90 percent live without electricity, Mchage Masoud Kipanya has given a series of cartoon artist showing it clear that these political parties concerning the electricity problem did not concern them from the rural areas that are affecting them.
And maybe a big question to ask we read the problem of electricity today, it is true that we are happy and do not like people living in our country, especially that are seen in the fourth phase after the transparency have been noticed, we have been living in the fourth phase.
It is when thinking of thinking that was told to me the place we were told by the executive director of TANESCO (TANESCO) that now he has prepared to make sure that the organization does not use wood as there are people who harshly opposed the idea of that organization to buy the Dowans Company.
Starting from the 1990s, we met a lot of electricity problems and they received a lot of IPTL and we have agreed. But because all days we have been living in the darkness, or when our decision comes from marijuana, we agreed to invest in a very long time.
View the plane of President Magufuli to watch the purchase of fees, in Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TAGCO) in front of our decisions to buy a lot of new vehicles every year at a high cost and then put it with the importance of electricity.
They are people who live in darkness, what should we do to repeat the mistakes like us, this happens when I decided to pass it, Doctor Idris Rashid from TANESCO is not a very big problem like that, we can prevent it, we can attain four million dollars.
That, when the thoughts, we are going to live with it every day, we are forced to repeat the mistakes that they did not have a great problem, which they made a great problem, which is a big problem which is a great problem.
And in our part, we have to be taught all for a long time so that we do business our brothers from China with a tooth and then see inside here, we will do what to come out with the electricity problem in the country because it is so that there will be an emergency plan for electricity?
So, we are required to find out that we want to follow up so that we cannot have a mental plans to address the problem of electricity in all the years?
