Thank you so much.
Later, if you wait, it did not turn back, the four of it is to help my family games that it will be in him so that I'm in me.
African games now, where he wants to go back to work, Almighty God bless you like one, it will eat the animals from where we are preparing to follow up, but it is not the next game that we are doing well, it will follow up for the games to allow charges to get close to the world.
First.
Let me start by talking about two three words that this is the first that I will start.
That our first players in football don't have a station of dancing.
This was admitted to sell at Africa cup?
Although most of the most players from we see if you look at a very few players who only plays the league of many other countries to play Simba and Yanga Ras Kiduku was married or inside that you don't know what I don't know if you don't know what I don't know if you don't know if you are not a big team that is that we are unable to understand.
I have seen about the punishment if you want to have a player as a player as a player, I cannot get to the people with the people with the players from different places about the players from from Kenya from Uganda.
Those are these words when you check if there are few players who follow it out in the east of our country in the country.
For example there is this one who was accompanied by Oman.
There are who Mbwana Magota from TP Mazembe of the first private sector, but many others are looking for playing here, we become someone to play in the big tournament and meeting with the cervix.
I remember a match will look at dancing and he has been.
That is a human being, we become a human being even when the players turned against this, Toba did not know what you want.
So it is not the first issue, another thing is the grounds of sports.
That is why we are doing sports things, it is a very big problem in the government which we are prepared to see if I see the stadium which is very little by this students, I have not been able to reduce the value for reasons.
When these hours you have written because it was coming?
But when I received there every Saturday, I should leave you should not be used so if we depend on for why is the great meaning.
I have seen him by what they got while he was talking to be in public service especially.
Very little in good games of sports let me promote sports as they are encouraged to mobilize the youth from.
Similarly, there is an end of the last issue I want to have?
Raising the youth.
Raising the youth.
If you check here we shall take the players he lacked international game today, the team is organized for one week before it takes a phone of Simba and Yanga we thank you so much if the university is making calls from various provinces when you look at first, there is no government's strategy and children playing football.
He himself is very happy and you like so much to play, I understand one of the children who by selling them so that they can get achievements to what we want.
My brothers, this Tanzanian is a high standard.
The workshop.
He is speaking that I will be called very much, you know the truth I could not be proud of especially here where we are where most of the team have many players of not to be paid outside the country because it's a lot of players to be paid outside the country.
Likewise, he succeeded in getting Brazil the international coach Brazil is making sure you want to stop in Brazil, one hundred and outside the country will be careful when I met her home and then we see you to meet with the place.
There is a support of the right to the left.
Christian does not prepare God is very close to.
However, it is because you know when you meet again?
By the name is called?
