The employment scandal of AICC.
Petit 25, 2014.

The International Conference Center (AICC) has entered into the scandal of wanting a servant who had a case for sabotaging the economy who has been sentenced to prison for 14 years.
Records have been shown that the servant, surprisingly, as well-employed in the center as an expert of assistant in the year 2013 in a hospital that is owned by the station known as AICC.
The information followed by our citizens from different sources say that before being employed by AICC, he was a servant in the council of Same District, Kilimanjaro Province as a strong man in the District Hospital.
He was sentenced to four years after being found guilty of the 7 crime law on April 3 this year and that judgment was issued by the Resident Magistrate's Court of Same Gwao.
Msuya was sentenced to the two year imprisonment for every offense, he will serve 7 years due to those punishment to go together.
The case files the economy?
It is said that when he was at work at the district Referral Hospital he was presented in court in the year 2011 on accusations of being involved in the loss of drugs in that hospital and he was held for 13 mistakes.
The case was run by supervised by the officers of the Institute for preventing and fighting corruption in Same District (JNIA) on behalf of the Republic.
By an answer to the records that had been found in the Court of Same District, that worker was opened a case number 1 / 2011 to resolve the economy and was out on bail while the case is going on.
Reports indicate that in the time the case is going on in court, Msuya explained work in accordance with the service laws and he was receiving a half time.
He gets people's work.
However, the reports indicate that at the beginning of the year 2013, the AICC International Meeting Hall has announced the work of preventing themselves in its hospitals by following employment procedures.
"He came out a lot of candidates after that announcement, but even so, he went to interview but he does not want to do that work and then later the leadership of the organization continues to announce that position," explained our source.
Following the second announcement, that's when they came out to other candidates including Msuya, when he followed the interview by getting high points joining other candidates.
It is alleged that Msuya explained that in his private report that for the last time he was a employee of Tanga Provincial Hospital, Bowman.
Msuya was employed by the station in the month of May the year 2013 was paid a salary of 14,654 shillings, who are at Cedars-1 billion while being a assistant in the AICC Hospital.
"Every month has asked for permission to work explaining that they have different problems but yet he was going to Same to attend his case to strengthen the economy," added our report from that center.
In a period of 10 months he won the AICC, dealing with more than 7 million shillings as a payment and payment of other work performance and he also continued to be paid by the Council of Same and his salary according to the law of work.
As a result of the court to arrest him as the leader of AICC, was forced to write a letter to the District Court to get the truth about the judgment that was given by that court.
In the letter of AICC to record number ICC / C / 2050 / 1st of April 16 this year to the resident magistrate of Same District, the leadership of the center urged them to know if the reports of being beaten in prison is the truth.
The letter of AICC, Raia Mwema, has succeeded to see his dreams, have been signed by Saro Wanzagi on behalf of the executive director.
While responding to the letter of AICC, resident magistrate of the district in his letter giving records, number 1 / 1 / = shillings confirmed that it is true and when he was found guilty of the accusations of strengthening the economy of Same District.
The answers of AICC.
While speaking to Good Citizen on phone the day before yesterday, the Public Service Officer of the center, Mbijima has refused to speak about that issue because of details that it should be given an explanation by the Executive Director, Eliona.
On his part, Kaaya confirmed the completion of that servant and added that the station for his part was following procedures of giving jobs in accordance with the service laws.
