Ukawa being attracted by this.
Martti Ahtisari Center, 2014.

The Union of the Citizens Constitution (UKAWA), a union that made up of the opposition parties of CHADEMA, NCCR Revolutions and CUF is the news reporter in the city.
Ukawa have been in news headlines in the newspapers, radio, television and social media because of the stand of attacking special constitutional parliament and therefore threatened to stop the process.
Likewise, UKAWA which has been put in court, has continued to be active, by most of the people in the past, there were many trials that has failed to cooperate with parties, but the existence of UKAWA which is heading to confirm that this current partnership can succeed.

Basically, most of us would like to see the development of democracy, because of the growth of opposition parties that involve the ruling party and if possible to get alternative treatments of policies and leadership that emerged in UKAWA which attracted those hope to a large extent.
Apart from the short-term goals of fighting called the constitution of the citizens, it is very encouraging that for now UKAWA which has a long-term goals to cooperate in the elections to come so as to defend CCM in the general elections or to form the opposition with strength.
However, it is important in UKAWA to be careful in several primary issues so that they can be successful in the short period of time of the constitution and that's a long time to use that union to strengthen and build democracy.
Many people have been questioning the truth of leaders of the parties that form UKAWA which have a commitment of building that partnership and until now they have confirmed that they have a strong commitment of politics and even so there are two things that in UKAWA are supposed to consider the views of a long-term partnership.
First, there is worried that the union of UKAWA is one of the leaders more than three times, members of some parties have heard about this partnership and claimed that it has no consent of the members.

Secondly, in spreading up of partnership up to the top level, the leaders of UKAWA have a heavy job of leading policies, such attitude and even their agenda, Ukawa are supposed to convince their members to believe that every party will benefit from that union.
The truth is that to achieve the work there is difficult, if it appears from the CUF and CHADEMA party, two different parties with a huge difference from the origin and the history of its launch.
The shivered to CUF were political enemies to CHADEMA, it is easy for a member of CUF to support CCM more than CHADEMA. It is also easy for CHADEMA to support CCM more than CUF.
In my opinion, to make UKAWA they agree that the ordinary members of the parties that make up that union is a very difficult challenge, in UKAWA at the end of this challenge, CCM have a bad state in the next elections.
In the fight to fight for the constitution, UKAWA has condemned the parliament that is self-driven and used to be good weapons but it is used immediately after time is a problem.
After the use of billions of money to run the process of writing the new constitution, the decision by the delegates cannot get out, they know that by doing so, it is an issue of giving up and there was no other ways of being bullied.
There is dangerous to use methods of political weapons, especially here in Tanzania where many citizens do not pay "peace and calmness."
As a result of natural vegetation, there will use methods of this way can increase costs in UKAWA which is being supported, especially now where the ruling party, CCM have been using that argument to be presented in UKAWA.
In the next general elections, CCM can threaten, serve the citizens that they elected many opposition to parliament and in the councils of the council, this will not be played again because of conflicts will continue.
Another issue that UKAWA is supposed to be careful, it is faith that many citizens they are supporting them more than CCM.
But one big issue I have learned about many political parties is that the followers of the opposition parties as usual usually have more political awareness than those of the ruling party.
This is as a result of the fact that the leaders are satisfied with the situation as a time the opposition is fighting for change because that you can have a few opposition followers but they are present more in the meeting, and participate in political debates including in social media networks.
