Meryl who is competing with Mabina inside CCM.
APR the year 2013.

The new leadership of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Mwanza province, has lowered the previous decision of the political committee of the province against the chairman of the District Council of Misungwi when he resigned from "benefits of the party, from being mentioned to be involved with embezzlement, according to the report of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG).
According to the reports that are there, the leadership of CCM in the province under its chairperson, Anthony Mtaka, has reached a decision to revoke the decision of the political committee of the province that was done under the leadership of his predecessor, Clement Mabina, due to what is mentioned to be political tensions.
Mabina Mukhongo gave him for the position of chairperson of CCM in Mwanza Province at the party's elections last year by Mousa Diallo who was vying for that position.
However, before that election, the symptoms of open conflicts between the two were able to come out in the embezzlement saga of money in the District Council of Misungwi, and the Chairperson of that council, Senior Bernad Muyeya who was joining the party under the leadership of Mabina, when he resigned.
However, his girlfriend refused to follow those instructions because the chairperson of that time, Mabina is forced to reach that decision because he had a political explosion and those had a plot to break the power of his political opponents who joined him towards the general elections in CCM.
As a result of that decision, the council was in conflict and not in sessions of the council of councilors for more than seven months, while the province got a decision from the prime minister's office on the fate of that council.
One of the delegates of the political committee for Ilemela district told the newspaper that the step is not a good sign to the party especially in these days of the growth of the opposition parties against CCM.
"You know that this is a shame for the party, I cannot say that she is wrong or has shown that the action of these leaders to make this decision shows that there is the ones that will help the party," said the delegate who wanted to help the party.
He added that in that decision, the committee of the Mabina's committee does not depend on the side that is led by private interests and I advise leaders to put the interests of their party instead of stealing groups.
In July last year, the political committee of CCM in Misungwi District, in a session of discussing the inspection reports of the council, ascertained that the chairperson was involved with embezzlement of that council and gave three days to July 11, this year, he has resigned.
However, that chairperson who is also the councilor for Ihenga town, where he urged the instructions by the district level to report the province where under the leadership of the chairman of that region, Clement Mabumba, the political committee of the province led that decision and even to remove the sponsorship of the party to the chairperson.
However, his Eminence Polycarp Cardinal Pengo said that in order to construct a new party, it is important to the party to stop that issue should be dealt with by concerned agencies instead of collecting politics, a situation that is very worried about the intention of getting them on that issue.
"The council of councilors started a lot of days and discuss this issue and decided to be shaken the TAKUKURU institution (the institution for preventing and fighting corruption) this political game is a dirty game of some people to achieve their political goals," explained his Eminence Polycarp Cardinal Pengo.
However, the chairperson of that party in that time, Clement Mbizo said that the complaints by the chairperson and said the complaints by the chairperson said that the party is making a decision on blood of some of the leaders is to reduce their stand for those noise.
"The party's stand is not there and can be able to find solutions, it's our work to supervise the public servants, to start looking for people's work and to say the Chief Justice is clear," said Mabina, when he was the chairperson of CCM in Mwanza Province.
However, the current chairperson of ACT Patriots in Mwanza province, Anthony Mtaka, says that the party has already answered that decision by the former committee of Mabina since December last year because the mistakes that he is accused of having a political party and not about the party to take action.
