
Gola has been sent, "he has gone down.
By Martin Mwaura.
It shows that it was affected by 13,409 votes after more than 50 youths were mentioned and recorded, attacking health workers who have been on strike for a period of three weeks now.
They have participated in the stadium of the games of Ibanda Relini area and then spread up to the roads of that town, those attackers had weapons they tried to bring down the meeting of those health workers.
This is after the government of he said that he went to close their areas of work.
The workers have been employed for four years ago under the plan to stimulate the growth of the economy under a long period of time they have been putting up for a period of three weeks wanting to be employed for a permanent contract.
The conflict between the government of Buswelu Ilemela district and those workers may not be complete soon as a result of the government's step to be said to use hooligans.
Those youths, most of them being unholiness and the refugees who had qualified for their national leaders who were doing talks with the government of the country, he from that village.
Glawogger who is the youth carried posters with the procession before closing the main goal of the stadium, how many workers are to make demonstrations on the road.
After fighting for a period of one hour, those workers appeared to score the main entrance to the stadium but the attempt to hold demonstrations which were taken up by those youths who attacked the road by using a motorcycle riders.
Others celebrated their hands with an aim of preventing those workers.
Some of the youths were carrying stones and on the village, they were seen to shivered to the workers without the police to intervene.
According to one of the police officer, his officers were unable to intervene in that conflict, "since we were not found themselves in political issues," one person has been seriously injured in the head after colliding with a stone.
According to the chairman of the National Association of nurses (NRF), Jeremiah, says that those workers did discussions with the government on January 2nd, 2015, where they agreed on the plan to return to work which was supposed to sign.
But last Saturday, he was surprised by receiving a phone from the Governor of Ilemi ward, a message that those workers had been sacked by the government and therefore it could not be allowed to reach their work areas.
