
The speaker vying for parliamentarians.
APR of 18, 2013.

The issue of members of parliament to use the Taarab language in parliament, including abusive language, has taken a new look after the speaker of parliament, Anne Makinda to inherit the parliamentarians saying he will serve them outside the parliamentary seat in the police.
At the beginning of this week, several members of parliament were contributing to the debate on the budget of the Prime Minister for the financial year 2013 / 2014, found themselves using words that concern the rules of parliament such, "I cannot speak with a dog, but the council of ministers are criticizing and there are members of parliament who are not supposed to be held.
Those members of parliament are member of parliament for Kondoa town, Juma Noma, member of parliament for Mbeya Town, Joseph Mbilinyi, member of parliament for Nyamagana, Ezekia Wenje, and member of parliament for Iringa town, Pastor Peter Msigwa.
Speaking about the statement while running on Tuesday this week in Dodoma town where the parliament is going on with its budget sessions, Speaker Makinda said it is a shame for the members of parliament to use abusive language and questioned him, "Masau boasted.
Speaker Makinda reached the step of looking at a short message that was sent to him by one of the villagers of parliament who in his message he stopped not to view those sessions and the small businesses that are used by some members of parliament.
However, it's like the members of parliament have started to go back and continue with the parliamentary debates on the old Taarab group, after several people with their trend that came for the past.
About threats from the members of parliament with the bad behavior, the speaker said that the parliament will make sure that I do not get out (in the parliamentary hall) any member of parliament and later if you go down here (parliament), there is no appeal then I want to go down here?
The parliament for approximately three months now will also discuss, analysis and approve the revenue collection and use of various ministries.
