
Women don't visit Malawi.
Brightiles 21, 2013.

President Jakaya Kikwete has said the news that Tanzania is in the race to enter into war with the neighboring countries of Malawi and Rwanda, being a result of some opposition parties that want to use political problems.

Speaking in Malawi, at the end of the week, President Kikwete said that as the commander of the police force of Tanzania has never wanted his army to attack any country or to sit in a fight for war.

I am the commander in the police force in Tanzania I have never mentioned my army to resolve the fight for war and going to war. But I have never given those instructions, all the information that you missed to be true, "said Kikwete immediately after finishing his meeting with President Joyce Fissoo.

President Kikwete went to Malawi to attend a meeting of the heads of countries, members of the Southern African Community (SADC) that took place in Lilongwe town, Malawi.

That tour by President Kikwete was in a period in which two countries have been in fighting for words about the ownership of Lake Nyasa, Malawi claims the whole issue while Tanzania claimed to own part of the lake region.

Kikwete, through that meeting with the president's meeting, he assured the health that Tanzania does not have a plan of going to war with Malawi and that for a long time, it has been happy about the good relationship between those two countries.

Sources of this newspaper from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, explained that in that meeting between those two presidents, an important agreements were arrived at.

"First was the guest of honor to a special committee together between those two countries whose main aim will be to discuss what should be done so that the issue of Malawi has been done in peace.

I know I know the first meeting of that committee has been planned to take place on Tuesday this week, in the capital city of Malawi and after that other things will follow, "said the source of this newspaper.

Mke Mwema should be explained that many citizens of Malawi believe in Kikwete because of his habit, to call him, "my lady," every time he told him, an issue that performed well between those leaders.

"On the truth of Kikwete, Malawi had a great success, especially in the whole issue of relationship between our two countries, if you had promised them the two leaders should know what those countries are inspected or are in a big conflict, this newspaper has been told by one of the people of Diplomacy, who were present at the Kikwete convoy in that country.

In that meeting, the President visited President Kikwete for accepting to use his short time in his country to speak about the issue of Lake Nyasa to discuss various reports that were being provided through the media outlets claiming they will help citizens without reasons.

Same time, Malawi media stations have written the way leaders of SADC believe that they had appointed the presidents and Kikwete due to their conflict about that lake.

While opening that meeting, the former chairman of SADC, President Armando Guebuza of Mozambique, announced that those leaders have a job to start in the conflict between Tanzania and Malawi, and the president of Zambia, Michael Dearharm when he started fighting, we will be ready to receive refugees. "

Apart from those issues, the SADC meeting gave the chairmanship of Malawi, Joyce Fissoo, while President Jakaya Kikwete, while completing his report to be the chairperson of defense, political and security committee, Doctor Stellah Mgumia, the first secretary of the Ministry of Investment, Natural Resources and Industry, Peter Zito.

In another step, the resignation of President Kikwete of the chairmanship of socialism has been taken by the president of Namibia, Hanne-Para, to live in Tanzania as a political refugee and reports show that he was sent to Tanzania (Tanganyika) for the first time on 9th December 2014, a day that the country got its Uhuru.
