
29th October 2013.

I need to bring back.

Let us read about criminal activities, be dealt with.
Pamela Mollel and Goodluck Charles.
The Chairman of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA),.
Arusha, Mister Samson Jumbe has said that due to his integrity and love.
He has in the party, he has decided to release power for a period to pave way for investigation.
Against him.

Mister.
He said that in Arusha yesterday when speaking to the press.
Together with making heavy accusations against the senior leaders of that party.
Leave the power.

He said.
Those have shown weaknesses in the plans of that party to hold elections.
Emphasized to be the chairperson of that party, Mister Freeman Mbowe.
The work of led the party.

"The party.
He defeated in different issues including his operations due to the ability.
When Mbowe reached the end, the act of me gave the views of wanting Mbowe to return.
In that position so that he can remain with the position of the leader of the camp.
The opposition in parliament is seen to be accused of being traitors, "he said.

He added.
Being the previous days in Karatu town, Arusha Province, Mister Mbowe.
The officer for him is the secretary general of that party, Doctor Wilison A. Slaa claiming that he will be.
The presidential candidate of the party in the year 2015, but he was not found.
That is accused among the members.
Speaking about the scandal of his skill.
His position on claims of giving various information of the party, he said.
The council of leadership in the northern region does not have the authority to kill him.
That position as the executive committee of that party.
"I left work with a salary of shillings.
19 / 9, the United Nations Refugees Organization (UNHCR).
The love that I wrote through CHADEMA.
"I ever met?
In addition to being jailed for seven days from my stand of encouraging.
The truth, "said Mister Rished.
However, he said she is the leader.
Inside that party, she has written many articles more than any leader.
To encourage the changes but up to now he is sentenced to his stand.
The changes of the leaders that showed him to lead the party has reduced.
The session of that council was attended by all members of parliament.
The concerned, including the chairman of CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe took place.
Arusha.
He said the allegations against him are used.
Some of the leaders of the party including the Deputy Secretary General, Zitto Kabwe.
Apart from the party and explanation that, those allegations are bad thoughts.
Political.
"We were in the sitting, I saw the mud.
The member of parliament for Arusha town, Mister Godbless Lema, after that, on the red carpet.
The party member of that party, deserted me before Mister Mbowe, the chairman of the party.
In the northern region, Pastor Israel hope, he stopped and said that session is postponed.
They want to discuss.
"The member of parliament Lema has no wonder, where she is wrong, she called himself.
Since he has been a habit of hating some of the leaders of that party including me.
While its education is small, he said.
He said at the building of that party.
His resources without depending on his family right and explaining that, Mister Lema.
The real member of the party.
He added that he is a member of parliament.
A clean Tanzanian is one of her country and a party.
His so as the leaders of the party.
Allow you to use rice for the things that happened, they should be forced to him and even to be taught.

CHADEMA lead you.
Speaking to the Majira newspaper, information officer.
CHADEMA, Mister Tumaini Makene, "said the incident that occurred in Arusha town.
Causing Mister should be stopped by the leadership, it does not have any relationship with Mister.
Mbowe is.
He said that council of leadership made a emergency decision.
As a result of Mister Putin to break the regulations, ethics and constitutional procedures.
The party because the authorities have.
"The leaders of CHADEMA are the police who raised the police.
He cannot sing a man after confessing to being being accused of fighting.
Himself by the thumb print on the session that stopped him, he did not be there.
"You cannot make sure the foundation should be the anthill.
What is explained about this issue is only one against the chairman of the party.
For we we see the evidence of the most popular pictures of the video, "he said.
He added that.
In that session there was no violence but after Mister Trump was told to be told.
Outside and being unable to do that, that is when they were called police for security.
His own history.
