
The fate of the private candidates Court of May 25th, 2012

The Tanzania High Court has apologized to the government's request to open the appeal case about the private candidate, so as to urge the referral hospital to announce that the High Court has no authority to destroy the constitutional provisions and to allow the private candidate for the presidential elections in the country including parliamentary and presidential elections.
The judgment of wanting that government's request was given by Judge Augustine Shosho in the High Court, April 30th this year, following the case number 10 of the year 2005 with Pastor Christopher Mtibua and the attorney general of the government in the Tanzania High Court, Dar es Salaam.
In that judgment, his fellow citizens have succeeded to get its own kind, Judge Shprygin is saying that, the reasons given by the side of honor has noted that the existence of mistakes on time was given to the judgment, a situation that led to the side of the attorney general of the government to be unable to submit it in order to appeal.
"In his brief statement, the attorney general wants the court to accept his request to believe that there is a very big issue that concerns the constitution, an issue that needs to be given weight and be considered as a referral hospital.
"The Referral Hospital is supposed to decide as the High Court of Tanzania has, the strength of announcing that the sections of the constitution is not legal (it is not known)," says Judge Shangani.
In deciding, he says, "on my opinion, I think the applicant from the government) has given enough reasons to be given a time to open the appeal notice outside the planned time by the court.
"First, the applicant has made a appeal notice within the time and that appeal was opened inside a period after getting documents to the court for the purpose of voting.
"These documents are of one of the judgment and an order given by the problem is that one of the judges in that case caused the mistakes of putting up on the certificate of an order which was different from the judgment, an issue that had caused a appeal at the referral hospital.
Therefore, I think that the applicant (appeal) is not supposed to be blamed for those mistakes I have mentioned in the court (high court) outside the applicant from the applicant, "says Judge Shosho in the judgment that now has given permission to the government to open an appeal.
More news just reaching us from our media sources explained that the government has already presented his appeal at the Court of Appeal, urging the court to announce that the high court has the legality of the proposed constitution not legal as required by the judgment about allowing the private candidate.
That situation has now put the fate of the existence of a private candidate in the country as the hands of the referral hospital.
If the panel of judges of the referral hospital will decide that the High Court has requested the authority to announce some of the sections of the constitution to be careful so that its meaning is that private candidates will be permission to be there.
But as a panel of the judges of the Court of Appeal will decide to be the High Court did not have the strength of announcing that the sections of the constitution is clear so that as a result of the government, it means that it will be banned for a private candidate.
The analysis of political issues in the country believe that if the referral hospital will not implement the previous court of the High Court, then the Revolutionary Party (CCM), will be in a difficult time in the general elections of the year.
Some of the members of parliament may compete for the parliamentary seat through any political party and instead they were standing in the presidential race like private candidates.
However, the effects of the private candidate in accordance with the analysis of things can't understand by an extent of running the presidential candidate in the year through CCM, who is expected to be President Jakaya Kikwete, due to the existence of open symptoms of CCM members and senior officials who want him to vie for that seat.
President Kikwete has not been affected by that situation as a result of the fact that he had already sent the party's network and other security agencies which will be his head leader even in the voting day.
