
Mke Mwema should put inspiration of contract to extraction, and will not turn up on October 25th, 2012.

The scandal of mining minerals of Tanzania will not return home in Mariana Village, Same District, Kilimanjaro Province have taken a new look after emerging the controversy after emerging the controversy about the legality of the Willy M Company to continue producing those minerals.
The two statements associated to the national leaders are the ones that prove that the conflict between the decision made up between the director of National Social Security Fund (THRDC), Bonaventure Baya and the minister of state, Office of the Vice President (environment), Doctor, while dancing with Huvisa.
Previously, Baya told our writer of that company that has been allowed to continue producing those minerals but later, the minister, Doctor Huvisa told the writer that there is no supply that is going on.
The minister, Doctor Huvisa added that his position explains that the previous reports from managing director of TPA, when he spoke with our writer this Monday, emphasizing that the orders from the extraction of the company is still there.
The government stopped the mining of those minerals from June 27 this year, by the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda to speak to members of parliament during the parliamentary session that the government through Skype.
Pinda said he was quoted saying that the honorable speaker, moreover, the legal action have been taken against the destruction that emerged as the government has stopped all activities of mining mining of Bungado (1 / 10 / 2015) from 10 / 10 / 08 / 2016 from 10 / 10 / 09 / 2016 from 10 / 19 / 10 / 09 / 2015.
Robert Mtunguja was aimed at having three companies that were apprehended in Mariupol City and Mhungula ward, the two companies are Willy M and Halima Mchoma, who had been the member of parliament of those bulls in Arusha).
Furthermore, in insisting the importance of that directive, the Prime Minister through his secretary Pel Lyimo wrote another letter on July 5, this year, he wanted to know the steps that were taken in the implementation of his directive.
In that letter that has a total number 1 / EAGI and 349 / 1 to the secretary general, the office of the Vice President, Solo Salula says "I would like to get a confirmation like the mining that has been presented after the ban."
However, in addition to all the efforts, the Prime Minister explained that the committee of experts and government officials met on Friday (July 20) last week in Same and requested the members of Willy Enterprises LTD to be allowed to continue with the mining activities.
That committee which however has not been established through instructions of who was created by delegates from Buguruni, Department of Energy and Minerals.
Other delegates of that committee are the district commissioner together with the member of parliament of Same East, Anne Kilango.
The reports indicate that before doing the session and to reach the decision of allowing the mining of continuing, the committee visited the mining area while they were accompanied by the investor from complaints from citizens regarding the destruction of the environment.
"Later the committee went to do a last session in the office of the head of Same District, Herman Kapufi added that the delegates were seen to have been redeemed by the investor so as to agree that the project continues," he explains our news reporter.
In that meeting, it is alleged that he does not have a problem with the member of parliament of Same East, Ann Kilango, he said he does not have a problem with that project and "noise" in parliament were for political parties, then his voters would have reduced its faith in him.
Kilango is alleged to be close to the investor for now contrary to his previous motion in parliament about that project.
The claims by the committee that even so it has not been established through consent of who in the government for wanting the mining activities to continue having the truth, especially by considering the statements by the Director of TGDC, Bonaventure Baya said that Tanzania has ratified the mining of minerals to continue.
Speaking to our reporter through the phone on Saturday (July 21) last week, Dudu Baya said that he was the first he had returned from Burundi to work with the issue that was being dealt with by its officers and therefore it should be a phone after one hour.
After that time, the author met with him in those communication, Dudu Baya said it is true they have enabled that company to continue to build and he will not return to Mariamu Island.
He said the decision was reached after an appeal to the Minister for Environment (Doctor Huvisa) who also ordered him to address the complaints of that investor.
When he was asked by our writer about the instructions of the minister was in a short or not, the director was sent away and threatened to send phones by asking questions that he called "to get them."
"The issue of me speaking to Minister who is my boss did not know about it and not the issue of the news agency the ones that request him to ask questions, you want to continue with me tell you," said the director for and added.
"An investor from the minister (appeal) and the minister ordered them to urge others to ensure they feel problems and before the decision, the committee visited the quarry and inspecting the ongoing activities."
He said the committee revealed that the mining of minerals that are done outside the Tarangire National Park for Shanghai, therefore cannot affect the environment of that forest in any way.
"He also wanted the investor to have a contract with foreign companies (outside the country) and they've done the previous strategies, therefore the committee does not continue with mining while completing other primary procedures," added Baya.
However, in his talks with our reporter, Minister Huvisa said that he does not have reports of that committee because they have never been an appeal to the investor and information that claims that it was sent to him.
"First, these are the first reports I have heard from you, the decision to prevent the mining did not be avoided, and be satisfied that the project has no environmental effects."
That investor has never met with him in any way, what I remember is that there was a time when he wanted to come me and he told me, I saw him I have no need to meet with him but he will fulfill the way he is explained by the experts, "said Doctor Huvisa.
He said the government's stand is still there about that issue and promised to visit the area after being presented to the parliamentary sessions going on in Dodoma town at the moment.
"First I will follow it as the truth, those officers have enabled us to grow and have used the criteria but also I will visit the concerned area after the parliamentary sessions," he said.
In addition, in what seems to realize that, our writer led by the head of Same District, Herman Kapufi added that she was alleged to be the head of wanting that project to be discussed.
In those communication, he added that 'no' that was a session of the stakeholders who wanted to Willy China.
When he was asked that the author will know how he has no work so that they do not have a phone, that member of parliament answered me, "I have told me I am happy if I'm saying," and then give his phone.
More reports indicate that the leaders and the officers denied the decision on Monday night, after the Minister Huvisa started following up on that issue, shortly after our reporter to vote for him so as to know his stand.
"After knowing that they are followed up, they stopped their decision because they had planned to put him a letter to ask him to continue with the extraction, but now let me use it," explained our source.
But when those leaders are confused, about that project, the residents of Mariupol City have urged the government to take legal action to control its workers who want to find their primary complaints.
Speaking to our reporter, the coordinator of opposing the extraction, Allen Kuzilwa, said citizens are believed to have action against the government servants who change to become advisers, servants and employees of Willy M Tuva.
"We have had a lot of action against the government servants to assume our complaints and instead they have been accompanied by an investor who we are complaining," he said while now you will now mention those servants whose names are reserved for now.
He said their primary complaints are still the same way that the project has no benefit because the mountain has no benefit because the quarry takes place at the peak of Shangani areas, living under the mountain which has a history of landslides.
