
Almighty God is the Chinese and "a dummy check"!
Jide 25, 2012

Last week, the president of China, Hu Jilima has said again in Beijing the African Union in what is called the annual meetings between China and Africa (TCAfrica).
And if it was expected, the president wanted those African leaders "to ask you here, because China is a good friend" of the African continent.
With his own words, Hu Juffali, told the leaders recently, "it will be a good friend of Africa, it will be a good friend of Africa that his country has set aside 20 billion dollars for the purpose of giving loans to the countries of that continent for a period of the next three years.
And as it was expected, the President Hu Jomo, was surprised many by the African leaders!
Reports indicate that after the end of that meeting, the ministers of financial institutions of African countries started fighting and presented to the government of China, their projects they want to get money from those 20 billion dollars that are set aside for Africa.
Today, I want to discuss again this issue of African relationship (especially Tanzania), and China and asking them if it is true that China is our true friend as the president Him on how he started last week in Beijing.
My stand about this is not open, and I have not allowed me to return immediately and it is that China is not a true friend to the African continent, and that that was called donations or loans in this continent for the purpose of its industries.
Experience shows that many loans which China government provides in African countries it involves infrastructure (construction of roads, sports grounds, etc.
Experience shows that the tender of those projects are being taken by the construction company of China, right now there are companies of China's construction that are present in Africa their dues amounting to 300.
However, the construction companies, which comes in Africa having its obligations from China, have a big secret job and the work is that of doing illegal business with illegal drug abuse and minerals, especially gold.
Therefore, the Chinese companies have come out in Africa with construction equipment of the construction equipment with construction contract in several countries of Africa, are expected to return home in China worth illegal immigrants.
Various research reports have been issued, the thirst for China's thirst for poor land in the African continent for a period of two years next year, African countries mentioned affected more than DR Congo, Gabon, Tanzania and Mozambique.
This issue of how China has completed the East African Union (small African committee) and the president of the organizing committee of the illegal international trade fair (MARI), Allan Thanks, July 28, 2005.
In that report of the England organization's report (it is available in the picture) or understood well (PAD), which is the step of controlling it in China will be taken quickly, East African forest and the danger to be finished completely.
Unfortunately, the report did not be done on the case, and that is why the Chinese are continuing to improve the forest of the African continent including Tanzania.
We are concerned with the environment in Tanzania we should understand the way the Chinese are involved and affecting forests in several districts in the country.
With doubt and this person explained about the bad behavior of the Chinese to return to their records until October 2007, at the event where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, at that event, where the Ministry of Natural Resources and
However, in those minerals, the situation of those Chinese companies are the ones that are involved in the illegal minerals, especially gold, color, and bronze medals and such that I have explained the beginning, their participation in the attack has risen up to Gabon, DR Congo to Tanzania.
These Chinese have been involved in that dirty business without any fear because they know that our religious leaders will stop the eyes of fear to get billions of money for loans offered by their government!
And that is the reason for the year 2010, the Chinese company called Eucharist appeared to enter the district of Chunya District, Mbeya Province and defeated gold inside Zira and Lulanga without having any permit for our government to allow them to do so.
We thank the Chinese some of the Chinese people to do so when they get where and for sure, if it is not the courage of this newspaper to remove those drugs, the Chinese would have continued to withdraw our gold anywhere until today.
I have given one example, but it is a lot to confirm the Chinese's participation in the dirty and natural resources like the African continent with Tanzania with other words, what happened will be made by the Chinese in various parts of Africa.
Again, their participation in the illegal business in Africa has been the same way with the organization like Eme, BBC, and many reports have risen up on various environments of the environment, but our leaders have not seen.
Now, that is our country that his president, Hu Jomo, told our African leaders, last week, "China is a true friend of the African continent and is the true friend of the African continent and is a true friend of the African continent," what does it do to follow up and make sure the good use of donations and the loans he is doing?
Lastly, my aim is that China is not a true friend for the African continent, and not the true friend of Tanzania if he is giving us loans with donations and conditions, it's why our leaders will go back on the second side when his companies get pregnant in China.
For other words, what is retiring from China and it does not want to come from Africa, it is no other resources and not other resources and that's why China does not give him to be involved in good administration, human rights or the construction of democracy in the African continent.
For sure, China is continuing more than 70,000 countries and those involved in those things like DR Congo, Sudan, and etc, so that the environment is giving out his companies to resolve more opportunities and more resources for those countries.
And that is why the whole world was forced to listen to the killings of the black people that were done by Janvier Bonga who is in Sudan is silent because, at the whole world, the killings and war against themselves that are ongoing in DR Congo, China is silent.
To them (the Chinese) would like to cause violence in the match, those of DR Congo, Sudan, and others continue to continue having a good environment for playing their fights for resources of the African continent including Tanzania.
It is by knowing all that, our leaders were done, last week, in Beijing China decided to boycott the president Hu Juffali, said that China is a friend and the true brother to Africa!
Instead of our leaders who attended that meeting the last week in Beijing met the president Him on the behavior of China's behavior of finishing the forest of Africa and solving all our resources that they are just after they were told that they have been set aside from 20 billion dollars.
The poor and our leaders failed to abandon that what he has done by President Him on their marriage is "to play with them" what the British failed, "a dummy check."
By not understanding to them there, or I say you will qualify for that game, the Chinese are supposed to sell the minerals of the African continent for a period of two consecutive years!
We shouldn't agree that it will happen, and therefore we should be able to reduce their speed by scoring, the governor. "
It depends on.
