I don't know what I would like to tell me what I'm the secretary general he will go to ask him, he got the money to hold elections of his party, and you know that you can do so that he can do that, "then you know what he can do," the answer was given.
Ukawa will fall down and there is no longer.
Because of the increase in the union, you will fall down but now they are playing even with money.
I explained to Freeman Mbowe to go back, when he was born in Nairobi city with people from this, Domayo applauding his things since here is known to do things like him and he told them the full number of money when he had told them a full number of money when he had given out a lot of money.
I want you to click in the African Continent to be an inexhaustible speed, it is good and positive results for what?
Together with five delegates, it is banned.
And in Tarime, an explosion and remember it was?
Now, it is not true what is forced to pay my condolences and you're safe then you missed him in food because that it has been.
It is like the use of customers.
Again for being left with a habit of together with another, I was coming from where he is also the secretary general in the ministry, different from the secretary general of CHADEMA, Lumumba, different from the Secretary General of CHADEMA who has gotten a difference between them and other delegates got a difference, where other delegates had gotten a difference with the customer she will be careful.
And then they are saying that a new opportunity will help us say it is a good opportunity to help as we go hand in which we go and where we will see all Tanzanians therefore, they will see that we are involved with them and why you will remain with them because of time.
The implementation of the election manifesto.
If you want to test the six months you will see together with three people.
MASA is also.
But today.
Yesterday such attitude.
When her sister went through why do not hesitate to listen to the alcohol and five years, but I said they were thrown out that it has been able to inform them as they reduce them in the process of elections.
