
The towers to expand the communication market in the country.
It has been reported that the establishment of a company.
The Mobile Phone Company will be able to reduce operating costs.
Mobile phone companies in the country, so as to help bring relief.
Users of those phones.

Before that, all mobile phone companies in the country.
One was forced to build its tower which needs a big amount of investment.
Being together with the use of the air, security and other costs.
The operation was done.

That was noted yesterday by the director of sales and marketing.
Non-Kitunda Ward, Michael Magasha at the time he was speaking.
Journalists in Dar es Salaam city.
Dar es Salaam.

"That is where the free towers that come in.
You have ownership, follow up and make corrections, that can be used by many companies.
Mobile phone at the same time and also even the advertisements for women, radio and agents.
The weather, "he said.
He said, the use of.
One is removing the burden of investment costs in the world as a result of the activities.
Others in the tower area.
He also said, a company.
Phones are getting an opportunity to direct more strength in the areas they would like.
To provide healthcare services and data.
"Many do not understand?
Our contribution in expanding the services of phone in Tanzania and Africa in general.
Non-communicable diseases are a big electrical company in the country, which is built more.
1000 megawatts of Tigo Tanzania.
In the year 2010, then it will build 500 towers and it is expecting to increase others.
150 by December this year, "said Magula.
Moreover, he said.
Two months ago, no other areas have been used together with phone companies.
It is 53 percent now and it is 60 percent of the new areas in the whole country.
Being happy to be a confirmation of the government to collect the Vodacom customers in Tanzania.

"We have been heard, couples claimed that, a company like Helena has no competition because they have been arrested.
A big one.
"This is not true.
Sure it is that Helena has been a catalyst to the existence of competition in the market.
Mobile services allowed the visitors to enter into the market and to give them an opportunity.
The services will take place in the villages without fear.
"In the end is the consumers.
That is always displeased with the cost of phones and choose the network.
They are inspiring.
However, he said.
To reduce the challenges of taking services to the rural areas that have no services.
Phones, previously the government gave a car that is known.
Universal Communications Service Access Fund (CAF) that is helping to reduce the cost.
To encourage the service providers to go to the rural market.
That action was presented.
The law of the sales of communication in the year 2006 with the aim of improving.
Social development and economy in the villages and villages through Skype.
He said that Helena has been on the race to put 27 machines under UCAF.
