Sports and apologized to the police in the Kinondoni region have continued to kick off in a total of ten teams that are in the police force as well as other security groups in Kinondoni District to give out this matter here is close to them.
Opening that competition, the deputy mayor of Kinondoni who is the poor, who was the guest of honor has said that the competition is not being built with cooperation between the police and the society is also alleged to be talents as a player can get employment.
He said that in making sure the rainy season has been set up to make the strategies to help promote talents in the country and to make sure that the areas have been set aside for the sake of the games they were handed over by the police commander of Kinondoni, Ludovick Utouh has confirmed to build cooperation in ending crime in the community as a way that have been given police in the provinces to be given.
Youths who are participating in the youths who are participating in the youths who are participating in good security to a musician who are participating in their areas without being involved in the ward because it is not a team that we want here to compete.
Being a great purpose of cooperating with security groups.
In six wards that was in Kinondoni District.
And so, those youths who are participating in the areas in this tournament are youths who come to the groups.
On the meaning that in the streets and different areas in Europe, Kinondoni District, the coordinator of the competition head of Kinondoni District, has said the first winner will emerge with a sum of one million Tanzanian shillings together with a gift of a cup.
We expect the first winner.
He will pay a sum of shillings one million shillings.
The second will pay a sum of five hundred thousand shillings.
And the third winner.
I think it?
A sum of two hundred and a half hundred thousand but also there will be there.
And we will also have another gift that is organized for best players.
Who had scored.
Players shows the discipline of the state.
From the city, Beatrice Singano so much.
