Try to refuse political parties inside the party is to maintain democracy.
Marion Moore (28, 2013.

In a session of CHADEMA's executive committee that took place on November 20th and 22, in 2013, together with other things, we have been discussed in a secret document that is known as the strategy of constitutional changes 2013.
This document intended to build a motion to make changes in leadership and to explain the strategies of victory to the third candidate in the general elections in CHADEMA. I think that I have heard this document, that I have participated in preparation for the top leadership of the party in the coming elections in the party.
Secondly, in the debate, the content of this document was seen to the delegates that it was a shortage and regulations made by the party's constitution and explained that I was ready to release my contribution as a normal member of the party and explained that I will continue to give my contribution as a normal member of the party and explained that I will continue to give my contribution as a normal member of the party and explained that I will continue to give my contribution as a normal member of the party and explained that I will continue to give my contribution as a normal member.
As a result of the journalists on November 22, 2013, together with other things, it was explained by the leaders of CHADEMA that I am my colleagues (TMF) and Zitto Kabwe, we consider the party and have done for treason for preparing a victory strategy to the candidate we would like to explain the following things.
First of first, I believe it is not good that to vie for any position that is open inside the political party including democracy and there is no way to prove out of democracy to the leadership and especially the top leadership in our party.
Secondly, I have never did not to participate in any actions of sabotaging my party and the activities of change in the country, this party really believe in a lot of good positions and if I would like, I was able to have a good opportunity to do that behavior.
I have participated in organizing the election manifesto of 2010-2015, to coordinate the year 2010, as the vice chairperson of the campaign under Professor Rogassian Mahunnah and I have participated in the party activities in a high level but I have never been handed the person a lot of love to CHADEMA because it is the party that is supposed to lead the activities of change in the country at the moment.

Third, I am happy that I have caused disruptions to my leaders of CHADEMA, due to my intention of wanting change to the leadership inside our party through legal way, including democracy, and my faith that this party requires huge changes in the general elections of the party, being important preparations towards the general elections of the year 2015.
Nasinsisted that I did not know even a little that the love for the leadership in the party, and to prepare strategies to reach those love for a democratic way, treason.
Four, we can learn from history of competition of competition inside the parties in this country is not foreign affairs and before Tanu was born (1954), there were a very few votes for the chairperson's position through the Democrat party earlier on the year 2006 through a special document to defend his strategies.
