
TFF let me feel bad decisions in sports.
Last week the match of the FA Cup semi-finals between the Coastal Union and Yanga that took place at the National Stadium to pray for Tanga city, invaded before the time due to the reason of violence that are believed to be done by the Coastal Union.
Those fans started chaos claiming that a person who decided to fly him at the field is he's tired to see that his team is affected by the bad decision of time to time.
On that logic, it is a must that our referees to guide the referees as they continue with Yanga, the committee of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF).
It said by considering the regulations of 28 (2) of the Federation Cup (FA) that the match is being beaten, Yanga was leading by 2-1 goals.
Basically, the committee announced the Coastal Union lost that match after his fans became the source of the referee to break the game and fined 42 million shillings in accordance with the 42nd regulations (13) of the premier league due to lack of violence in that match.
Apart from that team, TFF has been banned from one year at the referee of that game, Abdallah an analyst while the assistant referee number two Charles Simon was removed from the referees of the referees.
Basically, here there are two things we are seen to play for the referees and fans together with TFF to give those punishment to the referees, he doesn't know if fans would decide to sit down and other things like it could be keen to the referees.
The referees have been suffering from every time as a result of being unable to conduct well, lack of reputation and sometimes it is possible that she deserves for the instructions and failing to give justice.
It is possible that those fans of Tanga have been doing such actions as a result of the trend of the referees being bad, many are believed to have reduced sports as a result of being keen.
The decision to be done because it seems now they have been the source of looking for matches or fans lost good flavor and believe that a match is not driving the winner while due to the bad decision.
The committee of referees and other media stations have no reason to take action against each time when challenges arise in a bad state so as to reduce the possibility of the increase in violence and also protect the game not to continue getting good flavor.
Soccer without the fans is not possible, but the decision may not be any reason for fans to take action against the law, the referee is what is supposed to be very close to those fans apart from events.
Also, the referees have the ability to interpret the laws of football when he knows it and those times the fans are not in right time and many times all pictures of television have confirmed that the referees are not correct for many times more than the thoughts of viewers.
It is good for fans to be calm and to see the referees that they do their work without pressure and when it is seen, there is a decision of controversy, it is a responsibility of leaders to present their complaints they have attached it and the illustrations for the steps to be taken against the concerned referee.
Also, the statements by coaches and club leaders before and after the match is faced with the fans of violence, even when the team that supports him have been successful in games.
TFF has no longer be careful with the leaders and coaches of this way to protect the game.
