
The Bongo flavor artist, reading her child in Stand United.

The beauty who was involved in several video of Bongo Fleva artists, including the form one song that was mentioned by Jichunge.'

The surprising incident that happened recently at the regional bus station, Ubungo in Dar es Salaam city where the child was defeated by a good Samaritans.

While you have narrated that the whole tragedy happened, the son of the child who introduced himself by one name (Monbusho Scholarship), he said as a family, I was hurt me and action done by the Maasais.

"Maasais' and my brother who lives in America, has been a lot of you by using the money for the use of time to time after the reason is that brother told the citizens of Bukoba (home to the father of the child) he raised me, and he told him, he will go to Arusha (home) and they go to Bukoba.

"We think about understanding but not in Arusha town and there are people who seen him in one club from Dar es Salaam city, to build a brother when he stopped him," he wanted to fly him from Bukoba to our mother (first of the child) but he wanted to fly him by using him, "said Philippe Dongier and added.

"He met with that Doctor, then he will be left to the number of mother and her mother so that they can communicate and receive the child in Bukoba.

By bad luck the same day, the matt was competing until the day I followed the child he started fighting the whole day without a good work.

"It is good when one woman does not look for good Samaritans who made it up and not seeing the mother of Bukoba, then he met with him, because he had a journey to go there in the next day, he decided to take responsibility of traveling with him."

We were unable to give a phone number of someone who wanted to travel with that child, when he was called, he asked him to be so much.

I am like a parent and I am very happy to see a small child when we are looking at the stand without knowledge, I was surprised so much to see the mother who went to "mystery" which can let me see her child as they love me, "he said.

Shot himself as the biological father of that child, Justine Joseph who lives in America where he said, "the issue has been impressed me so that if I were at home (Bongo) I could make sure he will support that woman through the law.

I thank you to hear that my son was brought back to Bukoba. "

When the child's mother, when I was called me, after confessing that he has never seen a child from Ubungo Plaza and also he does not have a child and she has never been able to give birth to all his life.

When we ask for them to go around the day before yesterday, the news that are in our media stations were saying that the beauty is looking for her a mother to stop her and investigate it.
