Kili Challenge is the premier league in that disease.
Petit 17, 2015.

Last week, sports lovers and entertainment got an opportunity to witness the important events of the year which will involve the awards of awards.
It started an award ceremony of awards for best athletes that did well in the Mainland Tanzania Mainland Premier League, in the 2014 / 2015 season.
After those awards that were given out in a way that many soccer stakeholders failed to know especially those criteria used to get the winners and even the competitors in those awards.
A big percentage of the winners of those awards has left many questions that in details which are primary, where the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) needs to work on if one way of improving.
But this issue of TFF comes to the awards that happened to some of the stakeholders during the time of giving out the awards for the best players in every month, where it was unable to ensure that those awards are going on for the players that are evident.
There is a problem that TFF and its partners who are participating in the official process of looking for best athletes not to know.
Soccer game is a game where its results are seen in the field due to the performance of the concerned player, when they left the fanaticism because the best player will be seen to start at the field and not through other plans.
For example, when a certain player is a good goalkeeper, one must be one of the criteria that will be required to have its ability to prevent his goal and also has played a well-goals because some of the other factors can be following, but they must be for primary as a result of that player.
The same way for a good coach, it is a must they be looked at when that team was in that position after there was a team that has emerged the team has emerged a team that has emerged victorious, that is another one who can leave many questions that do not have answers.
Sometimes the TFF is seeing that there are some of the sections they have no sportsmen that were given those awards, they can stop up until the following season so as to give those awards to those who have a lot of questions.
For example, why is the award for the best administration of Mo Blog which is given out by presidents who have retired from several years after lack of people with criteria?
There is no leader who was given that award in the year 2009, 2012 and 2013 of the year 2012, Mo Ibrahim the United States of Sudan, who invented the institution said, the committee decided to give an award to any of the awards after lack of someone with the criteria.
TFF has a need to reach this decision if there are some sections that will loose the competitors with their reputation.
While there is still the award for those awards as part of the soccer stakeholders, to break another debate at the Kili Base, popularly known as Kilimanjaro Tanzania Music Awards.
The awards which are taking place every year with the aim of rewarding the musicians who did well in the year 2010, happened for Saturday last week at the Mlimani City hall in Dar es Salaam.
Some of the stakeholders who saw those awards are saying that they are not a new system, more than continuing to give awards to musicians who are the norm for many years.
But the biggest challenge facing the organizers of those awards is the process that is being used to get winners where the fans has called those who feel that they have the ability to take those awards through different sections.
The gospel musician in the country like Cosmas Chipata says that as the situation is now, those awards are not supposed to be called music awards, instead they should be called for music singers.
He says that until now, the best musician is supposed to know a lot of things in music and not just singing.
Minister Ally is a musician of the old music artist of the Dansi Bongo Fleva, who is seeing the issue of changing the voting system by giving an opportunity to various groups of people, can contribute to improve the competitions and especially in getting best winners and not best winners.
The voting process known by that veteran is to have certain percent of votes from special groups that have an expert in music, including journalists, sports and entertainment.
