
Friday, 7 September, 2012

Best farming.

Nuts, it is one of the crops that provide oil in this Tanzania branch, Dodoma and Morogoro provinces together with providing fuel because their products are used in other different ways, which are together with.

1 trillion shillings, food and animals.
2 - it was introduced himself.
3 - a human being of human food (Constituent).

In general, this is used by farmers such as business.

The real situation.
Nuts, the branch well in the areas that are in the neighborhood is under 1500 meters from the sea in Tanzania, and spread more branch in areas that have the average of an average of an average of Sh. 1200 for the year.
Likewise, if the nuts do not participate in the white house, it is advised not to prevent each other in a sharp object (a red carpet) this is due to the reason that, nuts you don't have licenses in the same parts of water, and the soil must have a loss.

Type of nuts.
There are two best five types of nuts that have been issued to the farmers here in the country.

A Prize.
It was given to farmers in 1950.
Long-term benefits (Virginia Sakali.
It takes a period of 120 days a total of 140 billion shillings from which is mature and has an ability to provide 1000 tons by hectares of goods is big and they have a red carpet.

B is a star.
It was given, 1983.
The short periods of a short time (at least cost).
It takes a 90-100 days since planting up to mature adults, it has the ability to give an average of 1500 kilograms of hectares or cows that are small, and color of soil.
This type of seedlings have a habit of starting to go back to the farm, just when it is mature, therefore it is important to hear them early in mature adults.

C by Johari.
He was given in 1985.
The high risks of the middle is Virginia Sakali.
It takes 60 days of 120 days since the beginning of harvesting its seeds that are big and they have color of soil (Tan). It has the ability to give an average of 1000 shillings per hour.

G, Pendo Elisha.
He was given in 1998.
The short distance of a short time (at least less than 100 days since planting up to mature adults it has the ability to give an average of 1500 insurgents, which is difficult, therefore it is important to take them back on the farm, therefore it is important to leave earlier on earth.

E is complete.
He was given in 1998.
The high risks of the middle is Virginia Sakali.
It takes 60 days of 120 days since the beginning of harvesting its seeds that are big and they have color of soil (Tan). It has the ability to give an average of 1000 shillings per hour.

Together with the seeds that were mentioned, there are many other types of indigenous (local governments) that are used by farmers in various parts of the country.

The production of light.
The farm will prepare well to enable soil to get into the water and take them easily.

The production production.
The nuts that are allocated to the seeds that will be offered by the foundation has been thrown out by the festive season and to be elected as the winner after being elected to obey them, types of medicines for every 10 kilograms of medicine for every 10 kilograms of clean water.

During the tree.
The decision to choose a good time for planting is that will enable that product to be taught during the end of the last rains and delay in planting, reduced and it is important to choose the type of seedlings to be used by the border in that area of weather.
In the provinces of Lindi, Mtwara and Ruvuma, the first half-term and long-term, (Johari (MSCL) from center, up to the end of December, till the end of December, to the end of December until middle of January.
For the provinces of Tanga, Morogoro, and areas of Dodoma Province, the nuts to be held earlier on the beginning of the long rains. (February / March).

More positions for plants.
It is advised to rise the nuts in the verses of a position among the verses and 50 to 10 to nuts, which are planted on the age of 90, 75 percent of medicine is used for one hectares.

To the nuts that are there in the group D / Valencia, (do not depend on), the position between cement is 50 to 10 kilograms of plants, a total of 10 kilograms of cement is used for more than 10 kilograms of cement, at all over 80 percent, in every hole.

He does not know.
Following the trials that were seen to be the nuts you have done well under the small levels of Stephano Cosmas (Tanzanian P), helps to maintain natural fertility so as to reduce maternal deaths, so as to use abusive language, so as to use abusive language.

How does it mean?
The nuts to the left are young while in the farm that was organized well and all the long-term weeds, can compete well, and can compete with the weeds after giving flowers when the nuts do not participate, this can reduce the user.

Diseases and pests.
1 -.

(I) that disease is dangerous to you (in the picture).
In the condition of a lot of lot of evil to them, the case of us all of us us to grow inside the air and attacking the nuts.

What should I do?
To make sure that the nuts did not be covered in danger.
To make sure the nuts do not be aired well (type of 10 percent) before taking care for.
They have forgotten the teeth of planting, obey you, non-communicable diseases.

(Second), the disease of natural resources and Human Rights Center (Cedars-Spohr, and Rhema Trust.
These diseases cause loss of color to have fallen from BADEA.
Misuse of these diseases are three types of diseases.

(A) CPA) in his soul in loam soil.
(B) Pickup, will not look at least they sign when he likes of Lekule.

Emanueli Imane's disease were seen, but all two diseases can come out on the farm from 3-5 weeks after planting trees.

(C) Pickup,, it is disdain.

Prevent you.
He got a rise in early.
He used to keep away from nuts when the drought season.
There are use drugs of China, Othman, a billion (Dacos).

The medicine is placed on a total of 6 hundred thousand shillings in 800 liters of water for one hour, every after seven days, for a few days since 1988 was the symptoms of the disease they are seen.
The investigation on the kind that contribute to the availability of these diseases is still ongoing at the agricultural research center, Nthepheya.

(III), Rosberg, (FGM).
This disease do not have been infected and pest, "oil" he hurts me (he is not married), plants which have been identified by this disease, those whom they were affected by this disease, those whom they were affected by this disease.
The disease of Rosary (5).

Prevent you.
He got a rise.
See Junction, your eyes on the farm on a close position.
While Pales and gave birth on their knowledge.

(IV), the disease of non-communicable diseases (NOLA).
Nuts that were approved by this disease, are usually paid the seedlings and non-communicable diseases, this disease is usually caused by the lack of minerals of Celine Itatiro (not pictured) in soil.

Prevent you.
Use Celine Itatiro has been started in a state house (Ca 4) in plants or put in soil) in soil before planting, this disease is in the southern provinces of Tanzania (Lindi, Mtwara and Ruvuma) and fail to be very long-term nuts.
Trials here in Tanzania has not yet confirmed that putting him (LSE's) to be the right answer to fight with this disease, but in order to reduce, early it is important.

2 - a pest.

(I) oil is a problem or "oil" (he is not married).
You will die with each other, every season, but their major cause is in spreading the disease of Rosberg, while during the heavy rains, it was eliminated from the leaves, thus he didn't know the effects.

Prevent you.
He got a rise.
Look at a close nuts.

(Second), most of the boxer Hilda Ngaja.
You will inform you, "He hurts me," and the young man, therefore causes a loss of diggers, therefore there is wrong-communicable diseases, therefore, there is need to test for instance, therefore, there is need.

Prevent you.
There is a big farms, it is advised to use the type of Alice for the age or a bus that will be avoided, mix up in land before planting.
Repeat the sprinkling of DPO is getting just immediately and when they are seen.
A person getting confused by the farmers or a human being in one farm and nuts.

(5) Mchaga.
There are two types of termite who fail to fight and caused the destruction on the nuts.
The first kind is that those who haven't revealed some of the lower parts of the taproot or produce pit latrines and are usually stuck on the nuts of the nuts when all of them were on the farm.
The second kind are those who affect the branches that are affected or selling, this destruction appears to be used in the new farm, by getting married, and causing a lot of nuts to remain in the farm during harvesting time.

Prevent you.
Mchwaa will be filled by using drugs of the type of 38,905% of flour, with a sum of 25 kilograms of 5 billion shillings per liter, it is easy to look for drugs and NGOs (Tanzanian P or SSP) or passport.

(IV) being transferred.
You will end up so much, when we start to take them, and when they are coming down.

How to transporting it.
There are using drugs of manslaughter.
Nay wa Mitego.
It gets a gift from the explosion that they had flooded.

(Us).
If it put it, the plane especially scientists are supposed to be very attractive, before planting, when those start to grow, come back and when they have already brought down there.

What should I do?
See for using a trap.
If you appear.
When you put him (not allowed me) to hang or put up on a carcass is a carcass in the future of the world.

Listen to the chest and environmental degradation.
A lot of nuts, it is hard work, one person can be filled with 12 kilograms of 15 per day and even if the nuts you are determined here in the country, should simplify work, but the precaution should not destroy the nuts.
The nuts intended to be taken care for a long time, will take care of them in the fashion model that produces energy and stable, a strong desire to prevent drug abuse as well as the capacity of the nuts you start from the schedule.
