A message was the main council of national leadership and its director on the picture with any report from the party of the citizens, to give birth of hunger and we have begun the process of starting a new political party or not a member of parliament and Zari unblocked the membership.
Hamad Rashid Mohamed within the building was a situation that was their own and membership position within the beginning of starting from starting a party that he has explained and will help to get a solution to the problems of citizens.
I am after these big leaders.
I have been able to ask for advice, why do you know that we should have been put through another party.
And in the advice it is complete if it is a good thing for the time when you are with a big party.
If you are.
How is it?
There are a big number of members who have paid up and fish you must be when they are going.
Look for many party members they were waiting to have a phone company.
, I went to him where we would like to see if you're going on with the content.
And in view of many Tanzanians to be assisted to see that opposition parties have not been done well in taking the party's stand.
Speaking in that interview you had a lesson in the city that was released, finally some of the members denied their positions.
The two member of parliament who also ever been a opposition leader in parliament has claimed that politics is a political party which is currently enough to reduce.
The party of the process seems to be open if there is a big issue and leadership and that's why they see leaders not knowing they were not the main council like a candle to get a person immediately.
And the system of time to time but for so as to be able to be.
It seems openly that as a memory and the leadership because of the reason why they are lucky to start eating the nation.
And we saw it you can eat the nation just after his charges we decided to wake up and he dies.
Six years but the law does not recognize the corruption, this one is requesting the basis of a very legal thing on how to get married and you must get a chance to be heard, they cannot get a chance today to be prepared and look for players.
