
Thousands of traveling are Coast following a shortage of tourists.
By Mathias Chikawe.
The workers of the Coastal Union about 4,000 have lost employment as a result of a huge shortage of tourists.
This is as a result of the season of few tourists due to the effects of transport services that were donated by the British nations, America and other African countries, for their citizens.
Due to the caution of transport, 700 tourists from England were killed from the Coastal Union and return to their homes.
According to the head of tourism of Ukraine, he from one of the children, Mister Adam Sheikh, approximately 1,500 workers have lost employment due to the effects of the season of few tourists and a lot of transport.
Others being supported Mister Sheikh said that some of the hotel that, last, due to the shortage of tourists include Khajida Kopa, Leaving Examination, Lakonko District and Navi.
The hotel that are still open in the country, warned the number of 10 percent from the tourists from England who were killed from the Coastal Union.
Apart from various employees who have lost employment, he said that business people who depend on tourists are also faced with lack of customers.
Mister Sheikh said that use of fish, meat, chicken, vegetables, fruits and other products at the moment their businesses have been affected by the shortage of tourists.
The tourism sector, he said that it may not be affected so that the tourists from England have been closed down from November.
"More than 1000 workers have lost employment but thousands of business people who depend on tourists also do not have business," he said.
"Due to the caution of transport offered by the Western nations, the number of visitors has reduced from 30 percent to 10 percent," he said.
The benefits of employment for the chairman of the Party for Women's Services in the country (ACTL), he from Kiliberali has said that approximately 2,500 workers in the Malindi Province and Bayern Munich have lost employment.
Mister secondary announced that a total of 13 hotel in the cities of Malindi and Bayern Munich, last due to the season of a few tourists.
Mister Majani has pointed out that the economy of that two cities has dropped from a huge shortage of tourists.
"Hotel of 13 which are members of the Revolutionary party in the last week, he from Kilumbi while thousands of workers were injured at home because of lack of its spherical guidelines," he explained.
According to the chief executive officer of the Coastal Union in the Coastal Region, that has given out some of the hotel that, last, in the cities of Malindi and Watford City, Kilongawima area, Kilongawima area, Kilongawima area, Kilakala Primary School.
