
The biological father to the ones that don't have to be self-reliance!
Brightiles 11, 2012

Now it is clear in the month you cannot get without our country to fight against corruption and you can say every month has its own kind of corruption.

The month of last month (for example) was a certificate of corruption (including the retired leaders) that benefited from billions of shillings in Switzerland Bank.
This month it is associated with the corruption of purchase of fuel that is facing TANESCO and illegal drugs that also involve the several members that are accused of blocking the funds of bribery and oil companies.
I don't have sure next month it is similar to our country that it has shaken our country, but I have sure that there will be only a style of our life that we have made in light.
I don't know my colleagues that you are meditating about this bad state of our country, but to me this situation makes a big issue to the way it is that we have begun to be chronic in corruption issues and this is not a good sign in our country.
I am saying we have begun to build yourself because they are eager to fight against corruption, and that is why it is possible that the death of one person did not affect the fear of others to complete (or investing their).
And this situation has started to be given up because of members of parliament (they are supporting laws) including fighting corruption, now they are the leaders of the same way.
On other words, the members of parliament who are the biggest of the citizens in wanting to know the government will stop well and corruption that are now entered to be leaders of corruption.
Again it could prevent the corruption in situation that destroy the ability to our citizens, especially the voters, those members of parliament who were seen in the parliament while putting off their health on corruption, and that they were the leaders of corruption.
These members of parliament, ensure, quills, hawk, parliamentary committees or public organizations (example TANESCO) or companies of oil or minerals, therefore, I can realize that "the fight against corruption in Tanzania does not recognize them," he insisted on the war, so it was "
Now it has been demonstrated that, they are complaining of noise against corruption not because they do not know the truth or not because they are not having integrity, but it's because they want them to change the council, public organizations, oil companies, tourism and tourism companies.
In recent days, for example, we have met the news of a young member of parliament who was allowed to be honest and the popular person being used by corruption in TANESCO.

In addition, we had explained the reports of several members who want to work for the district councils and to ask for bribes because one already has a case in court for asking for bribery of one million shillings.
Most of us have been asked to remember the reports of the former secretary general of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, David Jairo, who received the parliamentarians on bribery so as to defend his ministry during the start of the budget.
Furthermore, we had heard every kind of reports on corruption that concern them including our parliamentarians.
Outside the parliament-parliament, that is in the government, public and private companies, Ney s, the mining sector, tourism, and the situation is so bad and again there is a huge corruption.
I would be emphasized to again that this fight against corruption have not been true and therefore we cannot be true and for sure, now I start getting doubt if this war got that after Mwalimu Nyerere and Edward in the coming from.
These are the current people who came out for the recent years and we believe that it is supposed to destroy the truth of this war, it has shown that they had given it.
"I went to Toto" only.
Take a example of Jemes Salaam, President Jakaya Kikwete, this one we have heard for a long time when he was opening his long time when he was opening his big step or even take any great action (difficult decisions) to deal with these drugs.
We did not meet Kikwete while opening his song even when the report of the Central Bank of Switzerland mentioned Tanzania to be one of the countries whose leaders have been injured billions of money in the bank's accounts of that country.
Therefore, when I say you should be this war against corruption in Tanzania does not have a true militants, or to recognize the truth, what is my meaning.

On the other side, even the government has not been unable to inform the public if it is fighting for this war, most of the war has been unable to fight against corruption and not the stomach, who are the cancer that are not aware of this nation.
Several months ago I wrote on this column that it does not have the ability to follow up and take them to court those suspects who were billions of money from those banks in Switzerland. I urge them to be washed away from outside the banks in Switzerland.
But the chief boss, Doctor Edward Hosea, said that she was not satisfied with my statement, and in an interview with one television, he told me that I did not understand the performance of that organization and wanted them to change him in his office, "insisted me."
In that interview, Doctor Hosea, gave us hope that his organization will be repeated on the issue of esa Ward that was held in Switzerland, however, up to now two months have been made to the public and not.
And that is why my stand is the one that our organization does not have the treasurer to resolve the big corruption issue and to reach a good end!
If the organization would have been able to have the ability, maybe it would have been a good end in the issue of corruption scandal, which had reached even a step of paying for a book and an international owner!
I have heard that, I am heard more when I am heard more, those who were unsatisfied with the others and not itself being the first to return with those stickers.
For example, they were unblocked and said that several ministers have reduced it but also several ministers never been forced to court for the purpose of getting them in court, there was no evidence that it will open them with the aim of getting them in court.
However, recently they were untested on corruption of the purchase of oil in TANESCO, where we've heard this issue in conjunction with the suspects.
In that trend, a person who decided to ask him that it does not be for all the time and fail to be first to remove those who were unsatisfied and why the public did not have a good end or good results for their investigation?

It's not my intention to blame it, for sure, he accused the existence of a good performance in the country that has put aside corruption to the high level of decisions, it is not good for justice.
We have decided to accept the culture of corruption in all our parts of life, and we have already made a habit of not seeing them to give them the corrupt people (to give them an entrepreneur) to an extent that this problem has become a big challenge that is causing a lot of problems.
The community has thrown out the family level of the father's father to the ones that don't have to be self-reliance because the father are the ones that we don't ask for him, she has got the money to buy a luxurious home vehicle.
And the child who is the field does not ask her child when he got the money to buy a car, a model or Vogue in her a few years just at work.
The same way, the administrator to go into power through corruption can't understand why his minister is participating in corruption and they should not affect the members of parliament from his party as they see and there to ask for bribery at the destruction that he bought in oil, minerals, and others.
That is why corruption has called Tanzania and there is no supply of asking each other.
And we should not be a shop, corruption that will be your legacy of us for the future generations.
In the gospel musician (6-44), it has been written today, "a good tree give birth to bad luck, or a bad tree does not give birth fruits, but this day you will not have fruit juices.
I conclude on my point by saying that, when we are going on in town, every month we come with a huge loss of corruption but the cup will be buried and we were waiting for again next month, while waiting for another one to be approved by the artist's style of building the commission.
My brothers, our house (Tanzania) is dirty, and it needs to be satisfied and I don't have sure that your child (CCM) and his government is the one who doesn't know it and is not true!
It depends on.
