
12 November 2013.

I think of Speaker Makinda of parliament.
He has said that CCM cannot remove its obligations in parliament.
Come back to its stand for the signing of votes.

.
Suleiman Abeid, Nzega.
Member of parliament for Nzega.
In Tabora Province, Ditopile, Hamisi Kikula has said that she still has an intention to present.
The argument of crows is in power, the speaker of B.
In parliament, Bihagaze, Ann Makinda, said he says that rumors has reduced that his argument has been removed from the directive.
The Revolutionary Party (CCM), has no truth.
Doctor Kigwangalla made those remarks at the end of the week.
The public meeting that involves the residents of that province and its neighborhoods held.
National Stadium of natural gas at that meeting, Doctor Kigwangalla was asked a question by a resident.
The council of that province.
Actually, he has the Adam's rib, who is associated with his party.

"The honorable member of parliament, I request it does not end if you have the ability.
Thank the speaker of parliament (Makinda), like it was announced.
The intention of contributing to private issues in parliament so that the parliament can succeed.

"By baptism it you do not know the procedure inside CCM, then you are not a god.
The cause of doing so, shows that it was very happy, "said the citizen.

That citizen added that, as usual CCM.
The procedure of preventing various steps that we want to be taken by members.
Therefore, he used by sending the Kigwangalla, to stop for themselves with that issue because he does not have the Adam's rib.
Bieldt.

Responding to the question, Doctor.
Kigwangalla said, it is not true that CCM has a procedure to remove your password.
What did not agree with where the issue of wanting to prevent Miss Makinda is inside.
His ability and explanation that, that argument has not been redeemed by the right now.
In the last step so that it can be connected to the Parliament.

"In this issue of preventing the speaker of parliament, I would tell you open that it is not good.
For sure that of the end of the report was presented by Bieldt.
Continuing with it because the issue has already been presented and I have presented all photos.

"This is when we talk about my motion ready to come out of action.
He was not only to meet and meet all the criteria now so that they can be able to take action in the committee of parliament.
The rights of justice, ethics and power of the parliament, will decide you to take my work to defend the parliament or get married, "he said.
.

He added that, after that, it will be welcomed Director Kato.
It is that argument being taken to parliament and he continues to official him in front of the parliament.
The decision by all the members of parliament for voting and if he will win or fail, that is an issue.
Another one.

Ditopile, Kigwangalla said that the decision to leave or not to leave the speaker.
We should depend on the decision of his fellow members and insisted that CCM cannot prevent it.
That without being given a decision by all members of parliament.

Responding to a question that deals with money for tax for services.
And the gold mine of Geita Gold Mine, located in that district, Doctor Kigwangalla said.
Those funds (2340 billion shillings were paid by that mine and now.
In AK, he from special seats so as to be used as capital from Ben Saanane.
Development of citizens in Nzega District.

"These funds were done in a large extent until now I will have it.
We managed to receive, I would make it end, there are security or in a special account.
We have already started so that later they can start our development bank.
Stop the loans to run our activities, "he said.

He said his aim is to ensure that those funds are used well.
To help the citizens of Nzega to change their lives where people are encouraged to join.
In our cooperation or Saccos, so that they can be given loans will be used to buy.
The machines for making roads and extraction of water.

One newspaper that comes from every day (not Majira), he wrote.
That says Doctor Kigwangalla claims Mrs Makinda has violated the regulations.
Payments of 430,000 shillings as part of the delegates of the Parliamentary Committee on budget.
Different from the delegates of another committee that for their payments is 20,000 shillings per day.

That argument was opposed due to some members of parliament including the member of parliament.
Tabora Town, Mister Ismail Aden Rage (CCM) and the member of parliament for Kigoma South, Mister.
Kafulila (NCCR-Revolution) who claimed to be dealt with because of her resignation from Mrs. Makinda.
Power.

Mister Abdulwakil said.
It is an issue of members of CCM, because Miss Makinda did you go to power, a person.
He will keep in the gap.
He cannot get a opposition.
That argument of Doctor Kigwangalla makes a debate to some members of parliament and others.
He refused to sign a mistake that they had been forced to be supported.

Ludewa member of parliament.
In Njombe Province, Mister Deo Filikunjombe, said the issue of Doctor Kigwangalla has been killed.
In poor foundation that you consider the broader interests of the country and a view.
