
Zanzibar does not be able to save the country, has violated the constitution of the union?
May 23, 2012

Earlier this month, the council of representatives has worked on the constitution of Zanzibar of 1984, to give the status of the country (full) and to remove the power of the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, a step that has resolved by many to be the attorney general of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Article of the constitution of Zanzibar affected by these changes are the first and second in the country, we woke up that, Zanzibar is part of the United Republic of Tanzania and following those amendments to be easily read.
"Zanzibar is a country to be a song known as the United Republic of Zanzibar, with the borders of Unguja and Pemba Islands, as a result of joining Tanganyika and Zanzibar, it is one of the two countries that form the United Republic of Tanzania."
The constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, on his part, gives Zanzibar as part of the area of the United Republic of Tanzania, where article 2 (1) can be easily read.
"The area of the United Republic is the whole area of Tanzania Mainland and the whole area of Tanzania mainland and the whole area of Tanzania mainland and it is together with its parts of the world, it knows it."
In those changes, the people of Zanzibar do not want to go to Zanzibar to be there.
"The whole area of Tanzania Zanzibar, but it is known as the country" with the boundaries inside the union.
The amendments to the constitution of Zanzibar, have seen also article 61 (1) of the constitution that allows the president of the United Republic of Tanzania to remove from us the president of the United Republic as a result of supporting the president of the United Republic as it was in the beginning.
If this is how you will make sure, then article 5 (3) (3) (3), about the appointment of the provincial heads of Zanzibar (the constitution of the United Republic must be taught.
I wish you a statement earlier here that, the words of "Tanzania mainland" and "Tanzania mainland" do not have any basis, or the constitutional change when we talk about the issue of the union of "Tanganyika and Zanzibar" because they don't know the issue of "Tanganyika and Zanzibar" because it's not the correct constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.
This means that without a union certificate, which is an international agreement to have agreements for these two countries (Tanganyika and Zanzibar), it will also respect and obey the requirements of the United Republic of Tanzania, it must inform them and obey the requirements of the union.
So, in Zanzibar, by ensuring that the country has violated the constitution of the United Republic and the United Republic?
But why should we believe that Zanzibar has not been written inside the union card that Zanzibar is a country, like Tanganyika but it is not true that, the current constitution of the United Republic are the ones that violating the international agreement between Tanganyika and Zanzibar?
For Zanzibar to ensure that the country, the United Republic will last the kind of the union that was intended to be under the agreement of the union that makes us believe that the current union will benefit them?
Earlier on all, I request to present that the structure of the union did not exercised since same way, the division of the authority in the union, something that will destroy the coalition nuisances since its establishment.
In the center of Tufani, this, there are four different words which are important to understand and which is the ones that caused an eruption of incitement, those words are in the country, nation, and government.
The country, is why it is a land area with the boundaries that is needed, and that area has its introduction in the way, Zanzibar is the country?
The constitution of the United Republic says that (article 2) that, "the area of the United Republic of Tanzania Mainland (claim Zanzibar), is why that Zanzibar and Tanganyika are the country (or areas) by considering the borders inside the union.
Taifa Stars is why it is a community of people with history, culture, language and social relations that they know and that is how they were identified by other people.
Many times, the nation got 970,089, a period of 93949 in the world, 93949 in the whole country, but we believe it is a nation, but they have no country (in the area) because they were not expelled and they are not involved in different countries in the country.
In the first part of the union certificate, that was given right on April 22, there were no union of the union, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, and the late Abeid Amani Karume, it encourages them.
"Retired President of the United Republic of Zanzibar and the United Republic of Zanzibar and the United Republic of Zanzibar, even to the president of Chama Cha Mapinduzi of the United Republic of Zanzibar through the United Republic of Zanzibar with the United Republic of Zanzibar with the United Republic of Zanzibar.
The official subject of these words is as we follow, "because the government of the Tanganyika Union and the United Republic of Zanzibar, by considering the long-term relationship of the countries of these countries, the country will meet and thank the union of United Republic of Zanzibar."
According to the news agency of English - Swahili, that was released by the Institute of research of Swahili at the University of Dar es Salaam (May 3), a word.
"Democratic Republic of Tanzania has a meaning of" the people of the area (country) / a certain community, the nation of Zanzibar is the nation inside the union.
The dollar is an agent or authority that has ability to rule the area (country) special place in protecting the geographic division, therefore it is possible that a nation with its dollars which attracts the area, 97,949 in the country, but you can also be Ukawa and one dollars to fight more than one country in one country.
Similarly, you can be Ukawa and more than one million dollars that are involved in one country, especially in the country with the structure of the union of the federation, and therefore there is a division of power in the administration authority.
Any dollar, you must have a computer or three media houses, we should be first, there should be an aim of making laws, because of parliament, or by another name to represent that activity.
Secondly, there should be an instrument to provide justice, because of the third court, there should be a high level organization because of the government or the administration that is used to power and the people of that country.
Here you understand the little of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in the Islands, or the Citizens Party (CUF), can win elections and form the government, it should be CCM only or the national union, but it's not the party of CCM or CUF, but it's not a member of the people of Zanzibar.
By that, now we can introduce himself the first that, Zanzibar is a country because it has a area where the borders of a 1 and 2 of the constitution declared that Zanzibar is a country, good for what is available and what is needed.
Before the ten commandments of the constitution of Zanzibar, it's only article 9 (1) only of the constitution, the proposed constitution called "Zanzibar is the Democratic Party to run on social welfare," because of Zanzibar, it is a democratic country that consider social rights. "
Secondly, Zanzibar is a nation because it is a community of people who are known as people of Zanzibar, with history, culture, language and social relationship that have been identified by other people.
Third, Zanzibar is US dollars (in the union), because it is a area (the country) to maintain peace that is known as "Zanzibar" for non-governmental organizations so as to rule, it has been a court and has the government, things that in general do not be used by the government of the union.
In addition, the president of Zanzibar who is in charge of that dollars, was not recognized by the people of Zanzibar (like the nation) and have not seen the president of the United Republic of Tanzania in implementing development activities in Zanzibar.
About the current noise, about Zanzibar to break the constitution and not the coalition, the problem is where I have explained the first, a problem is not understood well (and maybe a solution) for more than one million dollars to rule in one country for a union of the federation.
And that is the way for the United Republic of Tanzania for two dollars to rule, Zanzibar dollars like the country, and the United Republic of United Republic of United Republic of Tanzania.
So, the agreement of the union (certificate of unity) wants the structure of unity?
So, the constitution of the United Republic of 1977 has never happened where an amount of misleading reports will believe that the current constitution of Zanzibar's constitution is close to the United Republic of Tanzania and Zanzibar followed the country and the Tanganyika continent?
