
It is a controversy of about Nyerere or it is a problem of administrative Africa?
Fly on 1st, 2012.

I tell you to continue with the debate about the antal Saroldi (23-23) about the second side of Mwalimu Nyerere of Mwalimu Nyerere like a person, a politician, a politician, a politician and the leader who lost the things he stopped.

After an additional information and disadvantages of all the condition of the Mwalimu Nyerere, humble when he repeated his article that this person got a problem, is a riddle!

My article explains the teacher as a normal person who had the great ability of persuading the things to do a huge mistakes without the opposition. It is a normal person who live with the people when you're with.

Ikhwan, says that his followers have heard without listening to her as you listen to her as they do not want to use their power, considering the primary issues of running the country, to sign the teacher while is still underway.

Mchaga answered that Tanzania of Nyerere was bad, it was okay and he feels it's popularity inside and outside the country while getting into the end of his life, the teachers had not been found to have a true friends.

This is normal for many politicians.
Politics is the fight sometimes to be more than the society and the country.

His family appeared affected by lack of its upbringing, it is a normal issue to politicians and other professionals especially to serve people, to be like a person who love you more on a bond of others, this issue is common for many religious leaders to end there.

Nyerere complained so much to remove the poverty, ignorance, and ailments, but he stopped the leadership and he passed away from the country being in the area of poverty, ignorance, and diseases, color, and religion when increasing all efforts to bring development.

In a short time, the leadership of the teacher has identified himself, there is no one who is ready to promote the things that he left CCM of Nyerere, what he said himself is not her mother and it is not a must to remain with.

Why do you know why Teacher would leave you to leave this situation?

The problem is where and what is what we are, especially if you are a teacher or we should support the teacher to put foundations of our country's administration, to fail to put a administration system that when he gets into power he will improve instead of starting afresh?

It is a place where a teacher entered the system and entered into a forest that most of them do not give birth certificates if most of us have by considering his competence?

Why is for example today, every minister of education comes with its curriculum but every month comes from what is the creation?

It is correct Nyerere like Osama?

I have tried a lot about an extent of allowing Julius Nyerere and Osama, despite being accused of Osama, security of the world, and especially in the western countries especially America, Osama, is said to be the senior commander who could be able to sign him in any situation.

This has been mentioned by his western enemies after the incident of September 11, in the year 2001, the reports that made him continued to say Osama every time they stopped the competence of his leadership.

I have never done more about this issue but I think it is a good area to look at keenly when we came out and lost way in our leadership.

The teacher's book on the fate of our country's leadership is doing all these issues with the great keenness of writing, but still you will not be able to come out of restrictions that destroy the image of the ability to bring together development.

Recently, President Jakaya Kikwete has confirmed that Tanzania under CCM is still critical and embezzlement is the pillar for leadership and leadership is not a solution again but it is a product that is sold in the market.

Our elections used by allegations of theft of the recently, we have witnessed the elections of the East African Legislative Assembly being mentioned by touching on bribery, but people have requested them to inform them and they have received bribery and elect them.

When a question is, why despite the noise on bribery, there are no steps that were taken and those bought for members of parliament who are at a low level, most of them and the ones that are capable of leadership at a high level.

The mistake of a teacher is a class when I met him in the foundation of our discussions here, on the other side, I agree with sharp teeth about the erosion of leadership of the teacher, on the other side, the teacher did it be able to make sure there is possible for using the past mistakes.

If the teacher carried out and they did not want or not seeing him, it allows him to keep him, but if he made a clean environment, they want to be interviewed if they were with other leaders, then his followers have heard without listening, they don't follow.

This brings different differences with the concept of leadership among the leadership of the teacher and the leadership of Osama, I have tried to think that it would have been difficult to be a close friend of Osama and his dreams of terrorism, its plans of destruction and destruction of the concept of development.

How come the concept of a good vision was surprised by the followers against the concept of criminal vision and I left for Osama and George Bush as the president of America at the time I had also arrested Osward inside a few days, he was not seen.

To arrest the person of Osama, it wanted different types of leadership, procedure, understanding and professionalism at this time the current president of America Barack Obama has noticed that the leadership of the required kind to remove some kind of destruction in the community.

It has demonstrated that Obama can be one of the leaders with the followers of Osama estate without explicitly mentioning that, it is a lesson to many leaders in the world and especially for the Mwalimu Nyerere and who followed after.

In another different state, recently, we have met President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe saying he is the last statement about the amendments of the constitution of that country Doctor Mugabe has complained to the country's parliament to be having the last power (yellow card), he says.
"It doesn't know!"

There are not knowing the Teacher Nyerere and Mugabe's thing, but I remember one of the events that brought him to Mwalimu and Obama is when a teacher was heard saying for example, "I told the parliament to pass the law.
This teacher is also used in the law on law, especially the leadership law (standing), to show a shortage of leadership in the concept of running the responsibilities of leadership of parliament, court, and administration.

In this, we cannot defend his teacher where he termed it, he violated the basis of the foundation of good governance of democracy and the administration of the law, a big challenge of the great authority of the president.

A vibrant singer of the revolutionary party in the night of the 15th century, Martin Luena, said if you see the community that complained about his leaders, look at its citizens, Mister Luena, meaning the leaders come from the community.

The community with ethics will give leaders with ethics or contrary to the community that it doesn't know the loopholes of every type of treason, Julius Nyerere passes away from the consent of the colonialist.

They managed to make the attempt to be launched and they want to destroy the union.
He knew you will be used as at least leave depressed.

They don't have conflicts in pain and acts of corruption, discrimination, misuse of power and other resources of the country.

Nyerere asked his expectations Nyerere to give different things that he wrote on which later made a huge shortage, for example, he confessed that socialism has been given an opportunity to eliminate Nyerere's punishment to reduce the pace of Nyerere to protect the development of Julius Nyerere.

I will explain the front of the village policies that affect the economy of many people, while explaining it is not the name of the teacher that they used their instructions in order to address the economy and consider the poor people.

Basically, the foundation of the nation of Tanzania has not yet been found. It is not found under Nyerere, under Mkapa, under Mkapa and even now, we are still going on and claimed that this is our person, a person that has gotten themselves!

Our constitution is saying that this is a country of socialism and being independent, the current leadership has no need of socialism and it is not socialism and it does not know how you want to take them from where we are.

In comparing the things I remember the explosion that happened after Bush (Junior) was elected to be the president of America, he did a visit to England to queen, and asked the queen what will play?

The queen gave me the answer I use the mental people, an entrepreneur said that if there are mental disabilities?
Queen has told I ask questions and listen to questions, I know human beings and wisdom, the name Bush who fell in what question?

Queen has told me for example, I asked me (Blair) that her mother has a child and her father's child, but this child is not your brother, she asked me when she saw it?

Queen has told me that the child is himself as he himself as Ah Bush who returned to his home and gave him a question and gave him a question and requested them to answer that question so as to answer to his leadership.
It will continue.
