A shadow of the motorbike riders.
APR of 23rd, 2014.

It has been reported in the media, that the 32 bishops of the Catholic church have requested the commission of Judge Mark Bomani, to be remembered. "
It is a great news, and there is also news about the statements by the bishops of other catholic marriages concerning the constitution and statements that were released at the Easter holidays.

Then I have changed the results offered by the "provincial commissioner for Easter 2014 with the believers and all the people with shivered."

When I pray for here if a person with good love is that I join our bishops in their primary issue and that the commission of Judge Warioba will not be remembered, therefore, the thoughts of citizens also have not been made.

Increase here is that even a few thoughts have already been given, and that they should be given the freedom to build their motion and even try to convince many people to agree on their issues.

Our bishops have used a lot of wisdom in their studies and they wish them to put their stand on the short system of the union or the government they have explained the importance of existence of unity that are not for example, but they have also explained the need to be involved in change or changes of it.

Well, our country has used a lot of money and even the human resources they have a lot of time to give them the time and a lot of money, the commission to coordinate the citizens opinion polls about the constitution under Judge Warioba.
Probably, it is not every opinion that were given to everyone or a group of people, but because we have agreed to use that way to achieve the consent of getting a new constitution, then it is good for us to have agreed and live even what we did not like.

And those others are people who want to be heard of their requirements and basically, as a nation, we can use one government system, two or three, where we will remain a one, and that will be decided to be one, and that will be decided to be one, and that will agree.

When we listen and insisted to manage our groups and our parties, and basically we succeeded to put private interests, groups and parties, then the danger of us is to fail and if he did not support President Jakaya Kikwete.

And this draft constitution, apart from that of the system of the union and the government, it has other things that come from ideas of citizens themselves.
This process has been more than getting a new constitution, because most of us have provided opportunities to get "free education" about the subject of citizenship, that through this process they have received a lot of things about their country, that we did not know.

By reading a document of bishops, and following up on this current debate, one thing is clear that many citizens, the mainland and in the Islands, want to continue with their union but there are those who participated in order to strengthen the union and their cooperation.

And for sure, in this period we have witnessed a decrease in special Parliament of the constitution and now we thank the parliamentary chairman, Samuel Sitta doing an intentional efforts to ensure this parliament continues, is to look for how to fight the consent of how to go forward.

And that, especially the responsibility of the speaker as the chairperson of the parliamentary sitting on the meaning, even if you read the history of him in the 17th century, and in order to see that the speaker had a great responsibility to represent Tanzania's rights against them, to see that the speaker had a great responsibility to represent CCM rights against them and it has been part of the parliamentary culture.
That the speaker was running the parliament by following the regulations and that he has no part, to the British, even if the speaker is a member of parliament, it is not supposed to stand up and let it attend to his elections.

The responsibility of the speaker also is to protect the rights of all the groups inside the parliament and especially, the few rights of the speaker, as a woman is similar to "the father of parliament" and a woman is not supposed to destroy the child among its children.
