
Thursday, September 11, 2014.

Things that can attract a man to his daughter - 1.

This question is asked and close to all women who desire to have a permanent relationship with men because they do not know especially what can attract a man when he started a relationship with a woman.

Although there are a small difference among the men, in general, the analysis of different research shows that several issues that cause many men have needs.
We will follow up in a period of these articles.

Being identified.

The man desires to do, is a person who lost the.
That is saying that his ability is a foundation stone.

If you know a man you love (continue to be impressed by you, take a step to reveal the only things that he did is and showed him because it does not know it, because every man will have his areas they can be better than others.

It is possible for you to have a certain kind of own kind that are not many men who believe that maybe it is a special behavior or skills, knowledge and other things of my family, I have ever been successful and to participate in internal work, follow up and other things like that.

In our East African environment, sometimes we are happy to recognize people with their good reputation even if we are looking for those reputation and sometimes we are doing what is doing so that his responsibility is not supposed to be identified.

Even so, it is good if a woman should learn to say openly in the heart of you, by going round, that you know your husband's ability to make sure that you will be able to believe more so that he can be able to do more better so that he can be your man.

Does a need?

Honor is a great need for anyone who knows me, we would like people to think of privacy on high status, that is why anyone who makes us continue to see if the status we will enable, it is easy to follow with him. This is a normal habit of a human being.

For a man it is a must for someone who will be very big, when we talk about the respect to a man, in our environment, we means the state to do you have any status, it is no authority, who doesn't have a statement or ability to do anything without the guide of the woman.

For many men, the respect is how you talk to him, the words that you use by explaining your thoughts, the signs of your body in talks, giving him the first position in the decisions of such things.

Honor, similarly, it is an indication that the man gets and even when they err.

Likewise, the honor is that already it has already sent his status to other people to build a solution that gives its value to the people, she knows how to listen to him, when you talk to other people with statements, actions and feelings are there to increase the qualifications of reputation which they will look for.

He desires to be heard, not.

Many men don't like to be criticized even if you are not giving an indication as when you give her a man you make her a condition and therefore you feel like a person that is led.
It's not many men are happy and directed it against him, to make his voice down.

We do not understand the example that your partner has come with the idea of doing a certain thing, he believes that it is important to implement the problem, a scholar who has the ability to identify issues, sometimes it is easy to identify themselves as an indication that he gets.

In fast, you can show an open opposition to be known as it doesn't have no merit and is not many men to endure what have no merit and even if it is true.

A dream of a man to desire to have a voice, can make the man decided to agree on his idea saying he has the right to be supported.

If you want to arrest a man of a man, that you to learn and put it in a decision to follow your husband's status, by showing honor to his ideas.
If you can do his heart by showing the importance of what you will be easy to give your proposal in a way that is easy to be received.

This is the second part that produces this article.

Twitter, annamatinde @ gmail.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
