Business people are not seen, they have a heavy motion.
Marion Moore (28, 2013.

Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) together with the government expects to listen to business people from small and small businesses about their heavy activities against revenue collection (EFDs) and results of its use in short period is that (EFDs) and 'Fulfill Your Goals "which are machines for revenue collection or sales of business people from business people.

In a few weeks ago, in several towns of Tanzania (example Mbeya, Morogoro, Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam, business people and small business people have been struggling to oppose especially lack of capacity to buy certificates and fined 18 percent of VAT on the sales of every month.

However, he was heading to TRA and the government through the Ministry of Finance did not identify those complaints in details, it's like they have helped to pay taxes among the small traders and small traders as they want to pay taxes for a total of 14 million shillings to 39,9 million.

I request that TRA and the government we have the research to be able to get understanding how these businessmen shivered and of the middle are managing their businesses together with the challenges of their businesses.

The research happening, TRA has not noticed that many of the business people will have the ability to pay 5800,000 American dollars once to buy grants which can be used by business people they are facing them by buying computers they have used all capital, and that project can be able to reach the EFD price (5 billion shillings).

That research on the way you will show that these businessmen have been using 18 percent of VAT it is same as urged them to stop the business they are facing because, more than not getting profit, they will be shaken.

In explaining these two complaints by heavy rains, I will give an example of one businessman as we follow the businessman who is a shop, they sell drinks through a total of selling beer at each other day.

In this example, we will take advantage of this sign to sell beer all from 20 each day (though he cannot sell all fuel) due to the real situation of running that business, the business person gets low benefits of 400 million shillings per day (that is 400 million shillings) like it has shown in this table in this page.

As a result of that table, the sales of 212,150 workers has come out in a month is big, but this is after 890,536 billion shillings (that is not more than 890,536 billion shillings) if he will not use crude benefits to the use of business (transportation and fare).

Otherwise, he will have no more than 600,000 small shillings per day and even the bank will not take it because all of them are needed every day of purchase of beer so far, other business people will be of loan.

This example shows that first, this business person has no amount of 800,000 American dollars per time to buy the EFD machine, I advise that the government to use the EFD machine and will be able to pay the EFD machines.
Secondly, this businessman has been able to have reported that TRA shillings 3,90200 shillings which is 18 percent of VAT on the sales of the month, first it was impossible because he does not have money, but also a business person not increase the value (5) of that amount.
