He answered that Ahmad Said wants you to ask you.
You are the leader of the team.
When I vote?
How was it?
It is completed it does not end even so.
These are the teams above.
Since there, we have done how they come at the end, about the good thing that will be allowed and take.
For every month but the second but the second of God rest his place, because a person who comes from the mistake is the one that comes to you as a person who comes to you.
How do you get?
If you are in, or is available for free and the ones that have a special technical girl and they don't want it to be like the father of the game, we take it up to the first time but we should be given seven years in future for the use of friends.
Improvements, we have only one representative during the festival to save the newspapers apart from the same budget even if you check the big percentage of our players who have no need to help them in the most of the players that are also known as a player who has more than.
That's why we are supposed to go and we had planned to see the things that we are preparing to see for another period of six months to show and even if I think this, I would like to inform us but here in Mbeya we will decide someone to live in a group or even if you can't recognize that, then I would decide someone to live with each other, then I would decide someone to live with each other, then I would decide someone to live with each other, then I would decide someone to live with so that we can decide whether to get married and even if you can't leave each other.
Ten ten can't win us to use our ten-five years which needs to be demolished quickly, I would like to say I would like to show my friend and I will make sure that I will do so I will do so I will do so I will do so much, I will do a lot of work.
Almighty God rest a good thing, we are required to promote the village to return because I remember.
They are in Shinyanga and I'm here by stakeholders in the game and leaders and cries between the team.
To pay taxes if you get a lot of many days, my brother who is very close to me, you will hear them well the area where I is by voting it to the soccer decision we want to be so much in the chest.
Jesus.
In the challenges that are there in developing games.
There's been something that is causing all the games to return.
First.
The habit of lack of love.
We get your advice you can't get development even a day.
The club and the club does not have.
Which contributes up to be first to do, give birth, it is a challenge that causes the presence of good things that are not doing because of the development of our province and the nation.
It is very happy that I am happy and said I have played football on the team of power.
We can do well in seven years we are taking the championship.
I think even my colleague is here at a place.
He can be talking about if I will be.
I think it has been found?
Hayatou will think one thing that is there.
The issue of developing sports.
Mister she told me it is called a good thing.
But the Koran should they stop stuttering on us?
Not you know what they are.
As a delegate who had spoken.
It is a thing.
It did not have a development program within two days and the child cannot marry off today, he didn't know where he gets and walking.
I don't know what?
