Close to the reader in another penalty of the penalty he was born in America, I'm one of today, if I am happy with my colleagues Sunday, Shomari, and sponsors for the vehicle.
While talking to journalists today.
Level it reaches this world cup.
The quarter finals have been in the fourth team from Europe from America.
What team is surprising to be here.
Hayatou, I think that it is surprising that there is no one who was expected even when it will continue to move forward, but when it will continue to move forward, it will have great ability and sure that I think in Africa they have given to be surprised to be surprised at the high level.
And the European team is looking at logs and also it is surprising!
If you check if the last match are playing with America.
They have come up to get a victory goal in the injured minute.
It would continue more that in America they had every chance to be.
To get a goal goal, but the time was is increasing.
Same but which are in the semi-finals that we will talk in Germany, France and Beckham and from the government Brazil so that he is your request to join Argentina there is a big thing that is expected to be here in the hospital.
From Spain, who were defending champions.
And everyone who went to move ahead, maybe I'll get to the finals but they would have come up to at least the semi-finals but they have come up to at least the first match having been buried.
The responsibility is a responsibility.
Your beauty is now in the first time to come again again to continue with other different matches, and those who came out so that therefore, the person was surprised many people because each person was saying that she was told.
The price is that the defending champions had gone closer.
But everyone was surprised by the preparations, those who give South Africa is the one who are coming to what he had been expelled.
I don't remember here but I see you on my side.
Italy, children have been true and they have the ones it has the ones.
Closing the goals but good Boys in this year will be unable to see Mister because many people we think they will stop bad but they did not come.
Not those are also a conflict and in eternal peace?
On my, the bridge that we do not get bad, we were unable to go into the sea in one month so I was happy about how to go through their match with Brazil for an example we showed that they will not mean that they are going more than the second round.
To enter the quarter finals, they will be successful.
But if you be able to end Mexico this year even themselves, they are complaining to know that recently.
Referees and they have played the position of Mark or doing other things.
I have a lesson or for sure Mexico was done well, which carries a certain place but a penalty comes from each one was surprised.
Now we look at the quarter-finals which will be played starting Friday Brazil so as the colonizers of France in the country.
Difficult matches which if it will be difficult, Brazil and the colonizers of the preparations have been forced to see him in the past match is not a team that makes him a very difficult time playing with who was the colonizers of the team which has been and then good years for people.
At the eighth commandment, it was heading to each other by a bad luck and I was married, I was back home and it happens at home and she will not know her, she will not understand what he gets a team that can watch Brazil on Sunday.
Therefore, people should not be accountable for many things.
Only he is thinking about the ball in France and Germany and it will be tough because up to these hours each person has already been playing in Germany and there is a great job to see football where many people know when I think there will be a very good work.
Ras Makunja has a good player who has a good match because the Costa scored of Africa, we see that they are playing in the second round played well and I would also play well but he would also are playing well but came up so that I look at each other and signs of going forward.
For the government to announce a person because if you say it is impossible because it is happening.
And they face the attackers.
Then things are supposed to welcome him but it will also be rigged is a result of the government they will do together brothers you think girls to study in every corner.
And let me feel that Holland is playing until the minutes.
Eyes too.
Everything is not there.
If it is one of the fashion deal?
Who is forced to give an indication of the finals.
According to Holland, I think at the stadium to get food.
I think for a speed and on the side of BAVICHA.
And I know that I have a great meaning because there are more than three people as it is earlier, that we did not have a job to protect who you don't know who's not you.
Argentina if we can do this game by waiting for up to the injured, the ones who got a red card will not be fed a copy or the person doing it will have a great job because Nigeria protects you if you were you.
There are some of the youths of hunger and they believe that there will be no one who we have but I've given an award for sure and for sure he will return to the Stephano and for the women I request.
People to get pregnant children and I think I can look at a very difficult time even if they have at home, I will believe that when they are at home, you will believe that when they are at home, they will know that at home they will make sure that when they get back home, they will know that at the last match.
By Benedict Liwenga.
Judge Howard has played well.
And if you look at the final match of the world cup this Saturday, and two of the two will be demolished quickly, the head doesn't affect Mexico and those teams are the same.
Hayatou, I think that he has given a high standard record, not only in the final matches but from the previous matches, the doctor had flooded the position of Ghana but every time they got a big position of Ghana getting a victory and even when getting the draw, it had only ten goals.
If these use are America, it has reached me.
Until at the end of the last word it is that Mister we are supposed to see the match that will come to the quarter-finals between Brazil and the cause of those preparations, Sunday am talking to Brazil is home but they can be at home and they play.
It will be happy when they've put an eye on you, that it can be able to get married and you're going back to the next week but I will welcome her mother to introduce himself as Brazil.
You will take the end of this article today until.
