
A slave.
Charles Msonde and Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
Despite that a journalist who is an expert who is an expert who is an expert who has been looking for every day as a result of the fish, Al-popularly known as' Follow suit '.
The success of Mister Kibonge Mdungi in the farm 'dirty' has contributed by many residents of Restoration Bible Church, he from Nairobi.
Most of them have been following their footsteps and now they are selling vegetables and other plants of their homes in their farms which destroy the ogo.
Mister Kibacha (63), is an independent journalist, a work that he did for more than 30 years.
We have contributed to various articles in this newspaper and this world newspaper and Sunday nation since 1970, Isidore has been contributing to news in foreign newspapers.
The natural gas pipeline in universities, Mister Kibondemaji, has been using the natural remedies' (Ranaldo and ure) that he had built from his farm which is three acres of this farm which has become the success of the farmer who went into the pitch in its 15 years ago.
His farm is under the sun's road that is worth 500 shillings which has risen up plants in good health.
But why did he decided to use that fertilizer branch in the country?
"One day when I was doing, I did research for what I want to use this newspaper, I got to know that the 'Imebaki Story.'
Apart from other crops, and under that trees, I have risen up seedlings and other plants, "says the farmer.
"I don't know the user's trials in various plants, but its results were very good in the drought season, Mister Kibonge Mdudu 'of more than 200 million shillings that can be sold between 200 million shillings and that, it uses water, small dam that is affected by that river.
"
He has said.
According to Mister Kibuko, agricultural farming has brought him more revenue between 15,000 and 20,000 shillings after every two seasons for 90 kilograms, can sign up 10,000 shillings immediately, "he says.
He says customers comes back to its farms for their crops, because it is used in large numbers to use home and in restaurants in Nairobi city and Kicheere.
"These days most of the people like to eat at night or even so, it has been revealed that having important minerals of great benefits in the body, this is why my crops have been getting a market without any problem," he says.
Despite getting income due to the farming of 'dirty',, my main aim to promote this product is to remind the youth of the current generation concerning the fact that, while giving an example to her youth, Solomon Kibacha, says he has started doing much about agriculture of that product.
Other challenges are therefore, he says agriculture and air crafts are not easy for a lot of work because there is a lot of surgery for example, says, buying seedlings to the hole is one of the type of crimes and the farmer make sure that it has got enough water.
It is believed to have already been harvested after eight months up to ten months.
In addition, it affects the maize of vegetables and fruits like the Spohr, and Spencer also, the Voluntary Contribution Program (NBL), bananas and frying onions, work, said it was part of his life in Nyamilima primary school where he has lived for many years.
"Apart from the air, I have been using other food plants in the farm, something that has thrown out a large extent in this area because the number of residents is increasing due to many residential houses being built in this area," he said.
Despite entering in agriculture, he says that he still have a chance to continue with his profession of writing news by writing articles on many research.
"The sun makes drought and we have not been found to be infected with diseases easily and so it makes it up to any area that is a man to shivered because the possibility of the farmer to get a lot is enough," said Mister Kibiga.
David Muguya has said that the type of Human Settlements Development Goals (Kenya) says that the farmers can be able to do well in areas with the shortage of rains.
"Farmers are eager to maintain the farm as a few minutes of that product can fill in the end of 'love', which can be sold for 10,000 shillings in the market," he says.
Far health and income, Mister Mugambi says that 'her love' has also been great benefits in the body.
"The 'dirty' food 'is increasing the strength in the body and the ones that will believe and sell up to reduce cancer of a great shape," he said.
Universities is among the crops that are recommended by the World Food Organization (child) in dealing with drought that is caused by climate change.
According to the child health, agriculture and fuel stations in Kenya have not been fast for instance, statistics show that between the year 1990 and 1995, Kenya used more than 1000 tons of universities and then increased in a total of 8 tons between the year 1995, and 2010.
The year 2013, Kenya used more than 10,000 tons of universities, according to the child health statistics.
Child data also show that fuel from inside here are produced in an average of 100 hectares.
Kenya, even so, has been listed in 33 positions in production of blood all over the world.
In the East African region, Kenya is holding the second position in the production of 'dirty' after Rwanda.
Nigeria is leading in the farming 'dirty' by 66 percent all over the world followed by Ghana and Ivory Coast by 11 percent and 9 percent.
Other countries that was a success in the production of blood is Colombo, Vogue Baamar and Japan.
In Nigeria, 300 universities are based in large numbers at the China- China, Anhela Kizigha, Delhi, party member, Eneck and Eucharist.
Nigeria has given out billions of money every year from the transportation of universities in America, England, Canada, and Australia.
