Some of the leaders and the citizens of the villages that surrounds the water source in Lushoto district have been used to cooperate with illegal minerals of minerals and environment at the level, Hassan Ban Hashim and he urged the citizens to arrest the illegal miners in that source that is being shown by the lack of cooperation between leaders and citizens.
They have taken place if we take like to prepare.
That the world started.
I would like to read six o'clock at the night ready to pray for the year they have been reached.
But there is no surprise for that reason not to tell me the body of us to get even a plane because that love you know even.
Therefore, it will be presented that maybe that report.
Truly, with sadness, we saw it here on the night and we put up around ten o'clock and there is no wonder where we stopped all the things left behind the speaker of the language we've started a little time when I started getting a report.
And will bring yourself I will go.
Here is that to reach the agreements.
Something it does not want it to set aside an indication that he was accompanied by the mouth.
Star too.
A day inside this week make sure it repeated on his side, the head of Lushoto district, responsibility is ordered to stop the agricultural activities on the source and urged our village leaders to share areas so as to avoid violence that was caused by illegal immigrants.
We are talking to you because our workers are I think there are other things.
Now we should take this opportunity to fail to fulfill the responsibility.
Failing to go to the pace of development in Doris Mollel, their fans should be unable to follow up if I was coming from there and there is a performance when he is in the area where he is in, but there is a thing that he is in, but there is a thing.
To control and start on the right only, we will know what we arrived and you remember.
More than two hundred thousand shillings have been destroyed badly by the illegal miners since they attacked the source of water for approximately six months even them being reported in Lushoto district.
