A result of the investor.
October 16, 2014.

The Minister for Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, visited America in the month of September last year, on an invitation of a businessman who has been given the contract to bring electricity to the power in Dar es Salaam, has been known.
That tour of Doctor Mwakyembe was held between September 18 to 23 last year and followed by some of the top leaders of the department and institutions under his ministry.
These news have emerged as a result of controversy about the business person, Robert Shangani, how he was given that tender quickly while there is no reports of dealing with corruption in his country.

However, Raia Mwema has seen evidence of the picture that he told Mwakyembe with his own shillings, just after arriving at the Draw, that is in the Michungwani Market in America.
Reports that were spread in the media at that time, warned President Mwakyembe with his home in front of the luxurious car of Listen Mwezi Song.
The details of that picture explained that Doctor Mwakyembe went to the late Doctor Mwakyembe went to the invitation of Shangani region who is the ambassador of honor of Tanzania in that country.

Among those accompanied by Doctor Mwakyembe from that tour is the Executive Director of the Railways Corporation, Kiplime, who is finally signed a contract between Shangani region and the government of running that train project which is believed to have an amount of 35 million American dollars (59 billion shillings).
Doctor Mwakyembe is out of his country to work and he did not answer the emails made by this newspaper about him and his heart will go back to go against them.
In the United States, her husband was alleged to be involved with corruption in the prisons fund's retirees in the city of Dakar, and one of the retirees who were interviewed by the American website, George Orkesumet, claimed that the businessman has a habit of meeting with people he wanted to do with them before reaching an agreement.
At the same time, Sheke has changed the questions of scientists and asked through the ways of various issues concerning him and promised that he will get married, the people should remain in this project by working hard.
In his opinion, this newspaper has been able to see, Sheke has explained that he is an investor with the love and Tanzania and that the project is one of the strategies to expand this nation economically.
"I have learned that the only way of rebuking the open mouthed, is one of the projects that go through the train, this is one of the projects that bring me well," explained her husband who has a African origin.

In his explanation, Sheke has resigned as black American who was born in difficult environments but by being involved in a working environment but not getting tired, he has succeeded to be one of the business people with success in his country.
The contract of the train project that was signed in two weeks ago has shown an eruption of questions due to the speed of its implementation because his contract was not announced and there is no report if the project has been following all procedures including an evaluation of environmental effects.
However, one of the high-level officials of the Ministry of Transport, who spoke to Good Citizen on conditions of not being mentioned by the name, he said that the government will not get any loss due to the investment of its shillings.

"The tender was no reason for this project because the government does not give any money.
"There are other projects that the government is looking for investors but it cannot invest.
Apart from being an ambassador of honor of Tanzania in America, it has also received the position for the nation of Botswana in that country.

The reports from the internet explain that it has ever been announced as he was announced to be discussed in the past years.
