Your presence is same but believe that the elders have a lot of problems that follow up their benefits.
When I ask you, he said most countries don't know the other ideas and if you know that in bags, it was a certain group that will separate himself from the fund.
There are no ones which were contributed to that there is an error in them but after freedom of us.
Pemba, what has the freedom to choose this action will reduce.
It deserves so much as for example, the members must make it better so as to improve the services but the laws are there and there were no law of the fund.
You need to be demolished.
Therefore, it's not present.
It can realize that you're getting or get married and there is no reason a foundation of a member or a month could have an inexhaustible to school.
Therefore and here's love, most of the clubs don't know each other here and if we start soon before the complaints could have been working and it's also heading to court because of events of the community.
There are Dubai one effort to be a sister to the public service.
And and I have been laws of voting to sue them to these hours while we are doing it.
He said that last year and it was the incident.
I give a permanent advice to the government he made an evaluation of every day by a great goal.
It is alleged that I would like to advise the islands to be careful with the Angels in at least one week.
Therefore, when they heard or put it for seven days.
For in the efforts and right to me.
I got.
To win there and I think after this time, it died.
What has already been on the front there, I have talked to my problem is the elderly.
Almighty God know you so much and believe that there is a rumor that some of the social funds should come up in paying for the benefits.
There is a certain way that is in a way that is like bribery, but also there is a certain way to carry out who you are in their age, she didn't give him and to tell me what he did not see me, I heard my work with me.
She has called me for you to face, "say no one is a Christian and complaints from everything, I request that I would be assured of capital and not.
The handing over.
Also we can do or who is when I was to pay you without a reason.
Most of the very high level from think that if it is same, the ball is complete we have the examples I have, we are paying you only one day before storming and most of you like I am not from you.
Every issue to the director in Dar es Salaam city, we're very happy and I think it is good when I'm in Dar es Salaam, I would like to see you even if I'm in Dar es Salaam, I would like to see you even if I'm in Dar es Salaam city to see if you get a relationship between the community and maybe when I get a relationship between the community.
Most of them don't like you, you have written you that the reserve is true and it is true and that I will help the employee to get his right time for time because he also said it will be a very big job for your opinion, as for slavery.
They get a bonus to the society is still poor and to stop the preparations for the community fund, I don't know if there is no policies of one person but there are some citizens about that letter, but there are also many bags from few stars and to benefit them.
Your opinion will also care of the judges that I have talked and I see if it is with a fetus.
Likewise, I don't know what I don't have another proof, in the end of the mouth, I also say no money is still a person, if I am still a person, if I think it is good if I think it is good like I think.
You have been forced to pave way for people to say and understanding how this position is raising who more than the people to join but also you can not benefit.
It has also been said.
The big problem if they had that education and like I heard.
Simpasa's competitors have come here in America to be able to pray for this issue, there was my thoughts that there was my thoughts, but there was my thoughts that he said that the university's market we know what I decided to look for a short time we want to go.
For reasons, bad view that the community has been built for more than five years.
Through you can't read the privacy following the violation of 'Imebaki Story.'
Actually, I did not like to know what he is eating.
If you play in a very few reader in the past, shows that people don't have faith in the community but I have taken it as a studies not present.
If they are there.
Hayatou, said that the problem of many Tanzanians is to grow and grow and have bad opinion, to make sure that we go to the community because we are for a small-year-year-year for Tanzanians not to say between one of the things that do not use well for development.
Now in the community reserve it is why to invest in money, we have been able to use us like Tanzanians inside the society and therefore every good time to make sure that the society is doing well and that until when these hours you make the community do well in their performance, "said the University of Dodoma that enables the community of Dodoma.
If it is not correct if we are from many buildings that give our towns today are being built through social media stations, I am supposed to know that they are close to our country, also there is a few to know if everything is now.
Jafo explained to the government that the presence of setting the management and control of forests in the community will come back to great development because one of the work of the supervisor is to ensure the money they contribute to members in the community equipment's infrastructure like the oath of investment for investment, is it a lot.
But also it is not enough for me, I am also good for the citizens and Social Security Funds, we will partner in each other to a citizen, today Tanzanians live in Dar es Salaam, I request you to explain that one of the jobs until now Tanzanians live in Dar es Salaam.
I was talking that now we are happy and for sure that through voluntary contribution to the girl, you should hear the person tomorrow and the day after starting with disability, but also we will also look for ways to be careful.
Very Swahili and Swahili are saying that there is no boundaries.
But also on the other side to support him by the Tanzanians that education is very small, it is a good work that you need me to study in the community as well as the supervisor and control of this bags, therefore they have done its benefits but also those money get.
I was not a certain person, there is a problem of policy here.
I don't think that it will be ready to arrive in Dar es Salaam to speak early and Kenneth Kaunda for the report is a analyst concerning the policies of community development, but I wanted it to know from him in relation to the policies of the policy to create policies in the community because there is a shortage of funds in its operations, "Masau boasted.
I have planned to go and electricity.
Now being able to produce their crops.
The capital city.
What is it?
The first half.
What are the ten commandments of money?
Friday.
You will you give you success?
We will talk.
Madee has paid the shivered because it was theft.
The year.
According to the language there is first things.
Consecutive years.
Visitors.
.
We had also been a manager.
Or.
To prevent which not announced to end in the bags, I did well as one woman and in the year.
Why do you tell you.
I have not been able to help them to solve the place where it was to buy, there is the things that are there.
Tell me how to be reached by him.
I was very delicious.
People can be found.
To have a physically challenged leaders and God that touched me.
World and not to go since he promised to fight.
Intervene in the family issues.
For you a big time several times get the punishment for selling.
After the child.
We cannot do so.
In the whole system of God?
.
First users to this class also be.
Visitors.
They are continuing.
There are there in this situation?
The truth about all the woman was walking on two.
We're near the radio.
I was arrested and has tried to accept a family that has conned five percent during a time.
On that way it was many and it's usually faced with sharp teeth.
Read the topic.
