What is the story of Mzee Chilo.
Dec 12, 2013.

In the book that I wrote Mandela's book, "If I walk to Freedom '" Mzee Madiba wants her first journey out of the borders of South Africa.
At that time he was for the headlines because he was a activist for fight for the fight against the government.
In the month of December, 1961, it was appointed an official guest from the Community of PAFLA, later he mentioned that the East African Community Community and AU.
An invitation came about the meeting of February 1962 in Addis Ababa city, Ethiopia.
It is believed that Mandela will go to attend that meeting. But because he was pleased by the Boers administration and his police, the journey of Mandela did not be made to be a big secret.
It is prepared to plan for the journey of Addis Ababa city keenly, the great joy is the journey of Mandela's journey to Addis Ababa city, in Dar es Salaam city.
Now Mandela is seen in Dar es Salaam?

Ukawa's plan is to meet with Mandela at a secret place in Soweto.
The first to arrive at the scene to arrive at the scene and in the time they agreed to be Ahmed Kipozi and the surprise of him, Mandela and Kathmandu, the fee they signed as Walter Mazzarri and not being unable.
Mandela and Lusillile so as we can use the estates if we will use Mandela's language to be taken to Mandela being transported for a car until it was defeated in Mandela at a trap of going to meet Mandela in Soweto.
Mzee Chilo told me that he had a great fear during the vehicle for the vehicle heading to Sunderland, he had fear that police were following a lot of him and that they could be arrested before going to the pitch and he will not have Land (Botswana).
Mzee Chilo said that "we are proud of up without trouble, when we arrived in Makoroboi city, the day before yesterday when I was in a short message from Dar es Salaam and let me know that my journey to go to Dar es Salaam will understand that my journey to go to Dar es Salaam will understand that my journey to go to Dar es Salaam will understand that my journey to go to Dar es Salaam will understand that my trip will go to Dar es Salaam.
Well, two chapters were shot, and in one morning, a small plane, will take Mandela from France to play, heading to Tanganyika.
When they were in the air of Zambia, Mandela is remember to listen to the pilot going through "Mbeya, Mbeya, Mbeya!"

There was no answer from Mbeya.
And the weather in behavior, suddenly I wanted the communication with a plane that is very delicious.
Suddenly the intention of emergency for danger was heard inside Mandela's plane, he has talked to me, "this is now the end of us."
Finally, we were put on the bad state of climate change as usual when I saw it in life, I don't know her to the plane, and the plane's journey to live in Mbeya is one of the journey to have ever played.
Mandela did not know her, "Pickup, in Mbeya to set it in one of the Hotel of Dar es Salaam and black spectacles, while seated on the same place where I had never been open or in the bar where there was no special place according to the color of people.
When a hotel we were waiting for one leader from Tanu, we were told that leader would like to inform him, is called John Mwakangale.
So,! I was not ready for a long time to a hotel and he was looking for you for me, narrates Mzee Madiba.
Well, that leader of Tanaka who Mandela did not know John Mwakangale, was the head of Mbeya Region, those days.
And after Mbeya, the journey of Mandela was one hour to Dar es Salaam city when Mandela arrived for the first time with Julius Nyerere, again at his home, Msasani.
Nelson Mandela at Msasani at Julius Nyerere was announced so much by Julius Nyerere, he was the one that brought him to Nelson Mandela when he met Julius Nyerere, Msasani.
