
Wednesday, September 10, 2014.

Winning those statements that efforts to give him a lesson.

When you know the needs of the feelings of a woman is one issue, but to live with that understanding, there are many things we like that, there are many things we know but we are not well.
The results are we should not think that we know and we do not want to change our lives.

One year before getting married, I got lucky to get pre form one day after getting into marriage, I thank Mzee Jilima and his wife when I was lucky to meet with them in the past and drawing many to prepare them in marriage.
He has told me that I got several years since it has now.

Although I got in the marriage, I heard a lot that made you to do in the relationship with a big thirst for learn, even so, it was not a easy job to live, even so, it was not a easy job to live and then I saw it.

Upbringing of sex.

I didn't come up to realize that I have been a great impetus in my changes and I understood to a culture that does not like a man to show her very close relationship with a woman and not that in my culture, I don't like each other.

Again in my culture, though things have begun to change a little of these days, the loved ones in marriage did not be able to sleep at one house and the husband went on her house with the male children, and his wife entered into his house with female children.

It's not only that, even when eating, it was a must for the father and male children to the first, then that happens it is taken to the mother and her female children, this one I would like to watch the real system that was not allowed to get one communication between the father and mother.

And even if they were able to see the husband followed by his wife, when there is a husband and wife from together, the wife passed several hours before it was followed by her husband.
There is no longer and there is no conflict and now you can see the challenge of change in a culture that was very big and you will have to change how I will look at things and do a difference between what I was used to.

But because of its importance, I had to do a great effort and I began to change my views concerning the one that I believe is the responsibility of a man in a relationship and decided to take deliberate measures to be close to my wife.

Therefore, I started learning about things that confirm my love for my wife even if I know my efforts to do my responsibility as the husband's mother do my partner with him as required.
So even to change a difficult culture is possible.

View of the community about marriage.

Another solution that I was involved with it is faith in the total of men who are near me, every step I have done was contrary to the expectations of the neighbors, employees, believers and many others that I had known him and yet I was not known as my wife.

I decided to assume the thoughts of total that are praising the male circumcision in a relationship as you cannot be a businessman without close to the business people, and I decided to send himself well and these men who want him have shown a lot of life without these people who love his wife.

Instead I decided to assure you that very close to men, there will discuss their thoughts to be my example, I don't look for men who are proud to use their good time and let us know, but I have been able to do well and let us know, a step in step.

Not supposed to learn, this season.

In addition to learn to the important things that I believe is a good example of marriage, and even in marriage that hit the desert or my views, I agree on efforts to learn, something that is not true.

I decided to fulfill the intention of spreading that and decided to build my relationship with great efforts to be through with great experience and bad experience, I decided to invest in knowledge.

His results were positive while my friendship with my wife putting up, these players do not want to learn, they don't know how to read their relationship, but when I feel extremely honored and I saw my efforts, but finally they got to learn.

The challenge of paying.

Other times I found in difficult environments of work that aimed to put a work on my family and I decided to choose out of my family and that I was supposed to choose out of work with a marriage, I decided to choose marriage, again, but not in the real situation.
I decided to pay a cost of putting forward the family.

Sometimes I was asked to choose the side of a friend or close relatives and my wife, I understood the wife and explained that for those decisions, he bought our relationship that will increase our relationship against them.

It does not know, 'lice' of us has shown.

The main foundation that I have learned in making a woman feel good, is to deal with what we love you, you can't know what you get your partner so that you can be able to see if you are able to invest in that relationship.

I left to realize that I got previously when I got the case of my brother, my friend of work, but I was supposed to know my needs or let me tell him that he is supposed to know my needs or let me tell him that he is supposed to know my needs and not me.

When I was involved in my heart, I was very easy to be ready to make efforts to invest in order to make my wife feel loved and be appreciated.
I told him well more than his needs and leaving you.

Thirst for continuing to learn.

However, I don't state that I have a relationship that was completed by a hundred percent.
We have tried here in Times magazine, we take each other time. I take this situation to be health, especially during the first period of close relationship like the marriage, sometimes, I will have a work and other responsibilities, and therefore we are doing.

Sometimes I would like to be my mental home for my way I will be able to finish more than other networks that we shouldn't wait, but sometimes I can be able to leave and welcome them on social networks like my partner, we should partner.
But there are a certain thing on how we want to overlap with us because as we solve our challenges because all of us know that the development of the family is our priority.

I have been saying, I have been done, I will know it is the first we've started, but at least we know the way that can raise us to there, I think it is possible for you to live living with family than any other people.

Twitter, annamatinde @ gmail.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
