
We were shocked and "witchcraft" in Donge County.
In what has been seen as a new look for the relationship between Kenya and China, the prime minister of China Li together the Quran he did a three-day visit in the country.
This tour shows the importance of China is giving their relationship with African countries.
Before landing in Nairobi city considering the Quran of Ethiopia, Angola, and Nigeria where he signed several contracts of economic and political partnership, on my view, this tour is part of the new policy of China in Africa.
This new policy is led by special efforts to support China to expand its economic scope in Africa.
At the center of this policy, the economic interests of China to get resources, markets for its products and employment opportunities to its people.
Contrary to the statement of China, that his relationship with African nations have been built on foundation of equality, this relationship is same as an indication of being a slave.
We as a nation we must be able to understand that China has qualified in the new competitions with the western countries a lorry that will face their opponents in Africa.
China is a country with many more people in the world and in Donge County and the second economy in the world is determined to avoid resources in Africa.
In this way, many contracts and African nations are involving oil, minerals, energy, and a recent music, we will find the effects of the western part of China. "
During this tour, Minister Li together with the Quran before the signing of 17 agreements with various diseases including farming, health, and what happens a lot, water and environment.
Also, the special project of value of 32767 billion shillings for the construction of central railway towards the East African region and the reserve area was signed.
While I heard that China are all nations in the world depends on each other and a political I will not hesitate to inform you concerning the Diamond Jubilee in Beijing.
First, we must know that there is a big business gap between these two nations, the value for the purchase of Kenya in China is 270 billion shillings while China bought goods worth 42b in Kenya.
Secondly, China has been denied the finger to be the main market for analysts of the elephants and destruction of diseases so that we are able to have relationship with a country which contributes to land in the country?
