
CHADEMA's strength is going on.

November 10, 2013.

The Vice Chairperson of CCM Tanzania (Mainland), Philip Mangula was surprised by the party to have a great army of members, but it is great and a small army of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), a step that has done a citizen to study at times and to return to citizens.
Speaking to the political committee of CCM in Dar es Salaam Province together with journalists yesterday before starting his tour in the city, Mangula said.
"CCM has a great army of members but it is unable to have a small army of CHADEMA which does not even address the address, therefore, I have seen there is need to return to you from the lower level, stem cells and citizens to explain the problem?
He said that in order to reach the citizens in Dar es Salaam city, he will do a tour in all districts in the province and meeting with the executives, members and the citizens because every member of CCM is a soldier of the front line but he was surprised by the small force at the moment.
"The party has the strength where the government has a lot of strength, it has come at the time we understand that it is important for the party to recognize people and not the party leaders, therefore, the life of the party is an important thing to the members of CCM," he said.
He explained that groups as a result of the 2010 elections in that party, there are still ongoing with fast, a situation that affects the party until the year 2012, thus the strategy of knowing how to be released without considering over 2014 up to 2015 need to have strong plans.
Mangula said that during his training tour which has been caused by recognizing that the power of the party is the presence of members who will organize a lot of time to talk about the challenges they are facing and protecting CCM members.
He said by doing that, he will get the reasons facing the development of that party, he urged CCM members to understand that in the last week of commemoration of the father of the nation, the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, there is need to honor his activities by increasing the party.
Mangula said that to build a party, it needs a chance even to leave the position of power if he did Mwalimu Nyerere.
"During the Mwalimu Nyerere Memorial week, it is important to have a great party with great strength because the teacher stopped even the position of the prime minister and the guest of honor Mzee Rashid Kawawa with the aim of going back to the party work so that the party needs a chance to be able to have great strength," he said.
