The Kilombero and Rufiji district will destroy the blood pressure diseases.
Dec 27, 2012

The Kilombero District of Rufiji, for another time again, "have blamed the blood of pastoralists that do not have guilty of November 10, this year 2012, the family of Luteinizing Hormone, Kilombero District was affected by three youths of that family.

The youth "raw," Dumu has denied it, aged 25 years ago and lost life after being accused of being shot dead in the whole world.

His fellow brothers, Luhende Singu has refused due to Billnas, he refused to marry off his skills, although Oscar did not lose their lives, but he was left out by injuries after the police was left out by injuries after the police had gotten her naked.

March 17, 2012 the five colleagues in the district of Ulanga lost their lives by being shot dead by the government's trend, announcing time after his intention of removing those breeders in the areas of Ulanga and Kilombero.

If they qualify for the game to relocate the farmers, the 15 people received the farmers of the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF) together with more than 10 militia who went to control the farmers of Ulanga.

Those attackers exploded the farmers to give them money against the law so that they can not accept the attackers exploded a lot of breeders in Kilosa district, Morogoro Police Force, accused that these suspects of killings participated in the land grabbing in Kilosa the year 2009.

It is alleged to have used a car to the District Council of Ulanga together with a gun of 197,57,962 people in the attack that three farmers were injured and also Mshenga of Ndeki.

The District Commissioner of Ulanga, Francis Dande, was quoted by different media stations in the country saying that those killings are an accident, while comparing those killings and bad accidents, he gives the musicians to use the lives of breeders and those who lost their brothers.

What's the mistake of these farmers? The reason is that they are farmers of traditional farmers, it is like you are not supposed to have a nation with the leaders that like so much meat and milk.

Many senior officials in the government, for a long time now, have been bad opinion against breeders and they will be able to get married, without any basis, that farmers are required to make big environmental activists.

Abiding by the farmers of Tanzania took a bad state after President Jakaya Kikwete entered into power, President Jakaya Kikwete, addressing the new parliament on December 30th, in 2005, he made a criterion of weight to people and livestock as a measure of weight.

By bad luck the farmers, Tanzania was faced with a bad state of electricity through the first 100 days of President Kikwete's rule, claiming that the cause of electricity project is a drop in water catchment areas, Mbarali District, Mbeya Region.

On March 2nd, year 2006, President Kikwete emphasized that he is ready to blame so that the project is taking action against protecting the environment for the purpose of the national benefits and of generations to come.

Vice President (in the same time), Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, gave an agreement with the government with an aim of caring for the environment and water sources of Tanzania Doctor Shein emphasized in that document that the farmers leave immediately in the valley areas of Kilombero, Doctor Shein ordered the heads of provinces and heads of the district to ensure farmers are removed.

May 18, 2006, the government sent a lot of complaints by hundreds of breeders which have been supervised by the district commissioner of Mbarali District, Hawa Ngapa (God rest his soul in peace), we saw the rights of human rights and animals that lost their lives in the exercise.
