
The influx of tax evasion.
October 25th, 2012

Tanzania is facing a danger of not benefiting from the East African market in the fishing sector, if it will not affect the standards of tax and charges to fishermen from neighboring countries.
In addition to the drop in the price of fish, a period of price due to various reasons including a great importance of the economy in the European countries, many types of tax is needed to be aired by fish.
To go to be sold in Uganda through a chameleon.
Our investigation is for more than one month, it has revealed that together with looking for a good price of fish that is being offered by the fish industries in Uganda, another big reason is to run a machine for a lot of tax that is supposed to pay the relief for various authorities in the country.
In addition to being required to pay tax revenue to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), the patient is expected to pay a canoe that is paid for 50 million dollars (Tanzanian shillings.
80,000 shillings - American dollars in a year, registration of a canoe that has also cost 10 million dollars (1600 Tanzanian shillings) on a canoe that is worth 76 billion shillings per year for a canoe that is required to have three fishermen.
In hand with the charges of that actor, it is also known for fish, whereby it has paid 5 percent of the price that he has reduced to the council, the tax for 500 shillings every day, huge amounts of 1000 shillings per day.
Other charges are tax for 5 percent of the price of buying, tax from the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA) which is aired by 34 dollars (54,654 shillings) on a canoe that is approximately 11 meters.
In addition to those funds, this year of money has increased the other type of charges to fishermen, they are required to pay taxes for 50,000 shillings in every corner of a canoe that is taking fish in the factory without caring about the fish.
This situation, according to the assistant secretary of the Wimbledon party (MARI), David Kasibu, it will cause many fishermen going bankrupt or to convince them to evade taxes so as to make corrections so as to be good and good market, they should be able to get benefits.
Kasanga says fishermen, other business people have invest in a lot of money in that business which even so it is not expected that the necessary importance and the government, because together with its importance in providing employment and bring in the foreign income, the fishermen were directed.
He said the canoe that has 99 and 15 shillings is 4 million shillings, has decided to break a canoe that has more than 3 million shillings and every canoe will need more than 80 million shillings and each one is sold to 60,000 shillings.
"These goals can be able to use even in one month and even to them, we are using any goal even for two days," says Kasibu.
He says that the environment is very difficult.
Doing business through Skype will benefit from their neighbor who at other times, they use the weaknesses in the country to improve their business and that is why they are forced to sell the fishermen to sell their fish.
