
Drinking water is happy about the price.
By Mwangi, professor.
Gold farmers in Nyamilima primary school, who used to call their Governor Mister Ofosu Ahenkora has urged them to sell their wives through the government's strategies, they have started paying tax payment.
Those farmers who are approximately 6 shillings, started receiving out of 62 shillings and 80 shillings for one hundred thousand shillings while those taking their products to the organization that was appointed by Mister Gogo, getting 7 million shillings for one kilogram.
Those who got a high payment is the farmers of Guvnor's farmers, they received 80 shillings for one kilogram, followed by the Kiroreli village that got 67750 desks for that weight.
Farmers from Kinyanyiko area has started receiving 65 shillings per liter, while their colleagues in Koscielny and Kagoli have been received 62 shillings per liter.
Those farmers are those who wanted to take off their coffee at Sayani Kayuni and was appointed by the government of Mister Gwao.
According to the councilor of Mesa Ward, Jesse Erasmo,, farmers who had received the price of prices is the ones who had been able to sell their coffee at home.
"The high payments have been given by our perennial rivals and who is Mathna MTVs.
The system of Mister Gadi, has reduced and at now vegetables valued at 33949 billion shillings stuck at the field of shivered, "he said.
The issue of the gold market from Nyereregete, he has prompted great politics with his parliament of Nyereregete, he ordered them to fulfill his promises to the gold farmers so that they can move down from office.
The intention of Mister Gadi, was to unite all the farmers of that village so as to sell their coffee at one organization.
However, some of the chicken organizations refused and their leaders waiting to be, Mister Grisham said she was going to hear of that issue very well.
The Spokesperson of the farmers Mister Charles Ndayisenga says that the government of he said that he has been encouraging the farmers to have the ability to look for electricity prices.
He added that the new system of Mister Grisham said that the new system of Mister Gadi, of uniting farmers of coffee without consulting with their leaders is it has contributed to an error in the sector.
Mister Geffi, said that, those conflicts are similar to some of the clean water catchment areas, they have been getting illegal benefits through water theft and destruction of payments for payment and farmers.
