Complaints from many years.
Mose 21, 2014.

Judge Joseph Warioba who is the chairperson of the commission of constitutional changes has noted that it is impossible for many years of Tanganyika and Zanzibar.
Presenting the new constitution draft in parliament in Dodoma on Tuesday this week, Warioba said that in the whole period of the union, it has taken complaints from every side.
Complaints from Zanzibar.
Judge Warioba mentioned the complaints of long-term complaints from Zanzibar against the union being together with the Tanganyika government to put a court of coalition government which is helping Tanganyika more than Zanzibar.
He said that the picture has made Tanganyika to be the ones that Tanzania and boys are the ones who have been communicating with the people of Zanzibar they have remained as the people of Zanzibar.
Other complaints are that the union issues have been increasing and therefore causing the freedom of Zanzibar (Monbusho Scholarship) and in order to resolve the status of Zanzibar (a Bongo celebrity).
He listed more complaints from Zanzibar saying that he has been having an agreement of certificate for union certificates by touching the Tanganyika position in the structure of the government of the union.
"Thanked the President of Zanzibar to be the Vice President of the United Republic of the United Republic as a result of lack of revenue and expenditure of the union of the United Republic of the United Republic and how to contribute to the cost of revenue collection between the government of the United Republic and the government of Zanzibar.
"There are two different meanings that are mutilated in one country of Zanzibar not to participate fully by the government of the United Republic on issues of getting donations and loans from outside the country and not have any complaint that the senior leaders of Zanzibar were chosen to Dodoma and not Zanzibar.
"Zanzibar complained to be some of the things that have been made as a union through the making of the law and the Parliament of the United Republic on non-governmental organizations and after that things get the status of the union.
The complaints of mainland against the coalition.
Judge Warioba also denied the complaints of long time from the mainland about the union.

He mentioned the complaints saying that "Zanzibar has been free, it has its flag, it has its national song, it has its government and has changed its constitution so as to discover themselves as a country.
"Zanzibar has changed the rules of the constitution of the United Republic which says that the coalition laws that are being supported by the United Republic of Tanzania are required to be used in Zanzibar, it is a must for the law to be used in Zanzibar, it is a must for the law to be used in Zanzibar.
"Zanzibar has criticized the law about money that is being done in the United Republic of Zanzibar has shown the constitution that it has taken the power of the president in the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania that explained that President of the United Republic of the United Republic of Zanzibar have explained the president of the United Republic of Zanzibar they love the country in administrative areas.
"The constitution of Zanzibar explains the United Republic of Tanzania is two countries but the constitution of the United Republic explains that, Tanzania is one country with the constitutional changes that was made by the Zanzibar Constitution about the contribution of Zanzibar in the running of United Republic of Tanzania.
"The union of a union that has lost a historical operation of Tanganyika and the African people to defend their interests in the United Republic of Tanzania mainland having a right to own land in Zanzibar when their colleagues in Zanzibar have the right to own land in Tanzania mainland."
"The members of parliament of Zanzibar contributes to the debates on non-governmental issues and which for sure it is Lake Tanganyika and that the Tanganyika Union have no chance to contribute to the council of representatives of internal affairs of Zanzibar," explained Judge Warioba.
He said according to the economic law of Zanzibar, 1985, Amantius Msole says that we are helping the Tanzania mainland to fulfill the special reputation so as to get public rights at any time and wherever they are in the Tanganyika land.
Regarding the Tanganyika issue to put in a union of unity, Judge Warioba said the commission decided to do information about some of the complaints, especially the complaints from Zanzibar Islands, the complaints from Zanzibar mainland are due to a large extent, and the steps taken in the side of Zanzibar.
