
19th December 2012

Chikawe, I wish to maintain peace.

Angelina Mabula and Zubeda Sakali.

Minister of Constitution and law, Mister Mathias Chikawe, has called on how to use their religious faith to maintain peace.
And it appears to enable the development of our country economically.
Mister Chikawe said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he was opening a workshop for various religious leaders with the aim of protecting and maintain peace and calmness in the country, "said Tanzania cannot have development like peace and calmness in the country," said Tanzania cannot have development like peace and calmness in the country.

"The violence that happened recently in Dar es Salaam, Arusha, and the people of Zanzibar, were forced to endanger the peace and stability of the country by using a shadow of the religion, this issue did not be used for even a little," said Mister Chikawe.

He added that the workshop will look for a solution to those problems so as to contribute to the efforts of developing a good relationship to all religious leaders and the government in protecting and maintain peace.

And the chairperson of the national committee for preventing the killing of Kimbari, Felican Mkude, said the aim of that workshop is to oppose activities that symbolize the occurrence of peace, discrimination, incitement and the concerned authorities to open an issue.


"So as to reach the target area, the committee is supposed to work together with the government agencies, citizens, religious organizations and international ones so as to strengthen the peace of the country," he said.

The national chairperson of Burundi, Doctor Mohammed Rukara, said Tanzania is the only country's country that is proud of peace and calmness since it got independence, but currently there are some people that cause peace because of a religion.

"If you check the country like Rwanda, Burundi, Burundi and Congo (DRC), do not have enough peace compared to Tanzania that which is leading in having 100 different from Rwanda with two weeks," said Doctor Binzoo.

The Sheikh of Dar es Salaam Province, Alhad Mussa Salum, said that all religious leaders should not accept any other religion, but there are some religious who give words and dirty language which contributes to endanger the collapse of peace in the country.

The director of information and communication of the Church of Public Procurement Agency Tanzania, Pastor Mussa Mwachibuzi, said about the collapse of peace that is causing the reduction of religion because they should be resolved.

The national chairperson of Islamic women in the country, Miss Julietha Kabete has said that when a child gets or doing an issue that it did not live in the community, a mother is supposed to take a prayer so as to repeat the mistake that he did for.
The country starts at home.
