The main market is the death of.
Brightiles 21, 2014.

There are those who believe that Tanzania was open doors for the public market before its time, if we did not prepare an environment of setting up industries within and political parties in the new system.
That Africa agriculture will be continued with small-scale farmers, a dream of developing African agriculture for big companies can be able to reach them.
That by using the political parties, if passed are developed countries like Germany, where African agriculture can contribute to development at a large extent.
At the time of Uhuru and a few years later, political parties were great strength, (the cotton farmers and coffee), some of them were found in the whole world by having better administration and financial resources.
Politicians tried to fear those parties and to make sure that it has intervened in the diggers and we can say without hesitation that politics is among the things that are facing the district in Tanzania.

Political parties in other countries that are involved in politics, they do well for example Sweden, political parties are needed to ensure these parties have a good environment of work and they did not affect some people and foreign businessmen.
Many political parties in Tanzania have a bad state, there are those who believe that the parties should be satisfied with the leadership and that the party leaders are requesting the cooperative parties to deal with water funds such as SADC and KCC in Bukoba, they believe that clove smuggling should stop the political parties.
There are many reasons that are mentioned, together with the other that she didn't be done, in the whole country, it is true that the weaknesses of the cooperative parties are supposed to be accountable, it is important to look at this issue because all of us are participating to contribute to this problem which is a great danger to our economy.
Therefore it should not be an issue of fanaticism to compete with each other and to limit each other but to look for right ways to save the political parties.
So as to buy surgery for farmers, the cooperative parties of SADC in Karagwe and Buchosa districts are derailing the bank with a huge interest in 18 to 21 percent, this is clear that this is a great interest which is being paid, it is a must to sign the farmer.
Further, it's true that the outside companies that come to buy coffee by compete with the cooperative parties, give them a money of buying coffee at the foreign banks, pay a three percent interest.
In the normal state, the one that led to a three percent interest, being built with the one that gave birth to 18 percent to 21 percent, it is clear that the third percentage will have a great relief because he can plan a high price of buying coffee at the cooperative parties.
Unfortunately, there is no system of controlling its political parties and this financial competition, all parties have been left to fight inside the internal market and its results are at a bad state of the parties that we have witnessed and if there are no quick action that will be taken by the government, these political parties will not die!
The chicken board has been unable to produce a high level that is equal to competition, the results are foreign companies to buy a lot of chicken and to stop political parties that have no ability to buy a lot of chicken because they have a challenge of paying great interest.
The water board would have been the first to see this problem of foreign companies to get loans to buy coffee at small interests and recommend for the government the government it is proud that the government intends to cater for political parties with a small percentage of three or two percent so that the parties can be able to compete in the market.
In addition to its weaknesses, that is caused by some leaders and workers that do not be faithful, the cooperative parties still increase the condition of a farmer compared to foreign companies that apart from providing high prices, the farmer did not have anything for the development of the concerned community.
Electricity board was established through parliamentary law number 23 of the year 2001, and the amendments to the law of the Mazimbu Board of the year 2009, with the responsibilities of enabling them to mobilize the drinking water and control.
