NIDA, we are prepared, everyone will get the identity card.
Jide 19, 2012

For some time now the officers of the National Identification Authority (NIDA) have been doing an exercise of understanding and registration in the province of Dar es Salaam, recently, our citizens succeeded to interview with a short time with the NIDA team led by the director general, Dickson Maimu and these are the ones affected.
Almighty God, according to your information, already you have started the process of giving identity cards to the residents of Kilombero District and in some of the residents of Dar es Salaam city there will be special days because there will be a big day for the residents of Dar es Salaam?
The executive director of identifying the registration exercise was started since June 22, and is expected to be completed on July 28, 2012.
Registration centers will be in every office of the local government offices in areas where the district offices have a chance, there will be alternative offices thus the candidates should be given / get information from the local government officials.
Almighty God bless you, this exercise is easy for someone to say that you come to prepare to provide information?
The executive director of this exercise is the responsibility of every resident of Tanzania, and every applicant is expected to submit the reports of his age, citizenship, work, and his name.
Mke Mwema should not understand that there is a confirmation of some of the reports that involve someone in order to know what is what he is doing?
The executive director of preventative services, will be confirmed by the local government officials, news reports will be confirmed by the Department of Immigration and Human Rights Commission (RITA) of cheating in the criminal crime thus it will be taken against the concerned offense.
Mke Mwema should fear among our good information, the secret of checking if you look at the issue of private reports of people not to get out?
The executive director of NIDA is worried about all of us that it will make sure that people are reserved well and do not understand.
Mke Mwema should also meet with them during the exercise of people that do not know or write or write the system so that the group would not be left / or we need to come out in this important plan for the country and to a private person?
The executive director of NIDA will attract more officers in every estate so as to visit the forms of the candidates that do not know how to read and write and to ensure that the right information of people should be admitted at the form of application so that there is no group that will be left.
Mke Mwema should you know that every day they get identity cards to those who are 18 years of us know that every day the children are coming from childhood pregnancies, for attaining 18 years, today he has 18 years, but they should get the identity cards?
The executive director of this activity is sustainable and there will be the NIDA office in every district that he will take 18 years after registration of many people (Christmas and the completion they will be required to do the request by following the procedure and finally be given his identity card.
Mke Mwema, I give special cards to three groups of people of Tanzania, visitors and refugees, it is easy to recognize citizens of Tanzania, if you know the guests of Dar and refugees considering that some of these people have documents and documents to live in the country.
The executive director of Tanzania, I have been explained to say the beginning, news reports will be confirmed by the local government officials, news reports will be confirmed by the Department of Immigration and Human Rights Commission (RITA) of cheating in the criminal offense.
Brethren, this exercise is expected to be completed in August 2014, this is not a very long time from now, looking at a very long time from now, there are challenges of some of the areas to be heard, you have organized them because of people and work tools, to complete as you say?
The executive director of that authority is prepared to ensure that everyone is supposed to make sure everything is available as well.
