Kikwete, tomorrow it will not lie!
October, 23, 2013.

The voting process is not one of my brothers and it's a lesson that I want to inform us that you have been unsuccessful.

Probably you will be the army but it will be philosophically when Tanzania is preparing itself to have a new constitution that will lead the next new federation, we should be given priority to ensure that the fight is supposed to decide what is the political ideology.

The fight will be caused by one of the political movements, between democracy, if we know it today and other political systems, Kitilya Mkumbo and even in the community with a democratic system that is believed to have the economic systems that is under the danger of going bankrupt.

They don't understand the democracy that has reached out of the country and the citizens of those countries believe that democracy is a political system that is best to win all over the world.

He reminded that the system gives every citizen the opportunity to have a saying something about how the country is run under that system and all citizens are similar to the law, being the same community, political and economic rights.

The government does not depend on its citizens because it is a certain religion or certain sex, and all of them have the right to check the government that will be like that, how the system is required to be, though our Zanzibar can be.

The defending of democracy have also advised that the main reputation of democracy is that the system that protects the interests of the public - it be political, economic and social welfare.

Those defending champions have added a question that the system will also put up a procedure to change her to the government through political ways or not to be elected again after special programs.

That, without doubt, it's only one chapter of democracy when the system has a other chapter that doesn't do a model, a situation that does it do.

The chapter of democracy, the one who was arrested by political parties, depends on your system, it depends on you for political parties because every political party has the responsibility of its members to protect their party's interests instead of the interests of the nation.

Those we want to be open on these days in Zanzibar and Zanzibar where some of the leaders of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in the race are not fulfilling the process of giving the nation a new constitution to save their party instead of save it to the nation.

And then there is a weight in the democratic system as usual, the democratic government has huge bureaucracy that had a high speed and because of the weight it's not a speed and they are usually of Kobe Bryant, sometimes to stop yourself especially.

Instead of enabling the referees to get their decisions quickly, they do not have a habit of raping and preventing themselves so that they want to take them.

He explained further, it is that the system is enabling the activists and the sponsors of the party that concern them and be able to be given opportunities of kind of kind from work in government even business opportunities.

In Zanzibar where the system has not been spreading and signing up, then we see the way those who are trusted and CCM as "our colleagues," our colleagues will continue to be able to be taken to the levels or to be taken out of higher education.

There is evidence, and this evidence have witnessed times just during the elections in Tanzania, that a democratic system needs to fight for ethics among the politicians, especially those who depend on elections and they were unable to use any way and they were ready to use the same way to be elected.

Maybe if there is one of the modern democracy that is very worried about it is the need for venturing their votes, so as to vote it, it is a critical condition that gives them an opportunity to be elected by the public because they have money to arrest those votes.
