
Kikwete has given him, but he was wrong on APR of 03 / 2013.

We support the part of the speech by President Jakaya Kikwete, against bad trend, that doesn't have any benefits to the nation, the trend of religion that are spread very fast in the country.

The trend which doesn't destroy the good relationship that is there between the believers of various religious leaders in the country, we thank President Kikwete urged religious leaders not only, but all of them in the country continue to develop a good relationship of those days.

As he said, if he said, if you will not be able to change this direction, our country is good we will remember it with his reputation for many years of his citizens to live in bully, for love, partnership and by touching the problem will agree.

But in a certain way, the speech by President Kikwete carrying a mistake, instead of fighting with religion in one way, through a certain way, it depends on how to prevent religion by raising the debate which is like the religion because it gives the feelings of religion in other institutions in the country.

For example, in his speech, President Kikwete who is also the commander in chief of defense and security forces, wants people to see what he will happen in the country about the issue of religion, especially who with human rights like Christians and Muslims saying that "in the force there should be traditional healers and Muslims."

As a result of that type of Kikwete, the commander in the army is like he has been the first leader of the nation to get this debate of religion inside the important media and security agencies in the country, when we believe he is wrong, though other parts of his speech are not wrong and basically it is to be supported.

Kikwete had a very opportunity to condemn that religion without giving a brief statement on how to run the parliamentary debates to oppose religion because involved the examples of other institutions like the army.

Other times, the advisers of the president are important to recognize that, the decision by the president on some people are guidance of doing good or bad and therefore, it is good to consider for all the time, the president gave a statement of fighting for a good time without being forced to make sure that are available in the port against bad.

It is true that religious leaders in the army is dangerous to the country but these thoughts of religious division in the army did not be allowed to be dealt with from the edge of the president.
