13 December 2012

JK visits Temeke visited the money to improve services in the hospital.

By Andrew Chale.

The leadership of Temeke Municipal Council, Dar es Salaam has been directed to ensure it is producing enough money so as to improve the services and infrastructure of the Temeke District and the clinic in that district.
President Jakaya Kikwete gave the directive the day before yesterday when he launched the buildings of mother and children that are in Mbagala, Rouge, Mbagala, in that district which has been built through sponsorship by the South Korean government.

Speaking to the directors of that council, President Jakaya Kikwete said the municipality is supposed to ensure that during the financial year of 2013 / 14, they will get enough money to improve medical services and infrastructure.

"Make sure that an increase in enough budget so as to commend the clinic as well as health centers," said President Kikwete and added that, the government is in talks with the South Korean country in order to get a loan of 60,000 American dollars to be able to complete the construction of Mlangali Village.

"The government has already completed the construction of the University of doctors in Dodoma province, which is a total of 50 students, as we are in plans to build the Mlangali Village so that these doctors can be able to perform their training," he said.

At the same time, the Deputy Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Doctor Seif Rashid, said the government is prepared to ensure that it is implementing its policy to build a health center in all wards and health centers in every village.

The chief medical officer of the municipality, Doctor Koheleth Winani, said until now in that district there are 35 clinics, two health centers and three hospitals.

I commend the government for improving health services since the year 2005, we had 18 health centers but now they have increased, "said Doctor Melele.

He said the Mbagala B Hospital has launched a health service where right now it gives more than 1000 patients in a day where previously it was 350 patients in day.
