
The government intends to start "EWURA '.
Julius Mtatiro, the Citizen on behalf of Plasmodium falciparum.
Dar es Salaam City, the government is expecting to start using the Petroleum Bulk Procurement Regulatory Authority, so as to deal with the existing challenges.
That system is expected to start being used any time from now so as to be able to deal with the price, quality and a amount that comes in the country.
This plan has been removed by the Minister of Industry and Investment, Charles Mwijage when he was explaining the shortage of sugar that have emerged here in the country and the steps taken so as to get them.
He said the process of starting to be used is complete in the end before we begin to get relief in that issue.
"I have not pleased with me," said Minister Mwijage.
Last week, the sugar price has risen by more than two times in Chelsea before the areas in the country, despite the government to direct one kilogram of those products to be sold in 1,800 villages.
Those changes have happened at a short time after President John Magufuli to prevent all permits for controlling the sugar from outside, apart from a permit for the state house because of that it is alleged that big business people decided to reach it and but the government has arrested some of them.
Mwijage explained that earlier, the government was not supporting the sugar that had been directed from outside an issue that gave an opportunity to business people who are not faithful and to bring in a quality of quality and quality to more that they are allowed to sell and sell at the price that will be allowed by selling.
"The program has already been reported," insisted Doctor explained that from now the government will be implementing the importation and all the concerned authorities, to verify all issues that are involved in quality, an amount a cost worth.
The issue of the sugar market that free was supported by the chairman of the business community, Johnson Minja who said that the needs and business foundation was surrounded on that product.
He said that despite the government to stop the market that be aired live, instead of being independent, "clarified that business people who were tested for the permits is the ones that they decided to go to buy sugar from local industries and strengthen the reserve in their warehouses.
He wanted the government to intervene in order to save the citizens and the local traders, he explained that most of the sugar industries is produced in Brazil, India or Turkey but the big amount of it comes from India and that the natural resources of there are the origin of there that would be avoided.
After being arrested for more than four million tons of sugar, suspects, together with their property are continuing to be held by security and security agencies for an interview before they have been presented in court for allegations of changing the economy.
The Spokesperson of the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (UDART), Tunu Pinda said the suspects together with the sugar that was arrested are being held by the police force for an interview.
Up to now, those who were arrested are the executive director of Al Furqaan Islamic Center, Harfanti Daud Mziray, who was arrested with four hundred thousand tons in Tabata and Mbagala in Dar es Salaam city, and sniffing / dain from Arusha who was arrested and more than 45 tons.
Suluhu saw corruption, the Vice President, Samia Suluhu Hassan has said that there is one businessman who was revealed to affect the five million tons of sugar, it is not corruption or corruption but we should give a report so that Tanzanians should be dealt with in accordance with the country's laws, "he said without further clarification.
Vice President made those remarks at the UWT meeting that was prepared to thank him.
