
Mbowe: I am a resident of CHADEMA.

The chairman of the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Freeman Mbowe yesterday was handed the forms by the party cadres and wanted him to vote again for the seat, a request that left him and opened the doors for other members' to be competing with the chest.

"The position is still there, that wants to test the chest and I come out and again I request my leaders to do the form for that wants," said Mbowe, who is leading the party for two five years terms.

The leaders of that party from different areas in the country led by famous cadre, Athuman Mzinga, (Saba Saba) from Kigoma, met with Mbowe and presented their request for him to vote for that position.

"Due to the reputation of our chairperson, we have been looking for 200 shillings each one until it went to 50,000 shillings," said the seventh minute by all those cadres he accompanied with them and added.

"We have asked the chairperson for vying for that position by considering the reputation of the first time he knows the number of many people and he has helped the party to grow and serve Ukawa through the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa)."

While conducting a series of words of Kiha attire, Saba Saba, said that the request of wanting Mbowe to vie for him will be given to the Rukwa, Manyara, Iringa, Njombe, Iringa, Same West, Zanzibar, Mwanza and Kilimanjaro.

The second speech was followed by the greetings from the elders of Kinondoni District, Ilala and Temeke, Council of Women (BAVICHA) and the Youth Council (BAVICHA).

While giving the greetings of BAVICHA, the chairman of the council of Njombe, Emmanuel Masaudi, said Mbowe is equal to Joshua who is ending up to lead Israel members to enter the country of Koga.

"We Christians we know that Mussa had started a journey of 'Neel's journey to go, but he did not take them to State House, but they did not turn up when Mbowe is equal to Joshua Nassari of leaving the State House," said Maseru.

The national chairperson of Taifa Stars, Susan Lymo told Mbowe saying that the ones for women participate in politics in that party.

"The year 2000, there was one woman in special seats, in the year 2005, they increased by six and the year 2010, they have reached 26 as the chairman has enabled this year to be the national women and has added that the ones for women participate in politics," said Lymo.

Apart from the leaders of the party, there was also Sheikh Rajab Katunga from the Community and Islamic Institute who praised Mbowe and asked for him to vie for that position.

Mbowe was not found.
After the coordinator of the movement of change (M4C), Nkugwa Tugara, on her reputation, while the Saba Saba was handed over the form, with the cadres singing, "Jembe, to look for a solution.

Mbowe thanked the party's executive committee for planning the elections on September 14th this year, which is his birthday while promising to build a stable party.

"I commend the new parliament on September 14th this year, the party will not die and he will not face any person of the tribe, which will cause violence," he said.

Mbowe said that he has never asked to vie for the chairmanship of that party since he started paying for the year 2000.
"I have got a difficult time when I end at this time, CHADEMA has different people with skills and experience, because I am these groups that came out and take the forms can be interpreted as' and love them, that I had planned to me.

"Today is the third time I was requested to vie for the chairmanship but I have refused to vie for the chairperson, I have decided to vie for the year 2004, Mzee Makani asked me to leave him, but he made a group of elders who came out for the form.

"The year 2005, the party did not have a presidential candidate since he came out, Professor Baregu said that he was told I will be on the burden for the year 2009, I requested him to vie for him."

He said that he is expecting to build a political party and the system so as to avoid the digital system in the country, "it is in the past time when election people did not have positions without brotherhood we think the party has reduced, but this election took place for nine months.

We we said to do a national election without getting leaders of the province, district, ward, village, neighborhood and stem cells.

We have done elections, people have been able to see difficult things, immediately you receive him saying they have left chairperson, let me leave that the party is growing?
