Is Membe, Magufuli, Mwakyembe and Sitta.
Jide 17, 2014.

A few months now it has maintained before the race to inherit the President Jakaya Kikwete through the Revolutionary Party (CCM) to officially start with four names of the party members of the party, has been mentioned to be the reason proposed by the management of ethics and security, our citizens have been told.

This newspaper has been told that there is a group of veterans of CCM inside the party and the Department of Security who are organizing a report that will enable those names to the party.

All the four names are of those ministers in the government of Kikwete right now, and if you remove one of the ones that come from areas that have never been able to give the president of Tanzania.

Those ministers have been mentioned as Benard Membe (foreign affairs), Samuel Sitta (East African Cooperation), John Magufuli (construction) and Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe (transport).

Mke Mwema should be told that the state will not be done about all people, the ones mentioned to vie for that position and will be explained that so that CCM can be able to be given a chance.

"Let me tell you, the good candidate for CCM in the next elections is a must to be known by the citizens and is required to be known as possible.

"We cannot also take the name of a person who you started defending himself from the day and we cannot go to the elections with a present," the source of this newspaper, "the source of this newspaper," said the newspaper source of Tanzania (TPDF).

That source revealed that this newspaper that even Kikwete himself is supporting a candidate from among those four ministers.

"Recently, if CCM decided to elect Magufuli to vie for presidency if I think citizens will get all pictures by the picture that the party has decided to give someone who can deal with the problems they are facing," said the source.

Our citizens has been told that Mwakyembe, Sitta and Magufuli coming from the community with a large number of people who have not been able to get the opportunity of giving the president and to vie for them to ensure that they are making a lot of votes from their community.

Although CCM has been, for a long time, the spread of political politics, tribalism or discrimination of any kind, elections have shown that those criteria have been starting to take place.

This newspaper has been told that the report from the media industry and dollars will be taken directly at the State House or will be supported through the sub-election committee headed by the vice chairman of CCM, Philip Mangula.

The political news inside CCM and State House has claimed that the step of the deputy minister of communication, science and technology, January Makamba, announced his intention to vie for the presidency is not true because it is believed that he has no commitment to vie for presidency in the year 2015.

The "what he did Makamba is to prepare for the presidential election of 2015 when he will be 50 years old at that time and for Tanzania, maybe that is the same age of the same year.

As anything, the winner will win the presidential candidate for CCM in the year, it is a must to take Makamba a long time when he wanted to be King Maker so that he can be King Maker so that he can be King Maker so that he can be in King later, "this newspaper has been told.

Speaking to this newspaper about those names of candidates, the member of parliament of Kigoma South (NCCR-Revolution), David Kafulila, said that she is not allowed to be touched by those names and he said it was popular while more experience than the ability to do work.

He said that among the four people he can make great opposition to their opponents, although he said it depends on what will happen in the first half until next year.

"One year is a very long time in politics and you cannot know what will happen even so, Edward Lowassa is also a good candidate for CCM.

"It seems that he has prepared himself well to vie for the presidency and it's why the late she has gone into the opposition camp and can use methods to ensure he gets the opposition's strength.

"At the end of the day, you were found instead of their opponents to talk about how to win the elections, even to see that they are playing against them," he said.

On his part, the Member of Parliament for Tabora Town (CCM), Ismail Aden Rage, said he believes that those four ministers can be responsible for the party's flag.

Sitta for example, we have seen its strength in the constitutional parliament and he was chosen by a landslide victory and he was accepted by the members of parliament for all the sides of CCM and the opposition.

This faith by Sitta and those of opposition members and those of the ruling party is that one that I think is for the citizens.
