

Women in a group that is being explained to contribute to a large extent in economic activities including agriculture in many African countries, where this issue has been taking off the weight to improve their agriculture.
Among those nations are Cameroon, where women despite the reliable production of their rice production, are using poor equipment of working.
As a situation if women in the nation and therefore to return to development, for men, the situation is different because it is easy to get that which will be able to improve their agriculture.
That is a challenge of the male system which has been the source of abiding by so among the women in Africa.
But by sure, women have been done to the health, education and economy, poverty in Africa can be given a copy.
Although a woman is big and important pillar in life and the development of a private person, the community and the nation as a whole.
Together with testifying that was given by various international organizations known as the growth of the development of the African Continent cannot move without involving women as senior stakeholders in the process, most of them are not satisfied.
Why rice is a product that produces in large numbers in Africa and the world as a whole in general because it is being supervised by people from different communities in the world.
It is the second largest in large numbers which are studying in large numbers in this area after maize.
But because the maize is divided for other use of food, therefore, there is a possibility that rice will be used to be used like nutrients in the world.
Likewise, the rice can be used as food and business and it is important in building the human health.
Moreover, the rice of many times having a good price compared to the maize gives the many types of maize.
When we go back to the challenges that are facing women and women in Cameroon.
We do not know the story of this woman the farmer in Cameroon, for more than 20 years now, Anastazia Ngemera speaking in the village of Bey of it in that country, he has been doing their dreams while facing various challenges.
Those challenges are together with the purchase of technology that had been called and when it is, it is a solution to support.
Himself believes that the man would have been easy to understand the technology that would like to do that job quickly, success and in a big area.
For that reason, he says the rice farming is very difficult, especially for women despite having benefits of social and economic benefits if there will be better plans.
The farmer says that they are involving themselves with a tree and all other steps of producing rice by using poor equipment or not completely completely.
He says that different from women like him, men who indulge in the production of that village in that village is estimated to be given loans or to get tractors in their work.
The farmer told the Tanzania Media Organization (TIC) that women have a lot of problems, because they don't have the authority of owning land and make many times lack of farms that are owned by men.
