Coming from XI am explaining the success of the success of China.
Mr, 27, 2013.

President of China XI explaining how he has done a historic tour in the country, that his first tour in Africa soon after being the president of China, there are many expectations relating to our historic partnership.
However, our colleagues in China know what we are supposed to ask ourselves about what we want from the Chinese, and especially in our relationship with China.
There was a time when I was written in the newspaper, "technical bench will continue to be taken," the news that accompanied by our photographer.
That incident that is leaving many ways of many of us, that it did not for a happy issue and for sure that it is an incident of a lot of sadness. After 50 years of our Uhuru, we cannot be able to improve our neighborhood since 1970.
It did not recognize that it is something to be proud of even a little, it is a shame for it to be remembered that many Chinese are brought, so as to build the railway, they believe that we are a young nation to be stable and they need to help us.
Today China has changed and it is possible that they want to own our neighborhood and well as a foreman you have changed the owner or in the current state, for sure that some of the Chinese people are building and at the same time, they changed the time and being a foreman you will work with us.
Many foreign companies in our country are owned by a citizen of internal affairs in the past, these visitors were coming up to us, they do a citizen of their countries to come and manage their economy.
To come up to do a foreman you will be able to inform you like that I met our grandfather, during the construction of "the colonialist."

When we go back to our Chinese brothers, they are not a long time they have got their freedom in the country, but patriotism and pain in their country, you have made them to start having the video of the body here in the world.
For sure, the great secret of the success of China is patriotism and a pain in their nation, the Chinese are proud of China for our African countries, the leaders feel it is proud or to run the vehicles that were made in America, Junction and Japan.
It is reported that Chinese company is given a contract to build a bridge and their government, then the Chinese of the company will ensure that ten percent of those funds enter into his pocket, but ninety percent of the money will build a bridge.
Chinese there was looking for China first, and it's not his interests and he is proud of China to have a good standards and stable in the whole African countries, but a bunch of tenders for a bridge.
The Tanzanian contractor will make sure he knows his brothers and its survival, he will ensure that bags of cement in the bridge will also be able to end or build his new house of visitors.
It is a private house for an accident, even if his visitors were called on roads that have holes and a bad bridge, so that the project has built a strong house and modern.
And maybe that is where it is a big difference of us intellectually and it is view between the Chinese and the Chinese, he is looking at China first when Mtanzania is looking at him first.
In the past, even if we started well, there was a ethics ethics which was followed followed by those violating the law.
It should be remembered, among many examples, we were in the past, we had (TCL- our Airport) we are told the few people were making criminal tickets in England.
We saw ATC planes were stuck by passengers to remain at the same time, all the passengers that got tickets to be avoided, "ATC) was approved by our Railways Limited, TRL, it may be buried and those that led ATC.
Today we have those who want him to vote and promised to revive and resurrect "this is no one who wanted him to vote as he wants to change him so that he didn't know you.

And those who identified himself and asked our organizations, most of them are still underway and there are some of them, there were there an agreement of China to improve the rail in Tazara. "

Perhaps, it is also true that it is the first improvement program because all the improvements in the past were "improvements," there is a big part of the sales money for the tickets ended up in the pockets of the crafty ones.
For sure, this is our disease, we are blocking the disease of abandoning our property.
