
I have heard that he will defend his new law after being sworn in.
The new Minister for Internal Affairs, Major General Joseph Namkoveka said that he has defended his new security law and said it will not affect the human rights they are implemented.
Speaking at the Serena Hotel in Nairobi after being sworn in to hold that position, Mister Namkoveka said that the law has been blocked to deal with the lack of security in the country.
"We did not affect the human rights of citizens.
We will implement our responsibility according to the law and we will make the security of this country has planned to be observed, "he said.
However, he added that, those laws will not be enough to strengthen national security and wanting each one to come out and ensure the lack of security has reduced.
The administration of the law has continued to bring conflicts in the country whereby the opposition side together with organizations for defending human rights has said it is law to restore the rule of law in the country.
At the time of being discussed in those laws in parliament last week, the violence managed to witness where the Jubilee Hall did not be used by inspecting them because of the objection.
Mister Nicrox, explained that, he will have a meeting with other security officers so as to discuss the appropriate time to strengthen security, and would like to assure security for criminals to enter the country.
Previously, he met with President Uhuru Kenyatta to be at the Nairobi State House before being sworn in.
Speaking at the state house, President Kenyatta said politics that aim to be able to distribute citizens is a big threat to the United Nations and it encourages their ability to deal with terrorism and other criminal incidences.
"A terrorist attack against Kenyans are not involved in political parties, religion or tribe and cooperate in together so that we can be satisfied with our salvation," he said.
He wanted the leaders in the government together with those in opposition to follow up on their political differences and to discuss issues that are because of calmness.
President added that, the appointment of Mister Namkoveka said that it was not satisfied with his political stand but due to the misleading reports.
"We request a citizen of ability who can serve security issues and General Nthepheya.
That position was put open after the former minister Joseph Lungangira who was sacked.
Mister Lerner has been sacked at the time of the terror attack that was continuing to reduce road accidents.
The announcement of his dismissal was made during one of the resignation of the former inspector general of police David Kimaiyo.
Mister Nauye as he resigned from his parliamentary position in charge of the parliamentary seat in charge where he was a member of parliament for 12 years and is also a member of CCM ticket before being sworn in, according to the report from the office of that party.
