
The shortage of success is 1608 / 31.

One of the pillar for success to a private person or any institution is not satisfied.
Being someone to be dealt with easily by success, you can't go far.
A good example is a student in the classroom for a student to come from where he is very important to get the intention that his ability are big than they had already joined if he is going to him where he is or he will remain there.

One of the things that allow me take action as a nation, it is our benefit, as a community, to be satisfied themselves easily by bad achievements, and sometimes without any success.

Basically, the very high level of success in any level, including the family, is the implementation of the things you have for me for a period of a period for example, in a short time, in a short time, there is a shame to make sure that you are forced to build a house until now, it is a great reputation.

However, a human being likes to see and be highly commended as part of getting joy and even when there is no human beings they do not want to make efforts so as to do it or not to know that the house has a shortage of success.
The same way, when you see the community comes back to perform well as part of their responsibilities, you should know that the community gets a deficit or a shortage of success.

I will repeat, the success of its meaning is to make big development things and for the strategy to implement your normal responsibility for every day not success.

It is clear that our nation at the moment has a lot of success and we have begun to deal with normal things and sometimes the weather will give a few examples to show the shortage of success as a nation.

The first example is our participation in the competition that ended recently in London City, where our representatives destroy the gold medal, the government through the sports director, instructed these representatives to participate and be able to go back home because we are seeing the players by participating and be able to return home.

The second example is the performance of our ministers soon, we thank the newspapers reports and the talks of the village, it has been dominated by followers who stopped the directors of several public organizations in the recent days.
On first, in the community where the legal system and work is not working is not the work of the minister to dismiss the directors of the organizations and this is because the prime minister's board is to make and supervise the policies in the concerned sector.

Secondly, it is lack of success to remove the person's work because that is not success but is part of the implementation of the normal responsibilities.
When you go to the minister or any head she will sack him from there is thinking that in the concerned part, there is no reason for praising him and there is no reason for praising.

If I have explained up there, the success of its meaning is the ability to implement development issues that I used for himself for a certain period, if you want to be careful, he knew that the success is okay and to make sure that I've put aside a lot of success and therefore there is our success and it is a whole world.

The third example is how our community is used to be used to problems and give them the success for example, electricity when you do not see again if it is not a normal issue.
But when you go to all, it is very happy and to thank TANESCO for paying up to electricity, but we are unable to recognize that electricity was blocked because of the availability of electricity and other important services will find DAWASA by giving them water this week.

The fourth example is our habit of praising and cheering the promise, we have been successful by our leaders for their promise instead of their performance instead of their performance.
Once when a person announced to be appointed to hold his position it starts from place to place the promise and we expect to be careful, there is a new issue in our country and there is no reason why our members here in our country.
We pray to the widow of a lot of things, one thing is to increase the criteria and standards of success, especially to our leaders so that our leaders can't be satisfied and to implement their responsibilities.
