Stakeholders in communication have requested the government to put a procedure that it will inform the business people who sell products from outside that do not meet their standards when he was removed from citizens to get money without considering the quality of products as they want to make sure that the burden for products is as required to make sure that the burden for products are seen as required to make sure the burden for products.
Six are annoyed so much through the bank at ten o'clock.
What I want to say that veteran business people should there be careful when they go to buy our products and look at all permanent products.
I am my advice to the government it has failed.
When I look at the quality of products for example, many business people have a period of Chinese products.
Where and where it is.
It has also been said.
Follow it to citizens and especially the right now, the technical issues is about that there is no problem that is caused by a high cost but after being found.
I advise the government so much and the quality of equipment for example.
It is a decision the south east until one hundred thousand.
Previously when he was opening this meeting which they were involved in various stakeholders including district council members and journalists, the provincial commissioner will start a song that was represented by the district commissioner, Halima Dendegu has denied the participants to use the training that he got to educate the community to benefit from modern technology.
It is nothing.
God commanded us to what I was compelled to inherit the sun which is used to look for news on the new technology.
One of the implementation of the resolutions of all the countries members of the youth union.
You're putting off their differences.
The East African countries on his side, I have agreed to look at how the deceased was released and one was released by one.
It is complete.
I want to be?
On his part, the deputy chairperson of the national committee to educate stakeholders about the water system of agricultural technologies to control a scholar, said the aim of the committee is to provide education to the stakeholders how to identify the system works together with equipment used in order to eliminate the death of citizens.
Tanzania is one among the African Community in the East African Community that have agreed to cut off the machines to compete in the agricultural sector by December so much and one this year they have been reported from Tanga within the same party.
