
We want to discuss people or their parties, we need to discuss problems of Tanzania.
Brightiles 29, 2012

The forthcoming general election of 2015, when it started planting, we are heading to do a crime of all the years, we are discussing people and their parties instead of the problems of the nation, a question by asking them is like this debate which is pumped by the real love or it's just a period of harvesting?

We urge people and their parties to help us to change our bags or be the desire to make changes and development it is clear that every Tanzanian would like to see Tanzania with our political parties, without stopping the problems, cannot reach them.

However, there is no private person, who can bring development changes in the nation.
With the great ability in Tanzania, with a shame to change the water is wine and wh from blood, can't help us to make steps without change as a big project.

I remember the general elections of 1995, the people who defeated Mwalimu Nyerere, has mentioned the president of the third term as a teacher but he refused to discuss any truth when he mentioned the same time and said that the one who loves you are supposed to lead our nation.

It is clear that the truth I mentioned by a teacher, the others are still up until today, instead of starting to sing the reputation and stop praising some people that they can lead the nation, it is good when we discuss the way and agree on the appropriate time.

We can give examples of recently, when we see you from the news media that elephant tusks from Tanzania, have been arrested in the east of this.
Illegal business and all of us know that this business is still ongoing here in Tanzania and the agricultural companies will help to transportation of illegal goods.

Until today, these companies have not be avoided, instead of starting a debate on this issue that is dangerous to the lives of elephants and also it is dangerous to our economy, we are vying to sing the reputation of our problems.

We came to the issue of the Iran ship that joined the Tanzanian flag. This issue is dangerous to the security of our nation and also in one way or another is the danger to our economy and we should be accountable if we are among those who have begun to inform us?

When we know there are smoking of weapons and are directed to DRC and elsewhere in the war.
Themselves by themselves, the names are mentioned to be heavy until this we should increase and discuss?
