Eat it again, we don't understand that if you want to have good laws for a certain issue, I will follow up with the truth, I request that this head will bless us to communicate from December in the past.
As a result of this big incident and the surprising fact in that film, at night of that president, they will use that time to the teachers at the net.
Therefore, Mister above.
Fellow citizens today at seven o'clock in the afternoon with our youth.
Yes, Edward Lowassa in Sokoine, Prime Minister for the union of the union when he was getting married to Dodoma his car I got involved.
He has died.
Many are many.
Therefore, they have taken each other out of our boundaries, if you see an expert leader, she will forever say after a big way to be the nation.
The white business was affected by me I think they are supposed to make sure that she is a person who has contributed a lot of a long time in which he is also a person when he was the spokesperson.
So we will not be a prime minister followed up because today's the same.
He taught the net.
When the news that was infected by vomiting there is a voice.
When you go through right you'll give you a lesson to a person who's to inherit the position she is honest and he was difficult to be careful.
Instead of it?
When he was chosen as the prime minister, I believe every person has said that she has no person because we find openly known as summoning demons.
Prevent motorcycle riders and that he likes to ask questions.
Again, you will get your opinion, but you like this is that the meaning of his death was to add the water to that committee because it was a person who turned up well.
Blood and for me, their hope will be seven later, he can be like the effects.
Khajida Kopa, the head teacher is doing now on his life, the late Edward Lowassa in the Sokoine of his child in helping the citizens and even understanding them economically and to understand them economically and to stop them economically in one of his speech, the late Edward in Sokoine, said me.
When the book comes with you on the safety of any kind, it's not God and the citizens alone.
Maybe I don't know that we have no reason to give faith that people don't give him as a modem.
