
The leader of the government is fed maggots.

Rashid Mkonga.




And, MwanaFGM?

The celebrations to usher in the new year 2012 which went hand in hand with the commemoration of a woman's day and a non-governmental organization of Women in Mbozi district (FGM) entered into mistakes at the end of the week after the guest of honor was invited to short call in the hall.

The celebrations that were held at the end of the week at the Catholic Church hall.
The "Mkeya said they involved various leaders of the ruling party with the government where the guest of honor entered that hall while being faced with his trousers using his album.

The high leader in the government found with signs of getting married that came in the hall at night of 1, 30, and scored directly on the high table and joining other leaders who were continuing to enjoy the women's ceremony.

A short time later, that leader was seen to find the Jews at the high table in various parts of their bodies and causing problems among the invited guests of the celebrations and later he refused because of heading to the location.

The big man before he was born in the White House heading to the Lord, he found himself concluding his plans that he made up and added that some of the leaders seated on the main table being beaten while some of the leaders seated on the high table.

Some of the invited leaders and other leaders of the government and the ruling party will be satisfied with the act of that leader and make them lose their eyes, because every step he went on water marks on his trousers using the current leader.

Speaking about that incident, some of the citizens who attended the ceremony said that the behavior of that leader had seen many women who stopped him and that it is not supposed to be a leader because he has shown the symptoms of lack of discipline and not respect.

Speaking about the aim of the celebrations, the coordinator of that women institution in Mbozi district, Miss Happiness Masumbuko Kwileka said that they decided to do the celebrations when the conclusion of various social activities that have been doing it since the new year started.

He said that previously visited different stations for raising orphaned children and eat with food, they did different environmental activities in areas of social services including Mbozi district hospital together with visiting patients and give them hope.
