
We have heard the name of the first bridge, "Success is 20, 2012.

Our nation's budget for the financial year 2012 / 13 is at the debate of the debate has started in a landslide win.
It started with a minister who prepared himself previously to be removed from the council of ministers.
Once we heard of the parliamentary committee on finance and economy has rejected it to be praising him.
Then we agreed to see the new minister of the Ministry of Finance, Doctor William Mgimwa, has worked well and brought back to the committee after that we witnessed the audience of the leaders of the ruling party with the government, to meet with CCM members and members of CCM to unite them before the debate started.
However, after those efforts, we have witnessed some members of parliament when we have witnessed some of the members of parliament when they put up the budget with numerous claims, as well as part of the leaders to unite members of parliament or passport.

The debate started on Monday by landslide, this article aims at discussing the bad start of that debate by the member of parliament of Iramba, Mwigulu Nchemba, who is also the Secretary of the economy and planning of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), was one of the availability of the day in the evening.
In his contribution that they were with pain, together with other things, he introduced himself as a member of the economy of the first bridge and a servant of our bank (BOT).
This intention is together with a lot that he said, will be able to attract AIDS and be trusted by what they are required.
He is a scholar, an economist from the Central Bank employee, should be careful. I am one of the politicians listening keenly, because he has asked to be followed keenly because it is a scholar, an economist of the first bridge and a servant in the National Bureau of Standards (BOT).

First I will wait to announce the conflict of interests in discussing this issue.
I am one of those who believe that even if the parliament has given this budget, without a question, still the state of our nation will continue to be bad.
Even if the parliament created this budget by increasing the amount of money that was requested by the government, the state of our nation will continue to be bad.
Therefore, I will discuss this issue from any side that we love Honorable Mwigulu Nchemba on saying that right now I have no meaning that I have agreed with the alternative budget that was read earlier on Monday morning. I have no meaning and not my topic today.
Our nation's problem is more than the government to ask for money in parliament and given it more than the government to get more than 100 percent, the government has requested money and get more than 100 percent, but this government has requested money to get more than 100 percent.
This government has got the consent to lead the nation with a physically challenged people, be patient and to be attentive to other nations, but these nations do not be well in the sectors of economic and social sectors so they do not have them, but we are still continuing.
Honorable Mwigulu Nchemba, or doesn't know, or did not want to make us know what we were not involved in the poverty that we have with the presence of poverty that we have been quoted saying that he does not know why Tanzania is poor.

The conflict that is out of shivered and those who do.
Those who came out of allegations that was specially set for the purpose of the budget for development is small than the promise of the government last year, small than the directive by the parliament last year, and a large extent of making the nation continue being dependent on financial funds.
The opponents for the internal and outside of CCM claim other uses of other uses (without any development) is very big and it's like our budget explains the era of eating without doing work while in the White House says, "she doesn't work hard."
The opposition are saying that the development event is under 30 percent which were accepted, it should be 30 percent of the whole budget or 30 percent of the national income, this is not a big problem for now.
What is needed to ask for many opponents for this budget is that, our budget shows a very big portion of development and a big amount to other government expenditure, here is where a conflict between him and Mwigulu Nchemba, an economist of the first bridge and a servant of BOT, when it started.

Mwigulu Nchemba claims that those who oppose the budget for the foundation of creating a small margin of development has come from.

First, let me say this is not the procedure of a structure of its budget that is supposed to identify which are the normal use and what are to be left to Honorable speaker and experts to follow up with it.
But to me, I would like to legalize the use of educating the students that part of other development plans are misleading the profession and the public in general it does not difference with someone who wants to construct a motion which, the government will invest in a large extent of its employees in the future days.
Mwigulu is unable to focus on normal use and use of development and that educating the students is the normal use of any government that is causing the validity of leading.
These are our locals who protect their foreign affairs and causing our government to fail to get out with different problems, the day before yesterday we've heard a draw for servants of that plane set up to a draw, he is believed to have a draw of educating the students is not a normal use but it is a big increase in development.
In this view of Mwigulu Nchemba, even the parliament could make all the government money and request, not to change anything in a poor state of contraception?

Together with the war against corruption of the national resources and public funds, there are corruption of contraception is ongoing in the class but they don't have a great contribution to the nation on corruption, the thoughts that makes the government fail to collect taxes, to stop the services to our investors.
The dangerous loans that is going on to put up a load of paying for children who have not been born, it was signed by our locals of the first bridge like Mwigulu Nchemba.
Corruption of us intellectually and it is not seen or he knows apart from the stomach, it is the thoughts that believe in a certain thoughts are found in a certain political party, the type of phones is needed, and the house's budget is affecting investment in development.
