
The youths swimming with a funeral.
By Kenya's News Agency.
Mourners who were in the funeral at Kunzugu Ward, Kiroreli village, yesterday were shocked when the friends of the deceased started getting into food during the event is going on.
The ceremony was suspended for some time after the group of youths opposing the foods that have been built for visitors and mourners.
The incident that was caused by permission from the relatives of the deceased being caused by a depth of the net.
Bernard Membe, who is 24 years old died last week due to cancer after suffering from a long time.
The pastor leading in the funeral was led by the coordinator David Karima of the New York church, seen calm and who gave them a enough time to prevent it.
However, things also changed the preacher when he continued to read about you more on the Bible, as it is translated in the Swahili language.
The mourners who were led by a group of youths who are believed to be the friends of the deceased involving themselves and put in one vehicle, together with a cake and bad luck.
Without anything, they started eating while some of the mourners met with them in the food that she has remained.
That event has been condemned by the people of the deceased who tried to face.
They said that that act was lack of wisdom for the deceased.
The brother's brother, Daniel Ndandavala, told BBC that when it comes back.
"I was surprised by the ones who call the friends of my friends, but it is not the only that asked him to be a mistake, but the relatives and friends when he requested them to go and go up until we finish to bury his colleagues," he said.
Apart from Wiwa of the deceased, he said that those mourners would like to come up so as to share the food in a way of calmness.
He explained his disappointment as the elderly and children who had arrived to make them lose their food due to that incident.
He added that the incident is of lack of wisdom and that is not supposed to happen again in that village.
During that match, one person has been stolen, and he was rushed to a close hospital.
After that incident, those who led the left while urging the mourners who were continuing with that event.
