
Correa scored for a new song about security.
Charles Ndagala and CAD.
The guest of honor in the United Republic of Busquets is aiming to change the laws of the security sector in the country saying that it affects the constitutional rights for citizens.
Being led by Mister Moses Noma (Bambucha), the leaders made the agreement which was presented by the government in Tuesday that the patient was sent and discovered it to take a case in court to oppose that law if the president Uhuru Kenyatta will pay.
"We like the leaders we cannot accept to be known like this which essentially has removed human rights, which many Kenyans were fighting for more than two decades ago that it protects the rights.
On the excuse of that step, it will help war against terrorism is not true that people who are not guilty, they will use it more, "said Mister Kadinde and told the journalists at the parliamentary buildings yesterday.
He said that the deterioration of the security in the country is caused by the laziness of the security forces and corruption and not mistakes in security laws.
Masinga, the others who were accompanied with him are Amos they are of Busquets (ODM) party, Bonny Mwaitege (Kakingo), James Ortega (Kemi) and Mutomera, (Maasais').
"Attacks has increased in other parts and roast areas due to carelessness of security forces, it is also clear that some of the police officers have been forced to get a chance to have many Kenyans," said Mister Wolf-ula after the proposal of the governors of the governors of the security sector.
While presenting that donation, the national leader from the national assembly Aden Hazard, said that they have different issues that make the efforts of the government to fight against terrorism, which has become a huge nuisance to the security in the country.
At that time, the Chairperson of the governors of the governors of the revolutionary council of that country, has revealed that the new law will be taken.
"The law is obvious that it can strengthen security but it's instead BN'ula will face terrorism against the opposition, and in the end, the effects are not the law and the problem is not to be allowed to control security," said Mister Ruto.
That deal is blocking us from taking part of the service to be used to grow the terrorists' to edit into religious activities and encourage people who are blocking them to receive a terrorist training outside the country.
However, they have called for that law, it will read the freedom of explaining, the right to not meet with freedom of the media.
Mister Ruto has cautioned against denying them their rights to the name of strengthening security.
"Suluhu is in the most in line with the community to increase the level of being involved in the citizens in security," said Mister Jha.
