
Diamond is not read a small field?
FDL against 1st, 2013.

I would like to bless you, I would like to play more, but I have no problem to choose what is following between music and film as I do not work (if the work is not involved with the ball), usually in one of the three things.

Artist Diamond is saying he is very high here in the country for now, to do his information here and when in different media houses, the truth is to be open is the one with the most attractive exhibition in the country.

He has a good voice in singing, he has good deeds for the Swahili language, he knows how her songs have a new poems and also knows it to use the platform, in the English language, they say it is a Compas' Tage (which is everything).

His competitors can compete with in one of the areas that have mentioned above (for example in a good voice or playing on stage) but you can compete with him in everything.

Its a few times God bless the artist in the way he did with Diamond, Michael Jackson was the king of Pop because she had a reputation like Diamond, Elysee Palace because she was a penalty.
According to the new poems, Diamond is still the ability to be big than he is now saying there is a saying that she has done a lot of things, it is also a must to do a lot of things more than those who have not been born as him.

At the age of it, Diamond can decide to learn a car or anything of another music and that it comes it, we hope his song resulting from the farm alone.

Or another day we love Diamond's song with the only goal, without any other thing, because his age is forced, he will be good and he will cause a difference of her music.

The use of recent media has assured Diamond to remain in a high level even after a reduction or completion of his energy to play on stage.

He asked the person who has remained on stage for more than 40 years now because he is using the same way.

Unfortunately, the ability of Diamond in making new poems will be good and a voice has and I have faith, any song that he will do well by using his home, will be an attraction to anyone who will present his show or not to listen to the radio.

The song by this artist, if you see you do not have a lot of news but it's still a problem and I believe that a song with similar story and that of the song 'if you see you can be very delicious.

I think this is an issue that musician can send himself.
