
Announcing the evidence of President's not to appreciate the president Salva Rweyemamu, 2012.

In a period of the whole week, there have been great debate in parliament, in the media, social media and the whole country in general of the government's budget for the financial year 2012 / 13 and what happened due to the statements I have made in parliament on the implementation of the budget together with important plans for development.
Furthermore, the announcement of the national development plan for the financial year 2012 / 2013 and the budget of revenue and financial expenditure for the financial year 2012 / 2013 without any primary amendments to the president on the budget and operations of the country, the weaknesses affect the lives of citizens.
In this environment, the probability of the president and not responsible for parliament is responsible for conflicts between the citizens and the government arising from corruption and development issues, especially doctors and teachers as a result of their long-term claims not to be considered as possible in the budget.
Furthermore, the weaknesses of the parliamentary regulations of parliament has made members of parliament of parliament of parliament of parliament and contributing towards the debate about the budget of the budget for contributing to the state of economic growth and that any member of parliament is not allowed to destroy the changes in the income and expenditure of the government.
Also, the constitution has given great authority on the parliament because parliament has refused the government's budget according to article 90 (2) (b), one for the president explains the fear of many members, especially the party that deals with them, "even if they stopped the concerned budget.

Therefore, the parliamentary weaknesses is due to the fact that the constitution has set great strength to the president in breaking the parliament and he refused the budget at the same time, the regulations have no ability to change the budget.
In this environment, the weaknesses of the president of failing to use the constitutional change has great effects to the country and the lives of citizens.
On that logic, in the process of the new constitution, it is important for the citizens to give the views to enable the parliamentary freedom of the parliamentary standing by the government in the process of the budget for development projects and improve the lives of citizens.
While the new constitution that has been approved, it is important to take quick reforms to take place in the parliamentary regulations, especially the nine areas regarding the procedure of controlling the law on non-communicable diseases (2) and (3) of the current constitution.
In that context, I have started to do the analysis and to submit the recommendations of the regulations of regulations.
However, even with the existing laws, the weaknesses of the Parliament has increased due to the decision made by the parliamentary regulations as a good example is the implementation of the national plan to be implemented by the government for the next financial year so as to discuss and encourage the ones that have been implemented in time and to remind the ones who are involved in managing the regulations.

This year the weaknesses has been huge in the national development plan for the financial year 2012 / 2013 and the estimated earnings and the financial expenditure for the year 2012 / 2013, June 18, 2012 to be played on June 18, 2012.
2012 a situation that has contributed in doing the budget of the country to consider the speaker's budget for five years.
I thank the speaker of parliament, Anna Makinda, he admitted at the parliament, June 20, 2012, there was a lot of many years of lack of non-term laws in order to enable the government to increase revenue sources as members of parliament we have not qualified in the year 2011 and the proposal has been postponed again by the committee of finance and economy on June 18, 2012.
It should be noted that if the financial law will be called on June 22, 2012, as it was planned earlier, its effects were big because the constitution must be dealt with by parliament and the proposal of the president should be presented to parliament by the minister.
On that meaning, the donations and recommendations of the members of parliament without the president does not hesitate to enable the parliament to make changes in expanding the revenue collection by being, according to 99 percent (2) (a) (a), the weaknesses of the parliament is together and was unable to pay taxes or increase taxes.
Therefore, the finance and economy committee used well the loopholes of 99 percent (3) to return their views, to the opposition camp in parliament and contributions for members of parliament for the fourth meeting of parliament in the year 2011 and to make corrections on the bill of financial laws by touching the minister.
In addition, in order to eliminate the dangers that happened, President Kikwete himself has decided to read the official records for the parliament (HPT) of June 18, until June 22, 2012 and lead the Minister for Finance to submit the collection of revenue by increasing taxes in alternative sources which we have explained to parliament.
It should be noted that when I was opened out of parliament on June 19, 2012 I explained that in short time I said in parliament and promised that I will give a full statement later, he will explain the steps that President is supposed to enable the promises that he has made through the government.
At the moment, I thank the citizens of Ubungo, the residents of Dar es Salaam Province and we thank our leaders through their views on social media, mobile phones and different institutions outside the government, and various institutions outside the country and to stop hypocrisy so as to supervise accountability in the development of the nation.
I thank you also for the contribution of those who showed up and put it as a result of the statements I have made about the effects of President Kikwete and they have explained that I would use our presidential institution and by considering our culture of honor to the leaders and there are a few whom they said that it is easy to recognize the president. "
At the time this debate continues, it is my advice that it should be done in my contribution towards July 5, 2011 during the debate of the revenue collection and expenditure of the president in the year 2011 / 2012 and it should be understood that we are going to respect the presidential institution and age.
In addition, I believe in the use of diplomatic language, however, I think and decided to confirm the truth in one language to one of the information that are involved with the ones that are concerned with the ones that are involved with the ones that are involved with the ones that are concerned with the truth.
I believe that I believe and I have continued to believe that when releasing the word "effects of the president, not to destroy the president, and not to use the name of the president at the mockery that was done by the deputy speaker, Job Ndugai, to write the judgment on his decision so that there should be a broader debate that will enable them to be taught.
The country's constitution that I arrived in forcing the fight against the poor, it depends on article 63 (2) that, "the second part of parliament will be the University of the United Republic and its laws in the implementation of its responsibilities according to the constitution."

Since the end of being elected as a member of parliament in 2010, in different areas, leaders of parties, religious, public institutions, media houses and social citizens, have complained about the importance of the president and wanting to use economic issues, political and social welfare that are facing the nation.
June 19, 2012 I explained the parliament before being given reasons for allowing the budget and June 22, 2012 when I met the budget for not putting a good foundation of fulfilling the promise of President Kikwete and CCM of better life in every Tanzanian, and instead increase the difficulty of life due to the failure to deal with the problems of inflation.
Moreover, the amount of money for the purpose of roads and water projects on the side of Ubungo Dar es Salaam, including Ubungo region, is little compared to what was mentioned by President Kikwete and put in table of the national plan for five years, on the fact is Uhuru.
In addition to the defense made by the government on the conflict between the world between the English and Swahili, the truth will continue to remain because we decided to reject the budget because it was unable to strengthen the country by using local funds by setting up a big amount of money in development projects as passed through the concerned program.
I believe President Kikwete will have the opportunity to respect the weaknesses by increasing its strength in the bill of finance and expanding the scope of revenue and eventually to allow the Minister for Finance to present parliament, according to 107 regulations, recommendations of the government revenue collection.
On the side of Ubungo region and the city of Dar es Salaam, the government has said that the budget for an increase that is supposed to be presented by water projects on the Ruvu Darajani side including set aside money for construction of the reserve area.
On the road side, beef up construction funds at the periphery of tarmac roads and the circulation of vehicles to reduce the congestion of vehicles, and compensation of land to the citizens of the county of Kwembe and who are supposed to pave way for the construction of the Muhimbili National Hospital (Muhas) area.
On the side of CCM, it has said that I have given abusive language against President and the chairperson of their party, to read the book of our leadership and the fate of Tanzania's national chairperson, I will be forced to say that I have a responsibility to help the president and let me finish his term well ".
I believe Mwalimu Nyerere did not recognize President Mwinyi, that for that, it will be true that the late father of the nation became the father of the nation that when he had President Kikwete not to use the use of your strength and authority according to the constitution and implementation of various development plans.
