
It was the madness of while praying for his wife?
Brightiles 14, 2013.

Was on the first of August, this year 1984 in the ChinaVillage, Peter Kizanga, left his home followed by his wife, Celine Itatiro.
His wife had carrying their old child who was seven years old and at home, they have killed their two children who even so, later he went to my grandfather's grandfather's father, Peter Kiziguto.
Up to when it reached the night, it was surprised by his wife Celine Kamuhanda, going back to the village's father, he gave a report to the village about not getting back to their child and his wife.
Following the next day, August 3, 1984, the villagers continued to find the couple, but also did not want.
But the day before yesterday (August 3, 1984) Mzee Peter Kizanga, while he was his wife (the parents of Kizito) they went to travel for wood while on his way they saw the first lady Kizito while on top of the road side.
When I read very close to me, she has died. But a few days from the body of the mother trying, they saw the child of the late (the one who defeated him from home).
The child was born even though he has sunk into power, followed by hunger as a result of hunger and being shot dead in the net after his mother had killed.
Mzee Peter Kizaka and his wife came back to the village with a child and informed their fellow villagers. Brother, relatives and villagers went up until when the body of the deceased was arrested.
It was forced to make sure that, it's not only for the purpose of knowledge, but also protect the body while waiting for the police and the doctor can also make sure to know the reason of the death of the mother.
But later, if it is discovered, Kiziguto (the husband of the deceased) was seen to the neighboring village of UDA-Yo went directly to the home for a person known by the name Alex Mkuchika (11 o'clock in the evening) and asked to be given food after complaining of hunger.
When he was given food and plans to chew, just after eating his journey until he arrived at his village, it was August 5, 1984 (four days after disappearing).
Petro, he went to one of up to his great brother who is called Watoto Wetu, Anthony. And according to Meek Mill.
He was welcomed at his home and at the same time, he gave out a report to the chairman of the village, Vicent Tinganya, the village Chairperson in collaboration with the village animator to arrest him, then he took him to Ruhembe Police Station.
This case is of the year 1984, Peter Kizanga, that will be Jamhuri for mistake of killing his wife, because he refused to look for example August first, 1984.
The offense of killing of manslaughter (flyover) has been placed on the punishment for the punishment (SDG s) section 196.
According to the instructions that have been read in court during that case, it was claimed that, being forced to register two times in that station.
The first time was on August 7, 1984, then put more information on August 9, 1984.
The interview were taken by our police force, number 4413, Sergeant Samuel Eto'o, who was the third witness in this case) and even so the suspect claimed to register other information because the explanation he had not right.
Therefore, Sergeant Samuel Sitta took the explanation of the accused while in those explanations, the suspect claimed that he is a wife who had killed his wife but the killings were planned because of his parents and his brothers who were forced to leave the late due to his behavior of having him down.
In his explanation he claimed that the late had a lot of sexually transmitted diseases and other men, the behavior which didn't answer him as a husband, but it was also guilty of Kiziguto.
And that is the reason for his parents together with his brothers, wanting him that he accused of killing the deceased, be with poison or any other ways.
Therefore, the suspect decided to look for a way to complete what he had directed by his brother.
