
Christmas and the rich that deals with waiting for the day to be played on May 29, 2012

I met this article to be released a few days before Christmas, on the birthday of Jesus Christ, so as to get a challenge early from the readers, but I heard six that maybe I would benefit from those who did not come out of the heads of celebrations, that is pastors, Kidney and bishops before the day itself.
I heard it is good "Nisubiri" on December 25, 2008, so as to be a job to verify what has been said about the logic or the importance of this holiday which is celebrated by more than a half of the residents of our country.
I was informed through the media, some of the leaders following the previous day, close to each one did not stop talking about the political situation and good economy in the country.
In general, if an entrepreneur depends on one or more than the following important things that are in the country, the wealth of the country being in the hands of a few people who live in a low state of people who live in a poor state to help reduce their cost of getting them.
They also spoke to condemning acts of evil deeds in the country, corruption, robbery and weaknesses in the country's administration in fighting for it's possible for the religious leaders associated with the poor policies of the country, investment that does not depend on, the policies of the country, investment that is being produced by politics to play.
They discovered that there is hostility seen to be open between political parties because of one party to think that it is holding the political activity of the country because citizens do not understand the meaning of democracy of many parties.
One of the pastor noted that the opposition parties are looked into as parties of the traitors with an aim of bringing violence in the country because this is a big job of former political parties has emerged as the aim of fighting and getting into power through any way from the last elections until the following time and forgetting the responsibility of planning and managing the development of the country.
One Bishop explained that the effects that are facing the ruling party in CCM, is dangerous to an extent of causing peace and harmony and the fate of the national development.
For the truth of the truth, it is sustainable development in the country, they said it is important for the citizens to be given information about the real situation of their country, and that it is through the right way and not correct they will be able to make better decisions in matters that involve their lives and about the kind of leadership and the leaders that they want.
In the past, I thought religious leaders should not be involved in involvement of political issues, or mix up politics and religion because it has been written by the name of God, what does it mean from what the sheep has come from?
We ask and recognize that the church (because of the believers of any religion), like the gathering of people's part in the community and it's why its believers are involved without stopping the rights and development of the church because the responsibility of the church use religious leaders like a voice in the community.
There is a lasting solution for a long time that we teach us that politics is political issues and therefore the believers of the religious leaders are supposed to do it, and that you are our colleagues in heaven and therefore politics to be politicians.
This is a great problem that's an outcome due to the culture of the culture, which is a huge conflict between the soul and the body that does not depend on, but the body is wrong, but it does not affect the world of death after death. "
My philosophy was caused by you, when you ask you, they will be forced to buy a fox for slavery.
The right way is the huge conflict of behavior, "you know" because it is the sacred heart of God, good behavior, and not the world as a gift of God, his rights and her respect to the human being (Mount Meru, 31 - 33).
1200, 4-4 (4) natural medicine for instance the ethics for slavery.
What is the meaning of this concept increasing the truth, that is why God is supposed to be the Almighty God's lives together with their involvement in community problems.
Leaders of the religious leaders do not come from the arrest of their arrest by removing the government on evil deeds in the country because if you will be a famous member of the government and we have been able to implement its responsibilities, it does not have the right to inform the government of that kind that they are not supposed to recognize the government of that type.
The rights like the father of the nation, but the sin is a shame for all the people (Fm 14 (34).
If you get far, the ones that are called noise, and religious leaders was admitted and the Manchester United States is the ones that affects our community.
With Yohana 13, Miss 17, says that anyone who is in this world's property (thoughtful narratives), has told her brother who has a problem and put up him, "when I am when I am saying the wealth of the country is for a few times when the church does not vie for God?
If the church is determined to know the truth of the nation has a responsibility to inform the nation and its people about the danger that are not facing, why should they consider the citizens to avoid sexual abuse and destruction.
And through a bunch of 182 - 6-6, we recognize that the real life of wealth and the international standards do not end up in the new colonial era of the world of globalization, says "property is a dangerous thing, a lot of peace and calmness, the truth is that they collect countries (IMF and WB) for its interests.
So, people do not hesitate to communicate with songs, and sign him saying Mrs Ole Sendeka who failed to hold his property without informing them from the poor.
The church has been supporting a cry for the citizens against corruption and the corrupt people are his right because those who were tested is together with its believers. The church did not allow me to be happy, for good leadership in the country, or causing them to see the leaders they receive, because the foundation of good leadership is open.
It is MK of 10-45, I explained about it, "Jesus also wants his students not to be demolished because you will be a slave 'and he does not want to be a slave' because you will be a slave 'because he is not a slave'.
The leadership in the country has been special to a small group of finances and those who contributed to democracy and the economy of the country, and it is expected to return and put aside from a dirty system in the past, who believe that CCM is a party of farmers and workers, but now it's not the party of business people.
The leaders do not vie for power so as to serve, but you are looking for leadership so that there is no cause of competing for the national ethics, integrity, patriotism and looking for corruption.
One who don't know if you feel hands but for those who are greedy for wealth through the affliction of others, and who don't get drugs, are now better, you know the rich!
In a moment, the income of farmers (bigger) which have their farms have been removed by illegal immigrants (low prices of crude oil, low salaries), suffering a cry, and a cry for illegal immigrants.
Here in the world, you have died (you are living) life life and enjoy a bit (when others do not have a lot of food digestion), you have been able to compete.
