
Salma Kikwete, Makamba, Malisa the witnesses to save the ship of May 23, 2012.

In a situation that shows the Party of Revolution, a total of 970,05 in the CCM party, 93348 they were left behind in the race for the parliamentary seat in that region, that party has continued to use national level leaders to try to save the situation but without success.
In the contest for the contest, the member of parliament of that constituency, Jafary Michael, has claimed it is obvious that the candidate of that position on the ticket of the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), 970,089, Professor Ignas Rubaratuka.
Despite the leadership of CCM to recognize that situation, the same way for more than one month now, the leadership of CCM in that province has shown his energy in the region where before the CCM's chairperson, Doctor Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, went to court at the end of the month without success and showing the hope of the situation.

While campaigning for that candidate for the voters for telling them that Lennarth Hinda is a clean candidate and is a good candidate of CCM, President Kikwete was given a lot of noise, to fill in the citizens and that they will not vie for the candidate, he wanted the candidate to put it open that their thing was the Kaaya of CHADEMA.
The instructions of the national chairperson later, they will be able to come up with his team where he urged them to continue with his team until it should be understood, but the team was forced to get a few days after Kikwete leaving, due to political tensions.
Or the tour of the secretary general of CCM, Yusuf Makamba in Dodoma district, last week, to try to save a ship, it did not bring relief by Lungwani Market.
Makamba said that he arrived at him to believe in him that he could make the political climate, where he went before testing the wind, he found himself an impromptu visit to the party without changing the thoughts and statements of his listeners.
The tour of the acting chairman of the CCM's Youth Union (TASWE Saccoss), Beno Chelele, who had the purpose of Makamba, last week, it had a lesson to the party as he had Makamba.
The problem has repeated on the wife of the president, Mama Salma Kikwete when he visited them, at the end of last week, following a tour to Malisa, he explained the position of youths who supports Lil Ujana "," young people do not support CCM because they got 970,046.
One of the reasons why is being mentioned by Lungangira who is not accepted is that since the beginning he did not have a prayer for the voters of that province, but he was grafted by the strength of the chairman of CCM, who together with that, he has failed to marry off.
Lungangira who is born in Geita province which is also the province is accused of allowing part of the District Council with a lot of residents of the tribe of Java Island to be transferred to Geita to form the region and also in order to defend the city of which they have given electricity.
In another step that shows an act of elections to take stern legal action, the popular member of CHADEMA, Maswa District, Maswa District, had been brutally murdered at a small town of Malampaka Ward, was killed by death in an incident that deals with hostility.
This is the second event for a activist for election campaigns.
