Finland will help the councilors of Bukoba as the chairman of CCM has said that she has no fear.
Brightiles 21, 2013.

The chairman of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Kagera Province, Cupertino in Kagera province, has explained not fear about his fate after the executive council of CCM in Kagera province that the decision can be supported through CCM's executive committee, which took place this week in Dodoma town.

The chairperson of treasury at Mwibara province who has emphasized the decision to convince those councilors to be correct, while there are open symptoms of the party and the party's stand at the national level, he told our citizens that were affected by the conflict of the party and the decision is for the benefit of the citizens of Kagera.
I don't have any fear about my fate in the party, my rich is the CCM members in Kagera province, if I have a offense I will be dealt with like another CCM members but I commend the decision of the executive council of the party, "said the chairperson in an interview with this newspaper.
He has said that decision is a result of efforts to run the party on the line so as to strengthen the honor and the honor of CCM to the members and the citizens in general who have been questioning wisdom of leaders in the conflict that lasted for a long time, between the mayor of Bukoba Town, Ambassador Hamis Kagasheki.
The reports from within the party are saying that the conflict has been for a long time and even leaders of national level officials involved in the way to solve the conflict, including the vice chairperson of CCM Bara, Philip Mangula, the Deputy Secretary General of CCM Bara, Nape Nnauye but no longer have ever been found.
"This conflict shows that the interests of the leaders because they have been giving them to talk about this conflict and promised that they will give us a solution and instructions will follow from the headquarters but no one is happening," explained our website from inside CCM in Kagera province.
Chairman of the province confessed the involvement of national leaders in solving that conflict and added that even the chairperson of CCM Party, President Jakaya Kikwete, made a tour recently in that province when he visited that conflict and all the sides to start the conflict is over.
He says the national chairperson of the party explained to all that the conflict has no interests according to anyone and they agreed to come out their differences but two days after Kikwete leaving, the conflict may begin again while the concerned explained that there is no one in the constitution.
"We have been using all wisdom, the political committee said that we cannot use all sessions, we decided to deal with conflicts through all levels, and that they don't want to address conflicts through the sessions of all levels, that they did not want to address conflicts through all levels, they were not yet known, we are not supposed to do so that they are not supposed to do," said Mwaya.
When he was asked if the act of leaders of the party answering one another to the media, it will not affect the reputation of the party in the competition of the competition, he said it was a must to do that because after the report of Nape, many members especially the Kagera province, he said that it was a must to do that because after the report of Nape, many members especially in Kagera Province were seen in fear and therefore, so as to put more things, he was forced to speak to the media so as to put as a situation of issues.
However, the chairperson admitted the existence of communication problem and I advise it is important to CCM to look at afresh so as to put a good communication system.
"When I decided to (the national executive committee), otherwise, it will not allow us to take care of the province but the main committee is keenly I believe they will decide to fulfill their decision but I hope they can decide the interests or the effects to the party and they will be ready to deal with its results," he said.
One of the CCM leaders in that province who asked to be informed in the newspaper because of the security of his employment inside the party, he told the newspaper that he has been following the conflict for a long time and that it has noted that it is true that many problems of that party comes from the poor.
However, the conflicts between the chairperson (CCM) and Nape comes from what he warned the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, in his book - Tansort), what I don't know why our leaders don't want to go back to these procedures, "he explained.
