
The stakeholders of asking for Mrisho Kikwete, at the end of Pamba under Article 20, 2012.

The season of procurement of wildlife that was expected to be opened on June 25, this year, has been postponed for some time following the farmers and the cotton industries to compete.
While announcing the completion of the season at a meeting of the stakeholders' program that took place here on Monday, June 18, this year, the Chairperson of the cotton board Doctor Festus Mengele said that due to two sides, they still agree in the prices of selling air crafts until there is an increase in price and the port for breast cancer which will be resolved.
According to the law of Pamba of 2001, TCB is the only agency that has the authority to announce a guiding fee and on the beginning of the season of buying livestock by partnering with the stakeholders of that product.
While presenting proposals for the guiding fee in the session on behalf of the farmers, the Secretary General of the farmers of Pamba (MSCL), George Colasso, said by considering the cotton price of 81 billion US dollars in the world market, the correct price to the farmer is estimated to be 745 million shillings per liter.
But the chairman of the association of both buyers and the transportation of Pamba (TCA) Mwita Gajuma, presenting proposals for prices on behalf of both buyers and the correct price in the world market was 967 American dollars, and therefore the correct price to the farmer will be 24 billion shillings for the cotton industries.
However, TCB, on his part does not recognize that the correct price for the farmer will be 20,000 shillings for one hundred million dollars in the world market, which was opposed due to buyers (TCA) claimed that TCB didn't know the fact that they are able to help the Pamba sector that is going against because of the ability of farmers, both buyers and the government.
In announcing the guiding prices, TCB is improving the cotton price in the world market and different costs for both buyers and non-corruption farmers.
According to the report of TCA and TCB at a meeting, the cotton market in the world market continues, and will continue to rise, due to various reasons including local contractors for the purchase of livestock to sell abroad and grow the economy of America and Europe.
In misunderstanding between them with conflicts, between farmers and both buyers to at meeting, finally the two sides agreed that the price of electricity was outside 42 percent, oil and cost of transport thus it is not allowed.
"Both buyers have a pain and money for the farmers and they have a problem with their daughters, we will also be ready to sell our farmers at a high price," said the chairperson of COMING, Elias Zigamba to indicate a goalless draw.
Zille has called on the government to think the great force that does not invest a farmer in the cotton farming, and a loss he got from the highest cost of counterfeit drugs and the seedlings to grow.
In a meeting with the stakeholders that took place approximately two weeks ago, the stakeholders who participated in that meeting, Elias Mabulla who participated in that meeting, Elias Kiyemba and his colleague, Muso Alphayo Kidata, caused the drugs that are not fit and which were taken to farmers include the type of drug trafficking.
"The farmer has been at the field of testing the objective of the historic market which is believed to have a savior," he complained.
"We are the cotton stakeholders to grow and we cannot change their sponsors or service providers in the moment we thank the government and the farmers do not understand it," said Salum Khamis, who is the director of Jambo OAFRI, on behalf of his colleagues.
In order to get a solution to this problem, the stakeholders committee made a special committee of 10 people to meet with President Jakaya Kikwete, being led by Doctor Jakaya Kikwete and the member of parliament of Maswa District, John Magoza village, who introduced himself as the guardian of Ackyshine.
This time emanating from members of parliament from the Lake Region to produce wildlife in large numbers continued to enable the government the price not to pay shillings 1,000 for one hour and gave a call to the farmers to protect their farms under that price.
Last year (2011 / 2012) the guiding fee was announced in June 2011, was shillings.
1,100 shillings, followed when the price in the world market was 50 million American dollars and 160 million for the purpose of cotton the air, and when it fell in the world market to reach 80 American dollars, before planting to one month later to return to the previous month.
When this show is going on, Almighty God has noted that, the poor price of cotton not only to Tanzania alone, but it is for many countries of the third world especially African countries.
According to Cotton newspaper through June 12, this year, it should be played at Mwalo'clock in England, Britain with the sponsorship on the cotton price, among farmers and both buyers have continued in many African countries.
For example, in Zimbabwe, stakeholders have met five times without an appropriate time, as they were not able to agree to Zambia about the educative price of cotton prices in Zimbabwe, Zambia and Malawi currently, for the value of Tanzania's money is between 20,000 and 460 shillings.
While the scandal of controversy at the price is going on, the possibility of starting the cotton season earlier it is in doubt, due to the delay of entering the country through the digital system that was directed by TCA from India, following the government to ban the expenditure of the type of "Kibula" that was used by claims that it had given the farmer.
The chairperson of TCA, Gachoma, explained to the stakeholders that, the new offices will continue to enter the country before June this year, but up to that day, it was still arriving and there was no fear that it may arrive in July, during the purchase had already been postponed.
He said that a total of 6800 dollars are needed, but the expected to arrive is under 3,000 shillings, being unable to meet the needs of both buyers.
In order for the purchase of cotton the farmers should be taxed, Gachuma said the government will be requested to stop for a short time on the use of the port of "Kibula" so that it can be used in line with the new digital change which will be received.
"However, when the government spoke about a new one, he didn't withdraw from a long time, but they give them the procedures until when they will give them an appropriate procedure and we will give good opportunity to test for sure the quality of the cotton sector, compared to the past.
