
JK has forgotten the report of the disaster of floods.

Morogoro. President Jakaya Kikwete has refused the report of the provincial commissioner of Morogoro, Joel Bendera about the victims of floods and claimed to have come out and gave him one day to sit with his team to prepare well with the real situation of that disaster.

The area of Dumila, Morogoro was faced with great floods and caused its residents to lose their homes and property, while hundreds of vehicles including buses being built to passengers stuck after they appear in the port of Dar es Salaam and Dodoma.

The rains that fell in Kilosa district, are the ones already had gathered on Mkundi river which they pass in that area.

The report is understood.

The flag gave the floods to President Kikwete on behalf of the leaders of the province, including the heads of districts, directors and heads of various institutions saying 12,472 households have been destroyed by water while 3,559 households were affected by the drugs and food has begun to be taken together with drugs to deal with diseases if a situation will receive.

He also said that some of the infrastructure has begun to go back as usual while the water services are being provided by the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF), the traffic squad (TPDF), and Tanzania High School Quality Center (NIMR), and also a total of 53739 million shillings are needed for construction of a period of time for those victims.

JK has refused.

President Kikwete, who was looking at the statement of Bendera: The questions and explanations, he refused the statistics saying that they are not funny when he spoke to citizens of the area including those who were in Magole primary school, President Kikwete advised the availability of food, medicine and safe water.

He also urged the industries and mattresses to help them as soon as possible, the families affected and promised that the government will pay later in order to avoid those residents, especially children and health effects.

He said that the construction work of residential houses will be made TPDF and not the contractors to avoid some of the leaders to benefit from those floods, President Kikwete urged the Tanzania Roads Agency (TANROADS) to look for the possibility of removing water in the neighborhood to allow water to pass through easily.

While speaking about that report, President Kikwete said Mrs Asha Mlenda, said the people that were affected by the floods are many and the ones that were seen especially in different needs and important needs to basically as food.

"Your information is intended to resolve the challenge, I want leaders of the province together with the head of province, district heads and all directors of the council to repeat the way to help them," there's no reason to help them.

"We want to know what we are supposed to come, there are many women and children, we should give the donations as the father of the children, we want these leaders to prepare for people that were affected by the floods because they have the right names of their number.

The infrastructure.

Morogoro Regional Manager, Engineer Doroth Mwanyika, said that his office will use the amount of 400 million shillings to complete the renovations of the area of Magole primary school, on Mkundi river which was sent away by water and caused huge floods.

The money will be used in the fire incidence and other small levels in the area from Wami and became the first level of February and if the weather will continue to be good, the renovation is expected to continue and completed the procedures and vehicles will overlap as it was previously.

At the same time, the technicians of Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO), have started working on giving birth to poles and electrical energy which have been tested from those floods while experts of Mataa Company Limited have been destroyed.

The acting director of the Supreme Court of drugs (MSD), Cosmas Mwaisobwa has officially handed over to the leadership of Morogoro Province equipment, mattresses and various drugs worth more than 80 million shillings.
