Continue with bananas, today as I've told me.
That's the case that is facing them, the day before yesterday was found to be taken to him and ask for them that he made it well and we are meeting with some of various creativity, different types of cigarettes in everything are related to environmental issues here.
If my aim is with the purpose I want to go to look at, he says that in our country, the African continent and elsewhere, but they are looking for a good way to get good work because there are Tanzanians why do you pass through that big percentage, I said ninety percent and five percent.
I cut off prisoners in the streets since different countries are very few Tanzanians, one's a very few Tanzanians and you are unable to buy products and another person at the time you can get more pictures and then you can't know if you can get good pictures and then you can't know what you are doing well and then you can't know what you are doing well.
When a Tanzanian I would like to sit when he died on the above.
Waiting to the nurse a question at work while I would have run with a bit of activities.
And now a very long period will have a little time to visit the village area to set up people doing a song to the name.
I am called Antony, the act that what is called for the art of God, but Kapinga.
I will fight out more that it's here and we were unblocked in the past and Mister one was and it will help them to be careful.
Later to succeed in his colleagues that he was cooperating with them, they will be careful not to be a six feet.
He wants to do business!
The news maybe, he asked to educating the community what they missed the family to pick a human rights to pick live and get married to the family as they have talked with other religious leaders.
.
The late God is because of many Tanzanians, he will be careful, you will be careful when you know the truth, it is very many because of political reasons, a person looking at the picture.
There is a great shape.
God's great, after if there are others who are Swahili who know the oil is telling us because I remember the wife of elephants because they do not know what should not know?
That is why I was true?
It is wrong use of Tanzanians because I don't want you to give a meat is not known as he does not accept it to be.
If you are.
When you know that this is a worker, we need me to be appointed and therefore we will have you a bomb.
Eyes.
To root itself, we can't have changed from if he can't have changed at if he can't know.
He can be darkness.
It is bringing you that you can bring a great meaning like that, it seems to be very attractive, most Tanzanians together with other people were dain.
We talk about what happens that maybe it has a lot of benefits in various activities here in the country, to do not give you shortly.
Since the actor, you started with his activities just try to explain her.
What does it mean to tell you that you love to look for the constitution the late does.
And up to ten o'clock in the picture, I started learning the same until when I was born.
I am happy.
Mikocheni.
Until now it has also completed it's true that I was also known by my father and he is also the first to be released and to be released, was the first to be released, and it is not in providing them to be informed because after finishing you, I am very happy.
You have seen that it becomes a very small time when I mentioned it was very important when I was surprised when I will pay it, he will help them to benefit from the wife and children.
And it's not good until in the environment, Raila Odinga, I went to I am menstruates.
Now I see a big number of your work each other and different pictures of the ruling.
Maybe it is not all, to give you only one of the students or schools or there are different tenders.
Ras Makunja has not known if I'm in me, I'm looking for me but he will see what he did, but I want it to say what you want to be, but I want to be something that you want to be, but I want to be something that you want to be as a captain.
Also and they are coming out in large numbers, and there is a period you know that one of us should be known here is not yet known and many do not like we are doing so much in the picture.
The police of that police and many others are invited guests from outside the country, I would like to be careful.
And, because many Tanzanians love you, I do not see what you have not seen?
Others in Same and the committee were also allowed to do it.
Which is a very big problem but as a picture that you can get at home?
Here Swahili took the type to look for first is good and quality like it.
We are looking at an ordinary way and up to the color of water will come back in oil while it was also a difference, there was a difference, but there was a difference, but there was a difference, but there was a difference due to his wife who wanted them to do anything related to others.
