What do I work professionally is security not to destroy the elections.
May 23, 2012

Mke Mwema number 155, October 13, 2010, he wrote the article that was asked if mosquitoes are used to destroy the elections.
The article that was published on this platform of Mke Mwema, Evarist Ndikilo, a situation that is living in taxes, had a small head of the news, Doctor Slaa swears in the claims that he disappeared.
Kyushu, a writer is asking for him if they can be used to resolve the elections are the national security officers of Tanzania and the elections that he is talking to the general elections of October 31st, 2010.
In his article, the author has started making sure that he has enough understanding about the National Security or not, he didn't know the field of international security and that he knows the department of National Security of Tanzania.
In addition to the reputation, we talk to all my joy, the writer is saying that he tries to write a problem or not, he says in implementing what he wanted to do we ask ourselves about difficult questions and maybe a solution.
I would like to say that starting from the beginning of this article of this writer, there is no anything that he wrote on that issue and there is no longer a question or not, an issue that has come out in his article.
I understood that in his article, it is not his own style to attract the readers, I would like to believe that he is a poster for the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), and he has continued to believe that he is a poster for the party's chairperson, Freeman Mbowe and the presidential candidate through that party, Doctor Willibrod Slaa.
However, he has explained the very important things to confirm that he has learned the international security profession by saying that the strength of any nation in the world depends on the strength of the department of national security and not unyielding in any country in the world there is a shortage of that department.
But in a situation what did not expect, the author did that for many years now, the Department of National Security of Tanzania is among the best departments in the world, maybe that was resulting from its explanations that he loves that department.
There are some journalists who have been writing news like those, but they have many factors associated with it, something that is surprising me or maybe it is a reason for him to start having doubt if the department can be used to destroy the election results?
He has said that the national security department in the whole world works with the great secret of the privacy, is part of the implementation of his work, he says the privacy is very important in the collection of good information.
Something that the readers are required to land from the writer is on the privacy of the department of security of the nation, is that you will be used to eradicate election results and if that is the aim of what the department should do so, by being used by CCM or by his will it?
The author has mentioned the countries of England and America like examples that very few times the heads of political parties is called to give clarification on the issues concerning the safety of the nation of those countries.
That the former managing director of Central Intelligence Unit (CIA) in America, George Taiyo, was called to explain about the evidence that Ugandan has had plans of making weapons and destruction.
