
Minister Magufuli doing to TEMESA Dec 6, 2012.

The system of renovations of the government vehicles is not small because the government has for a long time now, it has been successful in buying every new type of vehicles, but something sad, is not keen in controlling the quality of those vehicles, especially in the maintenance area.

Its approximately nine months now, the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG), gave a report of its investigation about the system for maintenance of vehicles, motorcycle riders and government equipment.

According to the structure of ministries, the ministry of construction is the responsibility of controlling the renovations of the government vehicles. On our part, we believe the renovations of vehicles is an important area in controlling the use of public funds and therefore we think that, the Minister of Works, Doctor.

John Magufuli, who is one of the ministers working hard and can supervise this area that is very high for government vehicles to be successful.

We believe that he had the ability to control this problem which has made many cash money which has benefited from the government to be able to buy new vehicles but has been unable to show their talents in the management and especially the renovations of those vehicles.

We're saying that here is the presence of a special system and better for the management of the renovations of the government vehicles.

It is impossible for the government to continue buying new political vehicles, again with the highest cost, but it continues with the workshop (first) of the year 1947, if it does not have laboratory equipment for the new and modern vehicles.

Senior officials in government they are saying that, it is possible to set aside money for the purchase of new vehicles, but you are unable to set aside money to improve the country for the purpose of caring for the new vehicles?

There are two things happening at the first time, it is possible for government workshop not to be sold in line with the purchase of new vehicles because that situation protects the private interests of some officers.

Or the second, it is possible that the situation is because there are people who have been unable to sustain their responsibilities, that they have been given great duties without thinking and to put better plans without their lives, there are people not exercised since the government was given within the government.

If we don't have been made, the prime minister explained to the area of renovations of the government vehicles. The decision by the prime minister to reduce or control the expenditure of the government they should not allow them to control the system for maintenance of government vehicles.
