
Speaker Sitta and "know her"!
May 31, 2012

I got to write back behind that our country right now is through a very difficult time with a prayerful person meet, I said that in order to be able to stop this period in which he does not depend on, we need to be patient.
I said that without wisdom, the courage and thought to be patient from our leaders, the nation will have a lot of vision and be similar to the passengers that goes with a sharp teeth.
We have written a place where most of them have been given up by leaders.
We have done a place where business people and famous politicians have started the newspapers of the past to be about their marriage issues, sex with another person!
We have been born in the whole district of Bukoba villages where he confessed (again without fear), that he is going for the teachers to have its customers, to be his duties in work!
We have written a place where even the leaders themselves by themselves, they did not slap up while some of the courage to arrest their colleagues are the source of citizens to lose faith in all our leaders.
In a environment like that, you are not supposed to be patient and give statements that sometimes do not be used by a person to his position and those that I have witnessed the statement made last week by our speaker, Samuel Sitta in the parliamentary session that occurred last Wednesday, in Dodoma town.
I don't know who is not only as the speaker of our parliament, but also the elder of the church of not knowing what I am, I am happy - KKKT Kinondoni.

I know that he is an old man, wisdom and not patient.
However, for his last week he made by parliament in Dodoma, I have no fear that it is going to be patient or let me say that he has started giving up if we were.
I'm talking about his two statements that he made by him but maybe I will start with her words.
- when they go back, he released inside the parliament while he was giving his statement to answer the complaints by chief Justice Augustino Ramadhan that the parliament has been looking at the court's freedom.
I agree with Speaker Sitta that the complaints that were given by the chief justice didn't have the parliament because the issue is constitutional but also I agree with the right of the chief justice to agree in front of the president that parliament is living in court.
I get to agree with it, or maybe I say what is surprising me, it is the use of the speaker of words, "explained far."

He said that currently, "you have also worked on the court, but it was going on far," what is going on well, if the way they use it, it is expected to give him a problem that is normally given, it can be like him, it can be like the words of English and the same way.
Now, by acknowledging to use those words, Speaker Sitta has expressed his good argument that the parliament did not be silent because it does not be married to another rule of administration, and it did not like to be silent, when another pillar did not respect the interests of the public (most of many).
By using those words of Mwalo's words, Speaker Sitta made the contest for the contest - when the chief Justice Augustino Ramadhan?
Now I don't think that during this difficult time, just after falling, we need a speaker who is forced to be patient quickly to say it should not be careful, to look for solutions to the public interests according to the two sides facing them.
But all the most importantly, we need to be patient, because the speaker was able to be patient, how can I be found, how can I get married, how do our language be able to have a speaker.
If you put up his two words at the side, there are also other things that he wrote in the parliament on his second day while explaining his disappointment in some of the newspapers in the country.
He said recently, I think that the newspapers law cannot be unable to address this. As usual there is my habit, what does it do?
I don't want to speak about the issue that attacking the newspapers in parliament can be interpreted as' to fall in the fourth division (forth official), but I say only that the words that he was forced to ask Speaker Sitta to present its complaints, "has reminded jokes.
Speaker Sitta said, "if you live in a difficult time," this is true in this difficult time where the country is growing up due to the increase of corruption and believe in leadership ethics, we need the speaker who will immediately do?
When I know me, a person who comes only is not wise and wisdom, currently in this difficult time we need a speaker who is supposed to be heard but I believe we need another speaker and wisdom, the courage to be patient more.
I urge you to explain that here is that together with the content of what he said is good, but it was not a good thing for him to enter the parliamentary standing) that it is normal in being shot.

I don't think that each other will be one of the reputation of a good leader.
Even so, I would be emphasized to me here that we have a big speaker who is going to be true and the poverty of discrimination is where we have a speaker who is going to be true and stuck in our country's development.
We have a speaker who standing firm to prevent the government about the implementation of the parliamentary decision on issues that concern the public than another speaker who did not be with him in the history of our country.
And that's why I want to believe that by using the words that they use when he wanted to show his thoughts in parliament, last week, it is still expected to be completed, and not signs of getting married and I'm supposed to be patient and I want to be patient!
How do I be able to look for my friend that I have started and when we go through a difficult period of corruption has never been forced, and in doing it is supposed to be patient and start being careful.
It depends on.
