The activities of Mandela in the land of Tanzania.
Jide 17, 2013.

In the previous edition of this newspaper, we explained the trend of African National Assembly (ANC) to oppose racial discrimination in South Africa and how Mwalimu Julius Nyerere made the call to Mandela to start the fighters but later agree with that call, after a great work of persuading him to continue with the last part of this article, as it was organized by our writer.
In the year 1976, after the huge killing of students in Soweto town, that was implemented by the Boers police and therefore, causing a lot of youths to come from South Africa and go to be refugees outside Tanzania which would have been used by those refugees from Tanzania that had been used by those refugees in Tanzania.

As a result of that situation, that year, the ruling party presented a request to the teacher to get enough land for being able to build its schools, from nursery school, primary and secondary schools.

RC, Anna Abdallah, was able to take those government officials, including a point to the farm in the Mazimbu Hospital (ANC) and giving them to them the area for the purpose of starting the World Health Center (ANC), that was launched officially at the first primary school of the ANC, Mazimbu, to his head teachers.

In the year 1979, it was given a big blow after his activist, a student is still in school, who had a dismissal of the government's court, Solomon Mahlangu and death after the court of that country arrest him in the year 1977 due to claims of running a terrorist attack.

It was narrated that during the implementation of that judgment on death, April 6 in the year 1979, while at the Pretoria High Court, Boers told her mother and his brother to witness the brutal incident.

While Solomon was promoted to a sharp object, a youth who had graduated from the Republican Party's camp in Angola and Mozambique because of their studies and Boers were in class seven in the year 1976 and Mozambique, he told her mother that he did not have any right reason and instead he told her mother to leave the following words.

"Tufani 'and Isakamatwa kwa makosa ya uhalifu na mawakala wao walionywa kuwa huenda wakakamatwa kwa makosa ya uhalifu na kukosa kusajili kadi za wateja wao.

After the incident of death by the student Solomon, who was 23 years, the center for higher education, was to be left to Mandela who is to be left to Mandela from a period of life, to allow political parties and therefore it will be released for Solomon Mahlangu Primary School.

At the moment the Somaga Fungu station is owned by the Sokoine University of Sokoine (SUA), after the government has handed over an official donation to the university in 1998, the leadership of SUA and that Solomon Mahlangu Primary School and Solomon Mahlangu Primary School (C).
