Welcome him from poisoning.
Brightiles 23, 2013.

In a tour of several towns in the east of China, we lead our tourists to tell you that there is one of the city residents with the opposition in the development of Shanghai, Beijing.

Beijing China will enable the residents of Shanghai, that they don't have the need to buy a variety of pigs, is available on 5 o'clock in the city. (A few months ago hundreds of pigs who died and were found themselves in a big river from that city called Mwengi.

The number of Shanghai, they expect to say that the residents of Beijing did not need again to buy the cigarettes.

It is not funny and I am happy about what this year of Shanghai, this is the truth that is wrecking your air from Beijing has reached an ancient attack.

I remember that my first commandment while I request for the sponsorship of my doctorate studies in China was a city of Beijing, I believe that was born to there it was born and even when I was born, even though the period I was not happy, although the period is still enjoying the university of Shanghai.

I found the loved ones in two weeks ago the newspaper of China last week and the experts who come from different countries especially those with the family according to the newspaper and so as to reduce the business attraction of the city and I would be rushing for!

Air crafts are taking place in large numbers of blood cells with the matron was the matron and the human body system cannot avoid these cells and therefore as well as the danger of the health.

These blood cells in Beijing are 300, which are 15 times more than 20 times, an acceptable level for human health according to the World Health Organization (WHO).

Michael from South Africa, one of the students who are studying Chinese so that he can make its business communication to say he knew that earlier that is why he did a great decision to come to Shanghai, together with that they could not go to Beijing he did not want.

It is alleged that approximately ten years ago the Chinese are proud of this situation of theft, it shows how the country continues, they said it is better if we were involved with the problems that are brought together with development problems that were done in history by the Chinese benefited from the development of the western countries of the country.

But now the Chinese are forced to pay a huge cost of development in the environment of the environment that they achieved with the residents of Beijing, Chimela, which is the biggest victims, although if it is an example of the disease then Beijing is in critical conditions.

In the list, one of the 10 ghost students in the world are three cities in Beijing China, Chisholm, the country, while Beijing has led the whole list!

Starting from the beginning of this year, an amount of air strikes in Beijing was seen to be clear in the heavy rain which has been caused by drivers unable to see far and they have affected the millions of millions of people and causing deaths of millions.

Other times, in the month of January in large numbers of cells in Beijing was given 40 times of an acceptable level, according to the rules of the Ambassador Atletico Madrid, the situation that was forced to take an emergency action to stop the activities of some industries and to reduce the vehicles they visit.

The newsletter of Ambassador Ombeni Sefue has explained that the situation in Beijing China, in January this year, was bad than to attract the cigarette of the airport, while taking poison that are resulting from 200 solar power plants in the city and five million vehicles of the city.

Due to those poison, the results of the recent research that were released on April this year, has reduced the reasons that are leading in the world explained that air strikes by 12 people here in China the year 2010, an amount that 40 percent of the total of deaths arising from New York Times magazine.
