If you need to have arrested Mkapa or Kikwete?
APR the year 2013.

After listening to the explanation of the retired president of the third phase, Benjamin Mkapa, about the issue of religious issues that are going on here in the country for now, it is clear that there is a big difference of the view, between the retired president and the current president, Jakaya Kikwete, about falling for religious marriages.
Although most of the two don't like that they are not associated with the spread of any religious leaders in the country, if all of them see the effects or effects of civilians in their country, there are different meanings among them about the issue of the issue.
Different from that, it is possible, it is possible, it is focused on how to deal with this problem by using the authority or the power of the country in a environment that some of the religious leaders believe that there is any interruptions.
It is possible that Mkapa believes that the attorney general of the country, President Kikwete, for now has been unable to control this issue and therefore he tries to remind of a way when he used to join those authorities, he wanted to lead with any part of supporting him in accordance with his information recently.
For example, in his explanations which he released at the end of the week while in Kagera province, Mkapa explained that his time (with the president) of religious leaders have never been seen and instead of every part of the leaders to recognize and insisted that the union between them.
But Kikwete in his last speech during the month of March, this year, he explained how every side of religious leaders, especially big religious leaders and Christians how they complained to.
That while President Kikwete gives the speech to explain his government is not working on any side between two big religion in the country, Mkapa says that during his administration, religious leaders were one and insisting that they are brothers despite their differences in faith.
That while Kikwete says his government does not pollute the environment which there are blame from government officials from all religious leaders, Mkapa said during his administration he struggled to make all his ability to serve the citizens without the presence of climate change in the community.
These statements are from the eyes of our leaders, who in a certain way each one has his skill in front of our society and basically, every statement from these leaders carries a huge meaning to the country.
It should be remembered, Kikwete spoke about these issues during his speech to the nation every end of the month, but Mkapa also spoke (in a short time) to take 10 days just after the Kikwete speech.
Therefore, it is obvious that there is a big difference in the way to solve this issue to these leaders, if I have explained earlier on, the analysis of this statement made about this special issue.
However, apart from the existence of a open division, there is a view between these leaders about this issue of religion, I think there is a big difference of communication between this issue and another is the head of the country and another is the head of the country and another is the head of the country and therefore, it's no good communication in this issue between them.
But also different public service or a view that was removed in public (by concentrating on their statements themselves) is possible that it aims at hiding anything that were found after the Kikwete's speech on March, this year.
It is possible that Mkapa has been used by systems of dollars in the country to deal with things and maybe be able to restore faith in some religious leaders who are in the issue of religion, have been canceled, (after the speech).
Therefore, there is a probability that the media have been making a big song "to carry and listen to the anger of the religious leaders after realizing that there is a previous mistakes on how to solve this current situation.
Mkapa is retired President, who was leading the government of the Revolutionary Party, but Kikwete is also the president of power who is leading the government of Chama Cha Mapinduzi and that it would have been able to sit down together, they should know how best to deal with this matter but it was not that.
Yes, it was not that one, he started giving a speech and another one is like he has answered his fellow speech in the section that makes a special speech for his fellow speech.
