
The network of the party has ended, it has remained in approximately 22 million dollars.

Let me start by requesting the readers of this column which was lost once without farewell, I went to try to try my luck so that I am able to participate in the state of things here in the country.

I have been trying to send their pens for a long time when I got up, I decided to decide to contest through CCM because it did not be enough, or I have been unable to be legal, for now it is not news.

I'm back again, I am not able to pay my song more than the name that if I will be with you in this column until now I will get another job to do.

The annual general meeting of CCM has ended in Dodoma town, everyone says that about the evaluation of that meeting, even me I am not easy to serve in, by using one article or one section and I will be careful.

Dollars used the agenda, we ask for the party's agenda and put it in front of the meeting to members to discuss this journey, it seemed clear that all of the meeting, that the media has planned to lead to the meeting.

There are some of the cadres and leaders of the party when they present to follow the instructions of the dollar, those institutions especially the security department used to make sure that they take long as the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere ever explained in behind, that the legality of CCM should benefit from dollars.

Right now dollars is leading the party and it's not against his party, I was very happy when chairman Jakaya Kikwete denied the party's expenditure to me, the use of the police and the government is not supposed to fly the party and the government is not supposed to lead the party.

There was no national agenda when the ruling party will meet, be the executive committee, NEC or the general meeting, it is important to have the national agenda more than the party and three days we should not hear or see their party being involved in those agenda.

However, in addition, some of the primary issues were put in a high level, but it was a must for private efforts to some of the private delegates of the committee to bring in those issues, it was easy to think that CCM has decided to remove the agenda of CHADEMA.

However, the main agenda was to complete the general elections in the party, issues like bribery and corruption have already enabled the party in this situation they were supposed to be clear in the main agenda.

Bribery are a cancer of our nation, to mix up and other special needs, then when you go down, it is not happy that the nation's rights are continuing to be surprised that they will make the ability to fight against corruption in CCM went on where during the meeting?

While Samuel Sitta, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, Nape Nnauye, Nape Nnauye, John Chiligati, Anna Kilango, and others went to go with the agenda to protest against corruption they have been left to who are rumors of having many members of CCM in the provinces.

The agenda of the religion who has caused the houses to be aired live in Manchester United was defeated and forcing our force every Friday to have a threat to the country, and if CCM does not see if this is a threat in peace of the country, and if it is a threat to the country.

The state agencies have never end the problem of religion anywhere in the world, it is the courage to leadership and intentional policies to play against the government and the government in power we should not have a great opportunity in the general meeting not to talk about this.

Fear of creating a hat the chairperson and our president, have been a disaster in our nation.
"You have written the government, many times, have condemned the president many times, and that is why during the first time President Kikwete entered the state house, he entered the State House as a result of making sure that there be a big part from being affected by his advisers.

This journey who came to fear arising from a threat to prevent the chairmanship of presidency and they encourage the environment that there are a lot of votes "no" most of them will be careful so that he is unable to lead the party and now it has failed to lead the party and now it will continue with the government leadership.

Names of people just as to take the position of chairperson they started selling.
In his weaknesses, he advised them to fear and start complaining inside NEC and its strategies to find the elders of Yusuf Makamba so they can be able to clean the weather.

The invited guests like women Asha-Rose Migiro was going to work with the force to look for votes of chairperson and warned them on the votes of an offense of the suspects, Edward Lowassa with his group, they are forced to wait for an emergency meeting to vote for him and the chairman so that they should be seen as they get married.

Fear, they have caused the schedule of voting for it to be careful, the procedure of voting will be discussed and even the procedure to sit in the hall, follow up different from the ordinary citizens, some of the cadres were arrested by security people and falling.
Some of the suspects were forced to have security to sit with them in order to control their communication.

My evaluation is that this issue was very difficult and without any reason being given the honor to be the agenda of the meeting while the important agenda was left to him in my opinion, even if the threat of a hat that could not be discussed in transparency without threats from the country.

I be expelled from this issue so that when you know the chairperson, they should not recognize the chairman so that his results should not affect the crisis, and make the suspects who vote for the incident they gave the heroes in the party.

The secretary of the new party of CCM, Reginald Mengi has been said so much about the new team "the new season of CCM's motto, I will give them to my point and they are forced to go back and be given an opportunity to lead the party or they do not turn back again it is difficult to look for this team at only one day.

Previously I got information that this journey, the chairman decided to use security people that will work hard to learn and promise that they will not accept it and now he is ready to receive advice contrary to other times where he has been unable to appeal.

All of these are not new, some of them are victims of the bad state of CCM, and others are victims (right) of CCM, Doctor Philip Mangula who was not seen in power, how can I stop after more than seven years under President Kikwete.

Abdulrahman Kinana who announced that he will not vie for any position and that he has been used for enough time in all the phase of the nation's leadership, how can I register myself so as to lead this festive season?

Kinana is participating in order to thank Hinterland, and takes his performance in every NEC session, how can now be informed or he started reducing the work of Kinana in NEC?
Why is the one who is a member of NEC and now they will be responsible to interview Kinana about his daily work?

However, it is said that this team is for Mzee Mkapa, it is difficult for him to ensure that it will do any thing in the middle of Mkapa and Kikwete, these are presidents and two different chairpersons, different meanings like water and oil.

CCM's right is divided for ideology, religion, tribe, and the ones that came out, it's a dream to think that they can be one again without bringing to them and build it afresh.

CCM's current party is three parties inside him, and not the camp like this work done from stage and it is three different parties for seeing a shortage of registration in this CCM party, to check ups in order to bring down the opponents.

On my part, it is a happy that CCM should be set aside and more than to be taken by the opposition, the current union of CCM is in being held by American dollars and a threat to lack of interests and payment of internal auditors.
