
Hitler did not overlap with Chinese!
May 31, 2012

One of the mockery that got to be released by the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere about the policies of privatization policies in the government of CCM, is the one that "Masau boasted.
Although when he gave those statements, we shall take them very fast, but the current speed of the government to buy land to foreign investors has confirmed that Mwalimu Nyerere did not be far from the truth.
Recently, I remember that statement by the teacher after reading the news in one newspaper of every week in the country that the Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC) goes against the Chinese company.
This newspaper reported that TBC has participated in partnership with the Star TV Online Company Limited Company Limited of China and made a new company called Star TV (Tanzania).
That newspaper continued to report that, under that partnership, the China company is owning 65 percent of the Star TV and TBC percent only.
The news quoted saying, I have written with fear that the broadcasting services of that organization (not pictured), that is a TBC's television and the radio of TBC, now will be the Chinese's property, because most of the shares is basically the owner of the company.
It is because of the fear, they have decided to look for a clarification.
The Executive Director of TBC, Tido Mhando said that the partnership is for the purpose of enabling TBC to get into the digital system from the digital system.
That it does not produce their crops, the policy and it is the view continuing with TBC, the nation will remain like that, and that they will face the public property, I think that after those explanations, Tido Mhando got a sigh of relief!
However, I have been asked why to the Chinese, suddenly I want to invest in institutions of news agencies not only here in East Africa, but also elsewhere in Africa.
On my view, the answer did not be far from the fact that they want to control media like one of the strategy of protecting their big business interests in this continent.
Until now the sales of China products in the African continent is expected to reach 55 billion dollars per year, and the aim of China is to reach 100 billion dollars by 2010.
Until now there are 800 million companies in various African countries, especially the south of the Sahara Desert, and all over the new employment that made up of them is very little since in some of the Chinese projects takes a long distance from them!
By bad luck, some of our colleagues believe China of today are China and the communist party of Africa, China, the era of Mwalimu Nyerere that had a true love with Africa.
China is now very delicious with America and his current relationship with Africa is to give and take it from China, it will build a sports field, bridges, roads or even industries, but it will ensure it becomes a market for its products which many times are poor although it is affordable prices.
It's not only that when it did not show that, China has also said it will make sure that you get your oil in your minerals, timber and even so as to use illegal ways.
In short, China is preparing for resources to Africa with great speed, same as stew into the first four years before the colonial era of knowing more than this previous day before the colonial era, Peter Brooklyn were not an entrepreneur, Liberatus Sabas.
For example, China is currently currently in DR Congo where he has qualified for a great contract to build the railway, while their payments are of minerals of that country and timber and fruits or the minerals they sell themselves, drinking water and later on well.
It is also a secret that the Chinese are accused of being involved in selling of forests from DR Congo because of their huge needs of timber in their homes and China.
For sure that every time there is a interests, China is not unyielding as it is in America, it will also be able to reduce the dirty weather standards, as well as its industries they produce and caused the increase in income in the world.
China has also built a huge friendship with President Omar Al-Bashir from Sudan because of the fuel that is getting out there, despite that administration being involved in the killings that is happening in Darcoboa, the ones that are being done by Isha Mashauzi.
Right now Chinese companies are among foreign companies that are involved in illegal natural resources in Africa, and even recently, in Dar es Salaam, there were also one woman who was married by the Chinese, being arrested at the airport while trying to transporting elephant tusks taking them to China.
My brothers, it is possible that China is the devil of affordable (FGM) than it is in America, but we think it is true because I think it is true that if it was in Uknga region and now it does not have a true friend and even here in East Africa.
In a meeting of the banks and development meeting on the economy and development program (TIB Corporate Bank), that took place in June, in Cape Town, many participants of several countries of Africa has explained that there is every reason to serve in the investment of the Chinese in Africa.
He cautioned that the wave of Tanzanian workers are those who are coming out in Africa where China has projects that it does not help a youth to increase employment in Africa.
In short, the Chinese are spreading up to many African countries, while some of the small businesses like the body or sell the flowers when they have come up as big foreign investors in Dar es Salaam, some of them live in groups in the areas, have and warehouses.
One partner from Zambia who is an economist of agricultural issues, Stephen Kirombo, reached an agreement to ban African countries about donations and Chinese loans, because it will not be dealt with in contracts with transparency, though they're affordable.
He gave an example of his country of Zambia where 50 years ago, 50 people were killed inside the mine that was passing by the Chinese and the minister when he went to that mine to see the truth about those things.
"This is wealth of China."
As it is not enough, last week I was left roofless from the BBC reports that several members of Egypt have come up so as to make various equipment made by China to make sure that the woman wants the woman to make her love.
Those equipment of the fake phones are produced by China and sold to some of the Islamic countries in Africa and Asia, where it is a great respect to the woman to get married when it is not true.
Therefore, women who use the equipment that provide fake blood during sex (one) is sold at 30 dollars (one) is those who want to bring in their husbands as a virginity of the first day they do with sex after getting married.
Let us think about the whole factory in China is making products of cheating like that and to return to Africa!
And also, I will not talk about the issue of China to produce dangerous epidemics that caused the deaths of children in different parts of the world or also different foods with poison that could not accept to return to America, as the head of a strong economy in the world, has not seen anything!
Therefore, if Chinese companies are getting into business partnership with the communication agencies in the African continent, then even so with only one goal, the problem will be a problem, a problem, and in the African Community in order to protect and defend his business interests for many years to come in this continent.
That is the meaning that despite the explanation of Tido, that the new relationship of TBC and the Chinese will not affect even little, policies, direction and accountability of the public and they will continue to remain in public property, still we are supposed to sit down and Chinese.
We should not tell you that on the other, we will not sell the political tensions, they will want again to bring in your Joomla website, and at the end of the whole body.
In short, it is very happy that the police are more than the radio and public television, it is important like the nation we agreed to have our website for public information that will be able to defend our interests as a nation.
- starting from the culture up to now in building the national ethics.
If you allow you to get that instrument to visitors, then we do not forget about the issue of building in America, patriotism or even construct our ethics as a nation.
You will be happy to succeed in those issues if your only organization of the broadcasting for public service is now of visitors?
Presently, we think it is why England, together with the real meaning of all his friends, they still put on privatizing the BBC Swahili organization's wealth, and is being run on behalf of all the British who is called BBC Trust.
The British can't accept BBC to be personal property, because it is their own kind during war and during peace, BBC is also the instrument they are using to build their lives all over the world.
So, we don't have a need to have our mirror does it mean that we do not know how to build all over the world?
Nyerere said Mrs Brenda Kharono in the country, "we thank God not to happen on the radio and our nation's television, especially if the foreign investor who you don't know is from China.
It depends on.
