
Conflicts are intrude in the life of CHADEMA.
Sep 27, 2012

In addition to having a good opportunity to take the position of the mayor of Ilemela Municipality, Mwanza town, the position has brought to the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) in a conflict that threatens the status of honor.

During the session of the executive committee of the party in Ilemela district, that was prepared to select the candidate for the council of the council was dominated by violence, information from within the session come out and discovered that the councilors who were chosen to vie for that position are under a distance of six months after being given a warning by the executive committee of the party.

Legal reports are saying that the councilor of Ilemela District, Mariana Chisholm, the guest of vying for the position of Mayor, is under supervision, after being given a stern warning by the former mayor of Mwanza town, Josephat Manyema and he has been appointed to vie for the position of deputy mayor of Mwanza City, Josephat Gwajima, who was appointed to vie for the position of the deputy mayor of Mwanza City.

In the process of vying for that appointment, it was stated that the issue of tribalism.
The race for the explanation that three consecutive councilors of that city have been the hosts of Mwanza Province and therefore, some of the delegates put inspiration in that argument of unity and solidarity of the nation.

However, the secretary of CHADEMA in Ilemela district, Anhela us John has told this newspaper that the delegates who were chosen to vie for that position have been selected in accordance with the criteria that led in the process, which have been made by the national executive committee and that there was no campaign involving the issue of tribalism.

"I say only that these candidates were appointed by the criteria.
That are the ones that led the process of appointment, and these are the criteria that are of the national executive committee, there was no reason of tribalism or any agenda the same way, I wanted to deny that statement, there was no such thing, "says John and added.
"Our party is being keen in ensuring that Tanzania becomes one and it is supposed to maintain peace and peace, and even one time, we will be able to maintain politics which have gotten tired like those of using the criteria of tribalism."

Speaking about the warning of the executive committee for the candidates who were chosen to be under supervision for a period of six months, that secretary said that the process is going on.
There was no official report from the high level that there is a warning to those councilors, he says that those were spoken by those councilors, but the report of that those selected ones are under their complete, and now the sitting is over.

Previously there was a rumor, we did not have an official statement like the party, and we would not be able to work this rumor, but the reports of that those people are under the supervision of these people, and during the sessions they will end, "he said.

When required to say it is something to be made after receiving that report, John says it is difficult to speak about it because it is.
The decisions of the high level meetings and that the same time, will be the process of inside the party to see that everything will be done.

He explained that according to the regulations of the party, the executive committee of the district is the last session for the decision and appointment, maybe if there is instructions or guidelines from the high level.

Violence in a meeting.
The councilor of Kitogo county, who is the executive committee of CHADEMA handed the membership card, before the member moved to court and the court to prevent the implementation of those party instructions until the case of the party.
That he opened up to his party to oppose that was heard, announced his intention of doing violence in those sessions if he promised as his name will be removed from the list of candidates.

Previously when he was announcing the intention of getting the party in court, Matata accused the executive committee of the party to have a habit of blocking him to vie for that position and explained that he has organized himself well and if there will be a conspiracy by the party to help him in his activities, he will ensure that the sessions of appointment will not succeed because he will cause violence.

"If those sessions will have a agenda of getting my name.
For the basis of the primary reasons, I will welcome me, I have a lot of employees in my ship, the session having 60 members and I will play with 120 people so that he loves it, "said the councilor saying.

In that meeting of the appointment of the mayor and the Deputy Mayor that ended the violence after a group of youths doing violence and causing the session to be postponed for time and change the area of the sitting so as to be able to continue.

Those violence which have been explained to be police in this province were criticized and having a report on the existence of symptoms of those violence happened without police to take action against any leader including Flaviana Matata, who already had already been taken against any leader including Flaviana Matata.
He has announced to make violence in that meeting.

Some of the party members of CHADEMA have warned that the trend of that party can't affect the status that is built in this city and thus strengthening the party's headquarters in Dar es Salaam to take a good step so as to protect that child easily.

Our party has a lot of strength here in Mwanza, but if we will get problems, it will be a result of the implementation of the party leadership because there are some people who don't have no qualifications to be members of the party just like this, but those are the ones who are given opportunity to do not affect the party. "
He is saying one of the members of CHADEMA from Nyamagana who identified himself as John Lukuwi.

That party has been in the conflicts of internal affairs since the councilor of Igoma Ward (CHADEMA), Adam Mayomba, who in May this year gave a motion in a session of the council of councilors, to vote of not having faith with his party, saying he has no faith with him because he has no faith in the council without following the regulations.

According to the 80 regulations of the permanent regulations of the City Council, the council can download the chairperson of power because the declaration that was supported by two-thirds of the delegates.
And different reasons, including using his own position and being unable to work.

Since that time, the party has found themselves in the conflicts of time to time with the councilors which finally the party's executive committee decided to relocate its members on claims of preventing themselves and causing the mayor that is owned by that party heading to power and therefore they also lost their council according to the law.
