The main cause of development.
December 31st, 2013.

In the last article I explained about issues concerning the constitution, that we are making constitution of contraception?
My opinion is that if we are making constitutional changes, we will last a short time, and if we are making the constitution that will last for the month and of the current constitution, it is a must you know and consider the contribution of the youth in bringing development.
Any nation because it needs young people, so as to progress when someone is when a youth gets only an opportunity, with human beings who are trusted and ability to work, while when they recover.
The youth have strength in their hands, to build or destruction of violence in Mtwara, Morogoro, Mwanza and elsewhere, are run by youths who are spoiling the property and provide life of people.
The youth is why the nation's engines will be able to stop hunger, lack of bad administration, bad economy, and also they can stop peace, calmness, and even addressing the lives of people if they will be given opportunities to do.
As required, the Bible say 'is proud to be the youths who are their strength "(Mihanje-20).
The good thing here in Tanzania we have a good example of the father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, which he started to lead our nation as a small youth Mister Sir George Kahama, who for his age of 31, he was not small than all the youths who were on the front line to bring development to our nation.
Oscar Chinchelea and human resource, George Simbachawene a few years only.
History is also shows that the growth of the Japan national team (TOFGM) results from the youth power that was used to building that nation, just after the second world war has already started.

All the elders were sacked from power, with the youths doing work on night and in the afternoon, they received science and technology technology, and they will use the benefits of their nation, Japan is one of the biggest nations in the world, Japan was built with youths, not the elderly.

If we want to investigate the contribution of youths in the development of the world of science and technology, we remember the launching of Albert Sanga's current technology, from Abacus, Charles Barsheba I have done a surprise of using the mental power of creativity in the country.

Bill Nas, has shaken the world of fights and be a number one woman in the whole world (more than 60 billion American dollars) and already he has given a great contribution in fighting with the AIDS disease, until today he gets fruits of the same same type.

Tanzania has been born as a lot of young people with talents, spirits, and creativity, and the problem is to enable the youth to write a constitution, we should know this is the responsibility of who to grow and develop talents in our youth.
We have a good example of the solution to Eliona, those are the names of Katani, Manyatta wants her together with his good intention he was told to ask for support to promote his talent!
As a youth of primary school, I will be able to write and request for help in his talent and I don't have sure that this youth is where he is with his purpose of television.
