Doctor Slaa was asked to suspend Nchimbi during the verification exercise.

Dar es Salaam, the minister of internal affairs.
The country, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi yesterday had a difficult time in the conference.
Peace that was organized by the business community of the University of Dar.
Dar es Salaam (UDA), after the CCM Secretary General, Doctor Willbroad Slaa.
As he resigned from being unable to control crime in the country.

Apart from Doctor Nchimbi, the representative of chief.
In that conference, Brigadier General, Elias Maguri as he was captured.
Expected to explain the accusations of the police force of the citizens of Tanzania.
(TPDF), being associated with the acts of preventing and killing of civilians in the city.
Mtwara.

Speaking at the conference, Doctor Slaa said.
There is no need to look for human resources in the country but the government is?
The one to be blamed due to its directors being unable to be accountable as required.

He gave an example of the action of the port of Dar es Salaam.
Dar es Salaam will be used to pass elephant tusks while police officers.
It is a shame for a shame that it is enough to make Minister Nchimbi when he resigned.

Responding to the claims when going to the conference.
That, Minister Nchimbi confessed that some of the police have had a habit.
Being involved in bribery and in fighting with that situation.
It has not been sacked from 101 great officers in the period of the year 2012.

However, Doctor Nchimbi said the solution.
The problems that are inside the police force is not rushed to the police.
Only and that is the reason the government has started a strategy to provide training.
Ethics so as to enable them to do their work professionally.

He said he will continue to receive challenges from.
All the stakeholders of peace and thanking you they need the conference, while they agree.
To give a partnership to make any thing that is related to the debate.
The peace of the country.

About terrorism was criticized by the army officers, Doctor Slaa.
He said it is impossible to see the army that it's supposed to protect peace is enough.
By Zainul Mzige.

That statement was supported by the deputy secretary general.
CUF, Julius Mtatiro who told the evidence of the members of the party.
His ones who were injured and adorned with the army.
It has been having some of the police officers so different from the basis of the establishment.
He is not found.

Responding to those accusations, Brigadier General Ozzy.
He denied those allegations saying it was not true that TPDF is being involved.
And that is in Mtwara for the purpose of protecting peace and saying those accusations.
Its in the estates.

The Singida East member of parliament, he claimed.
Since the country got independence, it has never been a true peace.
An example of citizens being transferred to power in their areas.

He said in recent days, different from.
Police is doing the work of controlling the crime, now.
If his work is to control the opposition and it has become one person immediately.
Time by making acts of breach of peace and causing the killings.

He had a prayerful person saying that CCM is delaying to go down and that is why it has been using abusive language to control the opposition.

Previously, the professor of the University of Dar es Salaam.
Gaudence Milanzi said that peace can return as CCM party.
Using dollars to control the opposition.

He said that CCM was supposed to work as it is.
Other political parties and warned that there is no longer.
A lot of peace will not be found if it will not tolerate and take action.

He said that police has been doing a mistake.
The protests of the opposition parties saying the law is open.
They are required to do it to promote the army about the schedule.
Its activities.
