Confederation of United Republic of Tanzania.
December 11, 2014.

Last week, we wrote that the second draft of the Tanzanian constitution that they were given by President Jakaya Kikwete together with the president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein has a lot of good that but even so, it needs to be afraid of being arrested.
In this article I will give a few articles which I have a lot and can be considered so as to make that draft to be more better and they hold needs and expectations of citizens.
There are many things that involve many sections of that draft, but I will put it on this in all over what is related to new constitution structure as possible by that draft.
The surprising thing is the way the commission on constitutional changes has stopped the requirements of the people of Zanzibar wanting the union of the agreement between Tanganyika and Zanzibar despite that, according to the second phase of the constitution, 60 percent of the people of Zanzibar gave their views they wanted to involve the union between those countries that will be led by the agreement, the commission of constitution even so was unable to buy.
Instead, the commission has proposed the government structure to be of a federation with three governments, but even when the proposal there are several things that need to be amended.
Previously, it is the first name for article 60 (1) of the second phase of the constitution explains that the United Republic of Tanzania "will not be known as the Federation of the United Republic of Tanzania"?
The name of "the Federation of the United Republic of Tanzania" will be going on well with the new structure of the United Republic of Tanzania which is for sure that it is a structure of the Federation of the United Republic of Tanzania.
One thing that led to this period of 50 years since it should not be the Union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar, it is that the union had gone up and having any other countries that had enthusiasm or even eliminate the desire of wanting to join that union.
There was a rumor that one time that the government of Comoros that was being run by President Ali Ranaut have decided to join the union yesterday, but that was only a rumor that was being used by Comoros by joining the union.
Those rumors were not with any truth, but those who attacked them were doing so with the aim of bringing up until the mud was discovered that many citizens of Comoros were violating their country to join the United Republic of Tanzania.
Maybe that time Tanzania would have been a system of every country's system in that federation that it doesn't understand or be in the danger of it to be taken, with other American dollars, maybe the country like Comoros or Mozambique or Zambia would decide to join it.
If you follow up that logic, we have said that the next plan to have a Federation of using the name "the Federation of United Republic of Tanzania" will be able to be an attraction to attractive to other countries, to make sure they get tired of joining that federation, something that did not happen before.
That federation coming from the East and Central Africa region will be one of the regular bricks for the political union of the African continent and therefore, to fulfill the dream of helping the African continent of Africa to join political and economically.
Another thing that you need to be amended is the name of the mid-fielder who will protect the government of the country to participants.
Therefore, even the leader of that commission could not be called President and he was called for example, "the chairperson of the Federation of the Federation, Tanzania's proposal will curb flowers with people like Samuel Sitta, the Minister of East African Cooperation, who believes Tanzania having three presidents.
Another name that the need to be used is that of the commission "foreign affairs" and instead be done, "foreign affairs" and the list of those issues in which the second draft of the constitution is supposed to be careful so as to enable various countries (Tanganyika and Zanzibar) every time they have with his actual authority.
