
The environment and reasons for the victory of President Jacob Zuma of 27, 2012

The president of South Africa, Jacob Zuma, has heard this year (2012) by celebrating the last year's last season with great joy after getting the victory of being the chairperson (for another term) of the ruling party that is leading the government in that country.

This victory will ensure another term of being the president of South Africa in the general elections of the year 2014, and therefore leading the country that continues in Africa up to the year 2025.

Zuma, who in accordance with the political analysis of politics has been faced with a lot of political tensions in his village, including the killing of traditional elders in his village, or "the Professor of politics" if he used to be the former President of Kenya, Daniel Are MOI.

President MOI was proud because he is "Professor of politics" (most of us have ever heard this), due to how he used a sharp object on the stage, how he will handle his opponents (thoughtful narratives) and even how he will build his colleagues in a period of more than 20 years when he was in power.

The victory of Zuma of 2,300 votes against 300 votes of former opponent, Deputy President, Kraehenbuehl has said that the president has not mentioned soon, there are a environment and specific reasons for this victory, which will continue to discuss here, so as to discuss on how to promote politics in South Africa.

The uses of the biography of history?

Politics is the art that use a lot of methods, he made it to achieve the goal of a politician or a group of his party Doctor Zuma, who has joined the age of 17 years in Africa, he has been involved in prison for 10 years in Makandege.

By knowing that even today, South Africa are many, they are continuing to give them an improved respect to people who are leading in the process of opposing immigrants.

Others as soon have assured Zuma, "faith" to most of them, while another time they play the eyes, "many of us should be paid through the implementation of his promises since he was to power.

The eyes of discrimination.

Most of us we have warned the comedy group, and maybe the regional is continuing to represent here in the country that when it is allowed, they will come to return that good state which needs great work and for a long time.

So, this is one of the weapons that those who have been supporting President Zuma, shows that to continue being in power, it is still fear among black Americans to be, especially with the courage like Zuma, who will be more part of us?

This fear led by events such as the arrest of four people who were involved in the process of celebrating the general meeting, it is claimed that the aim of these people is to claim the United Republic (Boers).

It is clear that, together with the life of South Africa, most of the people improve economically after the Black Americans came into power in the year 1994 and there is a big challenge that the African government continues to involve yourself with a lot of challenges.

Who mingled with each other.

Different from his predecessor, Mbeyela Secondary School who is said to be a leader, "Nisubiri" (on the picture), and the one alleged to be written by people from the high level and that she knows more than the needs of this service. "

For Zuma, who mingled with dancing with Kizanga, professionalism and great skill of carrying several songs with us with the era of immigrants and even to get many wives, not many things, "he said."
(A group photo) if he called the colonialist but is a confirmation of living a real life of the age of age (South)!

In this period, Zuma has not been called to be known by the low-governmental organization (most of the people) that "our colleague" and therefore, these should realize that their colleague can cause him in the box for votes is difficult to do.

It is possible that Zuma's true that Zuma is a sign (the picture) and the real representative of the lower level, however, in the real state of politics, the leader was coming from a low level, leading by serving that, it is another issue.

The right decision, at the right time.

In politics, as a habit, eat with trouble, a conflict between doubt and hypocrisy do not depend on it, there are no permanent friendship, therefore, then it is one that has not seen as a specialist in knowing that, it is okay and even take a quick decision against him.

For instance, for a period of several months last year, the former chairman of the union of youths of the Revolutionary Party (CYL), Julius Malassy, was mentioned to be in the group that is on the front line to bid farewell to the presidency for the second phase.
In addition to Bongo Five between Malassy, and Zuma, during that scandal that has removed Mbeyela Secondary School in the year 2008, that prepared himself to make sure he used to combat his membership card, explained how Zuma used to fight against the victory.

In addition, at the end of last year, Zuma did not thank the ministers "who has spoken" the picture of his government on allegations of lack of drugs in Switzerland, the Minister of Labor, Gothernburg, Somba, on suspicion of using the public funds at the police force headquarters in a high price of bribery.

For other words, Zuma has no reason to look with anyone who is seen as the truth of the goals of public interests (and especially their interests), should also be informed.

But also Zuma is not a type of leaders used for the accusations or not less, then he did not stay silent without explaining that, we did not mean that, he has never been able to answer to the parliament that he has used the public funds to build a luxurious home in his village.

It is also known that Zuma is very easy to receive advice and even to make sure that for several months last year, it was supposed to go back to him, so as to prevent any loopholes of its opponents in the country and to strengthen the strategies of winning her in the elections.

These are another reason that helped him to get victory and to show that she is a series of politics but even so, at the end of the day, those who stopped him are not for the first time, but the ones that he implemented as their leader.
