
The heavy rains are playing in Kenya, 14 people lost.
Some of the citizens in the area where the six floor building that fell yesterday due to the heavy rains that continues to struggle.
Nairobi, Kenya, 14 people have lost lives and more than 44 others being injured after one house fell due to the ongoing rains.
200 savers are continuing to look for people feared to be affected inside the criminal building, with the possibility of the number of those who lost their lives.
Many areas of Nairobi city have been faced with floods and thus increasing fear from citizens.
The Universal Communications Organization is saying that approximately 150 families were affected by the tragedy of that house which was built for the two years.
Injured have been taken to the Mama Lucy located in that town.
Some of the roads in Nairobi had flooded the transport due to the heavy rains that fell in different areas of the road that were affected by the main road near Nyarugusu refugee camp.
The area of South Africa has also been affected, while the series of grenades have been affected by water that got into their houses. Mitole of removing water outside the road and waste water which are caused by masturbation.
However, some of the locals have complained that there is no need to direct the water elsewhere.
The same time, the president is some of they had already started in Kenya, Uhuru Kenyatta has wanted the arrest of the owner of a strong house in Nairobi city and killed 14 people.
President Kenyatta said that when they visited the tragedy of that event, he has also urged the residents of houses that are near the area to leave that those houses have been confirmed to be safe.
The police officers from Nairobi have confirmed that the house had been listed among self-scale people in another step, Kenya, yesterday made an important event to stop 105 tons of ivory comes by Eliona. Among the people who attended the event.
According to the wildlife researchers in Africa, owned by approximately 118 people have been arrested in last year, by removing 500,000.
The situation is so bad in the country since the year 1960, near 98 percent of Black Americans of Africa, have been killed.
One ivory that is worth more than 100 million American dollars that is taking place at an end, while the ivory is going on 50 times more than that amount.
The security agencies have shown to support the decay by that cargo.
Also there is dangerous when the poor nations can get a lot of money by getting into illegal drug trafficking.
The government of Kenya for a long time was wants to ban the business in the world, the idea that will be discussed again at the meeting of the World Health Organization which starts in Johannesburg, at the end of September.
A lot of countries have banned all corners of Black Americans in the years of 1980, but there are different times, while China and Japan have been unable to buy those drugs due to the ones that were taken to the roads.
