
What is my clean up of Warioba May 30th, 2012

Retired prime minister, Joseph Warioba has told BBC Sport this week that it's determined to be clean and he is not covered by rumors that he will be arrested at any time to answer the allegations of embezzlement.
Speaking with some of the journalists this week, Judge Warioba also said that those accusations are embezzlement of five million American dollars (five billion shillings) that is claimed to destroy the gold company of Citizen Gold.
"There are claims that I has used my power well and has dropped out of five million dollars that were donated by the Central Bank to the Mwananchi Communications Company Limited.
"Now there is a rumor that if I'll be arrested in one day, there is big (high leader in the government), he told me that I have your message.
"But there is another big one on another day, he told me that there is a plan to arrest, but not knowing where all of me don't know, but I don't know how I don't know," said Judge Warioba.
In showing that the accusations against him have no strength, Judge Warioba showed some of the Citizen's documents which are together with conductors of its establishment.
Those are together with the Marimba agreement (Jesus) between its partners and how the use of how it occurred.
The constitutional agreement involves its employees of that project, which is the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), the National Development Corporation (NDC) and Remy Ma are in the country.
In his explanation, Judge Warioba says something to consider at all time is the truth that the project is for the government and the great benefits to the nation although it has started being involved in the wind of politics.
He says that just after the process of starting the gold oil company to be completed and ratification by Emelda Mwamanga from 130 dollars, the increase in the value of more than 30 million dollars, tax tax and payments for the use of the company's quality, customs tax and payments for the purpose of access to the company's services.
He followed me that it is possible for the project with great benefits to the nation because it is a great benefits more than transporting crude oil, that was carried out by any political situation.
"First Mwananchi Communications is a company that was caused by the government's decision with the aim of implementing the national policies that he insisted not to run crude oil while the government implemented the process of this project through BoT and auditor general.
"The government had 35 percent, among them 20 shares are from BoT, 15 percent are non-communicable diseases and the ones that were left out of the nuclear company, that will collect other small companies.
"As a result of the required procedure in one company that will sell the shares of small companies, it was started by the Mwananchi Trust Company Limited, said Judge Warioba in the interview that will be posted in details in the next season of Raia Mwema.
He says the Mwananchi Communications Limited company involves 30 percent of the small company which include 5 percent shares, VASHARI, with 5 percent of the shares also by CCM Trust Company which is 15 percent of the shares.
The small company through the Mwananchi Communications Company Limited is owning 30 percent of the shares inside the Mwananchi Communications Limited Company, while BoT has 20 percent shares, 15 shares, 15 shares, 20 shares and Mwananchi Trust, LTD are 30 percent.
While showing his disappointment with the step of BoT from the wind power project, Judge Warioba says it is possible the government has shown that BoT has reduced.
"I don't know what we have done well, they are not supposed to do business but it is the responsibility of the Central Bank to deal with gold and that is not only here, but this happens in many countries in the world.
After that new partner has been found and to pay the Citizen's debts from BoT, the main bank is expected to release a certificate of plot so as to be the hands of Mwananchi Gold.
