
Tupaaha in electricity, then bought your policies on 01 / 1st, 2012.

IAGRI as he headed to the government has been buried in him, and has agreed to say otherwise he will explain the situation that he was with the Minister of Energy and Minerals, William Ngeleja, explaining the step of the government to agree with the PAC Committee that she deserves for it?
Minister Ngeleja, in his meeting with the journalists appeared to be presented, the difficulty of that step is a must that the place of his soul was opposed to what he is saying.
Us the whole issue that affects the machinery and legal statements are fighting against the parliamentary committee and the government is based.
It is true that if it is said that Shangazi has said that our procedures are committed to our benefit, they don't allow the government to buy second-hand but it's true that our parliament has a history to change regulations and even several laws to meet the needs of the concerned time.
We believe that the current environment of electricity production in the country meet the need to change even the regulations and our procedures that are very difficult, so that we can be sure of having reliable electricity.
Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) has been saying that the solar power project is the ones that has been putting in a ship in a period of the one that is affected by TANESCO machines.
TANESCO, for their accounts, they have requested them to buy the Dowans Company so as to get sure that everyone will make sure that every electricity has a problem, then the debtor will be used.
The state of electricity production in the country is currently very difficult, this is because every time, or not to talk about every day, it is a must for electricity to go down, one of the power blackout in every day and every time is that the electricity generated from TANESCO is not enough!
It is possible that there are us the power that you are not seen, but it is the truth of the real situation that in many areas of industries and residential areas in the country, electricity is very high.
These treatments of power blackout in every time have been enough for this problem is the Dowans Company which there is wisdom of not making it in order to end the problem if we want to attend the machines in the year when we have already use electricity, less than our shillings which has already reduced.
It is what those procedures are done, they are unable to investigate so that they will make him serve themselves if the public wants to pay for sure, it is not conflicts between the government and parliament.
