
Challenges of the media in democracy of Tanzania.
28th of 08, 2013.

Private ownership is being taken by a great importance in democracy of many parties, because sometimes it is true that private organizations are usually free than of ownership of other types of ownership.

This concept can be creative because it is not true, it is not true that every agency for private ownership is free and as it is for democracy of Ghana, not every agency that has the government ownership is not free.

There are private media networks that have been closed and carrots for private interests of the owners or political owners, economically or even social welfare, there is need for sure that even private sectors can also be used to disrupt the community.
The foundation of democracy and legal interests of the nation.

It is clear that in the current system, it is easy for politicians to own news agencies for the purpose of use them for private interests like the business people and also they can own those equipment for political and business interests.

If it has been determined here in the country in different times, and especially when they see elections, some of the private media houses are putting up on the basis of writing news and entering in every type of humor, apart from running the reports of destroying of political parties, dizziness and regional candidates without caring about the long-term effects to the nation.

This is not only that is against the expectations of citizens to the media in building democracy, but it is something that would not be dealt with as required, it will build a dangerous culture of disputes, hatred, religion, tribalism and lack of decoration in community development.

Private ownership of democracy which if it is used, can be used badly and put huge effects to the community like that you can affect democracy, young people in the developed countries, the media owners do not have conflicts, are the readers, listeners or others who are not first to listen.

But in the environment of our country, the country has not been caused by the culture of citizens to marry off the instrument they gets a mistake, then the concept of freedom of media is getting legal requirements by considering the basis of the profession all the days.

It is not possible, and there is no reason for the news agency that shall be able to resolve the basis of the profession to affect the broader interests of the country, then it is need to put open doors of controlling the kind of ownership because of our experience, especially with the effects of the nation and the citizens in general.

Moreover, this foundation of control has not yet been commanded?
Consider the requirements of the responsibility of the media in democracy of many parties!

The ownership of.
For Tanzania, the main institution that affect the media is together with religion and political parties including democracy of many parties, it is a good and important thing to the institution as well as private individuals, to start the media to enable communication and debates among its members.

However, during the state, therefore, they are also available to all the public, and not that it will reach out to the members / their believers, then the money they have a responsibility to follow the basis of writing news that affect the broader interests of the nation and its citizens.

Historical, the newspapers that were started for example in Europe in the 16 century and continued, they stopped more than political parties so as to be used in explaining the philosophy of policies and plans of the concerned party, therefore, the newspapers in the newspapers are flooded due to all people and everything.
He was free to choose or read the newspaper that he could not be satisfied by the ones that he found.

However, as the 19th century, the private ownership was started to grow due to the concept of the internal market and that any person could be able to start a newspaper and run it like any business, then it is clear that the business has died in a normal death and not being locked by the government.

News agencies for the institutions, especially religious, can also have the effects to the culture of civil servants when they start writing news and running the debate on the way that observes law of conflict between groups that are compared to the community.

The concept of having talks among the community members is very important in democracy of many parties, and when it comes up that different groups inside the community wanted to destroy their requirements by being followed by others, then its effects are used to be high.

The truth is open here, it is that every institution, a group or private people benefit from the freedom of owning the media and give their thoughts in public, then the responsibility is to respect the rights and thoughts of others in the community.

Ownership of the community.
After the Tanganyika stadium, it was started in the newspapers and various aspects of the community that carried news and information, including various knowledge to the concerned community, but after several years, newspapers and publications for those who were put due to lack of money to continue giving birth.

However, in the recent years, the concept of media media stations is back on but through radio stations of short courses which have been started in large numbers in the country.

The community radio is a very important mid-fielder for democracy because it is used as a continuation of the discussion of the citizens that are taking place at the farms, especially in the parts of the country.
Elsewhere, from other words, community radio have enabled many citizens especially the villages to promote communication as part of the life in a broader field.

Furthermore, the community, different from the national radio, they get more on different issues that concern citizens and give them an opportunity to discuss and even get solutions.

The community radio use a lot of time, for example, put programs that touched me the concerned community, including entertainment groups that do not have music, music, music, on the poem and other things that concern them in the concerned community.

On that logic, the community radio is a very important mid-fielder, different from it is for other media houses, in developing science, culture and the gift of natural resources that make the citizens of the concerned community.

For other words, it has been noted that the media stations like the radio, face.
To give an opportunity to many citizens, who are happy and you should listen to the ones that are the origin of public communication that have lived and even before the coming of the current communication technology.

It is clear that, these natural resources like wheat flour, songs, music, art and music, are providing care of the traditional culture and the Tanzanian culture, especially the most of age, which were the end of the lake and the traditional foods.
