Let it be buried and if you like to give them an accident they were done by Mister and himself, the drivers and the woman there is a chance that would like by several hours.
We are not aware that the matron was beginning to support me when I thank me in public and my friends, we will get there is a period of free corners of them.
I have been on the right of people who do their work to be people inside the government and the government with vomiting I think you find officer Sele can make sure that you will play for why.
Go to heaven.
But on the other side, I see you saw?
When you do not lie to heaven for you, you've ever heard a person that you pay for now, the money should be wanted.
You miss.
The Almighty God rest the events that are clean in Tunduma and this service, we are looking to each other and educate them so that your brother can be stopped here, it will be dangerous especially because it is dangerous especially what is wrong.
If you are about us that you should not be on now, when the man is told when you see that program, there is no end of a person who is a bandit and he has organized himself to do a police.
We advise President Jamal Malinzi to report the police ready to sit the youth.
It's you to give his information to blame the government has been unable to us to say what I'm in, it should know what you play in Tanzanian, I believe that how many times you have said that if how many times you have said, then he didn't know what they have said.
They have said it is not good.
Jakaya Kikwete.
We were living with my grandfather, Passo i, which is not good, he has said today in parliament, you know it is little, how many are you want to do if you love you.
How many Saudi Arabia may be?
Who's a new here in who?
Then I thank you for you to do if you will go to the creativity, I'll see we are very much together with the advice of inheritance to what Mister Mister was given a good step.
All what is a prayerful person did not get when I went to enter, I went to fight for every year to do if our colleague has gotten her in fighting for the rights of people.
And Happiness had a lot of thanks without forgetting the Lord, we're near him, yesterday it was Wednesday, the cause of diggers, Ally has said in Africa keenly we want to be demolished.
We can't know your life in the word of God, the family of the family and also to be taken so as to go for it is not the police.
