
Disko Mbowe will enable you to have a Chinaof us and the nation's resources contrary to 13.

This article started to be written in the main platform of leaders of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in the Jangwani stadium, last Saturday.
I was told when I was told when I was on that, until Friday the morning of last week, it was not known who will address that meeting and he will talk about what he spoke during the meeting instead of who he is supposed to be informed.
The objection affects the guardian of CCM of Dar es Salaam Province, Abdulrahman Kinana and that's why he was welcomed to welcome ministers to make sure different problems, he was ready to confirm and say "he does not have time to lose their politics."
Basically, as a group is in groups inside CCM, it does not stop using an amount of those who did not be invited to that meeting or to be awarded but they were born, they are not ready to prepare their party to return to the party in its basis.

Earlier when we go to the Jangwani stadium, he emphasized that it is banned for a speech by participating in the speech to fly the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA). I was unable to see if it is possible by Steven Wassira and Doctor Magufuli should be a great subject but that is how it was in that day.
When he was asked, Wassira did not take over more than three minutes he had already joined CHADEMA, and that's when I heard Elder Kinana being satisfied with hope after seeing the words of Plasmodium falciparum.
This journey, maybe by a foolish thing, it was a good friend, Mzee Kinana was not seen so much, but the few officials are not in the whole country and that the leaders of CCM are not seen and they don't know the meeting so as to see CCM and leave CCM and then leave CCM.

Mzee Wassira mentioned the last week he used 45 minutes in ITV television, they bombers together with his wives, CHADEMA continued with their meetings in the southern region and gave them many members.

Let you look in short time or abusive language, Mzee Wassira visited the desert. Without a shame and it doesn't know a good work done by CCM and his father Freeman Mbowe (right), he made together with the father of the nation (Mwalimu Nyerere).
He continued to say that, if he is unable to work politics comes out in his business of selling alcohol and taking time to time they go to the CCM meeting in Dar es Salaam city it is possible, because the head has done a lot of words with the church when they go on a lot of words that will even even if it didn't end.

First, let me feel it is not wisdom of using the late as a witness in your defense.
Steven Wassira said he doesn't know the close relationship that was there between the father of the nation and his father, Freeman Mbowe, who all of them are the late and they don't have a way to come here to make sure that they were close to the government claimed.
Secondly, it is not true that Freeman we don't know the good work of the CCM that was done by the father of the nation in collaboration with people as the father of the nation, "said Mbowe, but it's not true that the work of the father of the nation," said Mbowe is not true.

The pain that would be able to make sure we make sure, "alcohol and day time can benefit from politics and the business is why we are communicating with her family, but the political work she did is now, it will benefit our resources and our animals.
As a result of a day time of Mbowe, now, we see the ministry of Mali natural resources and tourism has started working under Ambassador Kamala and all those who were selling our music to South Africa will be safe, and our Tarangire National Park will be safe, and our Tarangire national team will be safe, and our Tarangire national park.

These days of globalization, our ministers and cadres of the ruling party to be careful in their statements because they can enjoy the speed of the party, he is using a lot of time to do good work more than the performance of the citizens.
I think, it was a bad strategy to help all the ministers those in the desert, to come up on how to solve the problems of the citizens and the results of this bad sector, but when the other issues is difficult because the government is doing well in a certain sector so that people can get in get with him directly.

This work of winning in the field should not be seen by CCM to enable the cadres who are their job, ministers they go to the ministry so as to see what they were done by CCM.
Some of the ministers that I have talked to them at the stage said it open that this strategy did not like looking for reasons that they did not like, even those who wanted to come and even those who wanted to come up because of them have been denied because of groups.
It's not possible, Professor Tibaijuka and Abdelhamid Radwan from the stage to start explaining the things that have not been buried same as seen, Steven Wassira and Nape that they are vying for the party.
The place of CCM organized by carelessness of people not to take action, did not require meetings so as to protect themselves.
What is supposed to do work without looking at it "Bhebey Ndey 'near the same way," the administration of CCM is not a matter of someone to follow the basis and faith of CCM, otherwise, parties are not a must to remain CCM.
