Climate change.
May 23, 2012

The secretary of CCM in Kigoma province has been forced to fight for the party not to appoint a parliamentary candidate that is involved in the scandal of the killing of albino killings and robbery, who attended the line of Fransico Kimwana has been moved to the headquarters of CCM, in Dodoma city, our citizens have noted.

The sure reports are saying that Gareth Bale was given a letter of transfer to 6 o'clock at night, a day that the presidential candidate of CCM, Jakaya Kikwete arrived in Kigoma for the purpose of the campaign.

In one of the issues of this newspaper, especially after completing the meeting of the executive council of CCM, Dodoma is vying for parliamentary and councilors seats that reported to the parliamentary candidate with a scandal of albino killings and robbery in one of the constituencies in Kigoma province.

In that report, this newspaper reported reports from being the CCM secretary for Kigoma province, is the one that led the argument of breaking up that candidate, getting back the real environment of the constituency where he will defend that candidate (name withheld).

According to the report of the NEC-CCM party, that secretary was forced to give information to what the concerned candidate will be discussed.

It is alleged to have given those explanations during the NEC meeting to return to him in a meeting of the political committee of the concerned district and province.

During the province's meeting, Kigoma Regional Commissioner, Joseph Simbakalia, who is also the chairman of the defense and security committee of the province, is alleged to be given a report where they recognize the concerned candidate.

However, in that NEC meeting, one member from Kigoma has been reported to be supported by big business people in Kigoma province whose ethics has also been supported by the popular businessman and veteran politician from Tabora province, who is a member of NEC.

If it has been approximately two months now, the recent reports from Kigoma is saying that what is explained as' the group of business people, especially those with a problem of ethics, has been able to use the influence of the network to disrupt the secretary of Kigoma.

After being given a letter of transfer, that secretary is alleged to have written another step that he tried to change the names of seven candidates for councilor seat in Kigoma town region, to play against the parliamentary candidate, Peter Serukamba.

News from CCM in Kigoma are indicating that the secretary has been married due to try to bring violence by persuading the committees of ethics and political committees to appeal and to give birth certificates to candidates who are leading in the opinion polls.

It is alleged that they are determined to arrest seven candidates of the councilor seat in Kigoma Town County and inspect the second and three winners in the wards of those people who were unable to be stopped.

However, this newspaper met with that secretary who confirmed to be transferred from Kigoma to Dodoma but opposing other allegations against him.

"It is not true to be transferred, it's good issues of work on how to try to marry off the councilors is an issue of sessions not to me, it's not a matter of private someone who are saying that they do not know that, the party is led to them.

"Couples are saying because they know I am a politician and a good leader that I have decided to work fully and I do not do any person or I do not love God only.

"I have shown my ability to work in Kigoma and elsewhere, and that is why I want them to work due to their good performance and because they inform them in their issues with the intentions they want to promote, because there are primary things to see the political parties.

"If you see you are following or to discuss every time you meet you have a certain amount of leadership that maybe they don't have," he told the former secretary of Kigoma in his talks with the author of this newspaper.

But at the time the answers of that veteran was that, more information from Kigoma states that the leader had qualified for the member of parliament, Philemoni Ndesamburo, his term in that constituency has appointed the one who is accused of the killing of the Tanzania Albino Society and events of robbery.

It is alleged that the leader who was killed was supported by the Provincial Commissioner of Kigoma, Joseph Simbakalia and Kigoma provincial commissioner John Mongela in making sure that the parliamentary candidate with a scandal of the albino killings and robbery yesterday at the CCM ticket in order to save the party ticket.

But the head of province, the head of the district and the leader who was caught being mentioned during the opinion polls to ensure that the candidate was not registered, the chairperson of CCM of Kigoma, Azim Dewj and the member of NEC-CCM, Muhsin Abdallah.
