
4 to report the hospital for beating them.
By Richard Mwaikenda.
Women who were identified to have HIV virus have learned in the three hospitals by the Minister of Health, James Masoy.
Those who complained of the people that speak on behalf of many others who have not reported they are saying their rights to get children and that parents have been forced to have shivered.
A very big number whose names have no names and believe in capital, they are saying that they stopped the cases that they were presented in the high court of the mountains in Nairobi, that they were told that they refused to get the and they will not be given a food fees and when they were given to the hospital that is sponsored by the Blue Pearl Hotel in Nairobi.
Those who loves those four people are members of the group of defending the rights of women with AIDS virus.
Those women who do not want their names to be known for their security and their children are saying that their rights were surrounded by the hospital they have opened.
"I was forced to sign up the form of being beaten in the generation when I went to give birth to the PK hospital in Nairobi," says one of the attackers.
The Mlalami, says her husband went to the world in 2002 and that he had no AIDS.
When the mother was born with the twins then he was told by a professional expert Mrs Benteke Pickup, and he will not be given a food like a child, oil and oil while they were getting in the Blue Pearl Hotel.
"If you cause a letter from the Para hospital, then you should know you will get food and other donations to save life," said the alamila's expert.
Mlali is saying on October 29, 2004 when he went to Pambani County, where he went on and given a letter to show his new generation was closed for a twins.
Those four women from Burundi are saying that they prefer to be used by their rights to enjoy life like the other women were asked because now can't get children.
Those who answered, those who were washed gered to Pindani Nyalile in the Ilorogoro hospital, Marx Marie Stopes International and VocationalTraining together with Wild Frontiers, France asked the High Court to be given compensation by denying them an opportunity for getting children.
The case of the fight has been listed here on February 24th, 2015.
