
The public has been forced to be bullied.

I have not allowed me to think about what there is a wave of people wanting the Revolutionary Party (CCM) with more strength this time as it was in the year 1995.

Many years have passed but when the year 1995, it was very big to use the freedom of joining another party more than CCM this journey, there are different meanings that are evident.

We're starting from New York City, urban and rural areas, the elders of the youth.
- they have decided to inform CCM, "Bambucha" and joined the Democratic and Development Party (CHADEMA).

When I was surprised more than these new machines that are going on, I have found themselves back behind more than 50 years ago.

These things that have been done by African countries in general the colonial era, and his government have already started working again and this journey is not against the colonial history but against the administration which has changed and its direction on the colonial era.
These five four things among them are known as well as they have been there at the field of Arusha town of 1967 and where its fact is still standing.

In the field of Arusha, we have announced that, we have been unable to be enough amount, we have warned enough amount, we believe that we want to be bullied, we believe that we can be bullied, we should agree that we can do anything, but we should believe that they can do anything without any person who are under them.

Two examples are open so much to represent this, most of you remember the same DC who impressed me the father's father in front of people and we are expected to have any leader.
There are many people who have found themselves being affected by the authorities to be in employment, business or even the only place, we have found themselves having themselves (I don't know whether it is similar to those leaders so that their issues are supposed to receive. "

They are reminding the administrative secretaries that you want to be the ordinary citizens to be careful before the leaders.
We have seen that our people were forced to go through different places so as to pave way for the investors. "We have seen that where people have been done in areas they were forced to produce food production so they can be able to be bullied.

We have been mentioned one among the things that the field of Arusha was fighting and it's what he termed as a teacher of Man by Man City "by those who remember well the big problem of Man by Man City," because it is making business people who do work and counted at each other.
This happens which has been highly commended.

But we do not have good results like especially in competition level.
But it's a competition of who especially when Nyerere knows it because it is not competition of a person with small businesses and a big international company! You can't launch the minerals of Chunya District and Baragon Ashanti United and she does not lie!
You can't prove that for example a small factory for making medicine and a big industry of making sure that this competition is big and small business people will continue to do small businesses or as Nyerere when he decided to buy a small business!

The world has discovered this and only 10 years ago the awareness of taking this international disease has emerged during the campaign to oppose the world of globalization, where it does not affect the borders of the country and start getting into power in the poor country.
It is true, he has brought a big industries but at the same time the killing of internal industries and the small competition in the country, so they just came now is not a person and a person again, but they are suffering from big international companies against the father, mother and our youth!

Therefore, if we reach, we believe that they are encouraged to be sold to the work together with the servants who are smoking the high-scale companies that are there from the existing policies, which can produce all the benefits by 100 percent to take them to them.
Meaning, companies have come and read the Tanzania farm as a result of this farm and this is needed more especially when the government requires foreign companies to go back to their countries!

Therefore, they want to be bullied in any way because they had already been oppressed, "!

We have been oppressed, this issue of catalysts in the issue of knowing we are warned.
The rich can be able to get anything in the community when my colleagues are happy and we need to do so much to get the little that they have.
Think about that there is no great national leader who is causing the problem of electricity or water because he has been able to purchase the allowances or the procedure of buying water and electricity because it is a car that gets a problem with water and electricity because it is not a surprise, when she struggled to look for each other in every way.

But another violence that are not open by people with power did not lie.
- it is not being unable to be given to honor that they used to help citizens when they get different services.
Recently, I have been a great debate on my Facebook and many things are clear that when he comes from home to look for services especially in the government institution, he is supposed to prepare well with mental problems but there is no doubt that when she gets to them, there is no doubt that she is given, "we refused.

We have never stated that all the first three are related to one and how she does not experience. But there is no thing that is forced to get more like someone else.

When you will ignore the person it allows me from us the importance that it gives us the importance of having an value of what he said does not have a solution to someone who does not make someone get a person or a citizen can be removed.

When the beauty succeeded so much to find a black person who they loved to an extent that his effects were stolen for a long time in the thoughts of our people.

Even today, you will meet people who are looking for people who are looking at each other.

However, they are not allowed to inform you for a long time but finally their generation come up and ignored, in our country is seen so much in our big things (I will stop others are happy).
First, it is in the quality of services that the government is giving to its citizens.
If you check well, I will see that the administration that has not put effort in the quality of services but in large numbers.

School, roads, energy, energy, and all over all, there are many areas have been added but the issue of the quality being implemented by the Controller and Auditor General of the government (CAG) in its various reports he has been touching on this way or another when it allows the money that was used by the quality of something that did not depend on.
This quality is seen so much by the lack of high quality systems, Asukile (i) and thus the institutions and many government offices lack the good management of the services they provide.

Now we do not want to continue annoyed so they don't want to be ignored, because they think about their questions being taken to them and when they ask the king of heaven for the information which was reported about Steven Wassira recently in his constituency.
It is not just one time the public leader is looking for questions that starts to show a citizen who asked the question and who wanted to know how the child of the primary school in Ukerewe District when he asked him, Edward Lowassa and he gave him problems.
How many times people try to ask questions because people of "security" will welcome him to ask questions from journalists and instead they need him to write questions from their offices instead of asking questions that do not hesitate to write the answers.

But thousands have decided to refuse to continue annoyed instead there is no administration that will be permanent while they recover the citizens or a big group of its citizens.

Currently, all the four that have been found in the field of Arusha town of five, however, I can say that it is born with the current generation, it is being confused.

We have been getting confused, they have gotten tired of getting confused by being promised several issues that do not happen.
But it is getting confused by the same time and now citizens have discovered that they are getting confused by the same time is in the right that I understand by their children on how to fulfill their promise.

Now his promise will follow the truth of carelessness and failing to think about the names of the police in Msimbazi, Dar es Salaam where for many years, he was suffering from a fox.
Now when there is a place if you can ask you or ask someone who will give you the truth about more than giving his promise?
It is a present in trouble.

Why do you go to CHADEMA?

Why is CHADEMA what many people are starting to believe that CHADEMA who it is claimed to mention those things, the citizens are rushing to there because they believe it will lead to "the second time."

As our elders that he had fled to Tanaka against Manchester City, there are people who go to CHADEMA because they are continuing to believe that maybe it will lead them in building for being independent, to respect and be appreciated.

However, I believe that the biggest challenge to CHADEMA is not to do demonstrations or put Magigita but how it will lead people to bring themselves development.
When we will see his leaders doing well as he did Nyerere on his second tour of rural villages in the beginning of seventies, where he participated in the construction work of the nation.
For example, when we will see youths of CHADEMA, we are encouraged them at different schools, to bring bricks, to fill in the clinic or even build the clinic or improve the clinic or to improve the clinic.
So, it is enough to make demonstrations and required to save people from taking off the entrance to him as to wear while his end is to be happy, but not doing anything?

So if we expect that we are denouncing the others basically they want this matter because there is a question, it will happen under CHADEMA now before 2015 the history will decide.
Any way you will help us should not accept again to be bullied, integrity and arrogance, they are warned and for sure they don't want to rule they are doing so they want them and honor them as citizens.
