
Dar es Salaam has launched a new song 'Chibuku Mamas'.

June 1, 2016.

The company of Dar es Salaam yesterday launched a new testing of beer with the origin 'Chibuku Mamas' with a capacity of 3,000 shillings, which the user was not allowed to return to bottles when he uses.
Speaking at the launch that took place in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the marketing manager of Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Marketing Manager of Dar es Salaam, Oscar Assenga, said that the beer that is in good 150 plastic chairs will be sold at a price of shillings 1000 shillings only by bottles.
"Today (yesterday) it is a very important day for us to Dar es Salaam and for all beer users, because we have succeeded to launch this bottles that will be sold at a good price of 1000 shillings only with the capacity not allowed me.
"Tanzania Breweries has been made as a high speed and using modern machines, therefore we consider the quality of high quality," he said.
Shelukindo said, the beer has been made by using natural resources in the home, including a lot of peace that is better, therefore, there is every reason why we should be proud of especially to see their origin, because this is their natural gas.
"Landscrona" is an important thing of 4 percent, which is doing to use for a long time with friends, but it gives you good deeds that are available in large numbers used in making this beer, "he said.
And the sales and distribution Manager of Dar es Salaam, Fred Halla said, the beer will start being available in the whole country in the bar, big shops (Super Eagles), in a total shops and retailers in the areas conducted from today.
"We are expecting customers and lovers of beer to be happy about this new purchase and from the total owners, we believe that they will be able to sell Super Eagles because it has a good benefits and does not have the disturbance to buy certificates," he said.
Kazuka said that he has a great faith that beer will play with joy and will use them to show their own accidents.
