
A player that was accused of beating the speaker of a mosquito.
By Richard Mwaikenda.
Nairobi is a police officer that has been accused by ractory sides of the speaker of parliament, he from Emosquitoes, Mister Justus Yaredi, yesterday was ordered to visit the office of the police commissioner that he from Nairobi, he was questioned more.
Senior magistrate, Miss Elhaj said that he instructed Sergeant, Nicholas Kay, Msalika as the commander of the police department of criminal Investigation from Nairobi for a three-day tour starting today (yesterday) up to tomorrow.
And at the same time, lawyer Julius Akitanda, has defended Sergeant Samuel Kangana, who was supported by the Director of Public Leaders Ethics at the State House and politicians who don't have a great shape, "therefore Mister Akitanda, wanted him to know how that case will continue.
In the letter they received, Mister we are in the month of May 23, Mister Akitanda, has claimed that the investigation that was done by the police did not know how Sergeant Samuel Ndomba from the Tourism hotel on May 19.
"I have read the evidence that police got lost from witnesses.
Up to now, there is no doubt that is aimed at Sergeant Samuel Kangana, "Mister Aubameyang.
The lawyer claims that the document was given, "we are saying that," he is sentenced to Sergeant Samuel Eto'o to ask him so that he can give him a advice and direction of the case against the officer of Cupertino in Nairobi, "that lawyer told Miss Leah Kihimbi followed by the commander of Cupertino in Nairobi.
"We have been very happy with this directive that the defendant was done in an interview with the commander of Cupertino in Nairobi because the rights will be done," said Mister AID.
The court was informed by the inspector general, Kenneth Kaunda for that the defendant was not going to front of the investigation officer of May 22 as he had been directed.
But Mister Aguilera has denied those allegations and said Sergeant Samuel Kangangi he arrived in front of the officer of Cemetery for entertainment area, Mister Lil.
The court commanded that case to start being treated on July 9, 2014.
