
Mungai has retired from LonAgro Tanzania.
Dar es Salaam City, the chairperson of the Majani ya Chai Company of LonAgro Tanzania Limited, Joseph Mungai has retired from that position while he left the company having a loss of 49 billion shillings that was caused by paying for a value of shillings.
That position has been opened by George Sambali who retired from the executive director of the company last year.
Mungai was the minister of education in the third phase government, he told the shareholders of the company the day before yesterday that he still has the power to work but their constitution is preparing to continue to hold that position.
After retiring from there, Mungai has finished 22 years of leadership of the LonAgro Tanzania Board to leave the leaves of Majani ya Chai Secondary School.
Speaking during the annual meeting of the company, Mungai said the last year was difficult for TANESCO to leave because of the business situation to be hard.
He said that she is facing a lot of fees for the value of a billion and big loans of the company to be in the dollars, it will cause losses due to the change, the results will get a loss of 49 billion shillings.
He said despite the direction of the expectations of the business people later, to show success, there are still challenges that hinder them.
While expounding, Mungai said a reduction in value of shillings has caused a loss of 3 billion shillings, while tax charges cost 500 million shillings. "The purchase of breast cancer is legal, from small-scale farmers from Rungwe District this year has caused a loss of 1 million American dollars because of the sales," said Mungai.
Mungai was mentioned the success of the chairperson of the board to be together with starting of Radio FM, that is used to educate the tea farmers of Rungwe, to start the reception area.
The new executive director of that company, Ditopile, Page said that in order to reduce the cost of operations, there is a water project that is owned by that company, will start working any time from right now after getting a lot of money.
1,600, the number of pictures with the citizens of those who are backed by LonAgro Tanzania Limited.
