
Arsenal have a difficult time with Sunderland.
London, England after falling on the hole in the middle of the week at the UEFA Champions in the previous day after beating Andaman on 2-1, Arsenal have a difficult time away today against Sunderland.
Arsenal who have been a difficult time this season, they are able to promote their ability even when they visited the Stadium of Light.
Those youths of coach Arsene Wenger is participating in the seventh position in the premier league, they will play the only victory against Sunderland who was beaten by Southampton on 8-0 goals last week.
The coach of Sunderland, Gus Poinsot mentioned those results as a shame to be a shame in his coaching profession and to swear with him today when they face Arsenal.
The former Manchester United player who is currently the captain of Sunderland, John Okello "has emphasized that he can appeal to their fans, to be three against the big team Arsenal will be enough.
"We do not need more than three points to get tired with joy in the faces of our fans. We will not affect our opponents and therefore we need to be successful.
Arsenal is a good team but it is a must that we get pressure especially we focus on that they have problems in very disturbing, "he said.
On the side of Arsenal played only one match out of seven in the league in which they played this season, the second victory will be enough to maintain their marriages.
Sunderland have won one only match out of all seven in which they played in all competitions and for three times the last time they met with Arsenal have lost.
In today's match, Arsenal will continue to lack seven players' services including Theo Walcott, who is not in place, Olivier Prentout, who emerged the player Laurent Koscielny and Jack Kabende to have banned one match of collecting five yellow cards.
To be Sunderland as well, they will fail to marry each other, Sebastian Cousin, Sebastian Cooper, at Gioia Tauro Port and Ricky Rick and whom they collided with different injuries.
At the same time the defending champions of EPL, Manchester City will be away away with West Brom to continue with their best results after the goal against Tottenham Hotspurs that was played last Saturday.
Striker Sergio Busquets was sent all four goals in that match which he will be on the field again to try to increase his number of goals.
