The death of Nelly Mwangosi in the process.
Sep 5, 2013.

One year after the killings of the former journalist of Channel 10 television station, David Banda, the government has continued to be forced to take stern action against all those involved in those killings.
Mwangosi was killed in the police on Sunday, September 2nd, in the year 2012 at the Nyato village, Mufindi, Iringa province, in an event that has raised the picture that maybe the government continues with his plans to resolve the truth of the incident.
Stakeholders who attended the memory conference of one year after the killing of Nelly Mwangosi which was organized by Tanzania Media Club (UTPC), have said together with the murder of the police, the action taken is like the government doesn't see the effects of the problem for the development of democracy and the freedom of educating them in the country.
"I don't see if the government is looking for you, they are struggling like what happened it is normal, there is no enough advice," says Paul Mabumba, a senior reporter from the Sahara Media Group, which owns the Star TV and Radio Free Africa.
After those killing, together with being evidence of the picture of that incident, it shows that Nelly Mwangosi has been surrounded by many police, but only one was to be taken to court for hiding the shape so as to give a picture.
The Spokesperson of the Tanzania Police Force, Advera Senso, has been quoted after those killings saying that Nelly Mwangosi (few minutes before his killing was done), she was happy from the side who were in parliament according to the Senso that until now, she is believed to be known until the investigation will take place. "
Those instructions that were given by Senso before the picture of that incident of killing that was sworn in the newspaper, he insisted that there is something that was being thrown out on the side of citizens and forced them to hear the police officers together with the head of the police station.
"If it could not have that picture, there was no appropriate measures to resolve the truth of who the murderer is it is possible to follow up on this issue due to the basis of what I don't know," he told the writer George Ramadhan.
As a result of the current situation, the retired officer of the police force, told Besson that the government has failed to be keen and wisdom of addressing those killings and decided to assume the concept of accountability and bond of power they are given to the public leaders.
The action of stopping the former police commander of Iringa province, while the killing that came out at the scene area shows that you should not care about the importance of leadership and assume the weight of those killings.
Even if there was a plan to ban a wisdom of leadership that came after the event had decided there, even if he was not aware because he has a bail of showing her to her lover, "said the retired president and asked him to be remembered by the newspaper.
May this year, President Jakaya Kikwete appointed the former police commander of Iringa province, Michael Mungure, from senior assistant superintendent of police (TC) and to be the Assistant Commissioner of Police (DCP), an act that was led by many.
The secretary of the Tanzania Editors Forum (TEF), Neville Meena, was quoted at that time with the press explaining his disappointment with that act.
Even if he had not seen him, but in these events, especially this issue, we expected to leave and not to be taken since the end of the event, we expected to leave and not to be taken to the end of the event, we did not take measures to prevent it, "he told the secretary of TEF.
UTPC and an award of?

In that tour, the Executive Director of UTPC, Abubakar Karsan, said the union has started a special fund that is called, David Nelly Mwangosi and Development Fund which they used to get three billion shillings for the purpose of helping the journalists that have no problems in work.
Part of the funds of the fund will be used to cater for, David Banda, who has contributed to a great contribution and implemented in developing the media industry in the country. The awards will have a gift of cash money, 10 million shillings.
