Technical from the contest, we were asked.
The vice president of a trip has been made.
Under the rearing of rice?
Therefore for a long time in that session, it is true that you're.
When you go in Dar es Salaam, I'll be a terrorist?
First to go.
Twitter can be able to contribute to our game here in a long time, it has not been done we will not be able to be meeting with Zurich.
When you get in Dar es Salaam city, we're being given to our today's topic about collapsed and I would say.
If you look at the normal state, I was forced to make sure that it comes up but there is high pressure but I will not speak if the class seven is leading in class.
When we live in Dar es Salaam city, we have been asked for the time we have witnessed, we have no longer pressure to play for the seasons of that house we used.
We are expecting to send the people that we have been big in our league, the Almighty God bless you it reaches the middle and you know that more games without seeing you have a little opportunity to see what we started with and we started with it.
To come the act of the last season of the beauty contest, the first one so as to be demolished and that the first one of the first is to give it all over a goalless draw.
Most of the most people were able to look for basketball we were not like to be stakeholders who we know for where he refused.
The late God is like they came out on the session after seeing things and fail.
There is no major cause again for the first game in the first squad.
We need to work because we believe.
From today, the late does not go to a higher level and not others.
For we that we did first will start making severe pain, even so, many competitions in the field are for the first time for a period of three years to know that you can say that I don't know if you are still in change, we should realize that I am not true.
We have been forced to change for example, you can I tell ourselves that we got not only for the next season, we are usually looking at.
The competition that will start from today small from competitions in the country are ongoing.
We have a small league in the district to help our province today, where we do not wait, we will continue to Kinondoni in Temeke where we will go to you so much, you can get a chance to go to me in his region and then it's a system and then it will go back again in Saudi Arabia.
People were friends but it was unable for a period of three months.
But when we came to the farm, the late God is not known, but the youths who do not get, the youth do not play, the youth do not play the plans on what the youths will play.
We were not ready to prepare well.
It will do that a big way will help us with those who are outside the sponsors and those who are outside the sponsors are supposed to be able to bring their donations so that he can be able to play so that he can be able to play so as to finish his trip.
More than eight months in Saudi Arabia which have never happened in one of the premier league starting to differentiate and then be clean in every week, it was difficult, there was a lot of challenges.
Whoever doesn't understand that the teams that are in the estates are the teams that we are self-reliance because we are making teams that are from the institution, while the police force continues to keep little against them.
The ones that came to find the ones?
The competition for the system we give birth to the first, it is to put many competitions, we have begun to participate in the premier league teams which are taking place in a good level, there is a lot of respect to my, the Almighty God bless many.
We are playing from but that are in Dar es Salaam.
We have English Premier League to stay at a small league before he has not gone to the regional league that was also held in Mazage, twenty four teams in Twitter.
We have a judgment and I will not come to be careful, because the schools are coming in order to get into them.
He claims but me I would like it to make it a saying that one is the last season of last year last season that Listen Mwezi Song which he did so for a long time last year is not as a mistake.
We started in the fourth month, the beauty contest.
We were mentioned again we are doing the competition.
After that, the new song followed the competition called a condition of the cervix and we saw the way we have been charged with someone to do in competition we have been involved in the competition and we were involved in the Miss Tanzania competition.
These districts in Temeke did that league followed very much.
But at the time of doing so, it was difficult for Kinondoni District still not to complete the league plans because it is the late.
There are leaders who have a new leadership like he said the leader's leader.
A new leader that has come at the federation right now.
Some of them were mentioned by the new constitution is not political parties and we must go after falling, in the period of the season we will meet with the new business which is a business so that we can change our business so that we can be able to move forward.
