
Political parties leave me.
October 17, 2013.

Among the surprising things in the country, it is the ability to control the political parties especially the ones that get a grant, continue praying for political politics, accountability, together with war against corruption, while those parties were unable to understand the weaknesses that contribute to the expenditure of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG).

Yes, the accounts of those political parties from the Revolutionary Party (CCM), the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Democratic Party (TLP), Democratic Party (TLP), Democratic Party (TLP), United Front (TLP), United Front (TLP), United Republic of Local Government (TLP), United Republic of Local Government (TLP), United Republic of Local Government (TLP), United Republic of Local Government (TLP), United Republic of Government (UDP).

We have witnessed the leaders of those parties, in public meetings, in parliament and in different meetings, being keen on reports of inspection of the accounts in other administrative areas and urged the concerned parties in corruption, because it is mentioned to be responsible.

Due to misuse of others but they have refused the courage to clarify in public so that their accounts should be known for several years now, it is a big possibility that in a whole way, it affects political tensions and integrity, rebuke any other institutions that are faced with corruption.

Yes, these parties are derailing the legality because it is very delicious.

There are some who can say that such acts of those parties did not support him, therefore, it is not a problem of parties or leaders of the concerned parties, but it's not a nuisance to the government, CAG, and the office of the registrar of parties to participate in that concept.

It is clear that the leaders of the party at the reasonable level, not the believers of the concept of transparency and not in transparency especially the use of public funds, the ones that are as a result of different economic standards, the rich and other taxes used to be used for products or otherwise.

We advise the leaders of the political parties to be on the front line in defending and fighting the concept of better administration, otherwise we will continue to identify the leaders of the party, especially in the management and transparency of public funds.
