
24 December 2012

Mgimwa is participating in construction.

By Eliasa Ally, Iringa.

The Minister for Finance, Doctor William Mgimwa, who is also the member of parliament of Kalenga Constituency, Iringa province, has urged the executives in that region together with the councilor of Liunda Ward, encourage citizens to be able to build a female student of female students.

The purchase will help avoid those students to get pregnant before finishing their studies as it is now.

Doctor Mgimwa made those remarks at the end of the week at Liunda Ward, when he was speaking to citizens and contributing to 100 iron sheets, together with 50 bags of cement.

He said that if a female students will be set aside for teachers, they will be able to fulfill their dreams.
They finished their studies and succeed in their studies.

Doctor Mgimwa said those things are worth 1 million shillings.
3206, and urged the executives, the councilor together with the citizens to see the importance of contributing in the education sector.

He added that most of the students who are studying in that secondary school, they live in residential houses, where that situation makes the female students to get pregnant together with pregnancy.

"If they have been set aside, students who have been built are under the supervision of their teachers and give them special procedure as just like other secondary schools, many will fulfill their lives and reach the goals of educating them," said Doctor Mgimwa.

He urged the government leadership in Swaya Ward to supervise the citizens so as to start immediately to reduce the foundation of 300 female students so that they can be used in them and later.
They will cater for boys dormitories.

He added that, about the laboratory of the secondary school, he will improve the community to be modern more than it is now because students use poor equipment in science subjects thus it will be difficult to achieve their goals due to the connection of the concerned equipment.
