
Thursday, February 26th, 2015.

CCM is popular in Kigoma for 4045 percent, followed by CHADEMA by 272 and 2 percent.

The free research that was done by the writer of this article, has shown that any candidate for the presidential position of the Revolutionary Party could be elected by voters in urban planning and Kigoma Town by 4045 percent while the general elections will take place between 11 o'clock at the evening.

In addition, the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) has given a victory of 278 percent while the new party in Tanzanian politics, ACT of Tanzania, is seen to be a fine of 65 percent of citizens who were interviewed in that period.

That research was done today, the writer of this article when he visited Nachingwea District in Kigoma province for its work tour, after its responsibilities held in 10 o'clock in the afternoon, the intention of wanting to know the small wind of that work was done between 11 o'clock in the evening the Thursday of February 26th, 2015.

Mela Mboto.

A total of one of the participants of this research were 92, 458 containers and 34 women having destroyed their votes on gender discrimination, it was seen in the number of 100 participants who were allocated.

The participants alleged to be determined through mobile phone by meeting them and when a researcher is the Michungwani Market in Kigoma town, Mwanga District, Kigoma region, Kibangu.

Research explains that each participant was supposed to be alone and if it comes to a group / or he was accompanied by another person, a researcher is and he was not interviewed.

Likewise, the participants are determined through social networks is because the participant will be interviewed after one participant, had to be found on a distance of more than 50 meters to increase the opportunity for wildlife.

The age was not asked, but in a environment that is a researcher in the age of each participant, it does not reach 18 years ago but it comes out of getting 18 years, he had not been questioned.
However, in general, in general, he said that the participants who represent all the age of 18 to the elderly and gender will be followed, although it is not for the number that is same as it appears in the picture.

What is an actor of a question.

Research called my participant and bid farewell to shortly, then he told me the aim of research and how it will give his private information to protect his privacy.

Then then a question that was asked for all the participants was that, "your election will be done today, and if you get a chance to vote to elect the new president of Tanzania, Jichunge.'

The results are there.

The 37 participants, equal to 3,72 percent said they could choose the candidate of Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) and 25 participants, equivalent to 275 percent said they could choose the candidate of the new party of ACT Patriots.

Although the 2 participants, equal to 217 percent said they could choose the candidate of the NCCR-Revolution party, it's only one participant, equivalent to 1 / 09 / "he wanted the candidate of the Civic United Front party, CUF.

However, approximately 21 participants, equal to 2289 percent of those who were married said they don't decide or they don't accept any parties and that they are waiting to know the candidates who will come up.

Eight participants have destroyed their votes by mentioning religion, tribe and other criteria, instead of the answers of one one as 1) mentioning the party or 2) the explanations that showed that each participant will decide.

To the end of the subject of research.

The results of this research explains the opinions of the participants in Kigoma Municipality out of 11 up to 5 o'clock in the evening on 26th of February 2015 only.

However, because a total of Sh. 8 percent of those who were interviewed they decided, it's difficult to have patience and for sure, it is a candidate that you could win in the research period if the names of candidates are not known.

Likewise, the way of asking a question to the mouth can be able to release a different answer and what could decide if he would have been asked in writing or without discussing and a researcher is a probability of each participant to reduce those effects.

So, this results check the picture in explaining the trend of Kigoma politics?

This research is the outcome of the audience of the writer of this article to understand the political situation in Kigoma town through your whole way, the purpose of this research did not meet the writer of this article.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
