
Uhuru used ICC so far.
My work is surprised by the way the directive by the International Criminal Court ICC has changed our country to be a dance platform with Meek Mill.
We started with the honorable leaders and have been condemned the court of ICC and agreed that never the President Kenyatta to go to there.
However, President Kenyatta said that he would make sure that he would respect the order of the court Honorable these were selling the song suddenly without seeing a shame.
In high voice associated with the president, every type of reputation due to what she mentioned is like a safe step.
If this is not hypocrisy when I use his name.
Then he mentioned when President Kenyatta 'is taking off the presidential seat, "said the deputy president.
Here when I read the constitution that I saw the constitution that I've heard, "the deputy president" anywhere in our constitution.
Secondly, section of the constitution of the constitution is openly stated that when he comes to the president, the assistant makes it the acting one to one.
All the dangers that were done to give him the deputy president, William Ruto, authority of "and you the president" were not only in the city of politics.
In my opinion, it is an issue that is supposed to claim that the president gets into the presidential authority so as to prevent and save the national status of Kenya when he arrived in front of the judges of ICC.
Never you cannot be the President Kenyatta to be a hat that he did not live with the soul of citizens Kenyatta.
Only, the only way that President have been following so as to resolve the status of the nation was to resign!, President Kenyatta said that wisdom, wisdom and the courage to do that?
Whoever did not depend on them.
Our honorable members used this tour to inspect them to choose their political charts in front of the eyes of the president.
Outside the court to stop yourself and in the high level, they returned to each other, color, will be filled with a scandal in a way that they sell it as "Kalali" at the fish auction.
This issue made many of us to ask ourselves, "right now and we are looking for one country."
With their thirst for looking for popularity, in front of the eyes of President Kenyatta, all of them met the national status than the situation of President Kenyatta to sit at the court it did.
Fauzia Kullane, the cost of more than one hundred people that out of the country for several days be taught the economy of the country, President Kenyatta has been getting very happy about the need for everyone to be able to build the nation.
Human rights are asked by the judges of ICC which are those of justice and this is the fact that despite some of the leaders who know the court of ICC.
