Public will continue to know the truth of the money for IPTL.
Jah 03 / 2014.

It is not normal for the minister or the attorney general of the government to stand in parliament and wanted them to break up the member of parliament after his disappointment with the words that he uses.
But recently, the newspapers were swept away by news headlines that indicate that the situation is not safe in Dodoma.
One newspaper has confirmed that 'Werema, to listen to her husband Tee Billz as the another person has said that he wanted to make sure he loves you, "said the head."
We are told the chief justice of the government, Judge Frederick Werema, with ministers while he wanted to follow the member of parliament of Kigoma South, David Kafulila, after the member of parliament accused Werema to be a penalty.
The fact happened after Werema, you are disappointed and accepted to call him a penalty, responding to the sign of Werema, to thank the member of parliament for the country.

Like that, it did not be enough, on the second day, Werema, Ommy Dimpoz has heard that "he will get his head," Masau boasted.
Speaker said Manumba's harassing Werema, who did not take it more than that, the game is a draw, but it is not easy for this scandal to the speaker said that the game is over.
Since even the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe, who are told he was attacked by a heavy accusations by the secretary general of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, Eliakim Maswi.
But what are the source of this conflict between these ambassadors who have been unable to marry each other?
Kafulila said the Minister of Energy and Minerals Professor Sospeter Muhongo said there are two times in parliament concerning the money for the Escrow account.
Therefore, these are the money put up in the bank when the two sides involved in court are usually given following the decision to the court.
According to Kafulila, Professor Muhongo said that false before the Prime Minister and the attorney general, that the decision to give Escrow money to IPTL was the court and the government would not be able to go against. "
This is owned by Kafulila, says that in that judgment of September last year, there is no one even one thing that he said that Escrow money should be given to IPTL company.
Kafulila claims Professor Muhongo told the parliament that the government had given those funds to come out with that case, but he confessed that he has the documents of Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) to select two companies of that lawyer to represent Tanzania in England.
That is when the situation started water while Judge Werema when responding to the guidelines that was requested by Kafulila about the money for Escrow account.
Apart from using abusive language and wanting to prevent it, it's good to ask ourselves who are the main foundation that makes us benefit from all.
Kafulila told the parliament that Minister Muhongo spoke about two times about the payment of Escrow money.
Kafulila also claimed that Professor Muhongo told the parliament that the government had given those funds so as to evade a case, but also Kafulila had a two documents to enable his lawyer to represent in England.
So, it's true that basically he has those documents of TANESCO or it's a shame when we got where by any way, why the citizens do not want to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to follow it, why that government would like to
Citizens also would like to know the truth about that was said by the Deputy Minister of Energy and Minerals, Stephen Masele, said it is not enough to say when he met at a birth certificate and not to end that parliament has a responsibility to supervise the government and has a responsibility to be told the truth.
According to Werema, due to one of the two representatives, he wanted IPTL to be able to abandon that the government entered into that conflict because of the contracts of sponsorship and that the time the audience decided to open the Escrow account.

The governor of Central Bank (BoT), Professor Benno Ndullu has given his explanations about the payment of money from that special account.
He said that since July 3, 2006, the government through the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, IPTL and BoT entered the agreement to open a special account for shareholders who had a conflict to end their differences on the standards of investment.
He said in accordance to the opening of that account, those funds would have been postponed if there is a court judgment that does it be released.
