
Mwanazuo's intention to set aside religious leaders.
By Mwangi, professor.
A group of political leaders in the village of Nyereregete, he advised President Uhuru Kenyatta to fulfill the advice which he claimed is to put him the secretary of his ministers Mister Francis Khibhisa.
They said that they are good and good news about the conspiracy in eternal peace Mister Jeremiah, who is a born in Nyari.
Those leaders said that if the president will convince the court to convince him to combat Mister Jeremiah, then he can also prepare to fight with great opposition in implementing its second phase in the 2017 general elections.
The information that was given by the movement that has been correct by the councilor of Rift Valley region, Mister Ney wa Mitego said that he from Nyamiyaga hospital said that he from Nyami and followed keenly what they did is politics against the leaders from that area.
"President Kenyatta said that he got 99,736 percent of our votes in the general elections last year, despite getting that all the votes for our votes, we did not get the gift of appointment by the government," he said.
He scored that Mister Jeremiah is the only who got the position of the head of public service, but a short time later he was said by that position to be handed over Mister Joseph Kotini who was chosen as the secretary of the council that complained to be the secretary of the council that complained to be faced with an agreement with Mister Jeremiah.
"There is no other country even if the girl, where he was born, Mister Kenyatta said that it had been able to make President Kenyatta 'in the voting process so that he can be able to register it, he said.
He said another one from Nyereregete, he has been named by the government is Mister Amos Makalla the former minister of finance in the government of President Ngapa.
"These days we are not seeing Mister Kimwana being pumped by the court on claims of corruption, the government has changed completely," said Mister Boers.
He added that there are government people who are hopeful that President Kenyatta said that he from Nyamiyaga hospital can be politically discriminated.
He added that Nyamiyaga hospital are one of those who identified himself as President Kenyatta, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, following the killing of former politics of that area, Mister Jomo Kenyatta.
That death was affected by his opposition to Mzee Kenyatta to be an extent that the protests broke out of his government in that he said.
