
Ukawa has officially launched the constitutional process, the citizens have given them a lesson.

As it is, maybe the special constitutional parliament, expected to start the second phase of its sessions in the day after tomorrow in Dodoma, will take place without having delegates from the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA).

That situation is as a result of Ukawa's statement made by leaders of political parties and their followers, that they will not participate in the parliament and go back further, claimed they have no plan to have parliamentary sessions against their fellow party members of CCM, after another day before yesterday, that was the fourth session.

Ukawa's statement was issued yesterday, in front of the press and leaders of political parties that make up that union, Professor Ibrahim Lipumba from CUF and the chairperson of NCCR-Revolutions, James Mbatia, together with Doctor Emmanuel Makaidi, who had put up well.

Mbowe explained that after the fourth parliamentary sitting between that union and CCM, that took place the day before yesterday under the registrar of political parties, Judge Francis Mutungi has thrown out and discovered him to go back to parliament to promote conflicts, there will be no benefit to the nation.

Therefore, we decided not to go back to the constitutional parliament or participate in any talks about the issue, due to the fact that these talks were canceled, it was to enable you to get a good constitution, but CCM they were doing that with the interests of their party, not the nation.

"And after the fourth phase of talks between us and CCM, Ukawa are announcing that he will not ready to continue with CCM and going back to the meeting of the special constitutional parliament because doing so is to reduce the views of citizens and using the public funds," said Mbowe.

The statement by CCM's statement made so, for another time yesterday, the secretary of the National Executive Council (NEC) of CCM, Ideology and Publicity, Nape Nnauye said his party has not been announced by the decision, because they gave Ukawa are not a shame.

Even at the sessions, they did not have a new thing, it's only complaints by unable to build a motion, therefore, our colleagues will be the end of the day they want them to follow up, "said Nnauye.

At the same time, the head of the Law of Law in Kenya, Professor Patrick Lumumba, urged members of the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) that it will not be wisdom of going back to the parliament on August 5 this year, instead they use that opportunity to go back to parliament and they agree on their issues.

He said that in the debate to give opinions and the stand of the citizens, on the conflicts of groups in the process of the constitution, the debate was a solution and the responsibility of groups in the process of the constitution. "

That debate was organized by the Tanganyika Law Society (TLS) which was held at the Ubungo Plaza hall, Dar es Salaam, yesterday.

"The constitution is Almighty God, it's not politicians like Tanzania, those who are inside the Parliament of the constitution are only delegates who have been sent, because if they are your politicians, there is a must that you come from their party and let it benefit," he has urged Professor Lumumba.

He emphasized that Tanzania has a unique opportunity in the African Continent to get a new constitution, without the fighting of any kind, he said it will be a surprising thing and something that is currently in the moment, will be used by politicians with a lot of political attitude.

Professor Lumumba said President Jakaya Kikwete saw the importance of Tanzania to have a new constitution and decided to start the process of writing that constitution.

The professor said President Kikwete deserves to be added by every person, for his great and good step to the nation of Tanzania.

He said Tanzania is required to learn about writing the new constitution, due to the mistakes that were done by another country, where it came from.
