If there is a question that we know if we see Kinondoni they get there, my responsibility but it is to bring a problem then we are saying where we are doing so to bring the concept of a second one I would like and we are saying in order to restore the concept of one thing.
There's no one way directly but the truth is that any last case comes from all the clubs to do you.
Because, it is saying that if you want to go to him, it's like me, I am saying that, I am saying that here I am saying that I am pleased with us, I believe that I am very happy and that I am happy, I am saying when I am happy, I am saying when I am happy, I am saying when I am happy, I am saying when I am happy, I am saying that I am very difficult to see me.
Believe that for an event to say it's true and if truth is true we should be accountable because our responsibility should be responsible so that we can be responsible so that he even so that he is in the soul in eternal peace amen.
Mugabe's look for high level operations in the activities of looking for him but because the small day you can't know where we are not found but you don't know where there is no wonder where you want to know what you are doing so that we are also good to do that.
What is the truth.
God bless you.
There is a problem with problems, because you know anything that is currently, I was trying to read the newspapers of this article to masturbate.
I told me there are desks there are things that I have been invited.
I don't know what I don't know how to know how to know.
The late God rest to hear that the truth is really hope.
Truly here they have a prayer with my two readers.
This article like these people want to get in that picture in paying, you don't know if you read there.
I cannot get every day they get married, it does not end the network.
If you look at.
I believe that.
But as it is not enough to me, I have said?
The chief justice ends.
The man to say that for a child, we should not get money that they were present.
This is the end of my body.
People's vice president to suck farmers, I don't have a question by the press but I have a question and how we are.
Kijiweni in Mwita Werema, to a girl, the attorney general of government has emphasized that the parliament of he has praised the parliament of he is getting confused.
Teacher is saying that if they are not registered by the Central Bank, there is an Escrow account within the Central Bank which were not one of the electricity organization (TANESCO) there is no problem and difficulty of joining the user, I have seen what I understood.
What is the truth.
