We start with news reports.
Journalists and stakeholders of the media industry in the country have insisted to support the reports that are made by the media stations in order to boycott the police force as the government was unable to finish up the investigation of the incident that had caused the death of David Banda, Rungwe District, Mbeya Province a report.
But in various statement has been issued by the leaders and journalists including the president of the union of journalists in the country, therefore, the high level of P-Square has a bad state during the funeral of David Banda, who is the representative of the radio station for water in Iringa province.
It is our expectations because it is not like a story, when you give you the expectations that the best man than yesterday is our expectations that this government will look at the farmers since there are five stars who want to fight for women in the world.
I am saying that by knowing that opportunity, claimed to tell you here.
And asked him.
It has paid the debt you can't do the work.
Also, the government that transported to work at work there is nothing that cause our colleague in your environment because I will be able to fulfill his responsibilities Daniel 'Imebaki Story.'
It will be a person who is in the opening, but it is not that can be easily read again in the environment.
Speaking at the funeral of the burial, who was led by the pastor of the Catholic church in the incident of the late Margaret Tenenbum who is a lecturer who plays in Iringa province, has warned him that his fellow journalists do not lose hope following that incident.
I don't know what happened in there, I came up and maybe it has resulted from you and maybe it has resulted from the money that it comes here and I request that if the end of the government, we have decided to arrive at the end of the government.
I have been able.
Others say I don't know!
She gets a teaser?
Office of the president also did not have a special ministry who is also a member of parliament in that village that was born of late David Banda, Professor Mark Mwandosya, has also used the police to use more strength in my health events and he started.
It has also been explained that the death of Nelly Mwangosi is not right.
I come from the nuclear weapons therefore, and not then I will not get married, I will also get the last one hundred thousand, a family on behalf of my family we will take another one and two hundred thousand in the village and easily from Rungwe, Mbeya Region has left the widow of her children.
David Nelly Mwangosi, who is living in heaven.
And alcohol are all of us to take the third day of a person.
Ukawa did not like the White House.
For sure God visited what meaning?
It is same.
There was a clean children here on the instructions of the cemetery.
Ricardo Rodriguez at the valley of the valleys.
Kamala does not have?
