
For example 2005, now we need to kill a mosquito of May 30th.

I believe that I will be understood, on a certain amount, that I think about the importance of investing in people instead of investing in other things, because it is only people who can make things to make things like people, education and health.
I don't know that I need to continue cooperating with the importance of these two things in building the ability of our people, what happens that you want to continue making these noise, and our leaders don't know what we are able to see the hope of the liberation of Tanzanian citizen in a period of one century or more to the next century.
This is because I don't see the will to put effort in order to address our primary problems and instead of them, you will realize that every time it is very big to make things that have no benefit to our people.
As I said last week, 2005 was revealed that people with big financial ability have made big contributions to contribute to the ruling party with its candidates, whom they discovered that party at a very high level (very much more) than what he would have been appointed at Benjamin Mkapa and Augustino Mrema.
In the year 2005, everything was not open, and these are the president and the following day they did not involve, "all of us know what they used to do, maybe if it was not required they are required to give their insurance and their activities.
If he knew what he would have entered into power, and without doubt, you have forgotten the fear that they agree and we know that these people have been able to contribute to those political campaigns and it is also possible that the money they get in those political campaigns are not clean, and arose from illegal and dirty businesses.
But the truth is that these people who live (maybe by Christian women) they don't understand that their bags do not have a long time, "Boznia was no boundaries.
I understand that I say you will be like a lot and those who are saying that we shouldn't know for forgiveness for the corrupt people who will not vie for consent to be known as wrong, "and so on.
I don't know if that is how, but I am delighted to understand the effects of two or three important things, but among them, we have good people with great ability to contribute to them, but it is possible that some of them are good people who do not depend on them, but it is possible that some of them are trusted people.
Secondly, the effects that are in political leaders is to come to raising money is very big, because the political heads will continue to remain in power and at all times, "you don't see the problem to raising funds that will help them to remain in power and the concept of" voter education "has more income than the concept of" a citizen. "
But, help to reduce by a great extent and with the great speed for two major enemies, ignorance, and diseases, who together they have the third place, poverty.
Four, without a teaser sin for us to deal with the sources of revenue that are using our colleagues to contribute to political campaigns, the truth is that those funds should be put in bad luck and it will continue to be used in evil deeds, like to buy votes.
Because, I believe that those who have a desire to contribute to the election campaigns, they can contribute to a large extent in the efforts to eradicate violence and diseases.
We can decide that instead of a work in political campaigns, we need to make another permanent campaigns but that are supposed to improve the lives of citizens, for example, we can decide whether to be a nation that after the general elections of 2010, the year 2011 will have a big campaign against malaria.
That is a year to inform us that this mosquito are not our brothers and not livestock at home (Petroleum Bulk Procurement), and we have no need to live with them in a campaign that will be led by the head of the country, the president of the United Republic, being assisted by experts on environmental issues that will follow up of a mosquito.
Citizens will plan for a plan that will give them time to work hard in their environment, they will get drugs that killed mosquitoes and pest others when they will be able to use those drugs due to other effects, and so on.
In the year 2012, without stopping the campaign against malaria, but by reducing a bit tricky subject, you can be a year, to contribute towards teaching education so as to get the quality of teaching teachers and to give them the status they used in the community.
The same year you can be a good time for citizens in their areas to discuss because our children can be taught so that they can be able to have their benefit themselves and in their community and several countries.
In the following year, 2013, you can be able to strengthen the health of citizens by urging them to perform sports and exercises for organs in all levels in the country, is to be noted that the nation of people who do exercises is a nation of people who are very good and it reaches a lot of treatment.
This campaign will also be led by the head of the country by recognizing the contribution of sports and exercises for human beings in building its family planning and the nation of citizens who do exercises for human beings and not to bring coaches to "a bad price" from abroad.
In the year 2004, you can buy another section on education, for example, education and female children in the community and have not seen its importance to the community or education for children with special needs like the disabled of every kind, and so on.
If you were able to do this campaign on this program, or even another, but they will be held, we can arrive in the year 2015 with the right to do a big political campaign every party has got its ability to manage campaigns that are beneficial to the citizens instead of political campaigns.
In these campaigns like this, as it is in all other areas of the national life, without doubt that you do not have a great importance to the citizens to discuss the concept.
We have the community in this country that have been used to do environmental campaigns every week or every day of this month and we believe that so that we can do the great and permanent development if we see today in the campaign of political parties.
If we want to make this exercise like this, even those who have contributed to them are required to bring back with their mission as they do not get great honor than the ones they are given today, by being called "corruption."
It will continue.
