
Wisdom is a great gift to our leaders!
Ezekia 22, 2012

One of the parliamentary seat in America is in trouble due to his statement that it has been seen to show that they understand the acts of preventing themselves against women.
Senator saying that in an interview with one television station, he made a special statement and those two statements were enough to cause it so that he knows how he knows more or he would not be able to do that offense.
He said that the candidate, Toba said that the candidate, TTS has opened up that there are illegal immigrants and suggested that the bodies of women can prevent a woman and she is true "to get pregnant.
The possibility of that candidate to continue with the campaign has reached, although he was leading in opinion polls for close to eight percent of this Monday, various politicians including the Republican President Barack Obama and the presidential candidate on the ticket of the Republican Reince Priebus also wanted that the candidate did not participate in the race.
Basically the Republican Party is ready to set on the constituency of Missouri, not because he was not a good candidate but because his presidential candidate is equal to prevent the party and the party is not ready to stand on his edge, although he is the first candidate among those who wanted to vie on behalf of the Republican Party.
Americans are complaining about one thing that the statements are cost and any leader is supposed to have wisdom and wisdom of testing the weight of his statements and words.
He said that it is not the first politician in the United States to find themselves in a high table as a result of his statements and he will not be the first whom they are forced to stop for him because of what he said.
In our politics of Tanzania, they are still needed so much the Swahili language, do not show and remove it that we are saying that they are politicians.
A good example and which is standing on the eyes of our people, are those of abusive language that were given out in Arumeru East and the member of parliament of CCM, Livingstone Lusinde who is popularly known (Mtera), most of us we want the leaders of CCM they have been left with him, without the reason we are asked or held by his party.
However, the recent action of the member of parliament of CCM Mwigulu Nchemba, has decided to give his dog by the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) as a sign of being interviewed by the party which is supposed to be expected.
What is expected to be is not only because it is something, but it makes the environment of revenge and every one that allows him to go to the front of them.
Think about for example the member of parliament of CHADEMA would decide to give birth to the CCM flag.
First, it will be an obstacle to the members of CCM but as such as it will be an obstacle to Muslims and to them boil for illegal.
Allegations of religion will not be avoided, all CHADEMA will be cursed by that act.
This will be true even if a woman has ended, therefore he will not be a member of parliament - you should be a normal member.
If there are people who wrote a letter and even making a lot of religious people by doing a meeting of M4C in the bar in England again during the signing of Ramadhan, how will happen if there is a terrorist person from CHADEMA and he decided to give a dog or accumulating the flag of CCM?
We have already noted that people have started selling his card and flag of their party and where we are going, it will be easy to see that there are people who used to be patient "will they decide to use more strength.
That will be the beginning of people to fight because of political reasons because it can't understand that it can arise but for people who follow the world politics, the possibility of this matter is to be big because the politicians were not supposed to hear a small events.
But more is a confirmation of another thing that I believe is very dangerous to the nation especially when we look at these political leaders or lack of wisdom.
One of the big studies that concern leadership or reputation of the leader is to have wisdom, what I was given, he had been given a chance to ask God about anything which had been given, he didn't request the life of her husband or not to make the life of her creativity.
He asked to be one thing, "wisdom," and he asked for them to understand the judgment on their rights, that is why he can destroy the people to pass through deception and fear of any kind.
And we know that wisdom will not be sold in his life.
Most of our political leaders today you tell you an act of doubt that they don't have wisdom, that is, the ability to test and know what is good in doing or bad behavior of not doing.
Bad luck, wisdom, do not depend on college and there is no loss of wisdom, a person can have several units in the ruling party and even the opposition party and those who are in government or even outside the government is that they are unable to ensure they are wisdom.
Their statement, their actions, their decisions are what we want to see if our brothers are trusted and this is necessary especially if people themselves are the ones who want to come to vie for the top leadership of our nation.
For example, the statements by Samuel Sitta, Bernard Membe and Edward Lowassa concerning the conflict between the lake region, Nyenshile, I think that the party can't have a high leaders in the nation.
Other statements by the opposition party leaders and even those of the ruling party makes us interview if they can stand and be our leaders especially if they don't know what to say and the effects to say.
Others think of saying all of them and to register it is to show control!
At other times it is signs of being unable to test the heavy things.
When we talk to our current leaders and those who want to come to rule later, it is a must that we can be the stars of those who have no wisdom and skills that would be able to make them lead to the police force in Tanzania.
We can inform you and see if their statements and their decisions do not want to give them to war because they can't inform us that peace is better and that our responsibility is to look for a lot of peace than playing for the war.
When we talk to our politicians we should be ready to try to confirm the lack of wisdom but likewise, we can have refused the statements that concern them because it is enough to have talks in the State House we have added other things.
Or we had already been done so?
