
The Member of Parliament for the celebrations on October 25th, 2012

A few days before the parliamentary sitting started in Dodoma town, have emerged the report that one of the members of parliament who was a member of the committee on energy and minerals that were thrown out in the business of the business and the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO), which essentially is supposed to compete.
Those reports have been mentioned while the news that brought down from different media outlets claiming that the investigation of the small committee under the parliamentary committee on human rights, prevent and ethics being under the member of parliament for Mlalo, Brigadier General (retired), Hassan Ngapa.
Those were members of members of the committee on energy and minerals that were violated by speaker Anne Makinda, who were accused of participating in actions that demonstrate bribery inside TANESCO, a company that was the former Director General, William Mhando has been suspended from different accusations.
Recently, more reports show that one of the delegates of the committee, Sarah Kibonde, had a relationship with the M / S & B Services which was doing business with TANESCO and he is planning to manage payment of controversy from that organization which that member of parliament was supporting.
The company was controlling the vehicle of vehicles to TANESCO with a car agreement worth 387 million shillings.
He says that the topic giver concerning that tires, "the one member of parliament is the former member of parliament who was the former member of parliament who was the former member of parliament while signing a contract of 652 tires and later the number had reduced due to reduction of money that had been paid!
However, there are also reports that the leadership of the ministry of energy and minerals, especially the minister, Professor Sospeter Muhongo and the secretary general of CCM, Professor Sospeter Muhongo and the secretary general of the committee has violated the leadership in the scandal that brought together corruption of delegates of the committee on energy and minerals.
He says our news reporter, "after the start came out on that report they met with the intention of wanting to know the truth about the report of the committee that it has a lot of challenges because they are not politicians, do not say that Professor Muhongo is a nominated member of parliament.
He said that the aim of that they have gone to see President told him that they want to leave, she didn't know of it, it is a result of the fact that these are two people who are cooperating well in running the ministry, therefore one do not see the possibility of another one to remain.
"The ministry together with its institutions need people who come out to help the country.
In the state of corruption, we saw like a country needs a lot of courage, for example, he told me that now he will have a share of electricity again.
"Said that, his meaning is to look for war with the rich and politicians who love their property, but these have said, and they return several times, that the share of the existence of the budget was to make sure that.
"Right is thinking that the parliamentary committee is for angels what was the same as Baboons and is headed to the Hezron."
In the next meeting of parliament, the inspection results of the committee that was set up to investigate the whole scandal of parliamentarians opposed due to others having interests.
TANESCO despite being left are members of the Parliamentary Committee on Energy and Minerals, will be presented to the speaker and later put open for parliamentarians.
Members of parliament found themselves in the division among them especially after being sacked from the former executive director of TANESCO, William Mhando and his colleagues so as to pave way for investigation on accusations that they have been facing.
Ready for the investigation of Mhando and his colleagues have been revealed to have numerous complaints about their trend, as the leaders of TANESCO and the situation is not a threat to the side of TANESCO's board headed by the General (retired) Robert Mboma, explained that the board in a way is part of the conflicts facing TANESCO together with bringing up what is explained as a result of electricity production "table."
