And you see the spider plant in Unguja I thank you so that we're the late God with my visitors from the church of teaching of M.
The late God rest his first town, I was accompanied by Stephano Cosmas when he was talking to Grind.
The Lord does not have a human being?
And it is also the teachers from the teaching college in Mount Meru and the university is only private which has been given to be the only honor to provide assistance to the teachers.
You know you will talk more about that and it does not accept to be given honor.
In Tanzania, it is true that our institution has been directed by the issues that has been led by the issues that has been led by giving these training on the diploma of education in primary and diploma in the Education Link which have started this year.
The Almighty God up to now, you are not aware if he did not have many teachers who have come out to take a forest.
The late God rest the registration being done by one incident by following the video, but we have faith that we have enough faith that we have done a record and take training to many people where we are supposed to take a record and take training to many people where we are waiting for the registration, on the end of the academic year.
For houses that do I register myself to ensure these teachers get enough education.
First.
Where?
In the way it is celebrated, it is first that there is a good environment that can change their cases of switching off the environment as well as well as the teachers who have qualified to teach them.
Welcome him together with the teachers working tools.
There are enough drugs.
He said that the sincere love today is to think the criteria used to choose the video among them, including the infrastructure for human resources they will be able to provide education but on the part of the infrastructure, Diamond has prepared to provide education but on the side of infrastructure, there is enough classrooms when they visited them.
Everything we are organized fully by the Swahili people are saying that every sign of the new leaders are also Miss Vicky Kombe who wants to be proud of what is expected to be proud of which the first to pay for the national grid or which are our teachers together.
Starting from the results from May this year, this month of five shows that we are organized fully and so we have been able to break into a very high level compared to other things without a report that they are supposed to choose the criteria that we are enough to choose because it will be enough time.
Because I think the criteria I have been seen in which is in the first.
All of us are very happy.
Following the cries of diseases again it gives the road that would like to be one of the film in Bagamoyo.
The thing that makes him have the expectations to get many teachers.
Why is that primary primary schools have been paid for one hundred thousand shillings.
A group photo.
This is because if you are not in our sun, we are prepared to fully fulfill that.
I have heard the love for agriculture Mister I will let us meet?
When the headquarters are required to register.
The training on the level of the certificate is handed over to those in the whole village, who have graduated from form four and lost two studies at a level of this bridge, science and those which has been done.
In a picture with Miss having a habit.
The new ambassador's new ambassador in the country can join the college, they can join the university to teach them and to look at the level of the certificate is still agriculture in order to prepare themselves together with livestock.
That is by giving a lesson to agriculture together with livestock.
What is the foundation stone.
Livestock stalls like such as soon because they have a good relief to the farms as well.
Things like this.
And in your training, I know many youths who like agriculture.
Therefore, how does it do now to set aside the young people that know that agriculture and other groups follow up.
Thank you very much, it is that you have organized himself well as we know there are a lot of challenges as a challenge of employment as well as a check for agriculture and livestock general election, so as to help them be able to be self-employed while they are preparing to be self-employed in agriculture.
And not agriculture.
