You can welcome him from but they are not happy.
To request, but not good.
A human being asked, which Tanzanian is still there?
We started a period they would like to ask so, in line with that, we are happy to the government through the ministry of education seen so that if you will see in primary schools there are you don't know like that in the funeral.
You mean that she is getting everything, it's also a lesson so I want to get to secondary, but we find the government now to help them.
Computer.
But now we want to just like those who saw them.
Improve them more and see you that you can be Ukawa and mathematics, but a voice too.
Most importantly, we're being faced with them and I am told that I am my children, therefore he gives you information.
In the level one doesn't know your words is true then?
Joosub, Airport in the beginning that you're getting to a place like you know where we are in a very long time compared to many countries, but also there are other challenges that there are others who don't know where there are others who don't have an understanding they do not have any use or your use.
Maybe according to the size of the citizens.
The greatest one is that while they have.
Its cost is available.
Therefore, things like my brothers, the truth is very true because the heads of schools that are chosen to be taught, you find you have had different profession.
The great things among the WAL, Mart Nooij have tried to meet with them until we are putting it into the goal.
What is it?
I will come to give information about the union and after that you can continue together those the second sponsors of his school also, the teachers can thank you, to thank me, he can thank all corners the same time.
To do something different times I see if when he talked to them being in dealing with testing so as it is easy for teaching for example that you can bring you like a good example that a child is to want me to change her.
If there is a chameleon for men, it shows the responsibility?
There is drinking alcohol for the record for the students that examination, and he was a wife.
Therefore, the first to come if there's no enough budget where all of them have been transferred.
When a teacher can be able to see the great efforts by the lawyer that the child gets pregnant, does it needs a lot of money, a person who needs a sim card and the experts continue to wear more than.
What should it mean to do, but because of religion?
It's not enough for the nation that is the use of many technology on the internet, when a person doesn't reach 60 percent, you know it a lot.
Now.
Truth is it is the grave of many things.
We must agree that in the world easily now, you should know that every day to learn even you will learn even those who do not depend on what happens and we need to learn that in the live, you need to learn and learn it.
We're teaching so much to reach it more and problems, even if I was in form one if you were able to use my blood, I would like to make sure you get your blood, I would like to eliminate you that you are doing you to consider things from the teachers.
The performance of science and technology education here we shall talk there.
