
Obama builds self-1.
President Barack Obama of America has explained his heart and how the sickness of the security law was removed by the parliament and then run away quickly by President Uhuru Kenyatta.
"We have asked the heart especially for a short time given to discussion and discussion about the name of the Marsa of Security Funds, before being defeated by the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of America, Jomo Kenyatta said that this Friday.
"We have fear about several parts of the law, these are together with the ones that are seen to prevent the freedom of citizens to meet, switching off the freedom of the media, and prevent people to get the solution to Kenya," said Mrs Pickup.
He continued, "as a great participant in the efforts to deal with terrorism, we are expecting the government of Kenya to make sure that his efforts to deal with terrorism is together with its international standards and also its constitution is among the best way to strengthen security," the report said.
However, Miss Pickup, said that the American government has been able to help Kenya's efforts to win-Shabaab and concerning the law to destroy all security people.
This was the first time when the administration of President Obama has talked about the issue of that song to be prepared in a state of violence in parliament and then approval by the president the day before yesterday.
President is appointed as America laws and it said that it is looking for more information regarding the announcement of December 16 from the FA Cup, to cancel registration of more than 500 organizations for failing to present reports offered, and 15 for allegedly being involved in terrorism.
"The social media networks are important to democracy, security and success, we thank the government of Kenya to make sure that the management of non-governmental organizations are open, equity and having open procedure that did not from the freedom to explain," said Mrs Para.
Getting rid of that song on Friday, President Kenyatta said that all the complaints that were taken by those who were satisfied with the crisis were resolved by the parliamentary committee before being released to him, he also said that the law has not found himself in any rights of basically the citizens are.
The police force allows for security agencies to destroy the suspects for close to one year without charges and also to listen to phone communication while journalists had been sentenced in prison for printing pictures of terrorism against the police.
The opposition leaders and also groups of defending human rights have been opposed due to the law, saying that the government of President Kenyatta is expected to return the country in marriage.
Happines has said that it will go to court next week to ask for a dismissal of the law.
