
13 December 2012

CCM, CHADEMA will join to fight for the rights of women.

By Hinterland, Moshi.

The union of women of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and the Council of Women and Development (CCM), in Kilimanjaro province is among the institutions.
More than 30 countries that were partnering to start a network with an aim of addressing important things that concern women in that province.
The chairperson of that network, Miss Elizabeth Mwachibuzi, said that in Moshi town the day before yesterday in a ceremony to sign the agreement.
The creation of the network.

He said the aim of those agreements is to place those institutions together with making sure that women in the province especially in the villages are educated and give their views in the commission that allows the process of the new constitution.

"This step is as a result of the institution involved in issues of human rights and gender in the country (MARI), to include women and their participation in the 2012 / 16 plan to ensure that women issues are given priority in the creation of a new constitution," he said.

Miss Mwachibuzi, who is also the Executive Director of Tamfi, said that network has prepared to prepare a working program that together with other things, it will put a better picture so as to make it better.
Their goals by the year 2014.

"Lack of enough thoughts of women in the funeral of the previous constitution, has contributed to the existence of a modern system in the community that has made women to continue being infected on the pond.
Compared to the men, "he said.

He added that the network is expected to do a meeting to encourage and build the capacity of the citizens so as to expand their knowledge on the process of the new constitution as expected to reach 300,000 people in the province which will be the catalyst for others.

He mentioned some of the other institutions that form the network to be the Kiroreli village, Youssouf Sabha, Yellow Funding, Yakamatwa kwa makosa ya Uajemi and the Department of KKKT Tanzania and the Department of Women Judges (Bakwata).
