The chairman of the committee on foreign affairs and security, Edward Lowassa, has urged the leadership of National Identification Authority (NIDA) to be careful with the provision of identity cards especially in the border areas so as to avoid work and to give identity cards to Tanzanians against the law.
While speaking at the time we have given the ban when he met all other factors in the city of Dar es Salaam, then they have no good goals and documents of the nation, therefore it is important to fill the loopholes of their goals in the building, he has caused the meeting and this is a report.
The committee on foreign affairs and security was led by its chairman Edward Lowassa arriving at the National Identification Authority (NIDA) in Dar es Salaam city, for getting explanations about several issues that involve the process of getting national identity cards in the country, the executive director of Tamfi, Dickson Maimu has handed over a short report in front of the committee on the process.
Therefore, therefore, we have attached his form that you took it to form a new video for friends.
Also because every person will get a lot of living, has been able to study or form a statement when we will go to our strategy.
If you will decide it to start this month.
We will look for your news to help.
For us, we need us to look for how we will be given education to the public through the radio when talking about people to come out.
According to that process will start in Dar es Salaam city, the director of identification and production Joseph Mungai will explain the strategy that will be used.
But likewise, he has said that the board have already done preparations to get registration now in the country.
So as to start, we have already completed that, we have completed it as usual which will help them be able to help.
All the residents in every corner, and that things do not meet the intention of getting.
Teaching to those people will be demolished.
They can give out training but he would not want to fill the form four graduates of teaching they are ready, the chairperson of the committee on foreign affairs and security, Edward Lowassa will leave the time to give the identity cards.
It is enough for Tanzanians every Tanzanian shillings.
There are people who would like to come and use Tanzanians because of them to take care of Tanzanians to take Tanzanians but these assets are still dominated by protecting against the main bank.
Tanzania is giving us!
So you want Mozambique to be able to find him.
We should be careful in providing the eyes too.
Her love to get.
Many have been said that the identity will be given free for free will have to change every after ten years and it is the current information in Dar es Salaam.
