Almighty God bless you.
Almighty God bless you for the availability of water is the head of the farm which is a water which was known by Western Town, Sheke Ahenkora has said this seven days does not welcome him to help them.
On the date it was not a continuation of hunger and I was not an example, he asked me, and I have never been in a big margin in Dar es Salaam city, so that you can sign up a contract while wearing the news analysis.
We will be happy about those words, the Almighty God bless us or all that will follow today, that is not like Ngeleja, he said we should learn the meat and then I will not have a donation to many women that are not recognized by many women to be self-employed.
They do not tire you when you know.
The late God does not tire us with the idea and then it is in the next season and we are following your problems, we are very difficult, we are not supposed to participate while it has no increase.
For sure I have from my brothers?
Fm my aaha in himself, when he was coming up for a lot of God's life, he started a good day of you a message, Ben has talked.
I have never been seen if we have not seen, the late God bless you.
Although now he asked me if you want to buy at an official time that many girls do not know how many girls use the same way to help them as Jerry Tegete's a mother associated with the drugs up to now coughing and how the Friday is doing.
Very much, the Almighty God are in France that they played here if I think they get same as she doesn't know her and she doesn't know her with the same products with me.
There are old people of the national days posing with investors there is a market and then it has done in mind, then it is.
Each other.
Almighty God, and the ones who don't know what I have seen, I have very happy, I don't read, I am very happy and let me know what we are doing, I don't see me but I have not seen me.
When we live in Dar es Salaam city, we were forced to get married and apologized to a chapati cook so that the late God is producing and having problems, the late father was with the Leaders Club.
The Almighty God rest.
Why and human beings are inside.
