There is a morning that has identified himself as a special constitutional parliament which he did not care well in Dodoma, but the biggest of the youth that I have also spoke about the commemoration of fifty years of the union but also to pave way for fifty years of the union but I will also pave way for fifty years in the country but I would like to pave way for fifty years.
Everything is a close friend.
The media has still continued to discuss the whole issue of being found with documents.
What I know is where I am looking for many years ago that when you go to Dar es Salaam, we will be available on the remains of the union, is there to educate the debate there is a few relating to the future of the whole country.
What does it mean?
The late I think about the being found in Dar es Salaam city, I don't know the language of being shown in public, I am not true that since the third time, we have never done ten years, we have heard ten days in the coming years, I have heard ten days in the coming days.
I don't know the United Arab Emirates but as the first time in this time I've heard the president of the United Republic of Zanzibar and the United Republic of Zanzibar that is being done by their seats.
And later to give out one thing on food.
We cannot be able to do that without the official report of you will be patient and legal.
To ensure that it is forbidden from.
Among those told this in this picture, you will make sure that we get in Dar es Salaam, you have confirmed that in one way or another that you know our union.
Mushi and our founders of the teachers Julius Kambarage Nyerere.
And Abeid Dar es Salaam they had agreed to do their part in fifty years I don't have sure that you to change his opinion.
We are coming here.
Most of the new, maybe the brain to someone gives, he wanted and think about talking to this nation we should be able to talk about any way if they decided to marry off the presidents that are required thus they failed, maybe, it is allowed to have severe fees but basically it is found.
We can have many years without following important documents of threats that if the nation I have no faith in this period we will remain.
.
And.
I wish you or also to you in a lot of way to know the debate about.
The Lord does not see if it has decreased after getting married?
But when you go to Dar es Salaam, there are still a thing that is still there again, something that is the one, I wish you close to other roads through the internet.
In relation to what was called the validity.
The union, we are and now.
He is a meeting of an agreement.
Therefore, the president of the United Republic of children a permit, at the time of the late Mzee Karume, but it is not easy to know that this union was not poor and spoke that there is a union was put just because the union was put by Nyerere and Karume, there was a list.
Ras Kiduku was shocked and I think it will be a thought.
YouTube a word Uganda is Swahili.
Maybe there is necessary you can't know what he is going to know!
The ones who do not live in the ordinary community on agriculture, shows his investigation is a long time I'm talking to our country because we believe that we can benefit from our country because we can be able to benefit or help them here in the country because of your cooperation we have ever heard since there is a lesson that we did in the United Republic of Syria and leaving Egypt during an issue.
For paying, they join the only one who met and agreed when we can meet him in the east of the east.
On the western side, I was happy to work keenly and those have been keen on the union due to the requirements of the information just like the United Republic of Tanzania.
Those are three.
And eight has gone down.
