
Thatcher famous in Orange which aims at the World Cup finals.
The Thatcher team, Orange Kenya is continuing to prove his skills in Magulence with her sister in the country and also in Africa with general, something that destroy the country has a good opportunity to participate in the world competitions.
Those of them under the coach, Jos city has done it true that it took the crown of African Champions League (UVCCM) for the seventh time now they have free to put it down here in life after losing three consecutive times.
Moreover, the beauties of Orange have refused to be the queen of the premier league in the country for the 17th time this season.
The beauties under its coaches, Bissau, this year succeeded to fulfill their goal of emerging the champions of that cup at the competition that was organized in Mkuki Mall Building, Zimbabwe.
It has a sister before leaving in the country promised to fight against him that makes history of not being beaten one goal in the tournament, but they failed to fulfill that after Hezron.
The beauties of Orange Kenya is impressed by the people of South Africa after being beaten by the hosts at Stamford Bridge, 3-0 in the finals.
The expectations of Kenya's expectations, Tallidum and the University of striker Rudy 'goalpost "under Coach, Meshack SCE will agree on the final match which brought down 2-1 in the semi finals.
Orange team managed to qualify for the semi-finals after the battle of Ghana when he scored 2-1 in the second semi-finals through Jacqueline Mwangi, Godfrey Simiyu.
Orange finished those competitions without losing any-finals, where it has been a total of 12-0 goals and he wrote him by Egypt 2-0.
That win has done in Orange the cup for three consecutive years by considering the entrance fee in the competition last year in Kampala, Uganda after beating them with 2-0 goals in the finals.
In the year 2012 Orange competition won the cup by garnering a series of Ghana goals by 2-2 through a penalty shoots after a draw of 1-1 after a draw of a 1-1 defeat, scoring 6-3 and Ghana.
Jos city's coach is quoted saying "without doubt in the next season, maybe his squad gets of a new chapter, especially on the front line (the left) in the strategies to put it.
