
The cry for the nation is this, 28th of 13, 2013.

Our soul of our nation is the leadership so that we can shoot the action from here where we are now, we need a good leader, the patriotism leader, a leader that is living in life.

This is a cry for our nation towards the general elections of 2015, there is a rumor that there are those who are planning well to use every way to register themselves and to leave it, they believe it is a good time for them to make sure that you get money inside CCM, they believe it is their right to register themselves because of CCM there are a lot of money for them.

It is possible that the issue of being prepared for people to inherit the chairperson of the party, Jakaya Kikwete, is to make sure that the aim of moving him from the suspects of corruption, to prepare people with one religion!

But I have been asked recently, therefore Kikwete does not have a person who is inside his CCM party?

Whose CCM's inside CCM can stand up and make a finger to a finger to all the names we will know and dealing with each time when CCM won the election without using money?

I think that a big problem which is for all of us to do in the work is, who will involve our nation from here where this is a great cry for our nation because this person will be able to cater for our nation in the right way he prepared Mwalimu Nyerere?

Our nation come back to be in the way of religion, to be one of tribalism and region?
The government came out of farmers and workers instead of the current state, the current situation has been caused by business people with money?

What the person asked the culture that Tanzania will be joined by one political party (CCM). It is a person who will break this culture that has been built to address the process of going into power instead of addressing the process of bringing development?

At the moment the groups are being built by the money they are wanted by the citizens, they are expected to prepare well, they are preparing to prepare them to prepare and get money, they are ready to enter the drug abuse.

To intervene in this drug abuse by the aim of stopping the death of death, the ones that do this business is impossible because they are still unknown.

It is a person he will break the culture that has been caused by using money to get into power if someone can be discriminated against his ability and patriotism but we have been able to build a culture that citizens can't achieve their representative to freedom without stopping.

This is our great problem and this is a cry for the nation, we are led by money instead of directed by the virgin "that we have been lost, we're on the same way and we need a new light!

Kikwete alone, he cannot bring this light, CCM and I urge him to bring down this light.

That is why we want to have a new constitution of a constitution that will enhance security and to make sure the nation is growing up on the religion in eternal peace and lake region to make sure the nation is headed for the basis of the law.

If you will be a stable constitution that doesn't be trusted by some primary issues because we should be worried that there are preparations for the involvement of power.

A new constitution will enable us to eliminate major thoughts that there are people who were born with Tanzania has more than 40 million people and among them, only one people can be president in a certain period and that person was not supposed to rule but he was chosen by his ability to lead with his patriotism in his country.

Therefore, the greatest job of us is not supposed to partner together to make sure we become a new constitution before the general elections of 2015, the strength and money for some of our colleagues are used well and we will get a new constitution!
They should end a cry for contraception is not another but it is a new constitution!
