
Scholars is the report of Ndulu.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

One day after the Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Professor Benno Ndulu explaining a report on the economy of the country that shows the economy is growing by the national debt, they have said that the report is correct and has been given at the right time.

In addition, they said it is good for the citizens to live a life of their legal income, because many of them came into a high life due to the presence of dirty money in the circulation and now those loopholes have been closed down in the circulation.
Speaking about that report yesterday in Dar es Salaam city, experts of economy from the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), said it is good for citizens to increase efforts to work and that all cases of the growth of the economy by Professor Ndulu are correct.
"I don't have restrictions, all signs used to test the state of the economy of the nation, we are safe, this is good signs for their ability, after a little time, they are not so used, those of the deal is not again in the field," said Professor Godius Kahyarara has been of the growth of the economy in that school.
Professor Lollipop, he said that the citizens are needed for now is to work hard and to agree on the fact that the free money in the fifth term government will end, and urged people who say the economy has dropped, they left the statement because the economy is operated on.
"I don't see the economy it has dropped, people who say that the country's economy has dropped, have contributed to the effects which the authorities of giving information of the economy has been given information and that is we supposed to believe," said Professor Logan.
Professor Benson Bana who is the senior lecturer of UDA-RT company said that the report from BoT has been given for a good time since the few days ago people with bad intentions they cut the misleading reports that the country's economy has dropped.
"The instrument with the authority to provide information on the economy in the country is BoT and Governor Ndulu has talked about well by using the cases used in the world, and have shown that our economy is growing rapidly," said Professor Bana.
While explaining the state of economy, he said that issue did not need politics because it is used to know the state of the economy as it is now, where statistics have been issued by 55 percent compared to that period in the year 2016 / 7 percent.
Professor Bana said there is a small difference of 8 percent of 2 kilometers which does not have any effects economically and that the difference is normal and that the dirty law that was there in the country, are why people are complaining, that is why people are complaining.
"You know that dirty funds were found in the economy of the economy and now the loopholes that have been stolen have been stolen, the primary thing is to return to the real life and they do work," said Professor Bana.
Speaking about the state of economy of the country and its view in the world, Professor Bana said Tanzania is doing well and international it has been among the 10 countries in Africa where its economy is growing well, thus the decision of some politicians to try to mislead the public that the country's economy has dropped, is not correct.
"Here the governor was educating on the right way and is the one with the authority to provide data to the economy and the international criteria have been used for politicians not to try to look for popularity by saying the economy has dropped, economy has its criteria," said Professor Bana.
He said the basis of the moment is to see the growth of the economy when you know one of the economy and the government led to the government to emphasize good policies that will help people get money by working together with Doctor John Nyanja, who is difficult to say the economy of the country is bad though the money in circulation has reduced.
"Here that is being viewed as part of the economy, although money has reduced in the circulation, this does not mean that the state of economy is bad, what is required is to do people to work and stop the habit of looking for money from the deal," said Doctor Binzoo.
He said people doing work, will pay you with that dirty money they got into the circulation in large numbers since there are some who were doing business without paying taxes, there are some who had a contract with illegal ways and loopholes that have been stolen.
"That is a lot of things were run by giving out the deal, you know the person has a company to sell food, they find bribery and that the tender is used for money that are not wrong, but a situation will take place after a long time," said Doctor Binzoo.
While the scholars insisting on the state of economy is satisfying, due to the indicators of economy, the Citizens Party (CUF), have requested the Governor Ndulu to eliminate the cry for lack of money to the citizens.
According to the report of that party that was released yesterday by the Deputy Director of Information, Publicity, and Public Relations, Doctor Makumbulu.
"It's impossible for us to get money through illegal ways because the government has changed the collection of collection," said the report and wanted the governor to intervene in and ensure the money in the circulation will be available so that citizens can be able to run their lives.
Vunjo constituency member of parliament who is also the chairperson of the NCCR-Revolutions Party, James Mbatia has advised the governor to prepare a debate that will involve various stakeholders in economic issues so as to discuss the report by seeing how the growth of economy will help the citizens one citizen.
"When we say it's economy is good and we look at the life of one person, can get income of eating three hundred thousand shillings per day, is a must the economic growth of these people," he said.
