
Mchwaa will benefit from the same time.
By Dennis Kadama.
The Senate will help the order of the court to continue with the plans of discussing the proposal of being removed from office by the Governor of Maasais' Professor George Kivumbi.
In a step that may not have conflicts between the lawyers and experts from different institutions about aspects of the constitution that are swept away from the governors of the local government, he said that the Senate's candidates have reduced to the court by preventing themselves in implementing their responsibilities.
Mister Turo said that the directive by the court that was presented by the parliament of Somanga area, he disappeared from their last Friday to prevent the rebels to discuss the expulsion from the United Kingdom, that was going against the law of the local government of he said.
"Senate has already paid this issue in front of giving him to its sessions on Tuesday (October 21). Thas shown our stand several times about this issue, but it seems that the court is not ready to stop making noise in those agreements," Mister Turo told the nation yesterday.
He explained that it is the Senate which is required to give the last decision about the result of the governor and the court is required to implement the responsibility of explaining the procedure of that activity is complete.
"The court is required to wait until we see you feel this issue and anyone who does not be satisfied with the decision by the Senate to go to court, but we cannot accept any situation that we are able to implement our constitutional responsibilities," he said.
He emphasized that there is no problem between the Local Governments Loans Board - the main government, court and BN that can prevent others to implement its responsibilities.
He warned that at the time of giving instructions concerning the parliament by-crimes so as to avoid sexual violence between the two institutions.
He said that if the current situation will continue, people will be running in court to lose time instead of dealing with government institutions involved.
The chairman of the Tanzania Law Society (LSK), Mister Mutta and his fellow member of the commission for implementation of the constitution (TCC), Mister Charles Nyambo said on that the instructions of the court should be able to protect the rule of law.
