Sakali.
APR of 18, 2013.

The war that is going on in the side of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism under the minister, Ambassador Hamis Kagasheki, with a group of some non-governmental organizations but it depends on a shadow of the citizens, "said the Loliondo area, is to be dealt with for an independent eye for the interests of the nation.
The foundation of this war is a decision by the government to protect the wildlife in Loliondo Town, which has three main benefits the first one is part of the Mazizini, the second part is part of the wildlife and three sources.
This area which some of the residents want to continue to put their homes in the country, contributes to a large extent to strengthen the digital system of the Serengeti National Park.
In this time of a tension between the ministry, some of the former President, some of the companies in making of the tourism pictures who depend on a shadow of the citizens, "the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism has set aside the process that the interests of the citizens are considered as required by all the process of winning and protecting the relevant area, which is approximately 1,500 kilometers.
For example, the ministry has insisted that the land that remained after selling in that important area of wildlife in Hong Kong will be supervised by the villages in accordance with the land law of five villages of the year 1999.
Therefore, it's our hope that the government will bring in a habit of controlling the sun, wrong-doers and at the same time do not look keenly, as it promised, the interests of the citizens by leaving another big area of 56 million shillings.
We know that the area has been as a result of some companies in making tourism pictures, alongside some of the former Ghanian company which is only last year, at the Allianz stadium, which is a confirmation of how they have money to prevent the poor infrastructure.
It was affected by any legal permits for the country, from the absence of the Immigration Department and other important criteria.
Basically, apart from serving the citizens from the area of 1,500 kilometers per liter, they should leave a one-kilometer race is one issue, but another issue is that there is a fight to listen to a conflict that is called a conflict.
But the most important thing is sure that we have said that the war came out and is not for the benefit of the country and of generations to come, therefore, those who are paid a lot of money is to build a lot of money to build those fights.
