
A fake police in the country, are saying that she made them to make sure that he made him to do.

A whole tape of fake police from the road safety squad (NDC), James Juma Hussein (45) who was arrested at 1-30th this morning, August 14, 2013, at Tabata Primary School, Dar es Salaam, in his work tour, has been found dead.

Why, James was arrested in that morning, one security officer and one of the inspection was passing by the area to work, when he saw James admitted the vehicle, he went to greet him.

But he was surprised by saying that, as usual, the police force are supposed to be written by police, that is the police force, "he stressed.

The officer arrested a fake police "the resident of Kimara B Primary School, Dar es Salaam and took them to the police station Stibel in the district of Ilala, Dar es Salaam was opened the number of TK / RB / = shillings to be police so that legal procedures should be taken against him.

Inside the police station, James was questioned about what the police do?
James: Mnyamwezi of Tabora.
What are the police know what does it do?
James: A week now.
What are the police a hat that the police got where?
James: A white clothes on the hat that he uses in the world, has changed to the words of violence and the laying of my in-law that was in Tabora province, it was the deceased, was called Shaban.

James told the police to be a white ring on his friend when he saw in the streets but ahead of flute and he saw the police.

The police have ever been police?
James DeBarge has ever been getting training on the Moshi Police Station (CCM P) in the year 1990-91 but they were sacked from work because I went to Tabora, I became a farmer and my wife and one child which all of them are the deceased.

Inside the clothes of a friend that she got James, she was found with a black bikini.

James said that of hunger is the one that made him to do exercises and "they have banned the hands of drivers, especially of buses so that when they feel it is successful in their vehicles to appreciate anything.
The police commander of the special unit of Dar es Salaam CP Suleiman Kova has confirmed the arrest of that police.
