
Makalla witnessed a bullet.
When there is a pregnant mother suffering, a nurse is found, the pregnant women have narrated it several things.
Bro Nelson Mandela, The Citizen Walid Jichunge.'
Mbeya Regional Commissioner, Amos Makalla yesterday, did a surprise visit to the Mbeya Referral Hospital, a branch of parents popular by the name Meta where he met the face of misuse of women during the delivery.
Makalla was witnessing pregnant in front of the nurse, on the seat at the reception area.
That head of that province arrived at the hospital without giving information to the leaders, but he has called a phone when he saw the pregnant woman.
Makalla asked the nurse who was identified by the name to Hadija Said about the patient and was to be listened to him, while standing in the seat without taking any action of getting services.
After arriving at his home, the nurse started attending to a patient.
Makalla went to the fourth 'ward for parents and asked others being involved in her bed sheets and after asking the chief medical officer of that hospital, Doctor John Francis said that situation is due to a limited budget.
"The head of this problem is even in the number two counties which are most of the patients, it is many so when the night they wrote on mattresses," he said.
The head of province went to the two 'ward and found a woman claimed to be beaten by a nurse.
A woman who was sent back when I was sent to pain, Salome Urassa "he arrived in the hospital on 28th of April and that when he was in the process of giving birth to the nurse, the officer shot himself back in the near future, after giving birth to her child.
Another woman, eNEWZ of Katani, a resident of Sumbawanga Town who was admitted in the ward said the situation is bad because of getting married, beds, beds.
"This is nothing to be little and there are no beds, therefore, we are forced to sleep under lack of beds, because there are our children, there are our children," he said.
Arising from those events, the article gave seven days to the director of the Referral Hospital in Mbeya region, Doctor Godlove the head of Parliament for the legal action he is alleged to beat up the video in the pregnant woman.
Makalla said that the actions that were done by that nurse is a violation of the work ethics, therefore the government can't hesitate to continue working with people who are causing the community to investigate it.
