There are two headquarters in the leadership.
And long-term plans if you check for now is the long-term plans if you check if the country like the concept of a long time which is focused on.
In the youth.
Under the age of twenty years which took place?
The World Cup.
These are youths.
When we look at that they are sustainable and long-term plans, that is why he is doing well but at Miss Universe we had also talked about the issue of leadership or leaders of our parties have already had private interests for example if you check for example as Simba and Yanga also.
What happens there is a result of conflicts here and.
Likewise, we are unable to continue because of this, I was looking for me because he is now looking at my place and we are looking at a bad state, we are looking at many games as we are doing so we can do this.
Whoever doesn't look when we need to look at the issue of educating sports because it is now full of you and we are looking at a period of games but we would have agreed to start even UMISSETA regional will be from primary schools.
Secondly, we can have been able to come up with small children with talent for sports when they see the importance of the game because of UMISSETA we believe that there is it's time they can be used to those children feel.
I'm in this is an important thing that is called 'if you are coming down, we are just getting the players, it is true now because we are looking at a big percentage we are looking at all, where we are attending to those who have.
We should request for you.
Even their bodies of the body has begun to have started through but if we would have been able to make sure that we can uplift our sports' system because I could have already come up so that we can uplift our sports' system because I could continue to uplift the level of sports because I could continue to improve the level of sports' to thank you even so much.
I think she went back.
Close to those who been ready to be the problem is one.
Most Tanzanians are taking things.
Many Tanzanians events of friendly matches are just a game.
People are many people in the villages because they have sports talents but they are unable to participate in any game to participate in the game because they finish the competition through maybe the level of the nation.
Many games are usually start from the provinces here, I announced all competitions that if you check inside if you should know that we cannot participate in the game because maybe you are not involved in the game.
It is no one that maybe if you pay for going to participate in the game maybe that province is unable to fail.
They have no investment.
For example.
We should wait for him for the way.
I've heard that they were able to go to participate in the match?
For the way you should be made, the lawyers will realize that it is the reason why he told me.
How does it mean to Tanzanians?
We should have.
A special school for sports I thank you.
