The violence of swords, CCM is suffering from others.
28th of 13, 2013.

At the time the dispute continues to grow, the Lake Region, cost the life of Pastor Mathayo Torongey of the church of TAG from Geita province, the government has continued to play the spread of that conflict that was said to be able to control early if it would take a good step on time.
In marking the weaknesses in the fight, last week, the national chairperson of CCM, President Jakaya Kikwete sent a message to bishops in Mwanza City through the chairman of CCM Mwanza Province, Anthony Mavunde, to explain those bishops to be the message given earlier on behalf of the government.
The Provincial Commissioner Ernest Ndikilo, and the minister of state, office of the president, policy and coordination, Stephen Wassira said that it was not the party's stand and that it is the party that is the government.
The national chairperson has sent them to them to explain their claims that they should be dealt with.
Reports are saying that, that session that took place from one hour on Wednesday, February 6th, 2013, at the CCM offices in Mwanza province, was not completed at an appropriate time.
You are annoyed by that message that it was explained as the mockery of them because the problems against them and threats from faith that they have been public and the government view, but he didn't take action.
"What is the session that turned down after bishops told him open weight and put off the government in taking any decisions when the interests of the disabled have been identified, including surgery for them, but the government is doing does not see," explained our source.
Another thing, as explained by bishops is an act of that member of CCM, explaining that he didn't have Wassira in the session that he announced having the rights.
Successful in the public slaughterhouses and he has been alone.
"As we see if we see the brain, if Wassira was sent by consent, if the government was silent, or we want to inform us that this government does not have a lot of efforts to fight against them," he was heard one of the bishops speaking to his colleagues after that meeting.

Some of the citizens have told that CCM's action as to look for support every time when I see the opportunity of doing so, and that he wants to use this conflict if the way to get the support and they were unblocked.
On how things are going now, there is clear the state of division.

"I hear CCM have arrested bishops so as to talk with them, the problem of our party, this days is to give birth and self-faith, if their intention is good, these issues we have spoken early," said Mussa Matechi, a resident of the court in Mwanza town.
The efforts of getting the chairman Cassim explaining about the sitting, it did not give fruits, one of the former politicians here in the country, said that when the government is, when the government is, when the government is when I decided to resolve the economic issues of the country is giving loans with bad intentions to fulfill their agenda.
Speaking on condition of not knowing.
The name of the politician who got to be a member of parliament, said the trials for leaving the peace in the country have been there since Uhuru but they were expected to be the concerned with the concerned parties at the end.

Here there is a must that there is delays, in taking action against this reason, it has started like jokes, and even when you came in a week that made the government's stand if it did not see Bushubo, "said the politician.

The government of Geita are taught.
The Provincial Commissioner of Geita, Said Magalula who last week told Bongo Five that the situation is safe in that province concerning the issue after the meeting.
Minister Wassira said religious leaders, in an official interview the day before yesterday has said they have been asked by the issue because they found the issue.
"It is true that this issue has been successful, because the situation was safe and we know how things have reduced, this moment we will be careful not to allow these things to be available again," said Magalula.
In the previous edition of this newspaper reported that there has been accusations of the government in Geita province to investigate and urged them to sell the Christian leaders in that province with explanations of wanting to support the government's decision.
