TBL has announced sponsoring them for Power Pool company.

November 10, 2013.

The Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL), through Serengeti beer company, has announced controlling it for the friendly national team that are expected to participate in the African competitions that will take place in Malawi at the end of this month.
Speaking to the journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Manager of beer, Oscar Assenga, said that the sponsorship will involve transport, accommodation and the allowances for the whole period when the team will be at a way to reach 67 million shillings.
"The intention especially for developing this game is to bring talents among the youth and help them economically, especially considering that currently sports is employment as just like other employment.
"This game is accompanied by entertainment when the players are playing, the youths when they go to the games to avoid bad behavior of staying on the village," he said.
Shelukindo said for several years now, beer company has sponsored the national football competition and also the nation for higher education institutions with the aim of ensuring that the game is complete.
He said TBL has sponsored by the national team to participate in international competitions outside the country for another time this year. "October 2010 we sponsored the national team to participate in the world competitions that took place in France, where our team did well," he said.
And the Secretary of Power Pool Tanzania Association (MARI), Amos Makalla thanked the company for its contribution to enable them, where he said players are happy with the sponsorship and promised to win.
And the coach of that team, Denis Ssebo, said that his team is in a good level in games where three players who were chosen to form the national team.
He mentioned those players to be Mohamed Idd (Dodoma), Festo Sakaya (Ilala), Patrick Nyanguda, Fred Kadama, Fred Kadama and Godfrey Mgimwa and Godfrey Ndimbo.
That team is expecting to play a international friendly match on Saturday in Arusha town, against Kenya for the purpose of preparing to fight for the international tournament in the East African tournament, is expected to take place in Blantyre City in Malawi on 26th to 23, this year.
