
Best 100 company in Tanzania is ongoing.

Minister of Industry and Trade, Doctor Abdallah Kigoda has said that the government will continue to make a good environment for doing business so that investors from outside and in order to implement their responsibilities without an obstacle.
Doctor Kigoda said that the day before yesterday when he was on the occasion to identify the best 100 companies that are in speed in the country (top 100) - SCA), where GAPCO Mobile Phone Company Limited is in Mwanza City, was the first position.
Those companies were identified and given an award as a result of the competition being run by Mwananchi Communications Company (MCL) and KPG Tanzania and sponsored by NBC Bank together with the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE).
Doctor Kigoda said that competition will benefit every year and has a great opportunity to strengthen the economy of the East African company.
He said that for those companies to achieve success, the government will endeavor to put an environment that will enable them to make its activities well and to make production at an affordable cost.
He urged the companies that has succeeded in getting in the group of best 100 companies, to know that they are winners and therefore they want to do their activities professionally.
"At this level you have at the moment are the winners, I make your work professionally," said Doctor Kigoda.
He said that for now, Tanzania has dropped from countries with good standards of doing business in the world, a situation that makes some investors to run away.
He explained that the issue gives the government a challenge to build better and friendly environment so as to attract investors to do their activities for profit.
On his part, the Chairperson of the Mwananchi Communications Limited Company (MCL), Zuhura Muro said in collaboration with KMG, they are running that competition because they know that it is an important way to encourage the company to perform well.
He said that those companies are important in the economy of the country and its welfare, because the tax paying, the ones that are used for the development of the country.
"Now it is our time to pray for, but we cannot get without having important people like you (the best 100) because it is a very important people to the economy of this country," said Muro.
This is the third year of that competition in the year 2011, BQ of Dar es Salaam, was the first position in the year 2012 a non-communicable diseases in Arusha town to take that position.
Just after announcing that the winner yesterday, the Executive Director of Chakwama Company Limited, Oliver Matemu said he didn't expected to hold that position.
"When I was coming here, I have not heard about it when they arrived at the 50 position without listening if we know what we have said," said Matemu.
Matindealisema, he said that his company is involved with criminal activities and distributing them together and spreading products from Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL).
"What you predicted the winner is how we are trying to prepare our accounts," said Matemu.
He said that, he started the activity by buying houses on people's machines and going on time with a capital city of 15 million.
"For now in a year, there is a big business like 5 billion shillings," he said.
Other companies that got into the best 10 are Otman Group of Tanzania Limited, that came in the second position, Dominic ECC of Tanzania Limited (third), KEC Company Limited Company Limited, six and Phantom 6Plus Tanzania Limited (six).
Other companies are Anjelan Muhozya and Tanzania Limited in the seventh position, NPK Limited which were nine and Feng International Limited in the 10th position.
