
Soccer leaders must be integrity in their work.
Soccer in the Coastal region can return to his status, if there will be with integrity and those who are able to help their clubs in a situation and property.
The former player of Liverpool soccer club (Mwenge) soccer club, Abdul Kadama, popularly known as Para, believes that there will be a person to manage that club well, the Coastal Union will go back to be in the past.
"An issue of praising himself is that these days there are no people who come up and helped the club like in the past, the football situation will go back and will lead you, a club that will lead to Liverpool, Feisal, Lake Warriors and Western Stars," said Pele.
That player who was popular in the entire East Africa has more than winning goals by using his head, he believes that the former names of the famous teams that were popular to be used, the Coast soccer will be used again.
Perals also opposed the way the soccer leaders should be done in the country and claimed that the elections and the officer of the Tanzania Football Federation in the way of abiding by the lack of democracy, "election is done in a bad way and that is delaying development of soccer," he said.
Pickup, who was born on August 9, 1948, says that the ongoing soccer plans may not affect the game because in the end of the past, in the end of the previous teams and it will be a problem in Coast to give a team in the Kenya Premier League.
He is saying that it is important for the premier league laws to be used to enable the teams from other provinces of the Coast, Nyanza, West and the Rift Valley region and their representatives.
He wants the Coastal Union to play for forgiveness who are playing their teams in the national league, "I am sure if we will have two three teams in the premier league, our teams will do a surprise and return to the Coastal Union," said Pele.
The Jaguar type when I am getting in the Coast team are required to put efforts so that your popular fans can be able to return to many fans at the field but I was to go back to most of my team since I saw me, "he said.
Abu Dhabi says football is inside his blood and desires to return to be little in getting the upcoming stars.
About the soccer situation in the country, Pele says he is proud to see that the national team of Harambee Stars is unable to immediately do and remove the nation he deserves to be done in order to restore honor to the team.
"It is a shameful matter to see time because we are unable to qualify for the international competitions and especially those in Africa. There is no reason for the reasons that are given because the results are being done thus," said Para.
That former veteran wants scientists from this time to work hard in their exercise and make sure they increase exercises for increasing muscles and having a lot of relief enough to withstand the 90 minutes of the game.
"Our time we have been working for our personal jobs and those of the team are together with the team.
We were so much and health because we have been exercises including in the sea, "he explained the player, who was scored several goals against him.
He has the same way to see soccer matches of this time we will not understand many fans and it is proud to think about the importance of preparations to be used in a good state and lack of love for their teams.
By Abdulrahman Sherif.
