
Zitto Kabwe listening to the people that were murdered in Benitu.

Kigoma North member of parliament, Zitto Kabwe has broken the silence and said that he is not ready for now to agree with billions from Switzerland and wants the government to make investigation.

Zitto Kabwe has moved out in parliament that there are non-15 billion shillings in financial institutions in Switzerland.

In his report he made yesterday, Zitto said that he did not mention those names now in order to avoid what he said those names are used badly without caring if the benefit from the country.

He said that he has advised that international investigation is supposed to do that work.

The member of parliament who is also the chairperson of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on the Government (PAC), has said the average of 775 billion will be removed every year to the country.

He said the statement by the attorney general, Judge Fredrick Werema, that him (Zitto) did not give a partnership with the committee that causes the scandal that is not true.

"I want I would have been asked, I have met all times with this committee and I have given you up to the name of an international agent who will be able to help them in this investigation, today I would not make cooperation," said Zitto Kabwe.

He said that the international investigation has the experience in the investigation on that issue and they could identify names and amount of money and also the validity of those funds.

He said he was surprised by the government's step to make corrections when he emphasized on the issue of which a international investigation is but few days later announcing the newspaper on that job.

That announcement took place on December 17 this year, Zitto Kabwe said that he was reading a private explanation to answer the statement of Judge Werema, even so, he said he lacked the opportunity to Zitto Kabwe, he said he lacked the position of parliament to mention those names because he is not an agent of the investigation that is supposed to have a long time.

He said when he was handing over the names of those servants, he would like that the evidence should have been destroyed by its international sources and security agencies in the country.

I am not ready to mention for now, let me return again for now, names because I can cause conflicts with the public without through the procedure given by our law here in the country, "said Zitto Kabwe.
