We should learn from the mistakes of others, we shouldn't wait!
December 31st, 2013.

I have been saying, and I have not been forced to say, that we are supposed to build a great nation, and I have talked about the reputation of the nation of that kind, the reputation that has made it between a big country with a small country in his country.

Those reputation are many, some of the ones being small and others being small, and I have been unable to discuss, together with discussing the reputation that make nation be a small, even if the country is big like Congo, is the previous day for people with its leaders.

It will not be a good thing in all the country, even if it would have been a big nation if they came with the wealth of El Nasir, to build a big nation if his people and our leaders are married, but they are many more than many people that country did not turn up all over the country.

I have also said that the country that are expected to build a big nation has no need to build a foundation of rights, equity, solidarity and love, the habit of removing what is available as a life of the nation without considering that every time was found dead by several hours.

Ziba, that is going on about the natural gas in the country has claimed that we have no need to build themselves so much and instead we have closed down the smallness of our days if we get married, this situation will be allowed by getting big things but not we will get you.

Among the reasons that make us be a small country in a big country is a shortage of the will to learn from what is inside our ability, we should learn from them because of our wealth, we are supposed to learn from them, a person we want to learn from them.

We know that those countries, as well as they will not affect the income of resources, it's the country with the poor citizens as Lazaro Nyalandu, and that you are in the middle of great wealth, is a big offence of hostility and the war, but we want to go there there.

We have seen that the citizens are tired of different leaders who will not be accountable, even if the army will be distributed in every village and every estate, and we want to go there there.

In addition, we have seen, and we know because this reason we should have seen several times, that the solution to our problems is a conversation between citizens who do not have weapons, because it is used to fulfill our thinking and take action against issues that have not been successful.

The conflict between gas and other resources is not a new issue to those who need him to check the countries of our colleagues and read and understand the history of our colleagues in all levels not to deal with the challenges facing him and that we get the grace of knowing wealth.

It has reached an action that diplomats in Tanzania are required to speak about resources and how to prevent us because we do not see what I have heard, "you will do not see me," this is a must for a country with fifty years old.

When we know the sun of Angola, we do not know the sun, what we know if we know the sun, but we know it is good to learn from your mistake, but its costs will be very high.

Heads of government, political leaders, different organizations and the citizens in general, all of us need to look for him and do not look for him so that it is okay and to put it true, but now we see its effects.
