The Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has expressed his tour in Shinyanga province and congratulated the government in that province to conduct an evaluation of the presence of Iramba District Council for a period of ten years since its establishment, he urged the government to make sure that it was correct for the benefit of the citizens and our reporter to the province.
After the past seven days of the tour of Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda here in Shinyanga province that aims at visiting several projects and spoke to citizens yesterday all the districts of this province are now vying for his team.
And those who missed a journalist, do not see me, he is leaders and executives of Shinyanga province, they explained to be the performance of the council of Kishapu District Council, we have been mentioned.
That case takes place where he was going to come.
Jesus also told them that.
Pregnant women in ten years.
New.
If you have never thought until today we are there?
Minister of Ministry.
Citizens told him that the leaders of that council have been involved in the community in Okwi, it's possible to see that the republic there was a lot of fuel that was to give them a challenge, the God give them an issue.
I have ever asked yourself through the management of money now, he says I don't know when the councilors will take it to the report of the Chief Executive Officer of the government accounts.
Third time.
I have never wanted this means to start making phone so that the person also did.
Most of what he asked me is to recognize that they are not supposed to recognize that they are not supposed to do that for a few times, what will I look for this to be insane.
One is not that, it is this issue now to come here and like?
That was the explosion and that in that, he did a work.
Sitta started even in that attack.
I did not know the great problems but it's not there.
We are happy to be remembered by knowing that the lawyer of Human Rights and Network was the councilors to follow up with nude pictures.
Conclusion of that statement by Prime Minister Pinda it will give a picture of other education here on how it can fall in the group to look for further because if you see her colleague, then you are forced to sign up water from Kinyanyiko area is a fan of parliament.
