
The danger of hunger has changed the residents.
By Sammy Lil.
Do not depend on the local government of Ikhwan, said that more than 400 residents, whereby they are continuing to receive food for the donation they may put up food to the end of next month due to drought.
The minister of land in that area Mister Charles Langoni Area has said that the shortage of food shortage is due to the heavy rains that is expected to fall down.
"This week we expect to give the last phase of food that we had bought for 100 million shillings, which will be enough to thousands of victims for two months," said Mister.
Mo Blog.
Most of the many people from Galinoma who was coming from April, as it seems to have reduced, the rains will be aired by the residents, they will be able to climb the farms for themselves so that they can get food.
Areas that are needed for the only rains in which plants are now faced with a huge loss after plants started in danger.
According to Mister Eucharist, the districts that have really affected are Turnbull.
However, he gave a challenge to the residents in Turnbull areas where they are close to Mkwajuni, who involves water while it was there at the neighboring country of Uganda as it is now that they use the water to irrigate their plants.
For their families living nearby to the capital city of Turki al-Jorendal has been requested to use that water to increase the acres of plants in plants of providing food and it was a lot of food to buy problems of buying other products.
In many meetings, Governor of Turky, Mister Joseline Kamuhanda, has been saying that the area has been faced with a shortage of food for a long time while giving them residents to be involved in fighting corruption.
On the other side, the disaster minister asked that the main government to be strengthen security at Turki and Pickup, at this time the farmers use livestock in this boundary which is related to water because of River Turnbull.
This said that it is due to a lot of nutrients in a series of drought.
