
24 December 2012

It is Lema again for the member of parliament of Arusha, an appeal that was opened by CCM members in Arusha province, that they have organized to create a big reception of Doctor Slaa, Mbowe, and spoke about her victory.

By our journalists, the High Court of Dar es Salaam, yesterday gave a historic judgment by announcing Mister Godbless Lema, to be the legal member of parliament of Arusha Town constituency through the ticket of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
Mister Lema handing over that parliamentary and three members of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) to oppose his victory in the 2010 elections.

Those members are Mister Mussa Mkanga, Miss Agness Mollel and Mrs. Swahumu who claimed to be in the campaigns of that election, Mister Lema using her former candidate of CCM, Miss Batshuayi for using abusive language.

After the High Court to break the parliamentary seat, Mister Lema found an appeal that yesterday was given the judgment.

The judgment of Mister Lema getting into his parliamentary seat, was read in 230 o'clock in the morning by the deputy registrar of that court, Miss Eliuther MMkwizu in the front of the judges, Mrs. Eliuther Memba.

While giving that judgment, Miss Mkwizu said the reasons that made the court to kill him, Mister Lema, his parliamentary candidate is two out of 18 presented by his lawyers.

Among those statements, one were unblocked by the court about the legality of the voters in that case, where there was no second issue, there was no sign in that case.

Lissu outside the court.

Speaking to the press after being read the judgment, Mister Tundu Lissu who is the lawyer of Mister Lema, said he does not come to court to vote where the judgment is in history.

"Among the 23 members of CHADEMA, 14 people have already been voters with no ability to open a case together with putting lawyers, this judgment shows that Mister Lema has been seen so as to remove the party," he said.

He added that the legal action is of four types, which every one has up to its date, the first group is voters who succeeded to vote their rights until they are living there.

The second group is appointed, the third group candidates and the last one is the attorney general of the government where those groups have the ability to oppose the results of the election.

He said there is no wonder, all the cases followed by the members of parliament of CHADEMA, the complainants won the votes in that judgment, the public will know the fact that the party is responsible for primary rights.

"I himself has been accused by voters before Mister Lema, also Doctor Willibrod Slaa (CCM Secretary), as the member of parliament of Karatu town, Mister Freeman Mbowe, who was accused by voters," said Mister Lissu.

Doctor Slaa's talks.

On his part, Doctor Slaa said the judgment shows that, the way they gave birth to KCMC Referral Hospital, Mister Mizengo Pinda in his statement to told Mister Lema, with all the statements that were used by CCM to open a case while causing him to win.

He said CHADEMA will not allow me to forgive him or stop knowing the councilors of Arusha and others who are being used to consider the party and they must pay them the cost of the case.

"Up to now the councilors of Arusha who passed a case and failed, have already lost a half of the case, after one month are required to end the money that was done by the bus we will also go to prison and we did not see me," he said.

Freeman Mbowe.

The national chairperson of the party, Mister Mbowe said all those who were given bond of giving rights and leading this country must be used since the beginning of Lema, it would like to see those who do not get justice and they are being dealt with because of failing to give correct decisions.

"We ask them to know that CHADEMA is a conflict, you have forgotten that, we are stable and the big work that we have is to maintain the ones that we have taken many judges more than all the cases," he said.

Lema talks about the victory.

Speaking to the followers of the party, Mister Lema said that for a half of 'Sura Sirambi', that comes out of the parliamentary seat, has been beneficial, more than defending justice rights after the court.
Giving Christmas and a new year.

Lema has been explained at Mkuzo Arusha for a short time after the High Court of Dar es Salaam, to give the judgment of great help, Mister Lema, his parliamentary candidate, CHADEMA in Arusha province has claimed to prepare their reception area.

Speaking to the Majira newspaper, the party's secretary in the city, Mister Amani Golding, said Mister Lema will be received by special demonstrations which will start at the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) up to Arusha town and addressing a public rally.

He said that apart from the reception of Ikwililo, Mister Lema will continue to defend the weak in the region that are involved by some of the government officials.


Arusha is happy.

In a normal state, women who are small business people in Arusha town yesterday were forced to sell their products and increase the road while singing a song with a message that says "the father is free."

Those women said, the act of Mister Lema takes their parliamentary seat, there will enable them to get their primary rights that were previously used for them due to political ideology.
The ones that were in that town.

"We are ready to read the victory instead of selling our products, we have a great joy therefore, what we are waiting is to receive Mister Lema who we believe is our president," he said.

They wanted Mister Lema after going back to the province, to implement his promises to the citizens that he made during the general elections of the year 2010, that was unable to implement due to his political impasse.

CCM leaders live.

On their part, some of the leaders of CCM in that town who did not want to be written in the newspaper said apart from Mister Lema without their parliamentary seat, there is still a great importance of residents of that town to join and be one thing.

They said that for now, which is a result of developing political parties with sure that will be productive in the city and not forgetting this.

The basis of the case.


Mister Lema asked the Court of Appeal to break the decision of the high court that announced his parliamentary seat and he urged them to be special member of parliament of Arusha Town constituency.



He also urged that court to help him about that case to pay the costs of that appeal together with those of the case that ended in the high court in Arusha region.



In other allegations, Mister Lema is complaining about the judge who was listening to the case that he made his decision by considering the words of rumors and assume the evidence that was given in court.
