
Kigwangalla gives the council of chemistry.

It has been written by Angela Semwenda, Dodoma.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

The council of science experts will be a full list, which will be responsible for business and own property, the deputy minister for health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, Doctor Hamisi Kigwangalla said that yesterday while answering the issues of parliament that contributed to the bill of law of supervision of science subjects, 2016 and the bill of law of the laboratory authority of the chief chemist of the government, 2016.

Doctor Kigwangalla said the council will be able to have the ability to borrow and to protect themselves because it will be a full business center and it will be using its wealth by themselves.
"The council will be business, it will put charges and will not be faced by any authority, basically the council of professionals will be free and therefore it will be free," he said and added that the ministry has received recommendations and plans to remove the representative from public service to enter that council.
He said that they will give out the recommendations of the members of parliament and that now he will be given a representative who is a member of the profession in chemistry and private laboratories.
He said that the ministry has also agreed with the proposal of the ministry to receive the report of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) every after six months instead of three months.
While contributing to the donation, the nominated member of parliament, Benoni, (CCM) said issues of chemistry is important in development and technology issues and added that the making of those laws will cause success to the professionals of chemistry and office of the chief chemist of the government.
On his part, the nominated member of parliament, Ambassador Addoh Mapunda (CCM) inspected the laboratory of the chief chemist of the government to help other laboratories including the police stations, the department of investigation so as to get good answers that is not correct.
Richard Kayombo, who is a member of parliament for Chumbuni, (CCM), said the council of science experts is a good institution and therefore a member from the Ministry of Health who will go in that council is good to have the expertise in chemistry.
In another step, the nominated member of parliament, Doctor Dharsee, who is a physically challenged person, complained to the news reports that was written in the way that will be able to follow up on the debate and contributing.
Responding to the issue of Doctor, Deputy speaker, Doctor Tulia Ackson, asked for member of parliament on behalf of the parliamentary office by giving him information and reports on the system that will be able to study and contribute to the motion, but he urged the ministry to remember that member of parliament as it is in the Ministry of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training.
