23 October 2013.

TTCL celebrating with the verification of the internet.

And our correspondent.
The company's company.
Tanzania Communications Authority (TTCL) has condemned the fight against cheating.
Some people through the internet so as to confirm to its customers the better service.

He made that statement.
That was issued by the chief executive officer of that company, Doctor Kamugisha Kazaura,.
Speaking to the press just after the opening of the workshop.
Experts in information and communication technology (ICT) from countries.
African Development Bank (SADC) that took place in Dar es Salaam city.
Soon.

Doctor Kamuzora said that TTCL has modern equipment for the purpose of security.
So as to deal with the theft and cheating in the networks.
Enjoy its customers services.
"We are forced to do?
Having extra ways even if you do.
They can have more expertise, "said Doctor Kazura.

He added saying that the problem of theft and cheating in a internet.
It is great and needs to be there on the policies on control of the internet.
Inside, outside and even at the international levels.

"Crime network including theft and cheating are a problem.
They are not supposed to be afraid or it's like a disease you need.
Treatment, "said Doctor Kazaura.

He said that the meeting intended to come up with recommendations.
The problem is.
In the community, we have met to talk about the theft and cheating of the internet.
And the security of this network and the recommendations that will be distributed will arrive in.
The meeting of ministers for communication, science and technology of the community.
Development in South Africa (SADC), "he said.

TTCL is one of the institutions that are required to ensure that problem?
It encourages and end to the end of his responsibility.
The managing director of communication in the nation, who through its services.
The networks have already started being taken inside and outside the country.

He said that in Tanzania the national communication cable has implemented the service.
Communication and help improve communication services by using the internet.
Various including the internet.
Through the internet.
You got and received money, they will also get different information, now some people have.
Usually use the opportunity of the growth of ICT to make theft and symptoms of the internet.
