
The door of Dar es Salaam is not sold.
MTVs, 2015.

Now, it is an official that the area of the port of Dar es Salaam famous by the name of credit, Gilles Ratia, has been officially directed to an investor in the partnership that is equivalent to selling that area, ordinary citizens concern them.
Since the end of last year, there have been rumors about the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) to enter into the agreement with the Tanzania Professional Boxing Commission (TPA), but this newspaper has managed to see in the agreement of the agreement that was signed on September 6 this year (2014).
Ukara, which is explained as well as being sold because that agreement explained that God will not be able to increase investment money, he will use its shares and the same conditions and that now being close to the government reached the NBC Bank.
The area, reliable energy, depends on a place where a boat that is going to Zanzibar reaches the passengers and the way that goes against the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) popularly known by the name Operation Sangara (TRA) known as the Central Police Station and entered the port.
According to the use of that contract, who signed that contract on behalf of TPA is the chairman of the board, Professor Joseph Kiwanuka, and the former Deputy Director General, Engineer.
Our citizens have been told to have its reliable sources that.
In the signing of the former agreements (Moalimu), this newspaper has succeeded to kill in TPA, as just like the normal procedures, they put him through her lawyer, but the official contract has no sign of the lawyer.
In that agreement, the government is required to give capital, to continue and run the port of Dar es Salaam by building a two dock in the area that he had been involved.
"The lawyers of TPA, looking at the agreement and they noted that it has no benefits to the authority or to the nation if they advise that it is a must to be cleaned it but we were surprised to see the leaders they decided to see them," said one of the news sources of this newspaper.
The Proin Promotion Company, Vaquina, the organization that is claimed to have its headquarters in the Bahamas. It is not known well, but the requirements of the contract is not enough, though the contract is not enough for the way the authority will do its verification to the company.
Also, the Proin Promotion Company has been given that big project with his ability being beaten because it is new and it has never done work which now it wants to be held at the port.
The efforts of this newspaper to get Professor Msambya said it did not succeed after the not received a phone and he was used to speak with this newspaper the other day on Monday at 3 o'clock in the night but he didn't answer up until when they're going to return.
The other leaders of TPA did not want to speak about that issue on claims that they did not know well.
"To say the truth I don't know anything that I don't know that if you get that report, the chairperson of the board who you said that he had signed that contract and he can have more information," said one of the top leaders of TPA who did not want to be mentioned.
