
Kilwa road contributes a series of forests to benefit from 09 / 2012.

The villagers of Mwanzo Kigonsera, Kilwa district, have regrets.

Officials from the non-governmental organization - Manguanjuki and Development Goals (MCST), did not lose their time with the village, and therefore they have been set aside, "the offer has been set aside," the offer has been set aside, "the offer has been set aside," the offer has been set aside "for the government's plan for defense and security of forests - Maelezo.

Those villages have already started benefiting from the project as a result of the payment of timber in the villages, therefore, they have managed to get millions of money and use them to improve their community services, and that is what causes the villagers of Ruhembe High School, and that is what causes the villagers of Ruhangs.

Majuto said, due to the fact that, it was one of the first villages to understand and be given, "the offer to be assisted to be assisted to be assisted to get the reserve process, but he didn't have two nights.

But after seeing the benefits of the neighboring villages, there has completed that process, in Ruhembe village, to arrest him and start the fight that was held for eight years now of vying to appeal and continues to officially open the forest that is currently under the management of a village of Miguel.

The fight is facing a huge conflict between that village and a village of Migungani Bunda town, the conflict has every sign that you do not wait until it will go into the blood stream.

While talking to fear and the delegation of the association of environmental journalists in Tanzania (JET) when he visited that village recently, the villagers arrested the council of Kilwa district together with skin rashes.

"We are people with blood is good, a meaning that if it is not otherwise, they have not qualified for our two forests, but this third time we have begun the process of wanting to be served," said Saidi Ngemera and who is a member of the council of that village.

"The conflict between our village and a village of Migungani Bunda town is for a long time, several times have come up with the district leaders to try to resolve it, but until now there is no success when we came to the scene to prove that the area which is being detained by our village, Juma A. Juma.

Dar es Salaam city to arrest several residents of 250 households in the first area, they will be known as a size of 2000 megawatts and the second is a size of 2120 shillings.

Before yesterday, you want to know the villagers of Kising'a ward to arrest him that during the conflict of vying for those areas, their colleagues of Migungani Bunda town are continuing to get married that will help improve their community services, though they have continued to have the poor quality services of the community.

In that meeting with JET, close to each pupil who got an opportunity to speak, he abandoned his stand on the officer of MCST, who deals with him that his organization is going on to Migungani Bunda village in that conflict.

In that state, although CUF is the official guest of the village, it seemed obvious that the meeting has turned to be a result of conflicts between the villagers of a dance officer, who deals with him.

However, after the road safety officer to confirm to the villagers the problem that has raised the conflict, has already been discovered, they will start soon to cooperate with the village to help them to complete the process depending on the forest.

"Together with your statement, that the conflict is over, I request my villagers to wait until now, we should confirm that the truth is over," warned one member of the committee of natural resources of that village.

The member of the executive committee of natural resources said that, that conflict cannot be completed because the conflict cannot be heard because of the officer, they've already announced that, but they have already completed all the two villages that will participate and all of them have shown that the conflict is over.

Speaking with that delegation of JET, Kilwa Masoko, the director of that district council, Adoh Mapunda, confessed the existence of the border dispute between those villages and said that the conflict is not only in the district.

Previously before yesterday, they don't know the benefits of own marriages, there are no boundaries, but now conflicts has come out to vie for the borders between the villages because they have the benefits of forests within their areas, "said AID.

"The Kilwa district is very big because it has a size of 9,842 kilometers per year, before they do not know the benefits of forests from the right time, they have started causing illegal immigrants after seeing its benefit," says Mapunda.

According to his details, the positive news analysis is that which has raised conflicts between villages and conflicts, which its council has been involved, and that its council has been only three months including the game between Mabogini village, to arrest and Miguel.

"The challenge that we have is to address this conflicts that is one of the villages to contest for the borders and up to now the remaining conflicts in the district are only three months and we have planned for three months this year we should end with all," said the director.

In those talks with JET, the Executive Director of Kilwa district confirmed that she was surprised by the villagers of Ruhembe High School confirmed that the map of the boundaries that show that the village is the legal owner of the forest and not a village of Miguel.

"We have been able to end that conflict before this year it is unacceptable,"

He said Mapunda whose two days ago he and his delegation travelled from going to resolve the another conflict between the boundary between the Ihanga village, A and Mihande village.

And the chief executive officer of MCST, Jadiu Makalla, speaking about the issue of emerging conflicts between the villages to recognize the benefits of forests, he said that those conflicts are resolved by partnering with all stakeholders.

Makalla said that the red card is capable of helping the villages in the Michungwani Market and also to help the way forward and how to take care, therefore, he said that there is also other conflicts whose cause is due to the mining of forests.

"If you see the conflicts of contesting the borders between the village and village, there are also conflicts of leadership inside the village, the money arising from the forests have already started, where the leadership conflicts in the villages are emerged," said Makalla.

We are using our ability to listen and end this problem of leadership in the villages through related ways, and all the days we has called all the leaders of the villages about the importance of having transparency (SMS) in managing and harvesting forests, "said Makalla.

But it's not only so that the bus will also help the villages to get experience on how to care about the important meetings in the village and also care for revenue collection and use of the village.

Those two things, on its view, are the major cause of land conflicts in the villages that have already started benefiting from the forests that have been set aside by the government.

In addition, lack of teaching those villages, the management of money and administration issues, and also they are forced to inspect them immediately because of the villages, and given instructions.

However, Makalla has emphasized that the conflicts of contesting the borders between the village and the village is still needed to be the biggest challenge especially during setting the reserve of the reserve.

"The main source of this conflicts is the villages to bully after seeing their colleagues have benefited more from their forests, and this means that we are forced to stop money where we are not supposed to direct us," said Makalla.

By considering that the Kilwa district has a huge wealth of forests whereby the reserve is in a forest of 21949 with a forest of 55,731, it is clear that the conflicts of contesting the borders (forests) will continue to be heard in Kilwa district.

However, an issue of encouraging the heart is that the presence of those conflicts is evidence that the villages of Kilwa district now know the benefits of owning the forest and that can be continuous, and that is the reason they have started getting two weeks.

There was a motion in that message of JET, maybe some of the districts in the district could convince the court to sell their land to the foreign investor like it would have reached an extent that when it is currently, an understanding of the benefits that are brought by forests as a result of sustainable development.

That argument was as a result of feelings of some of the villagers of POS, that they will give a huge land to what is called Bieldt.

Four years ago, Bieldt.

However, up to now the company has not completed that land, and reliable information is that it has shown the areas after ending of vegetables, and that the main objective of the company was to get pregnant and have to transport outside the country, and not to prevent them!

The chief executive officer of MCST, Jomo Kenyatta, told those journalists of JET that his organization was not involved in the process of selling land for Bieldt.

"The process was secret and the contract was approved, they would have been forced to request the villages to agree of the agreement," said Makalla.

Speaking about the issue of Health Insurance Limited, the Director of Kilwa district council, Adoh Mapunda, confirmed that there is no doubt that had been planted up until now, and that the company has reduced the project.

"This issue is very important because it involves legal issues and basically, thousands of these hectares still are property of the company although it has shown that land, this issue is in high level and the one is being dealt with for solutions," said the director.

Any reason, after the Kilwa district in Kilwa district to recognize the benefits they are required to get the reserve of the reserve, and especially considering that it is sustainable, there is no longer a village that explains the issue of selling land to foreign investors.
