
Answers of Nape the victory of Obama runs 22 million.

I start to start this article with the quote of Nape Nnauye, the secretary of ideology and propagation of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), about the recent victory of President Barack Obama of the United States of America, Nape Nnauye that is happening at the community of Forums, November 7, this year saying.

"The victory of Obama's victory against Kidney. It is a good lesson to the opposition in our country, if they will not hesitate to learn, so as to make sure that the party is near to power, but the victory of Obama does not have a lot of challenges that are facing him, but a large number of votes are very fast and to make sure that the party is very close to them, but it does not have a difficult time to vote for me.

In this article, I will not answer Nape to talk about the argument and as to attract my colleagues about the danger of some politicians like Nape to capture the success of politicians in another country and allow them to be successful.

Basically, that politician has been done from all the fourth issue, although it is true that CCM and his government have tried to implement some of their promises (for example the construction of several roads), one of the primary promises that were given by the party's candidate in the year 2005, President Jakaya Kikwete, about better life through Skype.

On my part, a great obstacle to the promise of President Kikwete, are corruption that do not conclude that he is disrupting the country since the fourth term will not accept to be an obstacle because one of the previous statements by President Kikwete after getting married to them and that happiness was not allowed to be self-employed.

Until today there is no reason that who cared for the "couples, and instead, we are witnessing on the new corruption, following every new day, Nape tries to resolve the implementation of the promise of Obama when he went to power and of the citizens of CCM.

While Obama has succeeded in implementing his promise to capture the international player, Osama Malcom Company, and also implementing his promise of removing the American army in Benon, despite the "President Kikwete on corruption, another promise that he would complete the problems of the electricity connection, has continued to be just a dream.

In the second issue, Nape claims that CCM cannot know the challenges that are facing the voters of Tanzania. It is correct for CCM regarding the problems of local citizens, especially the growth of bribery in the country, but that party has happened to be independent and bribery.

The recent evidence that CCM is a lesson that causes the corruption authority is a knee injury to his government in dealing with our money in Switzerland.
When he called Nape to be a large number of noise, meaning your impatient, because it is a cry for many Tanzanians, if you remove the corrupt people that he spoke of Nape is what that caused him to carry the huge corruption such as EPA, Richmond and etc, this issue of money that had been destroyed by the corruption and the murder of Switzerland.

In the third motion, the Secretary General of CCM, claims that they dishing the success of the administration that is in power, it is same as identifying the opposition party because it has never happened to CHADEMA or another opposition party members on issues of those opponents who Nape claims everything.

What he is tired of Nape that it is difficult for everything, for sure it is the lack of opposition parties for the problems of citizens and then put it publicly as the construction of the road is one of the community that is caused by corruption, it is same as a subject of water which is equivalent to water, but it has revealed some loss.

President Kikwete swears in peace, corruption get married and without considering that those corrupt people are clear that his efforts will end to a fire accident.

The fourth issue of Nape is supposed to make me ask if he had a bad behavior or it is a confirmation that even the CCM's Publicity Secretary did not understand that his party does not understand the politics of socialism and not to return to the ideology.

While Nape has a right to compared to the success of CCM and any party (not the right) has emerged as the ruling party, 'Freedom' Association (BRN), the truth is that what will complete that ruling party is the one that will complete that ruling party is the one that will complete that ruling party is the one that will make sure that the opposition are private and not cries by our opponents.

When I was able to marry off the victory of Obama, I would like to do that for our general elections of the year 2015 about the position of opposition to strengthen CCM and it is true that the opposition has a great job to strengthen CCM, which basically is doing everything to move forward as soon as possible.
