
Prayers, being released by the funeral of journalist Freddy Maro - London and Dar es Salaam.
November 30th, 2012

The BBC Swahili channel in London is reminding the BBC lovers, brothers, relatives, and friends especially in England to be a service to bid farewell to his reporter, Fred Swagg, who died on the night before Saturday of 17, 2012, will be on Saturday first of December 2012.
That service will take place in the church of St. Anne's house in London City from five o'clock in the morning.
The address of the church is, St Ann's Catholic Church, Gahura ward, London, Escrow Account and Escrow account.

The journey to take the body of the late in Dar es Salaam in Tanzania will be on Monday (3 December 2012) at the British Council Airways.
The body is expected to arrive in Dar es Salaam at the Julius Nyerere International Airport, Tuesday night.
A service provider for the burial in Tanzania is taking place at the home of its parents Tabata Primary School in Dar es Salaam city.
Fred started the broadcasting of Radio Tanzania before going to Europe for their studies and he has been doing work while he continued with the second degree of masters, "digital Media" at one university of London.
He participated in the important programs that got the reputation especially art, culture, and the community as a result of helping many residents of London especially those of East Africa.

He participated in the spread of the ordinary news in the Swahili channel of BBC.
His colleagues in the Swahili channel of BBC that remember, Fred is a good person, a man, a man, and the one that had a lot of joy and the one that there was bad luck and taking them well.
He participated in the important programs that got the reputation especially art, culture, and the community as a result of helping many residents of London especially those of East Africa.
Fred will be remembered for his competence in the ordinary news in the Swahili channel of BBC.
We thank you sincerely for the BBC agency for addressing them to cater for all the plans of assessing the body of the late Fred up to Tanzania.
They also thank you for all who participated in one way or another to make all the plans for all the funeral.
It has been released by Zanzibar.
While the gift?
The coordinator of the funeral.
The Swahili language of BBC.
London.

For more information.
+ 212,089 percent.
