
The farming of flowers, vegetables will not lie on May 31, 2012.

Vegetables and flowers from the provinces of the northern region of Arusha and Kilimanjaro is in danger of the collapsed due to big competition of Kenya and Ethiopia in Europe and America, has been known.
The executive director of the farmers of bed sheets and crude oil (TAHA), Jackieli Pius, has said that the purchase of flowers from Tanzania in the European countries has dropped out of 30 to 50 percent from the period between October the year 2008, a situation that gives the development of the agricultural sector in the country.
A big reason according to Mkwajuni, in his last week, is an increase in production of flowers at the neighboring countries of Kenya and Ethiopia which are soccer clubs in vegetables and flowers.
"Ethiopia for example has succeeded to have a great farms for flowers during a period of three years ago, a situation that makes big companies that buy flowers from European countries to meet their needs at one time instead of buying a small load of flowers that come from Tanzania," said Mkonga.
On the side of Kenya together with producing large numbers of that country has launched Tanzania business due to Tanzania depending on its planes in transporting its flowers to the European market.
Near all the flowers that are being transported through Kenya by using an airplane of the Kenya Air Force Organization (KQ) and its results have increased the first flowers before transporting Tanzanian flowers that can be able to sit at the Jomo Kenyatta Stadium in Nairobi for a whole week before being transported.
That situation has been said to cause a lot of flowers that get spoilt before the same market intended and also increase in cost that are not a must for many farmers of Tanzania.
That procedure in accordance to many stakeholders of that sector from Tanzania seems to be afraid of flowers from Tanzania being done by Kenyans in order to remove the international market.
"In general Tanzania has been affected so much and it has been unable to participate in the competition of vegetables and flowers as a result of lack of reliable policies of running the farming from the government," said Mkonga.
Mkingie has explained that another reason for the drop in the level of flowers is caused by the economic problems that are in many countries in the world where many young people have been affected by many people being affected by many companies.
He said that due to the environment that came out now, the companies that buy flowers from the European countries taking priority to flowers that come from their countries before buying flowers from African countries and spreading them in market.
That director explained that situation has caused some of the big farms in the provinces of Arusha and Kilimanjaro, to get a huge loss after failing to transporting flowers from those Europe countries.
"This issue has begun bringing huge effects and one directly to the farmers of this sector here in the country and now big farms have reduced the production of that product," explained Mkonga.
That director said that the rise in oil costs in the period of July year 2008, caused many affected with the agriculture at the cost of input goods, drugs, and operation of administration activities.
He said most of the big farmers are faced with a difficult time in problems that came out and there is a probability that some farms have been composed of huge loans with some of the financial institutions in the country.
In that report, Mkingie has advised the government on one side and other institutions like the Central Bank of Tanzania (BOT) and other stakeholders to put strategies in addition to bring in the sector he changed to him more.
"The government does not lie to ensure that the funds that were given by the World Bank (WB) and the African Bank (ADB) through the CRDB Bank for the purpose of farmers in the vegetables and flowers that get to the beneficiaries as planned," he said.
According to the statistics that are available on vegetables and flowers in Tanzania has given a sum of 130 million American dollars to employ 30,000 people in Kenya, the agricultural sector is estimated to reach 1 billion American dollars and provide employment to 500,000 shillings per year.
