
The court refuses.
Anthony.
The high court for the second time yesterday refused to give an order of stopping the implementation of great security laws, insisting that it is a must to get the government's side before giving that order.
The government has been given five days to present its defense in a case that was presented by Geology, so as to want the laws to be stopped.
"It is clear that the decision was required if the new law was to be stopped but the official answer from the government is also important before any decision taken. Therefore, I urge the defending champions to work quickly to submit their answer before the session of being pressured by a case on December 29," said the judge in that country.
Correa scored in that new law has failed to boycott the security options, with a huge tension expected to come out on Wednesday during that session after the request of the director of Public Service (DPP), we are still as a leader.
Mister we are arrived in court and Paul Oreo 'so that they can be able to present that request, different from sometimes, it gets the ministers on behalf of his office.
The government on another part was sent by the government's chief lawyer, Mutasingwa John, to represent all the two, Maqbool Somba to be released for the time for time, saying they had a time to present their answers.
"We will get any order for some time this time, that case was made due to claims of violating the constitution that has not yet been confirmed, it is needed to end the bench for three judges," said Mister.
At the same time, Judge Lennarth Hola has agreed to be connected with Cord and the one of the national commission for human rights (KMU) because they were presented to hand in line to oppose those new laws.
The union is looking at different issues in the security law (Markhiya) 2014, they are claiming the constitution, a way of violence that the law was called, lack of being involved in the public and lack of being involved by the Senate in discussing that meeting.
"The security law aims to change our lives due to how people can live in peace.
It involves the rights of basically the citizens and therefore it depends on the constitution, and it's the appropriate time so, "said lawyer James.
