
Holding the presidency of the university.

Rashid Mkonga.

The popular lawyer in the country who has also been appointed as the chairman of CHADEMA, Mbeya Province, Bwambale has taken and return the form of vying for the position of member of the National Executive Council (NEC) and continued to break their opponents for lack of sustainable development strategies for citizens.

I Bwambale who has been among the several party members of CCM who came out to vie for that position has continued to capture the opposition parties and said that it is a dream of the party and said they are continuing to give birth to citizens against the government and therefore causing it has dropped by development.

Mister Shanghai, has been among the great politicians when he was in the opposition camp who also had vying for the parliamentary seat on CHADEMA ticket in Mbeya region competing with CCM candidate on April last year in Dodoma city, before President Jakaya Kikwete.

He has said that he has decided to give him more inside the top leadership of CCM so as to set up the strategies and root itself, which will make the party run away from power and that it is a continuation of the party to help them continue to lead the country in the coming century.

He has said that his sincere intention is to see CCM does not go back to power, because it has a great ability, being thrown out, it will not be thrown out of the country.

He has clarified that he has in the leadership like partner and keenly because of serving the country and that those who are claiming that CCM will go to know their soul because they do not know well in CCM.

He has continued to be noted that any party with the senior leaders without stopping the elections come back in the implementation of its manifesto for interests and productivity for the citizens and not to continue with conflicts and demonstrations that increase their hatred and hostility between the citizens and their government.

Others who came out to vie for that position until today afternoon are together with the farmer who was going into the finals of opinion polls to vie for the presidential position in the CCM year 1995, Ephraimu Mwasanguti who has also released his form yesterday at the CCM offices in Mbeya town.
