That tension this in the sun and when they do?
Deodatha Makani, 2015.

I believe that there is no matter that affects the sportsmen here in the country to see that every day in the country is making several steps to go back.
Tanzania is a lot of talents that if they could be made by that organization well, this country would have been different from different games to the international standards.
It may be a big problem to be in the system that is in charge of sports through different parties and leaders in some of the sports parties, have been happy about the plans to check the success quickly without the presence of sustainable plans, which would be able to bear fruit at the next time.
The sports stakeholders are used to discuss more games of soccer and we have forgotten that other games that also have a chance to increase in status of the nation from within and outside.
What happened at the end of the week in Dar es Salaam city during the competition of the international international competition between Francis Cheka by Kiyungi center from Thailand, it is obvious that the boxing game is heading into poverty due to few people using their lives and not for the purpose of improving.
In that contest, Cheka managed to win by getting married (TLB) on the seventh round after his opponent failed to continue.
For those who follow up events of tension in that game, they have not seen that what happened in the recent days, when it happened the match of Mohamed Shein against the Chinese.
Few days before that contest, if you witness the contest, they did not participate as it was announced previously and there was tension in boxing it has been announced there, when they been announced there were numerous attackers as and then the last minutes they are not allowed.
But the biggest thing was to be accountable because if he won the contest, he won the contest, had participated in the final match in a big international match of Manny Pacquiao and Floyd Mayweather.
I don't want you to talk about those last year, but there is no way to discuss what happened the day before yesterday during the contest of joining his opponent from Thailand because that is a continuation of tension in the process of leading that game.
In addition to the contest for the Cheka Paid Boxing Commission at the end of the week, lack of killing many people as usual, there are actions that happened but they did not need.
For example, the deceased's opponent had refused to go into the stage because he was not the Parliament that he had given his money as an agreement that he said.
The journalists that they came out for their freedom to work while going away from security guards as it has never happened to the journalists in the fight.
When you leave that, after the contest of Jichunge.'
The statement made by Francis Cheka after that situation, we should understand the issue and it is obvious that this game you do not get pregnant people and to think about more that, that will be the end.
The Executive Secretary of PST, Anthony Mavunde, who were waiting for that contest was quoted by some of the media saying that they have already received those reports and that they had been congratulating them too.
The National Sports Council (BMT) has ever said that their work is to give a permit for it to happen, and if a problem will receive the problem and they have noticed that she has gone against and looking on how to solve.
He said Cheka will not be written on some of the media houses and that he cannot defend a promotion in him, but even leaders of the parties of that game may be contribute to killing that game.
Cheka said that those leaders are the ones that deal with protecting that do not have the ability and fail to look for companies with the ability to sponsor different accidents.
What he stated, it is not the first time to be heard on it but it has been claims by many soccer stakeholders, and especially the issue of having good work, depending on the entry fees, and not having enough capital to prepare a status of status.
Cheka has said that he is not very happy to look for a promotion in that court for the purpose of those payments, he said that on how he saw the same day of depending on the number of people who participated in the hall.
