
The gold farmers from Professor James Mbatia, the contestants side have won.

Rashid Mkomagu led by, Mwandoya Village, Mbozi district, the location of the purchase of coffee alone in Mbeya province has taken a new look after farmers and the water stakeholders in Mbeya province has taken a new look after farmers and the water stakeholders' infrastructure, Professor Jumanne Maghembe is responsible for that he has failed to implement his party's directive that seems to help the farmers.

Citizens and the agricultural stakeholders reported to that step after emerging the claims by that minister was bought by some companies that are claimed to suck farmers, where he arrived in Mbozi district and farmers who want to enter into the meeting hall on claims that it was rescued by Mbeya Regional Commissioner, Mister Abbas Kandoro who urged the citizens to enter.

While talking on how to fight inside the Mbozi district council hall, some of the leaders present said that the position of the agricultural minister is possible that it does not allow them to be responsible, as well as the existence of the slogan of the local government.

"This ministry will be difficult to you with the difficulty that you will not pay himself, it is clear that the farmers in the issue is open, you have become a problem in the interests of farmers while the ministry has lost," said the chairman of Mbeya District Council, Bwambalu.

And the chairperson of CCM in Mbozi district, Mister Aloyce Mdudu said that the existence of leaders of the kind of the minister for agriculture was the existence of a government that is blamed for a bad example to the citizens.

"You have been given a bond of managing integrity, that show it open that we have integrity in the headlines, there is no longer a place for learning we don't want, instead of addressing the issue of drinking water and we do not help a farmer," he said and added.

"I am pleased with a lot of problems that we sat with the citizens, I am the chairperson of CCM here in the country, and that the government had a lot of leaders," insisted Mister Mdigo.

On his part, the Member of Parliament for Arumeru East, Godfrey Zambi has told Minister Maghembe that on this issue, they do not have tickets of some people to see that there is a basic thing that is not correct but he said that the foundation stone is to check the law and regulations they can talk about the purchase of coffee alone.

He said that the purchase of coffee alone has warned the farmer so as to be a member of parliament where he wants to allow some of the companies to buy cancer and be from now the government can get a license of the purchase of coffee alone.

"It will be the madness of looking at the purchase of coffee alone and later on my question that I had decided to ask for parliament and about the stand of the government to buy coffee alone, when the lawyer says there was a special policy to allow this week to prevent the farmers," he said.

Chairman of the Mbozi district council Heleni has said that there is a big possibility of the minister to fail to make that ministry and that if the minister will supervise the purchase of coffee alone, he is ready to see President Jakaya Kikwete and that it is possible for the ability to be the minister inside that ministry is small.

And the Provincial Commissioner emphasized that the stand of Mbeya province to protect the purchase of coffee alone and said that stakeholders in the council of districts that know their rights have signed that position for the interests of the farmers.

"

However, after different parts of various areas, Professor Maghembe said that his objective was good to get a representative from the groups of citizens and stakeholders and that the problem he was done against farmers is to have a small price of drinking water.

"The blood price is small, the prices of farmers should not affect all power and to be strengthen the political parties, the ministry does not have the problem and decisions of legal sittings," he said.
