Probably, your right is this one?
Frode Dyrdal of 1st, 2013.

Last week hundreds of African people have been coming out in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia and many went to attend the celebrations to commemorate 50 years of the East African Community (AU) who are 12 years ago the African Union (AU).
Some of us went to the end of the 50 years, to look at the place where we are and we are going on, we are doing so that we go through that union have been encouraged to be done in developing South Africa in a period of 50 years to come.
Bad luck in doing that evaluation, there are those who forget where they come from.
We have already explained to someone who want to see me in the East African Legislative Assembly (Pan African Community) that you want to make a volatile state, can't be treated just and everyone had given the opportunity to write and identify the union.
We have forgotten that the great contribution of the African Union in the liberation of South Africa, if you look at the African continent since the beginning of the last century until now, we see that the great strength of the world heading to freedom is the concept of promoting African traditions in addition to its size.
The movements of the southern highland regions were as a result of developing a high level of vying for the African countries.
Among the nouns that are located in Rassemblement have said that De Bruine (Radhiyallahu An'ha) was founded by 1946, in Baamar, Mali, under Flexible Music.
The case was the first community of East African countries in African countries that give the French language, it was not one party but a network of different parties that are having one direction in the country to look for African countries.
On the side of our region of East and Central Africa, we had the community of Pickup, and later Pickup, which include together with the South African countries.
And then take your presidential meeting of the African Legislative Assembly (AAPC) that was done in three times in Accra (1958), we are expected to arrive in Cairo with 1961, where all gatherings have helped to bring a political launch in Africa.
AGAPC was a meeting that was attended by representatives of political parties in the country that were free in that time together with non-independent parties, workers and other issues.
The goal was to fight for the freedom of the colonialist, to strengthen the neighboring countries that were free and took into the colonial history in Accra where the first general secretary was George Bompunga Padou.
If you follow up with the size of African traditions in your country, there are also African countries that showed the reputation of African countries in their efforts to help other countries, which will liberate them.
Here when we see the contribution of Tanzania by standing by the committee on the freedom of the country, the free of African countries and the second donation is to urge the liberation parties of Mozambique, Angola, and Namibia.
Zambia, so that it gave a great contribution to help the liberation of the countries in the south of Africa and Guinea-Confucius Philosophy to help the Democratic Field of Guinea-Bissau, Cape Verde, Igunga District.
Another country that was free and a which is expected to help the liberation of Africa is Morocco being under King Mohammed of five.
The government of Morocco, I have mentioned one example, put up a lot of example, compared to Kenya, I remember this day, Joseph Mulebya and later he was the vice president of Kenya, when he used in Morocco when he was under the British rule.
Other than the country there are people.
I have written many men but on your good example, women they held a gun to be a good example is the friend of Muthir Machel of Mozambique.
True he is not supposed to say that some of the heroes who live in their country after freedom had gone to be a solution.
But those are other than that, the right now is that there are other African countries, it is not 20 years or 30 that it will be released, it will be a step.
Now approximately African countries are free (54) of Sub-Saharan African countries, Mayemba (one out of the Sahara Desert which is currently dominated by France) and the Standard Chartered Bank which is of Mauritius but the items are born by England.
