
Mbeya Cement Company participates in the construction of a political rally for sports in Chunya District.

Rashid Mkonga.

The modern sports stadium which will cost a total of 8 billion shillings, has started to be built in Chunya District, Mbeya Region.

The stadium that has the ability to collect 50,000 dollars is expected to be aired in the economy of its kind in the district of Chunya District and Mbeya Region and in districts of other provinces in the country from Dar es Salaam.

Speaking about the construction of that stadium, the head of Chunya District, Deodatus Mwiliko said that the stadium will be built by citizens themselves by partnering with the district council where the proposal of the construction of the stadium left the council's sessions to be supported by the council of councilors.

He said in its sessions, where the district council was unable to set aside 70 million shillings in its every year's budget while every citizen is responsible to contribute to the construction of that stadium starting from the year 2000 for every year whereby the construction of the stadium is expected to be completed in 2016.

In the strategy of the construction in Kinama, he said that various stakeholders have come out to contribute to the construction of that stadium which is in the previous steps including the Llongero company that produces cement of 1000 bags.

Speaking at the time of contributing to the construction of that stadium, the Executive Director of Llongero company, Catherine Lungy said that his company has received the request from the head of Chunya District and agreed to contribute to 1000 bags.

Lungy said that apart from doing business, its company contributes to various community services to citizens who are in close areas with their factory thus the donation is part of their normal services to the citizens.

"" Our services comply with the needs of the community that could fly without caring about the benefits, "said Lil.

He noted that the presence of that stadium will give an employment opportunities to the citizens of those areas and improve their economy.

On his side, the Executive Director of Chunya District Council, Sophia Mjema said that the stadium will be part of the Revenue Authority and that various stakeholders have come out to contribute to the stadium to their strength and their properties.

He said that the opportunity of the presence of that modern stadium will increase sports in the district and Mbeya province in general so stakeholders should come out to contribute to the development of the stadium.

And the secretary of the construction committee of that stadium, Swaliatu Msuya said that until now a total of 107 million shillings were contributed by various stakeholders including companies that produce minerals in that district and small miners.

He said the other stakeholders that contributed is together with the member of parliament of Lennarth Hoja, who contributed a total of 11 million in which the district council has contributed a total of 30 million shillings for the financial year 2013 / 14.
