The presidency has gone down in status, others do not see the State House like it.
August 19, 2012

The position has been given a person in the community to enable him serve his fellow members, because his colleagues have requested them to serve him, it is a representative position.

The one who have been given that opportunity is to be sent in work, has been shown a load on behalf of his community because the community has discovered that he had the ability to make that work.

In the political situation, such as political party, the situation is that one for the representation is given to a person who is seen to have a great ability than his colleagues in order to fulfill our responsibility.

Other responsibilities while they take a new chapter, and if they get a new chapter, therefore, if we look at the current political history, we would recognize that Julius Nyerere, a young man from the coast region because she was the reputation of the ones that are needed so as to welcome the colonialist.

Nyerere was getting great education more than many of her colleagues, he did not know the British maybe if he had the ability to build a motion and will be understood to the British who had the ability to say what he wanted to say without getting married to the British.

He had another reputation also, which we did not state so much, although it is clear that it had its importance of whom I had a Christian and then it was easy to see him as a student who had already put an evaluation and see if their partner which could have a lot of fear.

We can think about other environment, and without going around as Tanganyika would have been a political situation that goes up with Kenya for the same time, in the middle of the Mau Mau fighters, maybe the youth of Tanganyika had decided to have the only way of preventing the colonialists as political conflict, maybe it would have appointed Nyerere.

Maybe, they would have appointed one of the ability to lead fighters with weapons so as to withstand the army to fight with the English Premier League, and maybe on that logic, they would have appointed Ally Choki who was going to war.

Also, in the environment, there is need to take part of the fight against the weapon, that he would have taken a position of leadership that he would have gone because he didn't leave, and he told them that the words have gone anywhere, he didn't know it, "he told her colleagues that they won't leave each other.

Such a situation that happened in Kenya. There is no records showing that the Mau Mau fighters were elected by the main meeting of the fighters and early than that time, we have no evidence of showing such as what is affected by any person being the leader of those activities.

In the history of Kenya we learn, the way I said earlier, that environmental environment changed and the type of someone who is wanted to get a leader and the youth of that country, are looking for a leader with the Mau Mau fighters, where he had already received them publicly.

I am saying here is that the country, the community, political party or any group that comes out and challenges in development, security or development, it makes him a person, or we have appointed people to represent Tanzania, and the reputation of those who have been appointed while being followed by the environment of that time.

When we go back to our situation in Tanzania, today we are witnessing that our politicians have been unable to contest for the presidential position. I have no qualifications to help their party members because they have their qualifications to help their fans, part of the charges they will look for them and when they get the positions they will look for them.

Without doubt the presidency has gone down, it has been a lot, (you are seen him at the State House) if everyone can be the president, even the history of the party we want to do, what are the history of the world or in Africa, what should not know what is far and to look for opportunities of buying and corruption.
