29th October 2013.

Members of the steering committee.
They were three gun, swords and death.
That was found dead, there are the workers of the government.
By Yusuph.
Mussa, Handeni.
Tanga Provincial Commissioner, Retired Lieutenant Abdallah.
Gallawa said that people who stopped him are the police, Salum Mgaka and broke down.
The head of Police Sporah Show in Kilindi District, Edward Lusillile.
What was it safely.

He said the group is waiting for the government of President Jakaya Kikwete.
Claiming that it is suffering from the plans of wanting Tanzania to come out and he stopped speaking with the journalists in Handeni Town, Miss Chiku.
He said that group was put in three camp in that district which he did.
Various competitions including the army.

"Also this group is the one that was waiting for the process of.
The year 2012, the three camp were in the Larger ward and Negatu.
Village of Al Madina, "at the Madina Center, two followers have been killed after being found.
To oppose the act of being arrested by police on 26th of October this year have called the followers.
The Sunni religion, "he said.

He mentioned the followers that were killed as Ramadhan Hamis, who is.
The businessman of minerals and another name.
One time but it is said that it is a religious teachers of Islam.
Lungwani Market.

He added that that group has been found with three motorbikes.
As a group, there was a draw, two bunches that are made in eternal peace.
Msamvu, 10th, Miss Chiku Gallawa said 46 followers.
That has already been arrested but an surprising issue with the workers of the government.
Which are the teachers of primary schools and they will be presented in court any time.
The defense and security committee of the province.
It is led by Miss Chiku Gallawa, has decided to put in Kilindi District because they are now a situation.
The security is not a good until it took place while speaking to the Majira newspaper.
The police commander of that province, Elizabeth Masawe has said the police came, Salum Mgaka.
He was killed on October 22nd this year, Edward Lowassa was shot dead in the legs.
October 23, two o'clock at night.
That group uses residents of the villages.
Different districts in that district have been expelled from their colleagues due to their behavior.
To oppose various development issues.
The introduction of that group is after one colleague who is a businessman.
They are required to pay taxes in Llongero village and refused so.
They found himself between their followers that he took the decision to go to court.
Mgambo who was not identified and another killed.
