
New emerges victorious with Professor Lipumba's death on 09 / 2012.

More than two years now since Professor Juan Jesus also allowed her to be careful at his home area of Salasala, Dar es Salaam city, not his family or public with knowing what is going on, all of what is happening, regarding the possibility of the law.

Brother on their part, especially his wife, they have been following the fate of the case concerning the accused of those killings, but their efforts have not been able to bear fruit, the case is not easy because it is not easy because it is not easy to be a series of people that surround him in a shadow of the suspects that were arrested on a shadow of the suspects that were arrested.

"I don't know anything that is going on, every time when we follow the police and court, I was told that they are continuing with investigation on some of its students admitted in court, but when I was told, they are still very difficult, because there are more than those who were arrested," says Ryszard Kapuchinski.

Professor Jumanne Maghembe and the lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam, Faculty of law, was killed by unknown people yesterday night of July 13, in 2010 when it comes back to home.

Many have spoken about the murder of the law in the country, every group being led by the killing of those killings, some of the accused of the killing of Kimbari in Rwanda, who had dropped out in the international court of Kimbira of Rwanda in Arusha town.

There are also involved those killings and the death of the former Governor of the Central Bank (BoT), David Kalali, those who believe that the governor got a meeting with Professor Assad and it is possible that they were talking about the scandal of the foreign accounts (EPA).

These are going on, now the report of the investigation on how many citizens have succeeded to receive, have added a lot of controversy in the reasons for the killings, they explained that the killing of Professor Lipumba's killings and the leaders inside the police force in Ruvuma province.

More news indicate that the involved in accordance with those new reports, have been passing through Peramiho, Songea, Ruvuma province and Dar es Salaam.

According to those reports, the killings of Professor Ibrahim's killing was planned and coordinated inside the Tegeta Thermal Power Station in Ruvuma province where it was reported that the deaths of those killings due to the purchase of the gold mine, Lukaya, that is owned by the solar eclipse.

The reports are saying that Professor Lipumba stopped the documents of the ownership of that mine and contributed an explanation from the biggest of the organization, who has been mentioned by the name's father, Lambert, who ordered the directors who were chosen to supervise the shares of that organization in that mine without considering that Professor Idorous.

According to those reports, Professor Muhongo said that he had been nominated to be one of the representatives of that organization in the gold mine in the gold mine on August 12, 2003 that was placed on August 12, 2003 that was set aside by Shanghai, Adil Junction.

The two representatives were appointed by the The Great and the community of parliament of Peramiho state who are supposed to be given another person, a resident of Songea town who has been mentioned by the name Steven Haule, who was alive.

The appointment of the representatives was a big offence among their colleagues being led to the group of people who wanted to be handed the responsibility to represent the organization in that mine said that it is a group that had given a plot to resolve those documents at any cost even if it is to give the life of legal representatives of that organization.

Reports indicate that while the representative of the organization of those children, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, urged the law to follow the law to follow the law in taking the same mine, Lukaya, a stand that they did not agree with them due to the privacy of the mine on behalf of those involved.

Various illustrations, how many citizens have succeeded to fined some of the former leaders of that organization to be behind that group of political parties and their partners have already planned to fulfill the big misunderstanding with the new leaders who were chosen by the former president of the Peramiho state, father.
Lambert.

The secret of the ownership of Liganga and Lukivi has said that the organization is owning various property including houses, vehicles, gun and gold mine, Lukaya, Mbinga province in Ruvuma province.

However, those documents show that the organization has been using that mine in secret and use the representatives who are coming out on the documents of that organization.

That organization of parliament of Peramiho state, has bought the shares in RCO company, that owns the gold mine, Lukaya, whose dollars is explained to be more than three hundred thousand shillings and sources within the organization of "Roman Church with Benedict Liwenga.

According to the documents of the company in the year 1997, the shareholders of RCO company have been reported to be of Mathew, Dismas Mosha, Johnson Mbwambo and Karim Msigwa and Karim Msigwa and Karim Msigwa.

The shares of that organization in the BMC) did not be written by the name of Peramiho.
However, the records to buy shares is revealed at that organization when those have shown that the Peramiho is a conservative, which has thrown out Johnson Nchimbi, former executive director of KFC Kuku Foods Limited that were thrown on behalf of the organization.

Among those documents, they are some of the purchase of shares from the appellant, Karim,, communication and Human Settlements Development Company about the payment of those shares and legal documents about the appointment of representatives of that organization, Professor Idorous.

The documents of the appointment was to be together with Shuda and Haule, which is in those documents are mentioned the 4250 shares in the organization, Lukaya, the division with the representatives of two shares to 2000, each one and Haule of 250 shares.

In those documents also, it is needed the participation of Nchimbi in writing the secret of that organization, 4250 shares.

The procedure that was used by that organization to own the gold mine, Lukivi has said that it is giving strength to those people together with their partners to inform them during this issue going to the breaking of the killing, but at that time you agree that there are other documents that involve one of the ownership of that mine.

"I don't know anything, he will not make sure he will not depend on the holy martyr.

The answer of that kind was issued by Johnson Nchimbi during his interview with Raia Mwema, he insisted that "I am not allowed to give information to the company and it is good to give him questions, I told him and we want to go the breaking of."

Nchimbi said again his wife should be good for someone to create a report, I am not a company's spokesperson, if you want more information to communicate. "

Internal sources of that organization shows that the killing of Professor Ndalichako and the support of some of the disabled people in that organization.

Furthermore, another report makes a person who was very close to Professor Lipumba's close to make sure that plan like the Professor Ibrahim Lipumba should agree to provide documents to the organization.

The sources of the family of the deceased, together with any information reports depends on the environment of a person with the deceased, a few days to the killings.
The family of the deceased being unable to confirm himself by the person since she went to Salasala from Kunduchi, something that was seen since it was not normal.

Those explanations are a result of the sources within the organization that explains that the late being with one director of the police who wanted to take home to talk about the message that there was not seen and they did not meet with him again until the Professor Muhongo was not seen.

Reports indicate that during the funeral of that person, he arrived at the home of the late area of Salasala, being the first time since that family not using it there.

Communication of those who are trusted by Professor Ndalichako before his killing, showed that apart from him, there were more than three other people who were on the list of killing, and that already they had already used that plot.

Professor Sospeter Muhongo was the main backbone of Shangani company and one of the representatives of the organization within RCO) after his killing, directors left them found themselves in a difficult time, being forced to release their positions.
