It is the ministry of livestock and fisheries.
Sep 18, 2014.

Finally, the court had set free of China citizens and requested the government to return to them their things including a total of illegal immigrants in the economy of Tanzania. (EPara).
Therefore, the government has emerged in that famous case as the case of "fish by Magufuli that was opened in 2012 when Doctor John Magufuli was the minister of livestock and fisheries.
They were released free after the charges presented to court the documents to remove the charges of charges (including fingers.
This is the second time for those foreign fishermen from being left for the first time he was released by the Court of March 28 this year, but they were arrested again and sentenced to the charges that were canceled.

Now, the court had set free and requested them to complete their things that they were held in that town, so as a very difficult time to be done or in the sea when the case is still ongoing.

This is after the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries being unable to prevent it since when it was arrested on March 8, 2009 with 293 tons of fish, the shivered in the Indian Ocean (EPara) without a permit.

That ship started or after they were able to get his campaigns on his campaigns and brought down a bronze medal and went to sell them in the estates.

Likewise, the fish that were found in that ship are estimated to be worth more than two billion shillings, all over two billion shillings in various institutions for the decision by the prime minister. He also wanted to sell them, but after lack of buyers, he claimed that the government cannot do business. "

Before preventing those fish, they were apprehended in one of the private companies of private companies, that is the government given a lot of money to sell and then put free for free.
Unfortunately, the citizens are not taxed is because there were no boundaries because there was no enough evidence and if there was no enough proof?

Why is the first time for those suspects to be free and the court we have been arrested again for the charges he did, maybe the experts will help us.
On the side of the charges to submit the request, "Surface and Malongo Mwesingwa has said that it is something that is not worried that there are those who protect the office of the attorney general (AG), there are also some of the blame to Magufuli.
One political party has forced President Kikwete to work Magufuli by causing losses to the government and they are saying that the case of case was not enough to ensure those suspects can win and pay the government.

They are saying it's good Kikwete to look for him keenly, the office of the attorney general together with the lawyers of the government because of them being unable to break the case immediately. "

"There is a probability that some of his youth have reached bribery so as to be able to stop some of the cases by preparing instructions that do not happen annually," said the party.
During the opinion of other parties or even the public institutions, maybe if they see it's just to speak about the constitution of the constitution, other things are not important so that many cases can be taken even if many cases can be taken even if there are no problem.
But when we talk about this case, it is good and we talk about the whole issue of illegal fishing and how it affects our country as well as our neighboring countries, because this is a very important issue, it is a lot of challenges facing all.

This case of "fish by Magufuli" is only one example that explains how to use our resources in the sea, where we have been talking about gas, oil and minerals at our neighborhood has also been a big source of resources that is faced in plenty.
The professionals are complaining that lack of illegal immigrants that could be paid by 80 percent of revenue that would be found from the fishing sector and they are unable to get enough revenue from illegal fishing.

In general four million people in this country are depending on the fishing sector in order to run their lives due to the sea and the rivers could be an importance of the fishing sector.
The provinces of Tanzania mainland has a length of 3,000 shillings while in Unguja and Pemba which are at 4675 kilometers, these are areas with many fish, all of each type and other attractions.

Unfortunately, the government has been unable to control the destruction of this source of wealth, there are smoking of small fish, others use bombs or chemicals as others use a small hole and others use gas.

Its results are of destroying the neighborhood of fish if the sun should be shaken, Mapango, and cold drinks together with air conditioning.
