
A new constitution: The legality of the members of parliament.
October 18th, 2012

A lot of members of parliament and delegates of the representatives council of Zanzibar being part of the delegates.
The constitution of the constitution has emerged, some of the scholars, including Professor Issa Shivji said the groups should be given because they have a conflict of conmen.

The basis of the recommendations of the members of parliament and representatives of the constitutional assembly is due to what is explained by question, "when it comes from citizens wanted the constitution to place an end of the parliamentary elections, the constitutional parliament and many members of parliament will agree?

But on his part, the chairperson of the Constitutional Review Commission Judge Joseph Warioba and he told Bongo, "you will end where people who do not have interests in the whole issue like the country's constitution and every citizen has the interests in the constitution."

Professor Shivji said the colleagues gave that view during the conference organized by Mwalimu Nyerere profession, on a memory of the death of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, October 14, this year, the conference was held at the University of Education Link (MUM), Iringa province.

In that conference, the big topics were discussed at the first time with the union in the context of the process of the new constitution, others are youths and employment.

Speaking at that conference, Professor Shivji said together with other things, he said there was no problem.
In the law to run the new constitution process, especially about the structure of the constitutional parliament.

"The very important thing than even the press (opinion polls) is the constitutional parliament and it's supposed to be the parliament of the citizens, otherwise, the legality of the new constitution will be doubt," said Shivji and added that "he is wrong for delegates of the constitutional parliament to be silent because of the citizens for the special work."

While Professor Shivji said that, for his part, Ibrahim Mzee, who is the running mate (DPP) of Zanzibar, in his contribution towards members of parliament and delegates of the council of representatives, "to be sold to be the delegates of the Constitutional Assembly.

"There is mistakes that are repeated if it was in the constitution of constitution in 1977 it means it repeated on the year 1977 because the constitutional parliament was made due to presidential delegates (instead of the members of parliament), was made by members of parliament and delegates of the council of representatives," says Mzee.

He encouraged the youth to bring in parliament and the council of representatives, whose interests are ready for example, they are members of parliament, coming from the citizens in their views of the new constitution to vie for parliamentary and member of parliament.
He knows the same time, these can refuse to convince him by relying on their interests.

Furthermore, the DPP document said the number of delegates of the constitutional parliament has not been put up in the good ratio between Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar.

And General Ulimwengu, in one of the chief speakers from the conference, he said it is wrong to do a current parliament that has been selected for the purpose of vying for five years to be part of the constitutional parliament.

However, while talking about that, the chairperson of the commission on constitutional changes, Judge Joseph Warioba, told our writer when I register a song "will make the people (delegates of the constitutional parliament) who have no interests and big issues such as the constitution of the country?

Although Judge Warioba said it is not the work of his commission to discuss or join the law of constitutional changes in the year 2011, and that is not part of the terms of reference for the commission, but he said it is not a democratic issue and to be part of the delegates of the constitutional parliament.

"Our work commission is to follow the law and not to follow up on the problems done in the law and not our work and not part of the terms of reference for the second commission, members of parliament are representatives of the citizens.
They were handed over the responsibilities of making laws and therefore, it's not the offense of being part of the Parliament of the constitution, let me ask you if you get the issue of delegates who do not have interests about the whole issue like the country's constitution.

When he was asked about some of the participants from the Mwalimu Nyerere Conference Center to fear for the members of parliament of the ruling party (CCM) and that of the constitution, the constitutional parliament decided to protect more than the interests of the party, Judge Warioba also said that those members have been caused by our democratic system, is the view of the citizens. "

Lost direction.
In another step, Judge Warioba explained that there is a situation of losing reliable direction among local dances.

According to Judge Warioba, some of the IMF are now have the trend of considering the interests of their groups instead of the interests of the country and insisted that they are in the commission to see the interests of the group or certain groups, but the interests of the country.

"Everyone will have the interests in the issue of the constitution with his position as a citizen, I'm seen now and my colleagues in the commission is a new habit of thinking.
To put the interests of some group instead of the interests of the country.

"Our difference with many others are that we are in the commission, we look at the interests of the country as our priority and not the interests of some group.

I advise that we should guide themselves towards the testicles (issues) that are participating in the current process of collecting opinions instead of considering people's activities in the country, this is this habit of considering people instead of the national primary issues, "said Warioba.

Fire is a debate.
During the conference of.

Some of the participants of that debate, put restrictions that the needs of that union have been closed down and at the same time, or to be employed afresh so as to improve or be employed.
