The citizens that live in the main road from Kilwa and joined the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority is in Musoma.
Therefore, they stand for a state of transport to passengers living in the districts of the threats from the problems they face in the passengers' vehicles, he has promised me, let me look for Maxwell.
The donation has been made by the residents of Zimbabwe villages, we join Bilali while giving light on the price or was born when they were born without stopping the passenger vehicles to do the charges against the threats and the head has caused lack of reliable transport.
While speaking to Channel, some of the residents of those villages have explained the difficult time when he was on the same time when he was on the same time when he was on a period when all the vehicle got into the villages having a license to prevent the passengers close to the road that they believe in protecting the factory.
Celebrating that they did not get.
It's not the yes, they can be able to take us but very many times it becomes encouraging to us.
Mafikizolo have been done to take action against the one.
I desire to get married, it has been confirmed that it is called to rise.
You know what is the way it gives.
On the roads, Mart Nooij has said for punishment for every day you know.
By goals, I don't know if you know if you know that I don't know that I have been able to know what the first thing is being asked in place where I love me, but you know the first people.
Let me where I came to come, we're with ideas and resignation from him, I heard this discussion that I've done?
Therefore, if you see if you get, it becomes the process to come.
Even if it is in mind, you and even hypocrisy the intention is.
All the condolences of the person involved in order to get the owners and drivers of those buses they were not ready to vote and ask that the problem is due to the procedure of being fined shillings.
They were charged by police officers on the road safety squad when they were arrested for different crimes and is expected to fill in the way following that situation, captain is making efforts to meet the police officer in that province for a clarification.
But the report from everything is calling him Msangi a day.
