The boss of TANESCO is supporting his wife.
Jide 25, 2012

While the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, is expected to present its budget for the financial year 2012 / 2013, a tension among the members of parliament have continued to rise up to an extent of endanger the debate of the budget of that ministry.

But when that state of tension was revealed among the members of parliament, what can be revealed to be a tension between the leaders of the ministry of energy and minerals, on one side and the leaders of TANESCO who were suspended with the Executive Director of TANESCO (who was suspended), William Mhando, has urged the interests of the tender to supply equipment for the wife of his wife, Eva Mhando, called Santa and Brenda Kharono.

The company of Santa Jacobson who is alleged to be given a contract of 890,650,000 and TANESCO for the purpose of spreading those equipment.

While speaking at the office of Good Citizen yesterday Tuesday, Mhando confessed that the company claims that for now, that company is not the wealth of his family but his wife, Eve, who previously had been employed by that company.

The company was given.

The information reaching us say that Mhando, as the managing director of TANESCO, without caring about the conflict between Rozay and finally he stopped the process of giving the contract to the company to continue and eventually the company won the contract of distributing the office for TANESCO.

Mhando is alleged to give an agreement that the company will be signed on April 4th this year (2011), more information explained that, the company started with the capital city of ten million shillings and its shareholders is Fred William and Steven William and according to the registration of the company, the shareholders also care of directors.

Details of the registration of the company of Santa Competera Limited, which many citizens have succeeded to see him, show that there is a rate of 204 desks, Ilala District, Dar es Salaam city.

In the list of shareholders and the directors of that company, the names of Fred Halla has been revealed to be children of Mhando.

Answers of Mhando.
While explaining about that issue, Mhando said that while TANESCO at the low level was working in that organization and his wife, Eva.

However, according to his explanation, just after being appointed to be the executive director of that organization that is only to distribute electricity in the country, the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, got a letter of wanting his wife to be keen in order to avoid the possibility of the presence of a conflict between Rozay.
My wife stopped the work, but we had a company to pass through Kariakoo, because the business was not good due to the small-financial ability, we sell the company last year, my wife was employed in that company after being bought for so that they can use its experience in running.

"Now for my wife, he is the executive director of the company but all the activities of looking for tenders will be made by directors of that company and not my wife so that when they ask for TANESCO the action happened according to the procedures, regulations and regulations and that company benefited from other companies and finally win," said Mhando.

Speaking about the contract of more than one million shillings to that company, Mhando said that the amount of money is not a must for it to be used for the needs of the company and that it's being used to depend on Cash Day (circulation of money).

Therefore, the company until now is if it has been given a work of self-15 million shillings, therefore it is not a must for all the money to be used, "said Mhando.
