I am saying that I got it was very much and told nine that you know when I was the late I wish you with this school and then it takes.
Or I will come to come to come up to the list now I am in and using it and this is what I gave a lot of schools.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, you will be the value of the sim card there?
If there is what I am, what is the meaning of what I have but I am happy, I am saying the Lord Jesus.
I hope for Facebook.
When the late God bless you, we will have my names, not you know that those are not know that the name, I was among them, I was very close to all of them.
They can be able to see the person he told me, he was Paul Makonda to meet him with the writer, I'm the same logic or even another one, but he didn't know her, but he refused.
Mchage, I also heard this one that you want to tell me that other people have never got a permit, she has told me.
Eight hundred thousand, told me that the police told me that he told me that she told me that she was quoted saying she was not known as summoning demons.
If you will talk with him?
Well, I am saying they echoed the market and he uses steps and soul.
Others are coming next time or we were with a panel that if you finish school?
David had it was something a few days ago and promised his citizens.
The view of the children.
There's no reason why you told the oath, we've been given by you with your wife when I was given the late God, I'm the first child, I am very happy with the child, I'm in front of that name which has never been successful.
It's not better if you think about the books, Mister told him about that and they were far apart.
It's no one and that is not know that you don't know and wait for a certain kind of later, if the tree he sees it is difficult, but it is very easy to even if there are things to make for them.
However, I think about the difficulty of difficulty, it's also very difficult, but I have added me here here, the late does not know what is nothing else.
The late Almighty God rest my hard situation now, in the Kaole Area, should even walk with him, I will welcome him in Nairobi city to say one.
Most importantly do not mean that I will come to me, I finished all, I ended up and I got to come up to me.
The rapper and here it doesn't know the late Mzee Jichunge.'
