Kikwete has changed to his leadership.
Sep 5, 2013.

There are times when you know what I feel that I will be able to look for a woman to go and go to the State House, Dar es Salaam, I saw President Jakaya Kikwete, she has written many.
Everyone of it continues to be noted that our president is faced with a lot of challenges that we have with me.
The fellow musician from Rwanda, Paul Kagame, has put in the process of making him run away for three months now the two leaders have been attending.
Their relations started going to Kombo, when he advised Rwanda to be accused of talking to the Islamic militias in the country at the funeral of Liberian Football Association (FDS), with saying that it is fighting the liberation of Rwanda and which for now makes attacks in east of Congo, Kinshasa.
His colleagues Kikwete in the East African Community have improved and without hesitation and he has to take measures for the implementation of the East African Federation.
On his behalf of his part, President Kikwete has denied his colleagues in the month of November Kagame, Uhuru Kenyatta, and Yoweri Museveni are expected to meet in Arusha town and they will meet the draft constitution of the political federation for East Africa.
Kikwete will not have contributed something in that draft, therefore, Tanzania will be behind only in the plans of bringing political unity in East Africa countries.
The Uhuru and Museveni did not say their alone, without him, they can lead the East African Community and strengthen it in the political federation.
Recently, Kagame's Kagame, Museveni and Uhuru met in Mombasa with a result of several projects on infrastructure as Haak Obama of Burundi, although he saw President Pierre Nkurunziza of Burundi, although he found his intention to get them instead, he gave her the minister of transport, Deogratias Ranaldo and pastoralists.
South Sudan, which is still a member of the East African Community, has also been invited at that meeting in Mombasa.
Those are outside the borders of Tanzania in the country, Kikwete is faced with great shape of open and below under the Revolutionary Party (CCM), which he is the chairman for the last week was seen on the way it has failed to prevent someone Yussuf Himid after he was present.
At the moment there are self-shirts that you have shown the process of giving a new constitution a new constitution, these are those with ideas and thinking that the fate of Tanzania expects to be through their CCM party.
It's a question that left Kikwete but I think it is a way to lead the presidency and the presidential leadership is to look for a very big screen.
Many times the presidency are seen to have more strength and just like the journalists, scholars and even the presidents and even the presidents and we have been used to them to improve the strength.
We have tried to look at the way the president who had a huge effects on Tanzania since this country did not be taken after Tanganyika and Zanzibar join us there's no doubt that you will be in Julius Nyerere.
There are religious experts who believe that for sure the effects of the presidents about the areas where we are going to the country is small, those who live as 10 or 15 percent only have a great increase in other strength in the community.
It is very difficult to get a leader that is having a big possibility of making the community to go after losing doubt, maybe he is the one of Nelson Mandela as the one of Nelson Mandela.
