
Soudy JKT, we are expecting to invest in the country through agriculture first containing 4 trillion shillings.

Agriculture first is a strategy raised by the fourth phase government with the aim of improving the agricultural sector and to remove the farmer of Tanzania's production organization, Colonel Felix Mwagara, in the recent interview with our writer John Daniel.
Mke Mwema should not talk about agriculture first to explain to at least short history of Solo JKT up to the step of going to implement this strategy.
Colonel Felix Solo JKT was started by the announcement of 94 government results year 1981 and that was presented on September 18, 2009, it has extended the responsibilities of Solo JKT.
So as to make that responsibility of producing wealth, it's required to improve business with an aim of improving business is to ensure that the organization is producing and getting benefits and those revenue will help the government to reduce the budget for building the national building.
Mke Mwema should start the year 1982 when you put up the success until today, this step to be handed the responsibility as important stakeholders to make the agriculture first?
Colonel Felix, said the truth Solo JKT has succeeded, especially in the construction sector, business, industries and house of people like our products until they are unable to reach the needs of our products and this is due to the quality of our products.
Due to our joy and good leadership in our work, that is why we have managed to be trusted.
Mke Mwema should follow keenly, so we tell them that they will get this great project and to be important stakeholders to make the first agriculture and you have reached the steps until now?
Colonel Felix, the first issue is the policy of the government to ensure that the government was looking for a long-inch width because the institution can be able to run its agricultural loans which would have been difficult to run this project for success and on time.
The government of Tanzania did a conversation with the government of India to use his entrepreneurship organization, Solo JKT, where they got the loan of 1846 votes worth 40 million dollars.
Solo JKT has succeeded to be given this project as a result of its youth experts who were in good work, with heart and heart diseases in America to work in building the country.
Mke Mwema, the loan was found when the implementation of the project through Solo JKT started.
Colonel Felix, the loan has a very long history and it started since the year 1990, but the process has come to be completed and the contract was signed on July 10, 2010, and where it started the official project.
In this period of approximately two years, there is a great success have been met, but before I'm going on well, I am not happy to be the beginning of the project we put restrictions and problems, importation of tractors in the port had a lot of problems.
People did not believe that tractors is for the purpose of agriculture first, that is because the organization makes business but in this agriculture project, we have continued to provide better services, it's the service as it is.
At the moment we got problems in the beginning of people they did not understand that this is the government's project on the provision of containers at the port it takes a long time.
After the price due to the problem of delays, many people did not understanding each other and if it is the government's project therefore the price could be under the government so that the price can be under it, the citizens wanted the price to be under it because it's a government project.
Between January this year, the prices were reduced and we will start selling tractors in large numbers.
Those who tried to bring in the citizens that our tractors is not good, it is not good, therefore citizens do not look for an eye and not good but the government tried to raise us again because the quality of our tractors is clear and we have enough experts.
Almighty God bless you in those names of the first phase, what should we learn and identify the way to help the nation?
Colonel Felix, we have learned a very big thing, but that of our country is to return behind and stuck many things due to being traitors.
We believe that these tractors were being sold at more than two times in the country, which is very big to our farmers.
We also understand that tractors being carried out and they did not have the quality that is required together with the existence of a dirty game.
Mke Mwema should realize that there is another problem again again, and since January this year, up to now it is tractors for some cases already they have reduced to farmers?
Colonel Felix Lyaniva, that is involved in that step is the small capacity for the citizens to lack money even to pay the previous payment of tractors. This was looking at keenly, therefore, we are trying to look at how these people do not benefit from this project.
In the past period, that is one year, we have collected 100 tractors only, but the period after a reduction of prices we have reduced more than 417 in a short period.
But many people complained that the reduction was taken after people using their money, we have more than 125 million people, there are many groups like VICOBA group, who have members of 4000 countrywide and December this year we will not have tractors even in our field.
Mke Mwema should now have risen up to all some parts and you have done me or advise the government on how to help the farmers that do not have the ability to help them in agriculture.
Colonel Felix, until now we have tractors being at 1200 shillings, but in this issue of helping those who do not have the ability, it is a must that we've been built for free and even if he would have reduced, it would be enough for citizens to be very much.
Now, what we do we do as Soudy JKT, we have been cooperating with the government to look for the way to start small centers that we will also benefit the citizens that do not have the ability, they will continue to borrow, their agriculture will grow.
They will be faced with a small cost and they will have very close supervision, through that procedure we will enable them to grow well and eventually they can pay the ability to buy tractors being to them and eventually they can pay the ability of buying those tractors being for them and therefore they can pay the profile of our small-scale farmers who do not have their ability.
Mke Mwema should request that plan to uplift the farmers that do not have the ability to start officially when they start the region?
Colonel Felix, will start starting with all provinces with many farmers, but it is expecting more cooperation with the government empowerment through its budget because it will need many infrastructure including starting that centers thus the budget only will start as soon as possible.
But we believe that plan is the lives of many citizens that are many and reach many people where they are.
Likewise, we have a plan to open class farms with the aim of reaching our farmers that do not have the ability, it will be another new opportunity for implementing the first agriculture in various parts of the country.
Those farms will be taught how to use methods, how to use modern farming and planting many things at a time and to get the good and good harvest.
We need to improve the good use of land until now, and we are expected to start its implementation this year of money through the ministry of agriculture.
Mke Mwema should partner together to succeed more than 600 to now, it is a area that we can learn a lot of example, the success of the first agriculture through Solo JKT?
Colonel Felix, there are a lot of areas to see the examples of the agricultural sector in Kibaigwa, Humud Abdulhussein, the province of Dodoma, Kiteto District, Manyara Region, and we have farmers that can realize them themselves and how they have benefited with us.
Go to the provinces of Mtwara, Michungangira who are in Mtwara and Lindi will take our tractors and they believe that they have benefited even so, we have organized even several television programs to explain this, and that farmers get him.
We have not got complaints on our quality of our tractors and the biggest challenge is that I had already said before the citizens supposed to make better services and that's why we decided to have a thought of starting the health centers close to them.
