The work was done.
The late God is now that the special parliament of the constitution is going into in making the constitution of constitutional changes and all of us know that the constitution is the law.
So, as a member of parliament to help each other on the issues of the presence of the law, there will be a statement of the constitution about.
First, let me say that lets continue to help our families have been working well if they were affected and they were affected, there were many factors that could be there but now it seems that there is need to see loopholes and sometimes the law will face during the implementation of the law.
Currently, the management of supervisors is that you're many because the person is supposed to say that he has no reason to say that the child is why we can make sure that you do now, that is why we can come up with amendments to law if he will sign such a constitution.
Basically it knows that because it's true?
But now, and therefore for now, I would like to say that here is something big because here in parliament he has done in Parliament that, the lady said there was no drugs.
My thing does not have enough money?
And this must say that when I'm in parliament "my work is to enable them to convince members of parliament and you have during this short period and I ask for them that once three people follow up and more candidates for the future of the community.
Now here in parliament, you know that this is not separation with a cross-cutting sector.
Even all the big things about the interview with our school, we are in the city, all the roads are in the city and areas where you have forgotten.
If you go down, if it is building a house without Foundation, that is you set aside, but there are Foundation, there's no obstacles that will it sell it well and therefore it gets lost in parliament.
I do I have tried to fulfill the first time and who knows in order they have supported the members of my parliamentary committee, to make sure that you have come to understand many things that deal with instance, when I think I have tried to look for example of peace in the residence is something that does not hesitate to run away and explained the foundations of peace in their homes.
As for example, in the villages, there are also other places in the villages.
The conflicts are written here and there but that conflicts between farmers and pastoralists in the country.
People should go down and they are in residential places in the world, if you have heard, they are going back on.
I don't know if they are coming from.
We think of the wife, we love you and remember your period of I told me that you can't have a water house thus when it reached the animals.
People are saying that action can be affected by the whites because they don't have water.
They don't have poverty.
Welcome him.
While officiating a close to diseases, color, while you put it.
If you put up a lot of food, you will see if the person is going on again and livestock.
The last residence is found.
To see that the concept of housing is an important thing is a cross-cutting issue, I know I have carrying all other things.
Many sectors are based on land.
Now and itself that you have residential houses participated in their homes and UNICEF.
Honorable members of parliament themselves because they are questioning the law, I know they sell her when the way is there.
The late God sell this time, the government we urge you to change each other and they have the ability to respect their motion.
I see the honorable minister.
