The lake region will begin "separate yourself" to coordinate their presidential candidate.
Dec 27, 2013 by eternal peace, elections.

Some of the leaders of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) Lake region have organized a strategy to make sure the president in the 2015 general election was coming from that region while being explained to four reasons that pushed them to have their regional opinion.
The candidate is alleged to be the minister of construction, Doctor John Magufuli who is the minister of construction, Doctor John Magufuli, who is from the Lake region Doctor Magufuli is alleged to have his followers that he has gotten themselves popularity among the citizens due to his work performance and there are some who agreed to contest for that position although he has not yet confirmed in public.
More information that are still not yet confirmed by President Magufuli shows that he had agreed with the conditions of that regional group.
However, that group has been a blow after the former chairman for coordinating and unite with important stakeholders of that group, Clement Mabina, killed by unknown citizens at the beginning of last week.
In the session that took place at one of the hotel that are in the lake region, Mwanza City in the morning of the burial of the former councilor of Kisenga, the former chairman of CCM, Mwanza Province, Clement Mabina, that led President Samuel Sitta, Steven Wassira and John Magufuli, new strategies to promote the activities after the attackers were killed, they were told.
Mabina was appointed to take the position by the coordination for different reasons, one being the lack of leadership in the party and therefore to enable them to make her work without being touched or causing questions from top leaders of the party.
In implementing the strategy, some of the leaders of the Lake Region who already showing the intention of vying for the presidency in the year 2015 has been accused by the committee that was led by Mabina, it explained that many were unable to support their candidate.
"Minister Steven Wassira is true he announced his intention to NEC delegates in his region and he started getting the support in some of the provinces and even in Zanzibar, but they saw him and told him that he has not seen him together," explained our news source from within the committee of coordination.
Wassira said it is not giving up to continue with his intention because they are lack of criteria to withstand the opposition's strength especially because he saw a opponent and said that the Party of Revolution to the citizens.
The former Minister of Energy and Minerals, William Ngeleja, is alleged to have joined the activities and even postponed his previous activities of wanting to contest for that position by a private partner.
The camp which has got the support up to the provinces of Tabora and Kigoma where many politicians in that provinces have agreed to join together so as to control the speed of any group they will be a threat to their goals.
One of the reasons for getting the power of that camp in the lake region is being mentioned as a result of political parties inside CCM, to an extent that some of its cadres are not ready to see another group that had already been able to stop the efforts of another group.
The way used by that group for now is to some of the followers of the camp to announce for vying for the presidential position and start the process of asking for votes to NEC delegates and the general meeting, but behind that strategy is the special candidate of the region, who is being required but he has been able to finish the issues so that when it comes at the right time there should have great strength and attraction.
More information say that the region is in talks with joining the Southern Highlands regions so that they can have a strong desire to decide who will be the CCM candidate in the next general elections.
"We also have an alternative plan, as a step, their candidate is unable to enter into the agreement with the region where your parliamentary candidate will go well," says our news source inside that regional presidential committee.
The lake region which is expected to be creative and ability to decide the winner in the party meetings due to the number of its members, they have raised four things that they want to help them fully.
