
Defending champions said that medicine is dangerous to 23rd of 23, 2012.

While there is still a situation of not being confirmed to consider the deputy minister of construction, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, has been affected by being given poison or anything, the previous reports indicate that there is a threat in Tanzania, with the ability to produce blood cells of skin disability, our salvation, has been told.
According to sure news just reaching us from different media sources in Apollo are in India, previously when she was brought in that country, a panel of doctors held the investigation and discovered that "the song is in charge of allowing her.
However, those reports indicate that after doing research on the research, those doctors who among them are the champions of researching, managed to bring other blood cells to control chemicals (anything) that will be known inside you.
In a surprising situation, after realizing that existence of chemicals inside the farm, by a panel of noise, there are specialist doctors to succeed in order to control the problem if it had already been shocked and continue attacking him, "says our news source from the Apollo Hospitals, in India where Doctor.
Mwakyembe went to the first time.
"Therefore, they started the work of dealing with those chemicals so that it will not continue to prevent and see signs of succeeding to go back to Dar es Salaam, but they take them these chemicals because of more investigations they have been put in her body."
"And now it has come here in India for the purpose of looking for the development they have been changed if they have already reduced, but there is still the ability to continue preventing themselves as it was previously because, the investigation is not complete," says our news source from Apollo.
On the other side, just after going back to India for the first time he went to see some of the pictures of Doctor Mwakyembe and how his life was affected, the body broke down with skin rashes.
It's at that time that, Doctor Mwakyembe got shocked that our reporter said that the state was very bad when he was in India for treatment for the first time, "but on another side, Doctor Mwakyembe blesses the possibility of being involved in the body and later, that death is caused by a certain disease.

In another step, the internet information has noted that the chemicals in the way can be made by where Jeremiah is ongoing and they are self-employed for various use including the famous people for different goals.
The work of looking for us (in the picture) in the body of a human being that is in the body of a human being (Monbusho Scholarship) that in that country is independent, Doctor Mwakyembe is needed to produce different types of blood cells in blood which is important in the health of a human being in general.
There are two types of words that are in protecting themselves with a human being, which is the first to look for yellow in the same way, which has caused a huge number of blood cells in oil (fat Joe).
But the second kind is in Tanzania (on the red carpet) which involves other important blood cells in the production of blood cells in the new blood cells (ACI).
The work of blood cells in the body.

In addition, in a bone (the red carpet), especially with bones presuming the responsibility or his primary work is the production of blood cells in the new generation.
In charge of, that is mentioned to be forced to seek refuge in covers of a human being especially in five areas of bones presuming.
The Orthopedic Institute is first of first, bones presumed with the chest (in the picture), dizziness and other cargoes at the chest and therefore, it is possible to destroy the privacy of her hands and how it came in, it is possible to eliminate the privacy of her hands and it may be in the chest with bones presumed.
Doctor Mwakyembe and DCI).
As a person who has worked with the police force, through the director of criminal Investigation (DCI), Robert Manumba, Doctor Mwakyembe from February 18, last week, gave a report to the media to answer that what was explained by Manumba's health.
In his report to the media, DCI) stated that Doctor.
Mwakyembe is produced by poison that depends with a skin disease, an explanation that has been kidnapped by Doctor Mwakyembe himself saying that what happens it has not been put up by the panel of specialist doctors in India.
The report of Mwakyembe explained that "I would like to advise the government earlier on that the stand of the police force, has been put so much in the situation that I wrote the disease, first, and the police force entered into an issue that for approximately one year, it has never happened to you and investigate it from the newspaper.
"It will be remembered that on 9th February, 2011, I saw a letter from Said Mwema to tell you about the intention of removing my life and other leaders by recognizing that I was waiting for another evidence that I got to them, I believe that I had put the evidence that the police did not have intentions and investigate about that issue.

Few days after officially handed him the letter, I visited the team.
"Thank you," in my office to come to take my additional information, the team was led by ACP Mkumbo, a few weeks that was being among the soldiers who were accused of receiving bribes by the aim of removing drugs and robbery in possession of other suspects in robbery.
I want to know immediately that the whole exercise was of humor, a lot of pain!
A few weeks after my letter presented to the chairmanship and assistant coach.
"The start of work," the police force is taking a step to congratulate and rewarding the police that he urged the government to cooperate with criminals so as the philosophy of understand that this was an enough message to hear them.
Recently, the accusations of the police being involved in possession of robbery in Morogoro Province were operated on and warned the police "those that I explained the government in my letter, the chairmanship will take the action of leaving other provinces.
In order to give up completely, my secret letter "by the chairmanship will be interviewed by the senior commander of the police force in his office, when I don't know why this session came in one of the police force as soon as Honorable Minister Samuel Sitta when he was born with Sitta!

I have explained well in my letter by the chairmanship to be the group of killings that had been directed to inform me by using poison that you come up because it is not the police who did not know if I was given this issue should be investigated further?
In addition, I have no problem believing that DCI) and his colleagues have read the real report of my treatment or another, "I am saying that there is something in a short report or a shame," did not be afraid, "I don't know anything"!
I have read one class in Faculty of Law Mlimani and DCI), later IGP Mangu, she was my head teacher in Mlimani City, two security lawyers in the country have not talked about the rights, they know where I will not stay silent or put him a lesson.
We continue cheering my health and lives so that we can be educated on our rights and so that we will improve our country's rights and to take place, put aside from various obstacles of our nation.
