The security of the nation have written, "AAirport, why do not prove the terrorists?
Kristen 31, 2013.

A fake police and fake police have been arrested by fake police who were arrested by the fake police officer who were arrested while those are news that are in the media at home recently, which essentially has caused a big problem of the presence of fake executives in the security institutions.

While the majority of the ones that are supposed to inform us that they gave out their responsibilities, for sure we cannot give a finger to the concerned institution for sure that we cannot bring a finger to the concerned institution for you to enable you to succeed in the service of those institutions to be known for a long time.

Personally I was not happy to be surprised by the police and traffic reports because the performance of some police have no difference with the criminals so that if the real police can be involved in crime, why people should sit down in crime, why people should leave you by making the police, though they are fake?

Several times we have made a report about the police involved in crime, and recently there was a great report to the president, some of the police who were arrested in the grave of the citizen that was arrested by those police and was quoted from the grave for the purpose of witchcraft or not guilty, it is not easy to know.

Approximately every citizen "normal ', who has done to arrive at the police station will be understand that the only way to get a unique service is because of giving them anything (bribery) officer, so as to see you feel it has done it to the citizen at the station.

What was looking for more is that, the news officer of the fake police force in the country, as I believe previously, she does not believe that fraudsters who made police succeeded to believe that there is no surprising thing to the police claiming that there was a great issue to believe that the police are fake.

But this issue of fraudsters should be able to be security officers of the nation, it's not only a matter to be self-employed but also an issue that need to be looked upon in details.

It will be remembered that recently, the Minister for Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe spoke about the problem of increasing drug trafficking as well as the many that he was talking about, Mwakyembe was quoted by the department of national safety being a look at afresh.

I think it is basically, Doctor Mwakyembe used the Taarab language instead of deciding to be among those who use drugs to enter or pass through the borders of the country, some of the security officers of the nation.

And even if Mwakyembe has said that (and it was not satisfied by anyone who believes that the performance of the department has not decided to understand that the institution is part of the problem of the growth of drug trafficking.

I write this because I am sure that the department seems to know the names, and residential houses involved in that business are dangerous and to understand that it's not a matter of yesterday or the other people who are known for a long time, but no action is taken.

Despite listening to those involved, according to the procedures of the institution's work, every time of our country has the officer of that department who has a responsibility to investigate and prevent the possibility of the people who are not supposed to get in the country.

Now if those officers are fulfilling their duties as required, the way they saw them, for example, a big cargo of drug abuse, "Amaso," it comes in the country and it is safe until South Africa got arrested?

The answer is moreover, the concerned officers were bad "with their private issues, or they also were among those who made successful in that cargo.

In the normal environment, this issue can be seen a small thing and it does not want this news headlines but basically, if we have security officers that can enable you to allow the investor to make the funds to make sure the officers do not identify their responsibilities?

Maybe some of the readers can feel that I have been following very important institutions, the truth is that the high level regulations of the Department of National Security of any country, is "the department of challenges of the institution as a result of actions that perform the importance of having an institution as a result of the institution.

This means that if you see a certain nation being accompanied by corruption incidents, then the department of national safety is dangerous, together with other important events to control the development of the country like corruption.

In an easy language, the use of drug trafficking as it is the increase of corruption, it is a confirmation of being an important institution to be Nakalega.
