
BMT, TFF will use wisdom to rectify those mistakes.
Yanga soccer club is required to run a election of its leaders after the delay of one year and more because of several reasons, like the constitutional changes, the consent of the members and laziness of the leaders.
The delay of doing elections in the period of time planned to welcome problems, and especially the conflict between the leaders of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), the Council of National Sports (BMT).
Yanga and Yanga.
Its results, TFF has announced that it will run the general election for the authority that was given by BMT to Yanga, while Yanga has announced his election that will be run by the club's elections committee according to his constitution.
The decision by the two sides led to starting the conflict that would be used to be big if the two sides are not allowed to end the differences that arose while in conflict, and to them it will use the law of the sports council to implement its decision of forcing a election to be taken to its instructions.
His results are usually used to use force and they are measurable, leadership that could have the strength and therefore the club can get into another conflict that would be able to be very big.
Therefore, any side that tries to use his energy, should be legal or be supported by many members, you can be able to protect that club in a huge conflict instead of finishing problems that come from elections.
An issue that authorities can do, is not supposed to run the elections and swept up the election that was called by the leaders, but to sit with them under the way of peace heading to elections according to the constitution.
The argument that leaders who have lost the validity of continuing to be in power because of their time is over, it cannot build a environment of running the elections that will be legal because the election is a must to be taken to its members.
And it is very delicious with the constitution and put a request that the management is unable to convene the elections for the allocated time, you're taking off from power because most of the constitution did not have an alternative leadership of going to power in the period.
It is good then for BMT to TFF, which is involved in Yanga soccer activities as a result of leading football which is one of the games of the sports club, to sit with the concerned leaders to look for a good way that will be a source of another conflict, which can be very big.
The delay of the election of Yanga could be contributed to a certain amount and not being used as required by the directors of TFF and BMT who are guardians of sports parties, and therefore finishing that problem he had not supposed to release a lot from one place only.
On that logic, wisdom is needed to make sure that the authorities are not involved with the cause of the conflict between the club or sports parties but they have no advisers and given to make sure the games are run in peace.
One of the ways of ensuring that the issue is abolished by peace and forcing the leadership of Yanga to complete the general meeting which will give consent to run the club in a period when the elections will be prepared, instead of those organs to run the elections, something that is against the requirements of the constitution.
Because the two sides have made a different elections, it is clear that there is no need to run the election, but different from the view, therefore the leaders of Yanga, BMT and TFF have no reason to meet the mistakes that made it view.
