
Membe is happy to listen to them on top of 16.

While the book of the Ambassador Shajak (World) side of the president of Global Publishers and Burundi being touched on the participants of the laboratory scandal of purchasing the military fees by seeing them, the chairman of the Central Bank of Finance and International Cooperation, Bernard Membe, said it is good for the involved in the scandal that had been presented by the court in the country.
Membe who was speaking at a program that is aired in the air every Monday with ITV television station, popular by the name 45 minutes, he said that because there have been many words about the implementation of that strategic plan for the fees being well prepared by those involved not to be involved in them in the court.
According to Membe, there is no need for those involved to continue appreciating the accusations that have been directed to them and they did not end without having reliable energy that they are not involved.
The statement by Membe is coming at a time when some of the national leaders have been saying it is not involved in that saga of fees, while there is a special report that explains that currently there is a tension between the institute of preventing and fighting corruption (TAKUKURU) together with the Director of Public Procurement Agency (DPP).
In that tension it stated that there was a difference with previously where TAKUKURU has said there was no reason to answer him about it, now the institution has changed the position that there is a case to answer, but the DPP document was alleged to have thrown out that issue, the efforts of looking for him so as to get an explanation they are continuing.
All the times going on in the country about the scandal of Race which was brought back in the country, the book of the Prime Minister Membe wants to be distributed in the country to continue to go to court for the purpose of it to be buried and the pillar that are in special needs in the country.
According to the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, Tanzania, the court is the pillar that arrest him or not that she is not guilty, the other media stations have been given the authority to investigate and run charges but it's a court that has the responsibility of killing him or arrest him in any suspect.
Apart from Andrew Chenge, together with Doctor half time, the ones mentioned in the fees of fees are together with business people with the origin of India, but those who got to live in Tanzania, who are Tanaegypti.
They emerged with the book there's only an increase in the previous reports which had got to be sworn in by the announcement of different media stations in the country about the purchase of that fees, which was contested under Tanzania, but also the World Bank and England.
At the same time, the former minister for international development, Clatchy Marina, refused that Tanzania is one of the poor countries in the world, using billions of money to buy fees in the middle of poverty.
The fee in which the purchase of its purchase was bought for 40 million American dollars. In the last Wednesday, this newspaper reported in details about the book that does not recognize the involved in that scandal of buying fees.
