Read my friend, Christopher Mtongani.
October 5th, 2015.

I started being a journalist, 13 years ago and I still remember two first politicians to meet with them.
At the same time, the newspapers of the Information Company Limited (that was hurt the newspaper of Tanzanian, Advice president of African and DPO) had a procedure as a journalist when he started working, is expected to be accompanied by a veteran in the previous days to learn.
When the day was followed by Samson Kamalamo, therefore, it was not an actor but I was not true then, I was very happy about the incident because for the first time I got an opportunity to speak on the face of someone I was with him in the newspapers.
Then that is the one I mentioned to meet Pastor Christopher Mtibua and the chairman of the DP party, with good luck, the day I was sent to write about his meeting with the press.
By the good luck, the newspaper of Information Limited was a good procedure to its journalists and that when you go to attend a meeting with journalists, you should be given extra questions to ask the spokesman which sometimes even do not have the meeting themselves.
Sihana Nkinga, he is the other questions I was given here to ask him, but I remember two things and the first one I met with a leader in the first page of that time, it was not normal for a journalist to get news on the first page of Tanzanian newspaper.
There is now my personal relationship with his name but it started being normal that every time he completed the meeting with the press who I was present, I decided to learn more.
At the time the Tanzanian newspaper was the one that was leading in the newspapers in every day and any person being keen, I would make sure that his information are taught in the newspaper and I want to get news on the first page of my newspaper.
The relations is born.
Early, I was the listener to hear and its concept of I have started to read the newspaper with nine years of age and when his name is called on her words of "Magullime," I think I was still a student of primary school.
I was happy to listen to him and say the truth, but he was very important to me together with my old man and the age of age, I don't hesitate to give me every kind of support I wanted to grow as a news reporter.
Five years in the journalism profession, I was one of the visitors from time to time in his home, but if many times he went to eat with juice or water, there is no food that you like to travel, meat, and beans, and this one if these were good to me.
I was not my friend during the day before yesterday, there was also other people who were playing with them in the Catholic church so that they were together.
Humble when it was not food alone, but also various types of scientists and exciting stuff about his life is not aware of us.
I remember one day and you have narrated how he wrote, Professor Mark Mwandosya, and let me go back to the school in Malangali ward, Iringa province, but he is the one who told him as the name of the CCM politician veteran in Iringa province.
It appears when he did not go back to school, he was among the shivered and those who went to escape from the school and go to drinking alcohol.
Mwandosya was the head boy of Malangali. He was among the ones that were seen to be leaders of following the law and procedures, then after giving them a difficult time for a long time, one day before dealing with an ancient attack.
Last year I was surprised that there is a day I will do an interview with the two politicians, Professor Ninatubu Lema, so as to pray for them on their things to school and other political issues in general.
Siwema who succeeded at that time and now is clear that it will not be done in this world as a result of this life.
My close sibling, but it started a reduction in two major reasons, first of first it is clear that after getting many friends and many media sources, it is supposed to use another time with other people.
