On your side how can I be 89 percent.
Fifty shillings
They are telling them that our league does not have?
If you look for many contributions that have been given.
Its many people who agree that it's true that our friend I have?
.
Now there have talked about so I want to have written a little.
That is the meaning of Tanzanians or fans to love the English Premier League, is it true that our league I've failed.
What is it?
You shouldn't be able to increase one points or two of the first?
Faith in Tanzanians and other people used.
That with the author, there are several major people that are able to do well in different sectors of the current football and other games shows an example if you check here where many coaches are there to take them.
To our colleagues, and at the time we have good people coaches who can make it easy to be seen in that little faith and not knowing that those people can do well in one hour and that one can be able to check the matches of our colleagues.
Because I was not only and there is still a time when you read there were my brothers the late God is eating the Eid celebrations.
Only, the reporter turned up with two-three coaches to those in this topic.
One is the investment in soccer we would like to do the league of our colleagues because they have invested in your market, the ones that they have reduced to the corruption commission for example we should give you an example.
If we have been seen for example the period of Toto are believed to have been given enough money so that you can be given enough money so that you can be able to fight, but if you follow me, you will be able to deal with Yanga and Yanga so that people do not lie!
There is a reason when I was at home bureaucracy in sports.
We are listening to Francis.
Remember.
In addition, there is one of the people who were talking about the sports game that there is one Tanzanian who died in the past, he performed well in a promotion that they had left.
The signs of inheritance left.
Only Tanzanians will also be able to participate in the offer but later they were following up there were here, where we are coming up and later, we are waiting for many issues that we are doing so much, we will continue to make sure that we are seen even if we are happy if we are interested in each other.
