When the fight is more than attending the house of worship.
Martti Ahtisari Center, 2014.

This week I have written about issues of faith and us that made him talk about the success of our religious leaders of Islam and Uknga region in making good people.
I found himself, in which way, these two religious leaders of Islam and Christianity, have been moved to the goals to prove to the believers about what God is in the Resurrection and Holiness Church and then give them the believers to enable them to go to heaven for sex?
I write this so I believe that like our religion that involve us, the truth, destruction of love, peace and every kind of good things have been followed, he would believe they are involved in our life and social systems, political and economic systems.
Many people are one of the one out of these religion, Islam or Christianity, and both religious leaders teach them that there is life after this world lives.
All the religion take the concept of the last day, on the day of or, who died from God will inform you by our actions.
All the two religion teach them that after the judgment of God to its servants, among them, we are good, we will do in peace and other things that will get in the same way.
Faith in the presence of sin?
It is said that in a critical condition every time you go back to a normal state and to start a goalless draw again.
There is being mentioned that if the fire is five times this year we have participated in their homes and that inside a fire, food when you're happy and understand why this is the promise of evil deeds.
But on the other side, there are also the promise of good servants and we are told that people will live in shivered to God, happy to know the life of life, it's not good, fruits, food, and fruits.
It's not that today I have decided to be the late Marijani Rajabu.
In addition to threats of all, we are some of the community we believe in Resurrection and Holiness Church, we are supposed to do a lot of time and even those of the community that are not involved in religion and God.
If so much, I need me not to listen to the stomach to go to the church or not the truth is or not implementing duties of the church service or the Mosque which is about every person with God.
I'm talking about your real way to the whole community and our fellow human beings, I'm talking about bribery, theft, robbery, spirits, and hypocrisy cause violence and so on.
It's meeting with someone claiming that he is a clean environment, but their lives due to bribery, theft, drugs, and so on, again it is going to say that religion is supposed to confirm that religion is not allowed.
If a bad thing is being done by we are supposed to be shaken by religious communities, as my friend to the Chinese, because they live in order for now.
It is true that together with them not knowing in religion or that God is in a quick research, it shows a very fast rate, it means that most of their kind are below compared to our actions not to the teachings of our faith.
Up to now, I have not understand that if they were in the Democratic Republic of Central Africa, people should stop because of religious hatred in Syria also with Nigeria where Boko Haram attacked people every time.
Even when I was used a video on one social network, they showed citizens as voters and then hating people in one of the African countries. It is bad because that video was not allowed.
Here in Tanzania, there are research that we are leading in faith that we are leading in faith, while events of violence and never been informed each other.
Why do religion do not affect the positive challenges in the society, I would have not have all the right answers but there are two problems that I saw.
