When the news of this time you pass the ball in the islands close to another period of journey of the constitutional time this period, we have given you an opportunity to hear various issues that are related to your opinion, but also it is still ready for us to look at this period but also it is still ready for us to interview this period but also it is still being discussed in this period.
And between today's day, we will not speak about the proposed constitution that we have witnessed at a special constitutional parliament and here when the wedding was presented at a special parliamentary seat, but if I'm with him there is a delegate in the network of women and constitution here in the country.
And together with me then we're here to speak about the proposed constitution but now.
In women's issues if you understand if not less in the sea or not less than in the internet you used to women and the current constitution will follow up to me until the end of this period in order to know what we will discuss here.
Directly, then we will continue to check up in general.
We have witnessed the proposed constitution presented in special constitutional parliament, I talk about the proposed constitution in general, let us start with this new constitution and I do not give him a lot of her sister and the constitution and we are a union that we will do.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we're getting more than fifty participants.
That is of the activities of organizations and institutions of different groups that we are vying for women's rights in different areas.
And the sun are planted in the whole country?
And this union on a big level we were doing work together for a long time, but after the process of the constitution.
In the past, there is an importance of bringing strength in addition to our voice together.
And in addition we can have a mother.
We can be able to come up with the questions that we do not think about the big issues that have been of.
It involves women in different areas.
The purpose of their lives.
Following these allegations, we put in ten parts and two and he is the one who was leading in Dar es Salaam to ensure that this constitution is leading our efforts to ensure that this constitution that comply with these major issues in those which we have, will also be like us.
A is the first ideas.
The first advice, our first lady had a constitution that has the right wing.
The constitution of gender is a constitution that says.
That ordinary citizens will emerge from women and men and we are told.
When we go to Dar es Salaam, even the previous results now, women are fifty percent and one of the ordinary citizens are needed, we are making constitution that are the mother of the country.
Which will it be?
Don't understand.
Understand the questions, that will understand the headquarters to take a voice of women who are fifty percent and one percent.
The constitution with heaven and lives, is why it is a constitution that is together with recognizing the women that it is fifty percent and one of identifying women especially gender and men.
So that the constitution can have the gender lover it's good and not the constitution to know.
Issues of gender equality from the aim is to consider the aim of the goals and be able to consider the foundation stone in all the areas of the constitution, as a whole of the constitution that we did to believe in a large extent, the proposed constitution that consider the foundation of gender equality and friends.
This draft has also been able to consider the foundation in different areas as we start with the objectives.
Gender discrimination is under the devil of.
If or when you are in Dar es Salaam, I would like he wanted to stay in who administration.
Also, he has arrived at the leadership area commission in Dar es Salaam city, the commission will be told about the issues of fifty to fifty in the foundation of gender equality that has also been put in.
.
It is ethics for leadership and primary leadership and there have been other areas that are mentioned to be noted that all the rights of women are reported well in this constitution and also in areas that were very difficult, therefore, we will go back to the ones but also in that issue I cannot get you with you.
And when you talk about your opinion, you have received that constitution that is proposing to be presented in brackets.
Thank you a sister.
I am my on behalf of women and social network.
We know it is a constitution and we have been knowing if a sister about how he said, we believe that all the draft will be done or?
Because in which way they have taken these issues on how to read it?
So as the proposal of the new constitution.
To say the truth?
The initiative has been working because as a sister, especially wells.
While carrying us.
Most of the questions that we have been?
And we can say if they will not produce a little money, this issues we shall talk and be.
We will be able to have a constitution that is normal?
It's not here Africa but the world by looking at the left wing.
In those issues, you will not make sure that we go through that logic or to say I commend all the delegates who passed on how the first things since the commission started serving God and listen to that we can be proud of that we have been part of this process.
Who were in you with the new constitution that we want to listen to the new constitution as we listen to other things and later on the debate, you will help them in different ways by giving them the information that we have had to explain to them more.
Now we should not enter there.
