
51 years of Uhuru are asking questions about where we are where we are headed to October 20, 2012.

As it is the fees, December 9 this year, we launched 51 years of Uhuru of Tanzania Mainland (Tanganyika). The celebrations of this year is after those commemorations of 50 years last year, different from last year, this commemoration is the beginning of preparation for other 50 years in the next 50 years.

As it is normal for all the years, the commemoration of Uhuru is used more, especially on the government's side, singing and giving them a success (be using data or enough explanation) that were reached since 1995 we are from Uhuru.

It is through this procedure of these commemorations, we insisted to singing "the success" reached, it has reached a place that most of us have never been successful, "the achievements we have been wrong or depending on the period (20) we used until now?

So, our colleagues who were in a close level is to development when we get Uhuru (example Malaysia) right now the action that call development we as compared to our salvation, if they are not supposed to do, especially the extra time that does not benefit us?

In addition to that, we have also been questioning our responsibility as a nation when we get Uhuru (a few years) after 1961, it was what?
We hurt them with this vision and for now its vision is what?

However, because the procedure of singing only success without considering that it is not true, there is the concept that happened to any person passing through the lack of skills and direction of there where we are like the nation, seems to be responsible for the development that we shall reach, this is not correct.

As a nation, for a period of 50 years ago, it is true that we have been able to build and improve the economic systems, social and political ways in a way that has risen up for instance, the increase in infrastructure, health services and so on.

In addition to that, we cannot discuss 51 years of Uhuru by beginning to take this view of mentioning and explaining "success" there are several issues that we want to move in order to prepare themselves as a nation.

First of first, it is clear that, together with the information that our economy as a nation has been increasing every year, but the lives of many citizens are continuing to be very difficult to witness the real life of many people, in the villages and in the city the situation is.

Secondly, it is an issue that will like that like the first time, it is clear how the gap between the poor people and the few people continues to rule this situation where we have participated in giving opinions for the purpose of the new constitution and this opportunity should be used as required this situation which has continued to rule.

In addition to that, the level of bribery has continued to resolve the nation and increase efficiency in getting services like health, education, law, and others to the citizens who have been handed power to the government and even in non-governmental institutions "that are required to be given free for citizens, for their private benefit.

Four, our system of payment of tax in general is still a problem if the Mwalimu Nyerere has ever said that all the government, "the system was dominated by bribery, the system we have had a lot of taxes (in business or other ways), they have not paid taxes as required.

There is a debate that for example, on how to use the big mobile phones and minerals if you pay taxes as required.

On the other side, agriculture as a sector that is relied upon by our agents, have continued to be poor because of the dangerous preparations and implementation of policies and plans we are on how by Haazu taking any program.
"Agriculture first" it doesn't cause success according to the way it depends on.

It is here in the implementation of the ones we are looking for himself (policies, law, plans and other information), it will realize that the big problem we have to ask politicians to intervene or not knowing, politicians have changed the effects of law, education experts and other services and therefore making many laws the concerned systems.

For instance, the education system (like another primary problem) for many problems I have mentioned the previous day, here in our country, it is an issue that can be independent and to be self-employed, the ones that are required to meet the needs and solve problems in different times.

It is clear that there are a lot of success which we have given out this opportunity more than 50 years of Uhuru, but we must not accept the painful truth that these achievements are not involved and the resources we have used to reach.
As a result of that concept, that is when we will be ready to ask hard questions that his answers is the light of taking us to where we are headed for the real success.

God bless Tanzania!
