The produce.
But when we get in investment like this, we can deal with this situation and can we use opportunities available in the world market.
I don't know how they are using food digestion?
In the world market for this period, what should I have where his brother was continuing to be.
There will be a place where we will not have the capacity of those crops, it will be a big number of them to have a lot of money in the development when he received India but the foundation stone will begin using their crops and now, Mwenda was receiving.
The love you want to do, we need to prepare.
But in the journey there is one of the challenges that one of the challenges is to come in Dar es Salaam to recognize the ability to build their ability so that to protect themselves but others do not want him to come without any week and here when I am trying to show how you want it in order to reduce the progress of development for our people.
As a player that I have explained that earlier, the Bagamoyo District project is one of the big projects in Bagamoyo district that is concerned with the improvement of five hundred thousand American dollars for sure it is still a strategy so as to increase the project and to reach a production of one million tons.
The water player is usually in the natural resources of the country in the country, as a period of five thousand shillings per year, it is mentioned among them to help farmers by giving solutions to the farmers by giving them thoughts in order to help the farmers by giving solutions to the farmers, therefore, then the opportunity will be careful.
Also, it is a procedure for the Pepsi company to announce the provision of businesses to believe in the rich by the vehicle when you get where they are getting food without any work.
What are all the one who made it.
What does a teaser?
Using people to grow.
You shouldn't go down and bad luck.
Today we have chosen many people from now, "he said we have decided to remain in a modern company.
All of us are using us that we help people to use plants at the shop.
These tried to prevent them since the Swahili language comes, I have touched me about the projects that are expected to have these institutions in different areas and here then it is making a strong farmer who says in the beginning doing business in difficult environments especially in the growth of the market but even the production there was no one hundred thousand.
In the meeting.
We agree to say time!
We agreed to help us to be supported because the drugs that are in the coast region have been asked for others.
And there is also an opportunity for the factory?
Therefore, we agreed to agree that there has been a government of there in one camera for the age of rice, I got five hundred thousand because we have not start for the purpose of agriculture.
But the?
Maybe the factory we were standing, we need to do more on agriculture.
We fell.
The signs of problems facing?
It takes ten years.
At the same time comes close to the water she was on maybe if they are close to you.
But the?
After eating this machine, follow me.
Because I don't have a lot of little, if you do not give you a very long time.
Therefore, it is not good.
We started our thinking that we will be able to make it again.
It is a place.
