Salma Kikwete is not the assistant president of Tanzania!
Mpozi from 1st, 2013.

I will have to say what others see others are following me just after the President Kikwete's wife, Salma Kikwete, is not the president of Tanzania and not the assistant president.
He is the presidential running mate and his relationship with the president explains on the issues of his family and love between them and outside the country, according to our current law and the presidential running mate (or his running mate), he does not have any chance to be given including security and other benefits arising from being the running mate.
However, this situation has been lost now because under the administration of President Kikwete, we have seen the position of vice president (wife in this issue) being aired on more and now and now the place of President's wife starts to do if it is the vice president, (Co-fielder).
We have seen Mama Kikwete swears in a lot of power at the State House while he was going and was received by government leaders and there is a place he has been called for him!
But the moment he has asked up to the time and requires being left immediately, this is the first lady to start receiving reports of government from the leaders of the provinces. The day before yesterday, Mama Salma passed on a tour in Rukwa where he was received with all honor of the government leader and the provincial commissioner, Stella Manyanya.
Now, alone it would not have been a very big issue, but the ones that followed you will enable you to write this article as well as refusing to resolve the government of Tanzania seen as it is led by two people in the presidential position!
While at the small State House of Sumbawanga town, Mama Kikwete admitted under him and received various information including the head of the province, Engineer Manyanya which was the former President of the United Republic of Tanzania and the deputy chairman of the United Republic of Tanzania (WAMA), in his tour in Rukwa province on 25-27, 2013.

Once again we can see that Mama Salma is reported to his third position - a member of the National Executive Council (MNEC), first lady and chairperson of WAMA, for all the third position there is no one that allows him to be seen as the representative of the president.
As the NEC member of CCM, Mama Kikwete was supposed to go to the headquarters of CCM, Rukwa and given information that he wanted and he was supposed to be given those reports with the leadership of CCM of Mkwajuni, Rukwa Province.
As a leader of an Albino institution that does not have any relationship with the government, Mama Kikwete was supposed to do research or be given information by the representatives of his institution in Rukwa province and not by the government leadership.
And as the wife of President, mother Kikwete wanted to know a certain thing in order to help him in his daily activities, then he can get something with her husband (on that her husband is allowed to thank his running mate.
WAMA is not a government institution.
One of the things that have given her mother Salma, in front of the community is this one with WAMA organization which is currently under her mother Anna Mkapa (voluntary for All Fund), it was the same way for Mama Mkapa.
All the two institutions are using the position of president's wife to make sure that you are in the country, and now we are witnessing the public offices to pay as it is basically, it is a bad use of the office of the president.
Other institutions like WAMA and Eliamin Tenga of an offer is not like this year, there are many non-governmental organizations (NFs) which are needed to do what is being done by WAMA organization because that WAMA organization is not able to make corrections because it is the wife of the president. "
Now, I don't have a problem with the presence of WAMA, but I believe it has come at a state house which will be under the State House which will be under the office of the running mate of the president, otherwise, Mama Salma will leave the year 2015 to leave the institution as this and that will they use the opportunity to get them.
This issue should be remembered by I believe it's supposed to be from Mama Mkapa's institution because it had started to be given when her husband was in the two countries, they are supposed to be stopped and that one institution which will be an official institution for various running mate.
