
That magazine that doesn't want to go to May 30th, 2012

A cargo of 12,3500 tons of the natural gas type which may be stuck at a factory that is dependent on what is claimed to be the fertilizer company of Tanzania Fiterawa and (C) failed to disturb the farmers.
That magazine has helped farmers especially the provinces of the south of Tanzania since November last year when the agricultural season for the year 2009 was expected to start.
News to be filled with bags of that fertilizer was done during the tour of President Jakaya Kikwete that he made in the factory recently, although it is alleged that President was not explained to why the cargo has gone down in that factory.
In that tour, President Kikwete also placed the foundation stone for the third phase of the factory that will produce non-communicable diseases (NPK).
While speaking at the factory, the Executive Director of that factory, Totoo Zebingwa, during the tour of President Kikwete explained that they have been in communication with time to time and (C) about that cargo, but for more than four months now, who have been unable to take care.
Provinces in the southern provinces where that fertilizer was expected to be transported from Iringa, Mbeya, Rukwa and Songea, Toshio Noma, said the biggest reason being explained by the executives of the group C are lack of money for transporting the company up to the concerned provinces.
"We have signed with them many times but claims that they don't have money for paying the transportation of that magazine to the southern regions, and you know what our work is to produce, I can't know more about this issue and I can't know more on that issue," said Hans.
According to the agreements between the management of the factory and the group C by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives, on the other side, the factory was forced to produce a modem.
The R & B factory that is in Babati district is aiming to produce 40 tons of one million and five million American dollars to the year 2015 for the purpose of needs in the country and also in the sales of the country.
According to Hans Pluijm, the increase in that production will enable them to sell the virus in all the member countries of the East African Community (EAC) and the East African Community (SADC).
He said that on the side of internal needs in the year 2008 / 2009 the government needs 112 million tons and up to now the factory is supposed to produce 36,500 tons, among them 249,500 tons have already been taken while 12,500 tons are injured at the factory.
He said that in the previous step, they are expecting to build another factory in the second phase which will have the ability to produce 150,000 tons annually.
On the part of the factory that was awarded the foundation stone of NPK, Hans Pluijm said that is expected to be completed in a period of more than 300 days and it will have the ability to produce 750,000 tons of a year that cost 55 million American dollars.
"Our factory has managed to be in the previous strategy to increase production to reach 300,000 tons of NPK for the year 2012," he said.
He said that the area that doesn't have enough natural resources of more than 10 million tons, Stephano Cosmas and those minerals have been discovered in the neighborhood of a neighboring village of three villages.
On his part, President Kikwete urged the executives of the government and different stakeholders to ensure that the nation is continuing to buy products outside the country and instead be big businessmen outside the country and instead of big companies including gas and the mine in Minjingu village.
A large factory that doesn't produce natural gas which was sunk in the area which is due to a distance of a swamp by fish, who gave them there several weeks ago and built the rocks.
