
What is the policies of information, let us give them?
May 25, 2012

Last week the department of information (details) made a session of the media stakeholders to discuss the draft constitution of the information policy of the year 2003.
As it happened in the past, on the issue of the draft constitution bill, the session will also been prepared without the stakeholders to be given use of that draft.
The results of those mistakes is that stakeholders who were not able to read well the draft that at meeting at meeting in meeting and contribute as required as the end of all, I had a special committee to go through and come up and recommendations that will be discussed in another session.
Certainly, that action could have been approved and it's proud of it is the government itself which shows everyone of wanting to resolve the issue so as to give them a great speed.
Inside the news sector there's no doubt that the current policy of 2003 has several weaknesses that need to be researched on as it is the constitution or other policies, even this news network has several weaknesses that need to be amended.
That doesn't have any objection, and all of us understand that if they understand and let me stop, it is when the government wants to inspect that policy at the quick process so that it is for the benefit of who?
It is very fast that without doubt, he made the government to present a new draft on the policy of information with sections that have no doubt like that which carries a lot of person that they have at many types of citizens.
Recently, citizens will be faced with the belief that the section is aimed at removing two or three people recently, and not because it has benefits to the community and to the construction of democracy in the country?
I hope you should understand that the truth of the news sector (the fourth pillar) is the important sector for the development of our nation, and that is the sector that has enabled the public to understand it, and to consider well on how the three capital city of the government, parliament and the court works.
And if we agree with that issue, we agree that any amendments to policies that concerns the sector, is not something to give them an issue that needs to be careful, and because that process is required to be long and that are facing various stakeholders.
Contrary to it is that you can make us be able to make sure we have a information policy that is taking back behind but we do not want them to believe that it is the aim of our government.
