
17 December 2012

The government emphasizes on transparency in good education to a female child.

By Mariam Mziwanda, a non-governmental organization of the education sector of the female child CAJATZ) has explained the need to eliminate violence in spreading gender policies by giving an opportunity for better education to a female child so that he can recognize their primary rights.
While speaking at night in Dar es Salaam, the chairman of the Board of Ciara, Wilfred Lwakatare said that until now the organization has been able to benefit from 6332 girls by sponsorship of secondary schools, girls and boys including 75 girls of form five and six girls.

He said the agency which has started in the year 2006 was attributed by the government's plan in the implementation of the project of educating children of the female children after the program starts, Wilfred Lwakatare does not need to continue giving her a female child who had lost an opportunity especially from the difficult life he has.


"The Department of this organization is to ensure that every child gets education, is supposed to ensure that every child gets education, is supposed to be trusted and to protect their rights and ensure they are free from all types of suppression of state which will lead the presence of a non-governmental organization in the country," he said.
.
He said CAD D is working in five African countries including Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Ghana, Zambia and Malawi the main aim being to reduce poverty by enabling the education of female children who come from the danger of orphans in the villages and enable them economically in the villages.

He has explained that the strategies of the organization is to ensure that girls who come from schools are building a good economic environment and be a good example to their community in order to bring change to the nation and their families.

Moreover, CIDA, Wilfred Lwakatare is working in ten districts in the country which are Kibaha, Kilolo, Iringa rural, Bagamoyo, Bagamoyo, Bagamoyo, Morogoro villages and 1541 schools that have graduated from the university and 1541 schools which have contributed to small businesses that have changed their lives.

On his part, the Deputy Executive Director of Shangani Tanzania, David Balula has said that in this year they have been able to educate girls 326 girls to pay fees, while more than ten thousand students have benefited from an emergency fund with 117 members among them are still living in difficult environments.

He also explained that 30 groups of parents have managed to be made in order to help access to better education to those children, while the delegates of Ciara and Cama have succeeded in taking the training in Zimbabwe and Ghana so as to exchange experiences.

He has said that the efforts of good education to female children have gone to hand in hand with the empowerment of health education where through 26 members of Cor who were given training on medical services they have been able to educate the community.
