
Do you read the union or cows?
May 30th, 2012

For another time, the Tanganyika and Zanzibar union have shown an indication of a new issue.
The union that led the Lake Region that was conducted through voluntary of both sides, has turned into a huge conflict between the two sides, on the side of Zanzibar seems to serve in the case every day, while the claims of being taken by leaders together with the ordinary citizens.
Together with being the side of Zanzibar seems to be a country, it has their president, their national flag, their constitution, their constitution, their constitution, their parliamentary forces, their leaders are complaining that they are complaining.
What is missing is its currency that can't have reasons because they are alleged to be drawing or to be given from the main level of the union.

The side of the mainland that you showed up to be sold and to be taken to this union that killed their national team, they don't have the constitution or not the president, they don't have the constitution or the parliament of Zanzibar and not everything in Zanzibar and not everything in Zanzibar.
Politicians who know this as a result of the union but basically this is not a problem but it's in prison for the state, this situation has continued for a long time and now we have the holy books "that explains the history and importance of this union it does not have a lot of questions or serious issues.
For someone to be a high leader in this nation, it is a must to fulfill the way he is a supporter of this union which is only only in the African Continent, unique means of this union is due to the pain of both sides that are not satisfied with this union but are forced to sit inside him.

This week the union has got a great amount of those who showed up, they claimed that this union has been connected to the house of the service because they are forced to see if you are brought to hunger or the intention is being maintained through the forest.
Therefore, that logic should not be taken to enhance security, it can get rid of shisha, the coalition are already seen that even when alcohol have been burnt down by people who are opposing the union.
These buildings are similar to the opponents of the union being a sign of the union because it is a big challenge to the union but basically this is a new challenge which was not in the list that are called to the coalition nuisances.
That diseases are not supposed to do Zanzibar, and or the alcohol clubs did not be inside the union.

In the whole country they have denied its involvement in the break of hunger and the alcohol clubs, but wisdom could not be given if the community was unable and apologized for that those who did so are followers of the community but went against the foundation of the community.
The open foundation that is being supported by the community is to remove the union or be prepared for the opinion polls about the union before collecting the views of the new constitution.

In addition to the presence of the things that are seen openly in the strategies that do not know, it is a critical thing in relation to the violence in Zanzibar.
Lack of good leadership for the two sides of the United Republic are the taproot, which affects the problems that are called by our leaders as a result of our leaders because some of them are oppressed and they have already attacked and drinking water together in the sessions that are not affected by a little agenda.
The results of lack of good leadership is a habit of leaders to give statements that will bring birth to the union themselves from citizens who do not meet.

Recently, President Jakaya Kikwete said that in the process of collecting opinions of creating a new constitution, citizens will not be asked if they are proud of the union or the ones that would be asked if he said because he is the president of the union, but it was not expected to use it so that he believes that the union did not affect the union.
Because he said the words when he launched the commission of collecting opinions, its words is to confirm the views of the process of the opposition to become a new constitution can end as a constitution of the president instead of the constitution of the citizens because it is made of instructions of the president.

The Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has ever brought up closely the parliament when he mentioned in Zanzibar and it is not a country, these words were shocked and in Zanzibar until today the nation of Zanzibar would not be able to be taken to statements by one government leader and that is the reason why President Kikwete didn't start in unity if they did not know.

Because they have decided that they have decided to vote or by bad luck, that the house for worship is a union of the union and therefore it is good for the government to organize afresh and protect the union.
What's required is to ask the citizens to discuss due to prevent the union and as a result of us that the students who come from their cost of the United Republic of Zanzibar and Tanzania is living in the hearts of the people and not in houses for selling alcohol and the meat of pigs.
The founders of the union did not meet in the service or in the alcohol house and suspend him from the process of building their countries as well as a threat to their nations.

The reasons for the establishment of the union at the time (politics and security) right now and if they are there, they have a new chapter of political parties and groups of people who need to come up with heavy reasons in protect and protecting this union more than statements by the leaders who had gone down.
If you leave the process of lead the debate on the presence of a union of unity, we will reap from the deaths of churches, the mosques and alcohol clubs and suspend them.
It is a foolish thing that is supposed to be completed as a union being involved in worship services or alcohol clubs, and our leaders are just on or claiming that the police are not knowing what they feel.
In addition to that, those who did so are the criminals that concern religion and politics, but their action is the best to be dealt with by police.
We saw a few years ago, by one when he lost cartoon artist in Denmark and caused the air to blood in the whole world, Ranaldo and caused the net in America and caused the world to keep him in time.
For worship houses without caring what is owned by who, it is the only houses that can be able to be involved with us or we do not know the union.
The records of breast cancer is not far from the victims that are not involved in them.
