I don't know?
Like this, I would like you to know there, it will help my friends even if it is now, he bought it.
He is saying that when I will go to things he is called.
It came out of a matter that he did at night.
The foundation stone.
Little in the attempt to prevent your colleague we have told them that I get to us?
And if you want to be transported with all those who want you to choose a leader whose most of it is going to the size of one family.
Hayatou, we know that your leaders are in the consent of the citizens that come just like this one I don't know the money for those money and how it will not get development but not the truth that it has continued.
When you talk to him we win and we eat with it if it's impossible so that it could be hard working with us with caring about the interests of this citizens, "said development.
You don't know what they were blocked for children, Mwillo.
That appeal was found.
In Manyara or being a person, the late Zekiem themselves, the late Zekiem themselves, the late God rest his events and when I get a long time so as to get a long time.
I stopped from singing each other one that had been involved, he has got that as she has got.
In the year saying it's over drinking and.
For a good thing to study we should not be true that vehicles has said.
And the meaning of Burkina Faso, we ask you to say who work is people, we should give you shortly.
We are in here, I did not lie!
When you go through the late or a leader you should know that you can't give you the fish.
Young people.
Small.
Heavy among them say that the driver will not have no longer a person.
If you get very disturbing and when this is when you go through my friend, why you think it is important to lead the family when I think it is very important when I think it is very important when I think it is very important when I believe it is still ongoing.
Most of the most important things in Sunday is not his wife if you tell me if you want to destroy their positions and you don't inform them, but it doesn't understand what they got from, then I don't know where I don't know where they don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where he didn't like to read it due.
My fiancée even a swim.
In addition to the information, saying, the vehicles of passengers should ask you will be on Sunday with Bongwe town in London.
As usual.
Waiting for you are in criminal acts and to you at the field of Dar es Salaam, we're happy to see that, I have set aside hunger and we should not allow youths to be affected or we talk about what we are doing so that we are able to sell themselves.
