Magufuli: I don't have shivered to the rich people.

The Minister of Works, Doctor John Magufuli, has said he will continue to be responsible.
The road law number 30 of the year 1973, until he is getting into the grave.
To ensure there are no vehicles that destroy the weight and destruction of road.
Goodluck Ole Sendeka.

Doctor Magufuli made those remarks in Dar es Salaam yesterday at the event.
Looking for the signing of the three agreements for the construction of Gongo la Moto, Manyara that goes through Mayemba.
Bahati-Bonga.

The road.
Another one is approved by M-M and a t-1, Shaban Mtambalikena and said that, the roads are.
Jay Z a Christian does well as well as the great cost, therefore all the directors of the Ministry of Construction.
Through the picture.
.
The roads in the country (TANROADS) are supposed to supervise the law.

He said the keen management of the road law will help.
It did not want it more so that President Jakaya Kikwete has directed the ministry.
To supervise the law where the action of the owners of vehicles to increase weight.
You love a lot.

"That I am not ready to see the few people passing the road.
To get great benefits when these roads are being built through a loan that is paid.
The tax of citizens.

"Don't know the truth is the lover of God, I am continuing to supervise the law.
Until when I went to the grave for sure there are no vehicles that affect the weight.
Destruction of roads, "said Doctor Magufuli.

He added that like the rich people.
They will be left to continue to increase weight, the roads that are not last for.
Long and poor citizens will continue to pay taxes.

"In Germany, the weight of all the vehicles is 40 tons, England.
40, France 40, Russia and 56 tons, while we are arrested.
To 96 tons, "he said.

While speaking to the contractors that they won the tenders for the construction of road construction.
Those, Doctor Magufuli warned him and insisted.
I cannot work hard to have made those contracts to look for the contractors.
The ability.

He said if they have agreed to sign him, they should start working immediately.
For the government it is stolen, the taxpayer identification is wrong, therefore not to sit.
Six is what they started work.

"The managers of TANROADS in provinces where this projects are done.
You must be able to promote this construction and.
The project is unacceptable, in your area to know you are for us to do so.
One, "he said.

On his side, the member of parliament for Kasulu Town, Kigoma Province, Mister Moses.
Machali (NCCR-Revolution), congratulated the government for reading a cry for citizens.
To build the road and the bridge of River Malezi, something that he is not a conservative.
If the government has made good work to be added.

"A good thing is only good even if they are done by who so me.
A conservative, as the government has done good?
It should be remembered, "he said.

He added that despite the government to build a bridge.
Malambale, the other road including the Nyakahm, has a bad state.
In addition to congratulating the government for signing that contracts, that object is.
Another thing.

"Signing a contract is one thing and the contractor to attend the area.
It is another step, the bridge of River Malunde, something cannot be enough but we request the road.
The Nyakahura should be tarmac, "he said.

And the nominated member of parliament for Dodoma Province on the ticket of the Revolutionary Party.
(CUF), Miss Moivo has said that he congratulates the government of CCM for implementing.
His promise, but did not be made close to the elections because a cry for the road was a cry for the roads.
It is a long time.

He said although he is a member of parliament from the opposition.
The government especially when you solve the problems of citizens, but the great fear is the implementation.
Its members of parliament have complained of many projects that have been signed.
It has not been implemented.

"Minister Magufuli has been able to implement the manifesto of CCM in the sector.
The road infrastructure in the country has done a good work, Babati City, Iringa.
It was set aside as he said that he had signed the contracts, it will help them.
Citizens of Dodoma Province, "
He said.

And the executive director of TANROADS, Engineer Patrick Masong has said.
That project is being implemented in the second phase of the first phase.
On a loan of 472 billion shillings and the phase that will be implemented at a cost of shillings.
53866 billion shillings.

He said.
The funds are from the Japan International Development Corporation (JICA) and another.
The African Development Bank (ADB) where other funds are from the government.
That event was attended by all members of parliament from Manyara, Dodoma, Mtwara and Ruvuma where those projects take long.
Their constituencies.
