
A helicopter from CHADEMA is received here.

The Dongfangzhixing Ship, popularly known as Chisholm, the day before yesterday got into the sky and caused leaders of that party to fail to perform a meeting in Mpumalanga county, Chamwino district, as it was planned in the schedule.

According to the schedule that had been planned, the national leaders who are the attorney general of the party Tundu Lissu and the chairman of the Youth Union (BAVICHA), had a meeting in that village at 4 o'clock in the morning.

While speaking to Mtanzania, the chairman of parliament for Dodoma Province, Steven Massawe confessed the disappearance of the explosion and claimed that there is no doubt that were done by CCM due to its disappearance.

The village of Mpinda village is in Mpumalanga county, where the councilor's position is open by political parties and CCM they have stopped candidates.

"The biggest reason for its disappearance is the problem of communication if you will be in Mpumalanga county, I don't have communication with a trap and causing them to sit for one hour and at least ten o'clock in the morning.

"When he arrived at Zongomela Area, he was told that the village has a meeting and he was going back back to the western part of 40 kilometers, even so he didn't go back to fill in the oil," said Massawe.

He said after filling the oil, those leaders did not come again to do a small meeting, instead they went to Mpwapwa where there was another meeting at 7 o'clock in the afternoon according to the schedule.

"Today (yesterday) this leaders by using the explosion and succeeded to do a meeting at ten o'clock in the morning and managed to do a meeting, around ten o'clock in Chamwino district, later will go to Kongwa and Moshi town," he said.

He said that it's not true that CCM did a lesson so that CCM did not allow you to do a meeting in that village because they will allow CCM and CCM participated in the launch of the Captain in that ward.

"CHADEMA did a campaign launch in Mwaura ward, January 26 this year and CCM held their launch on January 20," said Massawe.

And the Secretary General of the Democracy and Development Party (CHADEMA), Doctor Willibrod Slaa, has said that if the CCM's government will not fully put the rights environment for different groups inside the community because of permanent peace, land conflicts, he allowed the nation in danger of great danger in the country.

Doctor Slaa made those remarks at the M4C meeting, yesterday when he was addressing the residents of Ihanga village, Shipafu, Itilima and Bariadi districts.

He said it's right for the citizens to have hope, because it is the foundation of true peace that does not need to destroy the stage.
