
The HIV and men project so as to prevent HIV is still unknown.
And apologized.
At the time it was launched 2008, there will be self-communicable diseases so as to reduce the possibility of HIV infection, popularly known as Vogue Bowman.
Six years later, it has been revealed that the project has had a great challenge in persuading the men of more than 25 years about the importance of making it.
In the research that was done by the South American organization (USAID), has been found that many men who came out to participate in that project were of 15 to 25 years in East and South African countries where that project is continued.
"The implementation of the Vogue Bhebey Ndey is under 25 years, though the men who are among the age of 25 and 50 are at the high risk of being infected with HIV and therefore there's a big possibility that is equivalent to male circumcision," the report was released on Wednesday.
In Kenya, that project intended to destroy the pillars of solar energy, scientists and elite.
The statistics of that organization which is one of the sponsors show that 40 percent of 860,000 men who were allocated have been completed at the end of the year 2012, many of them being from the IEBC.
In that number, it's only 15 percent of men who were more than 25 years.
In research conducted Turner, a reason that had been found to prevent men of more than 25 years not to stop the project caused fear about health effects, culture of the community and the concept that male circumcision is not only to the children and youth.
The elders who were interviewed also believed that the AIDS was not allowed, there are only youths who are in the danger of being infected.
That research also used that of many elders of Turnbull.
It continues to explain that while their neighbors taking the youth of Vermont Bernie Sanders, usually have a different ways to indicate that the youth have been living a lot, which is called bison.
That community also was said that the person who came through Asukile has said that there is a big possibility that are among the age of 25 years, who are not supposed to enter into other reproductive organs to indicate that he has crossed from 1st until August.
