
Police are continuing to take their company of security?
May 30th, 2012

There is no thing that was very delicious with a person getting married.
For us the others that we met with me or at school, then try to think it is normal and those who were seen "big" and they were able to force a small things that you buy during a half time. "
In developing their administration of "
When I reached in addition to the National Housing Corporation (JKT) they want to start a security company to promote other companies, one thing that came into it.
"It's a word" and it's when I was surprised by someone who had come to him with the idea and ended up "which he would like to be heard until waking up.
Many times I have been saying, what we have been saying are some of the leaders who were shocked by the authority, but I believe now there are others who despite telling them, but there is no wonder, what he did is because of alcohol or not for both.
At the end of last year, it was announced that finally the government has ratified the security company Mali (Sawe- JKT), to start several things that are required to protect JKT, Police, Prisons and TPDF company to start a large number of security and security of its forces.
First, JKT is part of the security agencies in our country and its officers are soldiers and at any time they can be called JWTZ, and its officers are recognized as basically JKT is the only army police (reserve area).
On other words, already JKT is an expert on security and construction of the nation because they want to start another company more than its squads, but basically there is no reason for them to do so since they are already in that sector.
Secondly, the explanation of that by JKT has started a security company, it will be able to try to evade a fake companies "or people who have not received training on security issues like the ones that are given by JKT, I believe in dealing with this problem not only to start a company but by JKT starting the training for private companies and private individuals.
If JKT wants to participate in offering the military training for private companies in the country and it is possible now by JKT and his leadership would have been able to help JKT Ruvu officers by doing so, JKT still will help to improve employment and provide training in the private sector.
Three, as a result of an increase in various entertainment activities, sports and events that are working in JKT could be able to start training like the famous people's defense (VIP) program, where youths do not give documents so that they have the ability to provide the security instead of it is now which is being viewed at a large extent, and if it is now.
That issue of defense of the famous people can be done by the police also and even enable you to change the law so that people who come from different types of training which have an acceptable level are given strength.
(PAD) so that they can be able to have the ability to arrest and carry small weapons so that it does not require JKT or Police to start a subsidiary company but having a vision of the program needed to meet the current needs.
The fourth issue is that JKT can also participate in providing employment to the young people and those who came through their training because the traffic officers without themselves having shares in those companies.
This is important because JKT has started a security company now, then the company wants to be given a contract to protect the 'Airtel Shule Yetu' company, which one of its shareholders is a certain child of JKT then the corruption will be opened up.
The fifth issue is that already we have been unable to learn during one where the police are trying to get into business that you did not identify the truth about what happened between JWTZ and Merseyside with how you missed to billions from the Central Bank.
If we will agree on JKT Ruvu to change the defense and security company (something that I have already begun and agreed to enable the police force to continue improving their company's safety of citizens who start their company to supervise the prisoners of the prisons in Tanzania Limited.
There is possible who had a good intention, but I believe it is a bad thing, dangerous and it is a plan that doesn't have any reason because the problem of Tanzania is not lack of security companies!
