Dream of Bill gates, and our correspondent.
December 31st, 2014.

One of the big events in the world what happened last week is the economy conference that was held in Mkwajuni, Switzerland said the conference of every year is making various stakeholders of the world economy, President Jakaya Kikwete has been attending to approximately every year.
Among them that came out in that conference is a dream of a human being rich in the world, Bill Nas, who claimed that he is expecting to have reached the year 2030, 16 years from now, the world will not have poor countries even one.
First, it is important to recognize the contribution of that billionaire, in various projects and various donations to the poor country like our country, in collaboration with his wife, Melisa John, they have done a good thing that this article is not enough to help the disabled while he believes that there is poverty that will be history.
That does not give Bill gates, hope that approximately one and a half years from now, it will not have the poor country is what many countries are supposed to understand, statistics of the economy and the rich is claiming that these statistics show the poor development in the poor country.
At home, several times citizens fail to believe that their leaders are "true" or there are a life of the economy though the state of life has never been difficult, the problem of our leaders but it does not mean that statistics are people, number number and people are people.
Although, it is a foolish thing, (so much) when it comes to any issue that is related to the number, including statistics, among the few statistics that concern it is that many statistics are usually paid for the real situation.
I should give an real example, it is easy to conclude that Tanzania has made development steps by counting the number of vehicles that are causing a lesson in Dar es Salaam city, because some of the areas, vehicles are not only a dream to cause a few but it's also a dream of owning a few.
Therefore, maybe the city of Dar es Salaam despite making steps in the number of vehicles and attractive buildings, it's not a good example of the real condition of many people living in the villages and although there are efforts to bring hope that are done by our leaders to encourage the development in the villages, the truth is that there is a big difference between the lives of urban and villages.
Everything happened that conference of Davutoglu, various economic analysis of the world have been questioning its effectiveness in implementing the poor country, especially in Africa where basically, one of the biggest agenda of the conference is donations to poor countries.
However, some of the analysis is going on well and question about those "with a good heart" they want to boost their businesses to the rich and therefore I give you a donation of vehicles to expand the business market so as to get the market for these vehicles.
But even when we look at the biography of "the reason to fight poverty through the donations," some of them are tax payment in their countries, by touching their money in the "signifies.
England is one of the nations that lead in the world by giving donations, and the Prime Minister Donald Trump, has been accused of stealing especially with his colleagues in the ruling party of Tanzanians who have succeeded (Concepts Tanzania party), that a large percentage of the donations came into the poor countries.
And certainly, there is one thing that I failed to see these, "the whites" is how you get their money as donations to the poor country, but it's not been reported to how the big part of the donations was used against the goals and expectations.
Recently, it happens at a fact, to see the convoy of a big country leader with few vehicles of "normal price" while the same time the leader of the poor and poor vehicles is the rich and the poor is the rich "by checking the difference of" he said.
