
The ministers and their licenses have risen to May 24, 2012.

One of the many films of James Bond (87) that was given in the year 1989, and attracting many people it was called ", they will not kill another."
In that film, James Bond has refused the official instructions of "M" to go and do his work of investigators in Turkey and instead he decided to resign and go back to revenge for his friend who was killed in the hands of a big patient with drug trafficking.
The action of James Bond has given his order by his head that caused his license to manslaughter (without being given a permit or by being given a solution) to be able to use their responsibilities but at the appropriate conditions.
It is because the police or security officers can be able to find themselves having to kill someone in implementing duties without considering that they are doing so because of their responsibilities, we should be able to remove the license of manslaughter. "
When I was listening to the explanation of President Jakaya Kikwete, when he spoke to the journalists last week and announced openly that despite some of his ministers disabiding to the current research, he decided to enter the chest and by doing so as to confirm that they are continuing to travel without fear of being faced with any problems.
The decision by the president to decide they get complaints by the citizens about the performance of his council, "it is the requirements of the council to be, to give his new ministers who now know that President is on their side.
It is clear that there are some of the ministers who for sure it's not only asking the president but for sure you are still in their positions and it's why these ministers will continue with these positions?
Currently, it is true that in Tanzania the ministers we have now are to take the nation and take it in the country because of all the people that President Kikwete could appoint them in different positions, this 60 people is why we can put our hope to them?
Private so that the action of the president entered the chest is an act of giving them a license to give them the license that can be able to enable them by using his administration, that is that you can buy a new speed, new speed and new strength. "
We should look for some of these ministers who are for sure that they have been given the national flag.
The first without doubt is the Minister of Minerals and Energy Jean Marie Le Pen has said that this prime minister is for sure he cannot sell in the history of minerals in the country because his action is to legalize the contract of Jokate Mwegelo and to identify the parliament without any punishment is an act that doesn't have a lot of time to continue to hold any position in the government.
He is a businessman and when it has come back into his business and he will face our minerals and even before sending him it will be good if we will be told by President Kikwete where he will start selling electricity after breaking the organization of TANESCO.
Today, as you prepare to bring up the electronic organization, TANESCO (if it said President at a press conference) we have to ask ourselves that for all years, it's not true that their organization will be able to get the opportunity to sell power through this organization so that they can get an opportunity to start selling electricity?
So, Karaitakapotoka has no shares in the energy companies (him or his family), there are no legal action of making them to sell power through it because Karaegypti.
Another one is Doctor Ibrahim Ajib, a prime minister, who was involved in Richmond Raymond and his friends.
After complaining, Doctor Mengi was removed from the Ministry of East African Cooperation and he said that due to that scandal of Richmond Development, it is among those who did not want to go to the council of Prime Minister but he was given a license to continue to fall down.
The former senior lawyer of the government, now the Minister of Infrastructure, Andrew Chenge, is believed to be careful and given a license to continue to carry out the license to continue to provide information about what our country has entered into poor contracts and having no bad laws.
He has been the chief adviser on the legal issues of the United Republic and is under its leadership, where the nation has not come into the surprising issue because he is his office and his minister did not plan to deal with misuse of offices to an extent that the president and his minister did not open business at the State House as the attorney general.
It's not just that, the attorney general was unable to ensure that the parliament is implementing the court's order by writing the laws that are delaying the decision of the court.
The recent action is not supposed to supervise the rights of citizens to be elected as the free candidates and now four years, while the parliament is going to stop stuttering, an act appears to be a person to be trusted by the leadership of the country.
As the Chief Justice Andrew Chenge, an eye on the bad law brought to parliament (like the one that was producing bribes by the name of Statistics (NBS), using his position he was unable to put the national interest in front and instead he stopped him to vie for a parliamentary seat and later given him to vie for a parliamentary seat in order to give him a parliamentary candidate.
Today, as Tanzania we are struggling with how our infrastructure it has dropped, he has decided to look for popularity through removing them and he has failed to supervise the construction of different levels of transport and he has failed to supervise the infrastructure.
There is a true person who can make us believe it is why Andrew Chenge, it is still a minister for what he has done in the nation to an extent that he cannot be afraid?
Another minister, Professor Peter Serukamba of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Education in the past we believe that a good leader is a scholar, then we believe it is a good leader because he can be a scholar and the leadership is not a lesson.
Someone can be a good leader and I have not been a good leader and someone can be Professor who is an expert who is involved in this issue because of its leadership in Tanzania it has come up with challenges and great problems in higher education there is possible more than any time in history.
Apart from delays, the loans are just some of the major problems that Professor Msolla had his team have failed to deal with Professor Msolla it is a shame for the scholars of the country and the action of the president saying that "there is no problem" in his council is wrong for mental disabilities.
There are worried that his life of power and their expertise, have been able to return to Tanzanian youths who had civil servants from Ukraine, dizziness and each other being a chance to address the citizens they do not tire.
"Our nation is behind in higher education, compared to other nations."
Private I believe that among the people who have been doing badly in the nation this year, first without doubt, Karaagi, the second one is continuing to sit on their office is an issue that causes the thoughts of many.
There are others who mention them one and their things to get in the Facebook page, he is in Edward Lowassa, a vibrant leader, man, who was being run for a period of the economy and business is still run as Joseph Mungai (not pictured), and many others.
It is clear that there are ministers who have done well with the action of the president and we can be accepted, even so as to continue with this council on how is, without hiding it, it is like the holy trees that it will be even if possible, it has no poison of the farm.
When we came to the year 2008, President Kikwete has been faced with one big challenge, showing leadership affecting 30 people recently, the assistant ministers failed to give them hope, why he had been trying to join a small council where his foundation is accountability?
How come today the ministers do not communicate with inside and instead the government's secret is set aside more than Shangani region, which is what to receive is where President Kikwete would recognize that the council was driving and done by political artists?
When I speak about new year greetings, it is my hope that President Kikwete will not allow me to continue giving up on how we are in our ward or this year.
It is my hope and without doubt of the others that President Kikwete will decide to show that in Tanzania, it is bigger than a person, and there is no private person.
If President Kikwete will continue to defend this license that shivered and leaving religious leaders to continue with their positions, then to know that at the end of the day he is with his party which has a great cost in the box for votes.
If I think we wish you, in this liquefied mixture of dairy products, they will continue to investigate and they cheer up his soul.
Because he believes that he has three other years to implement the promise of CCM and therefore, citizens should stop knowing that there are people who want to know whether they are supposed to show it, why should we start a mistake for presidency.
Some of the ones that are in his council want to know her to go on the environment of making President Kikwete to be the first President of Tanzania to rule by being an inexhaustible speed up if he believes that he did not get a look at each other.
