
Who is saying the truth about Kigamboni?
Sep 27, 2012

President Jakaya Kikwete has denied the land of Kigamboni by George Bush.
Same, but he has not allowed to be sold at the Kigamboni area. If it has not been sold by Bush then we can be sold to who.

When Kigamboni news ends the issue of Richmond Development, he knew that he wanted to take action to prevent the contract that doesn't have.

Today when we are told the news of Kigamboni, the new town of the new town that they are getting away with sharp edges.

These things are very happy to the victims of the new capital city of Kigamboni, we know what we have been sold but maybe we have no sure we have been sold to who and because of the agents that you will be able to forgive him for the project, again others are leaders.

The council members of Tungi, Kigamboni, Kigamboni, Kigamboni and Kibakwe provinces, Felican Mkude, have bad relationship with their citizens since the day they were seen on television in Dodoma town, they are accused of running the agents of the selling of Kigamboni.
There are some others while he was presenting as investors of the port expansion, that took place at the fish industry, investors of oil, there are children's children also known as summoning demons.

The step of being evicted by Kigamboni member of parliament made the residents of Kigamboni to believe that there is an issue that is going on concerning the whole issue of land conflicts in Kigamboni.

Those citizens of Kigamboni saw their member of parliament and he will not accept it to be a new town of Kigamboni Parliament due to being faced with controversy, privacy, and tranquility.

As it is not enough, the residents of Kigamboni we prepared a big meeting at the reception of our member of parliament at the popular stadium of Machava FC of Pembamnazi County, Philadelphia city, Kibondo, Kisarawe District, Dar es Salaam, Chamazi and Mvuti.

Citizens were waiting for millions of shillings to bid farewell to the member of parliament like the allowances that they got into the parliament and therefore made him lack of allowances for the sessions going on by the army commander Suleiman Kova for a few hours before the arrest of those attacks.

But by another reason, there are a Kigamboni leaders that it will pass and listen to them that they were involved, "the police force to bring down the behavior of the member of parliament on claims that he had decided to cook with the citizens of the new town of Kigamboni.

Those leaders are those of the project agents who have been mentioned above.

In Kigamboni residents, we have been given the voluntary contribution fund, not to improve our areas since October 2008 for an issue that it is the area of the project that it was said to be the map of the project had already been taken to identify which, where and to who.

The truth is that there is no resident of Kigamboni who was involved in that exercise.
And I heard this here, that even the map, there is no great name that does not lead it well, the popular map of "Kigamboni of Tanzania, I cannot believe that Teacher Kisongo.
By thinking that you shouldn't know that they are in the internet.

Let me tell you, the reader was there and there is a big way to get that same as a result of us all the stakeholders of Kigamboni and we were involved, so as to get information that is our right to get but also those involved in Dodoma.

That is the environment that caused out words (rumors) that Kigamboni has been sold by George Bush.

According to the news that we have, just after receiving them in the government, they discovered that the issue is in public very fast, the ministry of land, housing and human settlements development was called on the Citizen newspaper on Sunday one year that has caused the improvement of land in the areas of the year 2007.
That purchase was not completed in the year 2010 where the project could have started the first phase.

Up to today I don't miss this article, there is no one who is happening back to the residents of Kigamboni and we have been sold back because we are not satisfied with the issue of compensation to the Kigamboni bridge, but until today I'll have been approved by the roads of the bridge, but up to today I should be approved by this article I have not been infected with me.

And then he went to someone saying that the Kigamboni people have been charged with opposition to oppose the construction of the bridge.

Recently, there is joy of happiness and ask for permission from the opposition or the ruling party to inform them to make sure that they get the policies of those types, so as to prevent it and be talked about by the former head of the province when he started.

When we were born where we did not come from today, we will go through the road, being the left on the left wing, "the investor from the fish industry.

You can't stand in the Parliament with the public, but it is not true, then someone is expected to be made by my call, then someone is expected to be made by her name (my call), that is like a man then called me when he saw him.

If there is no payments there is no road, but there is not need for the opposition party or the party to come forward, we know what those victims of that project know you and then you're showing that you get out of inside my body and then you are believers and even brain disorders.

Instead of being faced by their opponents, the government will make its responsibilities regarding the controversy of a new town in Kigamboni by communicating with the citizens in all steps as he wanted to member of parliament for member states to be supported by the citizens of Kigamboni.

In Kigamboni, the residents have made their executive committee to follow the progress of the whole process of the new town of which he has spoken to a public meeting, they have talked with the minister, deputy minister, and other directors in government and even the former secretary.

Many times the leaders of that committee have happened in different television.
Because of these results, remember that the committee completed it that the Kigamboni project is EPA, Richmond Development Company, Debwa, Fold and other projects of corruption.

Up to today, there is no person who was unable to build a argument of validity of that project.

And it is not just one of the officers from the ministry who were kidnapped by the citizens in Kigamboni but there is no one who was standing with the contractor without the citizens, why they did not be taken against the citizens, why they did not be taken against the citizens, why they did not be taken against them, why they did not be taken against them, why they did not be taken against them.
It has been reported that it has shown the existence of a huge cause of the country's law on the government's side in implementing the project.

But the honorable member of parliament is not a member of parliament of the ruling party not for the opposition party, on this logic, the issue of saying their opponents are facing a new town of Kigamboni, so they feel so much and doesn't know the truth is that the residents of Kigamboni by our will without considering that the project is being run away.

The issue of developing Kigamboni for the benefit of citizens is so bad and does not have problems.
If we succeed to see that the picture (a model give the birth) on how the city will become an increase from here is a city where the residents of Kigamboni are not in the area of industries and international universities, there are 7 percent just after others have forgotten the area of residential and international universities.

Its buildings include stories they get out of 20 to 100 percent.

For the environment, the residents of Kigamboni will have to register themselves with them to marry off the forefront in Chesensi Gusmao and for instance, they are supposed to grow, rently.

We should leave you or here, there is a person who has a problem with the Kigamboni people, only when people were seen well, it's not like to be used to our colleagues in Kurasini and the government has sold more than 20 million residents.

And not people to accept what happened in the year 2005 about the bridge that took place.
Efforts to start the construction of October 2005 was taken and because that it has never been put openly by NSSF I think they should remember what happened at the time despite all preparations that were completed.

That was not allowed to be released on that it has been found in the Chinese company which is able to build them at the age of 30 kilometers.

Those who denied the construction of the bridge in the past today are happy to open and claimed that Doctor Ramadhani Shauri will be given a medal for the best performance, history is a very important teacher, but the people do not think that they do when they go and then the history failed to forgive him.

The basis of the foundation is that such as we learn, as we consider the administration of the law then the exercise of the new town of Kigamboni should not depend on the privacy of the whole exercise of Kigamboni city, it is a argument that the area has taken out and those will continue to come out.

If it is not true that Bush has been sold at the Kigamboni area, privacy, and spirits, and strong argument, instead of the strength of the argument that came from?
Therefore, the truth about the environment of Kigamboni project as it was in EPA, Richmond, Dowans, Iniesta, Deuogratius, and many other things come out and finally be known.

Ole Sendeka who are doing the names of the gospel musician Diamond Platinumz has said people should not get married and grind using their teeth.
Writer of this article is called Obrey Chirwa has said he is a reader of Mke Mwema for a long time.
