It is the year of politics of CCM, CHADEMA.
August 8, 2014.

Happy about the new year, the loved readers of this platform and this newspaper in general.
In this article I will try to return that I did at the beginning of the year 2012, that does not recognize the direction of various issues, especially in home.
In the beginning of last year I did not do that because different primary reasons, one of the symptoms of what happened in 2012 could also come again.
This year 2014 is expected to have different primary schools compared to last year, most of them being the process of heading to the general elections this year.
Several times I have written this fact that most of the main behaviors, thank you that we are not worried about one of the bad truth about this year, it is a possibility to witness the motion which may have never happened in the history of our nation.
Stop this argument that will involve the conflict that will involve the great shape inside the ruling party, CCM, the main opposition party CHADEMA, and on a certain amount in some parties "small and opposition parties like CUF, NCCR-Evolution and UDP party.
I'll inform us that approximately all parties that will not be shaken by secret conflicts, moreover, among the leaders or members with an aim of being appointed to be the presidential candidates through their party ticket or the groups (CCM).
At the time I was not satisfied by the CCM party that there are more symptoms than he has noted that in CHADEMA and other opposition parties, a situation is expected to be different where some politicians will put aside the interests of those parties and fight them in public.
The most important I have told that it is a continuation of the conflict that is in CHADEMA, where the former deputy secretary general, Zitto Kabwe will continue being the problem "to his fellow leaders, especially the chairman Freeman Mbowe and the secretary general Doctor Willbroad Slaa.
Although this don't have an assurance that, but there is a probability that, Zitto Kabwe got married or he himself cannot get out of that party because there is a possibility of "couples," said Zitto "to continue with the process of" changes "he emphasized.
It is difficult to recognize the fate of CHADEMA one day like today in the year, but I've heard that the party will not die but there is a possibility of the benefit to a large extent and that conflict is not a threat to CCM.
On the side of other parties, I think that the possibility of the presence of signing up the permanent presidential candidates, that is Seif Sharif Hamad and Ibrahim Lipumba on the side of CUF, John Cheyo the UDP party and Augustine Mrema (TLP).
One of the major events that can arise from the new party that will be implemented by joining famous politicians, there is also a possibility that the party does not be new but it is among the parties that are in the country, with the possibility of benefit from that situation.
On the side of CCM, I don't see the symptoms of "violence, different from the condition is now a big possibility is to increase and increase in what is was known as political politics whereby each other can be put up publicly so as to reduce the speed of some of the intentions of vying for the presidency on the party ticket.
There is a possibility that although it is not great, some of the leaders of that party leave after realizing that they have a limited position to be appointed to inherit the President Jakaya Kikwete on a CCM ticket. One of the politicians that can leave that party is the former prime minister, Frederick Sumaye.
It does not mean it is difficult to do what is understood about CCM because until I see this article still there are signs of changes in the council of ministers. It is clear that if President Jakaya Kikwete will decide to have a good opportunity to bring new challenges in the race for getting the successor to Kikwete.
