
The star appears.
They have gotten tired and decided to stop the competition in the entertainment industry in this century, it has been sure that there has been an increase of new artists every time they make the market to be very difficult, therefore, this step has caused some of the old artists to fail to continue doing music and decided to intervene in other things.
And even if they are doing music, it does not have a stern warning to the past, when I take it to light weight so as to create a full picture of these thoughts, I have decided to leave them and others should not accept to prove that they are still in the past, but the real picture is different.
Rsm Company has been the first artist soon after announcing that he is leaving music.
Whoever doesn't have any reason to stop doing music more than to say that she feels it is best to leave this time while he is still in a big part of his wealth as Pamela, talents and illegal immigrants.
"It has been a long journey with success in my music profession and I am happy about many things in my profession and now I will give you a lot of things to my profession and now I wish you all the right to give them support," he insisted.
Mr of Nice of 2005 to 2008, has already been a big artist in East Africa and between Mr Nice who was doing very happy, but there is no wonder, but there is no wonder, but there is no wonder, but there is no wonder, but there is no longer evidence.
Once moving to Kenya and even to be signed by the GramPickup, and to release several jobs which we've not seen, "I do not depend on her music and then I do not depend on music and give them livelihood seekers."
Hussein Bashe, last year when it reaches a ogo, Hussein tears announced that he resorted to music after seeing that it does not affect the income as it was in the past.
This is as a result of the number of the show that it has lost a lot, while the work he got in the recent days without attracting a big market.
Tears said that he has decided to do personal things and cease losing his time in music, it will be remembered that if he was involved in a big group that was known as Michael Kafando and decided to break up his music video and decided to break up his music.
Five years later, Olsson missed an agreement with her husband and that's when he started again strategies to return to the court for releasing several jobs including collaboration with big artists and even when he was doing music with great monitoring, this journey usually has been allowed to lose their own work.
Carey is one of the artists with great influence in entertainment sites here at home, Prezzo who was competing with his fellow artists to release a song and even led to raising several conflict due to the competition of music.
When he went up with a big collaboration in which he featured Ommy Dimpoz has given a lot of life, give and give him a lesson so that he didn't give him a long time when he had been silent, and he has been silent because he would have been coming from the video of some artists.
In November last year, he released a new job to put up which up to today it has been unable to get a chance to be played in big media stations because his popularity continues to wane's music continues to wane.
Apart from the claims that, he told him for his popularity and failing to market themselves as the past, what would you tell you on the use of today's use where he has been relating to the media due to the illegal behavior which were shown in the electronic systems where he is alleged to go through an interview with 'Tungi'. "
His results was unable to answer questions as required and find themselves at time to time when he knows her, she does not know her so that she does not know her, she does not know her so much and that is why he plays very much well, he did not get a good show. "
A promotion that has been known (name is believed to be among the hip-hop artists in the country, more than only one year and put it well in the map since he returned to Kenya from America in the past three years after seeing things do not go back to his house which did not go back to his house.
By seeing that efforts are touched down, he decided to be silent and intervene in business in the selling of vehicles and there are other economy. However, when it comes up, he gave an opportunity for a small and Victoria Kimani will emerge and he has been very disturbing since he left his first work.
