
Hunger does not want to shine at the villages of Arusha, Manyara, May 31, 2012.

The life of life for the citizens of the farmers of breeders in the provinces of the Northern Region of Arusha and Manyara Region has continued to be bad after many livestock has died due to a heavy rainfall that is facing several districts of that provinces.
Although there is no official statistics, but it is estimated that more than 10,000 shillings they can have died in the districts of that provinces.

While more than 800,000 American Dollars were seen as a result of lack of food and water.
Districts that have been affected by the drought situation in the province of Arusha is Monduli, Ngorongoro, Longido and some of the areas of Karatu district, Manyara Region and Kiteto District.
The writer of Mke Mwema, who got lucky to visit the Junction village which is in Monduli District and later villages in Ngorongoro district is witnessing the forest that it has been successful in those villages, while livestock which is still unknown.
In addition to the age of livestock, while the price that fell in the fees for livestock and markets, the farmers are also faced with a lot of hunger in that life of their families due to many being unable to withstand the high cost of buying ranches.
While the price of one cows that has gone to reach out of 10,000 to 20,000 shillings, the highest price in those districts for farmers have been able to reach 70,000 tons in the end of the maize with weight of 100 kilos.
Before drought, a bull will be sold at an average of 300,000 shillings per year due to its weight, health and the needs of the market.
Farmers now, they're being forced to sell an average of five hundred thousand so that he can be able to buy a fine of maize, a situation that is doing life is very difficult for their side.
The heads of three districts of Monduli, Ngorongoro and Longido, who were talking to Good Citizen on phone, at different times, admitted many livestock especially chicken have died and others had a bad state after being dealt with due to lack of pasture.
The District Commissioner of Monduli, Honorable Kasunga said that in his district there is no official statistics of cows that died from many farmers to fail to provide correct information of livestock they have at their disposal.
"It is difficult for us to have the correct statistics of livestock who died from the haphazard use of livestock that died due to misuse of many farmers in our district and others are alleged to get involved in the neighboring country," Kasunga said.
That district commissioner said that earlier, by using the local government leaders in that district, many farmers have been encouraged to sell the areas of their livestock when they still have health so as to buy food together with other needs, but many do not want the call.
"Our farmers are very attractive to sell their livestock when they still have a good state, and that behavior has contributed a lot to rise up to the development of the livestock sector in the country," said the district commissioner.
On his part, the head of Ngorongoro District, Elias Wina Lali explained that his district also does not have statistics of livestock who died from the behavior of breeders not in their disposal.
Lali explained that, for now, the officers at the stadium in collaboration with government officials of the villages, have started working on evaluation and collecting data to know the number of livestock that died.
"I hope those statistics will be completed after two months after the completion of the work done by officers at the county level together with leaders of the local government," he said.
And the Longido District Commissioner did his colleagues after confessing that the district does not have statistics of livestock who died from many farmers from every short period in their villages to look for water and water.
"It is true that the situation is so bad in livestock which also is still ongoing and there are a lot of food and also lack of water in our district and many farmers have come to Simanjiro District in Manyara and Kilindi district, Tanga Province," he said.
Some of the farmers, even so, they are able to blame to the government by using the will of helping breeders and instead it has been building its development plans thus the sector seems to have any contribution to the economy and to fail to contribute towards required to the national income.
One of the farmers, Pope, King Sambayamoto, said that the government has been unable to put even their infrastructure to help farmers like the areas of water, classes and other important services, a situation that causes the farmers to have a difficult time every time.
"For example, in many areas of Simanjiro District and Kiteto district still there is enough use of pasture, but the big problem is lack of water to the bus and this is due to the plans to prevent us that it has brought the same ratio in development," he said.
The farmer, with a large number of livestock, he said that it is a must for the government to complete their development plans so as to help the breeders so that the sector can have great benefits by giving a great contribution to the economy of the country.
And another farmer, Sawazisha 'has proposed the government through the livestock ministry that would put a strategy of buying their livestock at a good price and to take them to be safely so that our colleagues in Kenya have said that they are separated by their government.
"Recently, the government of Kenya had bought a huge number of livestock at a good price that, by any way, it would have died from the same way, they will help many farmers who used those funds to other life needs," he said.
Speaking at the end of last week, the Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries, Jonas Mwageni has said that in Arusha town, that his ministry aims at making livestock out of 3,000 shillings it can have died in Ngorongoro District alone.
"There is no sure statistics, but because the ministry has not got accurate information from the officers that are in the districts that were affected by a drought situation," said the deputy secretary general.
He said that for now the government does not have an answer to one of the problem, but his ministry has organized itself for the next five years to enable farmers at the establishment of the modern slaughterhouses in Dodoma, Coast, and Arusha regions so as to help farmers when a drought takes place in livestock.
In Tanzania, it is the third country for having many livestock in Africa after Ethiopia and Botswana which is estimated to have approximately 6 million shillings, 76 million, 36 million shillings and the sector contributes to four percent of the National Identification Authority.
The rearing of animals from Tanzania is the one to look for food shortages in the desert, the situation that is making many farmers to leave from one area to another, being the one for the farmers of Maasais', Kisuma and Waja Spirings, Iringa and Mbeya seeking food of livestock.
