
20 December 2012

300 passengers which took the ferry of KIA to take place at 4 o'clock.

By Daud Magesa, Mwanza.

More than 300 passengers that use the ferry of MV which will be forced to shine at more than 6 hours.
Two after the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA).
The Lake Region to prevent the ferry that does not affect the passengers inside Lake Victoria.
TPA has also contributed to the leadership of that bridge, to remove the port of Mwanza North Port so as to pave way for roads.

Speaking to journalists, the director of that bridge, Mister Salum Ally, claimed to be surprised by the decision by TPA, he claimed that the ferry that took the road at the peak of the northern region, a area that is not safe for a short period of water.

He said TPA has been given a letter on December 11 this year, with number 1 / 3 / 3 / 42, it gave three weeks that he has gotten the ferry from a place where they are in the northern region and continue providing services for passengers.

"After receiving their letter, we discovered a period when the train have started getting into the port, continue with services but suddenly they have given another letter signed by the acting manager of TPA, Importing regularly," said Mister Ally.

He added that, the end of the service to transporting passengers had caused many citizens who depend on the service of the transport, it can be safe for their cargo where the elders live, pregnant women and students are not involved in the fare.

Mister Ally said the area that was directed by TPA for the purpose of giving the services of purification of forests, contributes to a short period of water, a shortage of road infrastructure for the purpose of passing the passengers and cargo. "

Basically I cannot fight with the government or to remove the ferry that was enough without enough preparations, if I will look for other activities.

"Before taking action, we shouldn't deal with my lawyer, because we had a contract with TPA, they are expected to end in September 2013," said Mister Ally.

The captain of the ferry, Mister Yona Ikhwan, said that he cannot endanger the passengers and the independent body due to the budget of that area being used by the ferry of Plasmodium falciparum.

The Mv Tanga company has a eight-inch width, the ferry of MV Clatchy Marist which is not correct because of a limited budget, therefore, sending the areas that we were told to be respected because there is a short period of water, "said Mister Ikonongo.

He advised TPA to fulfill that area so as to increase water services, to expand the dock and urged them to move into the decision because the citizens are prepared for a primary right to get transport.

The efforts of this newspaper to get the acting manager of TPA, the Lake Region, warned against the guards who are blocking the writer to enter in his office.

Recently, the Deputy Minister of Transport Doctor Charles Tizeba (in Mwanza town, has ordered TPA to break the contract with the owner which the bridge was on the claims of blocking the railway lines that is in the port without downloading the fuel for the mobile phone company.
