When you look at this period as a period of "me I was called Adam Adam I am in the city of Tanga city, it is not that I am no longer in the past, five thousand experts in the University of Dar es Salaam or later finished, she knows Tanzania in the old foreign affairs in this region of Africa.
Here I was surprised when I am happy about the areas that were surrounded by the Indian Ocean.
We believe that the world that has changed the second regulations of some of the birth of Jesus Christ, was known by the workers and it is believed that the grandson did the business and the mourners.
And the cleaning day if you are seen, we don't like to hear a very old expert where he has reminded them for knowing every time he did in Africa, this profession is not present so that the child's profession is not present so, then the professional of investigators have died.
If you play in, Joe and maybe a trap or in different parts of Africa in the African continent, should be very difficult, we have found a lot of houses and even if we have found a lot of houses and even if we have found a lot of houses but we have said that there is a series of servants I will follow it.
These experts started collecting forests later not to put up various tests on the first.
I don't know this city so that they can't know or know with different pastors, which if you go through I am happy when I got up with her mother, Madam and this is Tanga.
About the solar eclipse not known by name?
If you are.
Why is it?
Why is it?
It comes back.
.
All the statement was done by Mister.
Our president is claims.
When we get in Dar es Salaam city, we get a responsibility here, we are fulfilling the responsibility which we have done you here in Tanga.
Try to kill.
Simba in English, those coaches do not forget where the late is.
The area which is an institution.
Komba the end of you, where by Catholics like it was not there in the area, then it is possible for those areas where business people who import goods from the sea and would have been a threat to the people of the Catholic church who have been receiving business people as a film.
If the clinic is a basic thing at their skins?
All look for answers!
What is the existence of the workers.
And also for them, it is a business that was coming here here in South Africa from outside of us from the smell to get from the train and not here is the one to get that.
What concern do you have done?
What is praised here I will identify you on how to find the eyes of the country, what is something to listen to me.
At the shop, we have done something that in good courses, we use mental disabilities.
We had been forced to put him of Willy Nyamisana of the north of one area and there is there.
And because there is a big thing that is inside him and is in many parts of here, who we found?
Which are the cause of more than six hundred thousand shillings and some of the organs are still holding to him that because from India I am South Africa is the same as I got from the red carpet so that we don't see the things that are there.
Now the work that I have been touched.
