
TUCTA are continuing to communicate with them.
The Federation of staff for workers (Tucta) has decided to continue fighting for the rate of the tax of Msepwa (PAYE) tax from 13 percent that were destroyed now up to nine percent, so that the employee can get a check of life.

Secretary general of Tucta, Nicholas Kay, said that yesterday in Dar es Salaam city when speaking about the commemoration of May first that will be accompanied by the workers week which will start officially today.

The commemoration of May first will take place in the country tomorrow which will be held in Dar es Salaam city and the guest of honor will be President Jakaya Kikwete.

Mgaya said apart from the spread of taxes, Tucta, two other things which were found to fight for, so that the message can move in the government and get married.

The second issue mentioned that every employee got good payments when he is at work, something he said they have been asked for time to time and until now it has not been completed.

"Every employee is a retired prime minister, therefore it is good for employers to be given good payments, so that the worker will not support him to be the level of life that will help him in his life," said Mgaya.

He also said that they have organized to fight for the pension funds, the same level of pension funds, different from now, where some of the bags are paid a little rate and another it has paid a huge level.

"To reach at time is supposed to be availed with the influx of bags, but it does not affect the law and remain in two, the private sector and the public that others are accused when he was defending himself," said Mgaya.

Mgaya said another thing is compensation to employees whereby he advised the creation of fund which will enable the employee who will use work to be paid for compensation that will help him.

About changes that have happened since the last commemoration of May first, Mgaya said it is a reduction in tax from 14 million shillings to 13, he insisted that the workers are required to reach nine percent.

This newspaper looked for the Minister of Labor and Employment, Gaudentia Kabaka and his Deputy, Baraka Shulukindo, who will continue to finish the plan of Tucta, but their phones were called without answers.
