
We shall have a habit of "be dealt with easily by May 31, 2012.

Among the very first books of the English I got to me when I was a small-year old child, it's a series of books for the children who had been given the name 'Bompunga Padou.
Two female children who were playing with those who were children of doctors and nurses from the East Africa hospital that was built in our village, Bumbuli, and the ones that was open, were seen that the books were open, they were telling them that those books were open, they were telling them that those books were open, they were telling them that those books were open, they were telling them that those books were open, they were telling them that those books were open, they were telling them that those books were open.
We ask you to forgive him, what would you know that it's not a very few parents who in the English language was increasing to an extent of being written in those books, but also that our parents were written in those books as well as their opponents.
If I did not ask ourselves, we were communicating with these German children who have the language of English was not easy to say that there is a certain language "of children in the whole world that is easy to say when it comes to the issue of dancing.
Let me just say that I got married to be young children in Germany they returned them to them, they know several types of Swahili language, even if they know the English language.
It will be so much the English when it was started to stop being one of the past few days of the world, my friend and when I was trapped with smoke, after being beaten and smoke after being beaten and put up with the content of other stories that have been given a long time.
Most of the stories inside those books were about every day of small children in the European countries, but every one having a lot of lesson on some of the stories that I like so much is that was given by the name so as to get two children, relatives of one family.
That story explains how the great child of that family used to have a habit of being unsatisfied with every issue that occurred in their home.
Different from him, a lot of time also urged parents to bring him what they would have been forced, and even when it would have been promised something with parents, they have never been happy and waiting for a day if they would remember.
In a short time, he was so much together with his brother who must have a great extent of wanting his parents to fulfill the parents they promised themselves!
A great lesson to another thing is that a good child is the one that is found with him and he was given by his parents and the one who on all the days he had a danger to be the danger of being a dangerous winger.
Later, I am happy about looking at a problem with his lesson, then I was surprised by me that my man was the one who was not afraid saying what he did in my heart and not the one who was not supposed to see him even with the words only.
To me, they are those parents, without knowing that they were able to build their child the previous child so as to make sure everything he was told without stopping his mental checkup.
By bad luck, there are several events that arise in our country that if you want to believe that we are many from the kind of the child's child, a child who is so much UNPFA, and they don't want to get a person even if it is doing so, we are marrying them themselves.
I have remember again this law to be so as so as to meet recently, when I met with the Minister of Energy and Minerals, William Ngeleja, and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament for Kyela, Harrison Mwakyembe and the member of parliament
A statement by that promise was enough to make sure that employees continue cheering in the prime minister while celebrating with joy.
These are people who were seated on the 14 months without being paid to sell 1000 shillings while witnessing conflicts between who the owner of the factory that was not to help anything.
I hope that with the normal state, instead of continuing to suspend Minister and given sure when his promise will be implemented and it does not be implemented until that action can be implemented.
It was not so much as if it is normal of workers and those they went to be so much, so as to meet the statements and words of the minister.
Instead of showing their disappearance, at least you are only, they shouldn't attend in the prime minister and save oil for a certain amount.
Their joy is to be told that the plans are in the race to ensure that they are paid all their salaries for 14 months, before the end of this month of October, I will be the first person to join and continue with each other in the previous month.
However, we are not supposed to arrest us the support of blame from our colleagues.
What he did is to continue with our tradition of being so much, so as to meet the statements and promise of our leaders.
We see that there is a series of many leaders who have gone to the Tanzania Railways Limited (TRL) and try to get a solution to problems that I had made in the organization, but without success.
I hope that how many promise have already been released by those leaders to be found with a solution to the problem, and how many times the workers of that organization is to make sure they participate but at the end of the day they have found themselves having to appeal so as to ensure the availability of a solution that has been promised.
We look at the shortage of teachers about the arrears of salaries and their allowances.
We should remember to also our elders of the East African Community and all of them, every time they woke up before their allegations, they are given the promise to fulfill those promises, but at all the end, we think they are continuing to fulfill the promise that he would like the sweetness of when they want the sweetness.
At time, it has come now for citizens to stop asking for forgiveness from their opponents which they had been given by their leaders in relation to their problems, it's not a must to select the leader and make up his car every time addressing the promise that he is heading to prevent it that is given because of the current environment.
Citizens as a case which was held in Mbeya town, for example, they did not have any reason to be the most respected children so that they would have decided to be silent and to wait for the promise of the minister to be on the end of October, that's why they shouldn't affect the prime minister?
Instead of cheering, they were unable to read the prime minister for his promise and when it got to the date he said that they have not received their rights including the salaries and that the minister was there and any reason of dividing his car, maybe if it refused to climb with his driver and asked for support!
We are supposed to be like that one child whose parents were able to implement the promise that when he promised them don't hesitate to ask him, without a lot of respect to our leaders now, it has been called.
