
We should be afraid of May 30th, 2012

Most of the Tanzanians, especially the ones that are outside the administration system of CCM, are headed to having an appropriate time that things are not in our country for now, where we are and that we are not supposed to be.

Maybe if you know more, it does not be avoided if we're going to or we were going back or we're going to go down, we're going to go and therefore it's impossible so we want to go.

This time it was confirmed by a lot of things that it did not mention two things for today first of first, the talks that are not official in different areas, as part of the restaurants having been supported by the Revolutionary Party (CHADEMA) in a level that has not been seen in the history of many parties' system in the country.

However, there is still fear of some kind that depends on some of our kind, especially of some of you, you will discover that we benefit us because people of this kind are in the five groups, which will try to fulfill this article.

The first group is composed of people that they fear to support the process of change by not believing that the problems involved have been caused by the administration of the Revolutionary Party, they believe that we benefit from our union, we have caused the problems we have and therefore it is not right to find the party to blame.

However, the logic of solving the problem it gives us that in order to solve the problem, it is important to recognize the problem being taken by his source in recognizing the source that you cannot evade a person that causes the problem.
When you surprised a problem and she didn't cause a problem to address all, the problem was done by the one that didn't cause them because we cannot help them to deal with the challenges facing them.

The second group is evident that the rule of socialism has failed, but these others will be able to deal with this group because others do not want them to understand what we have failed, and if we have failed to sit on the side.

The third group is those who know that this administration which was made up to here we are, but they believe that this year's rule is lack of people who are in the ruling party and not a system of the system.

It is a group of people who believe that CCM does not have problems, but the few people who participate in this party are those who fail to change the system or system that has failed to change the system or system that has fail to change the system or leadership that has failed to change.

Four group of people are supposed to be satisfied by protecting the people who have succeeded to kill them and decide to be part of the process of change.
All those who essentially has not been sent by any person who doesn't know but they fear the fear that doesn't have any foundation.

These are those who help the business people who decided to support the opposition by admitting that they were not seen by TRA, or employees in the public sector by checking their work because they are contribute to the efforts to bring changes needed.

The fifth group of people who fear the fear in opposition parties in this country is a group of people who are proud to have their opposition members, that it encourages them by CCM to disrupt the opposition.

Therefore, a member who spoke or do not to do against the thoughts of many in his party appears to send himself and that he has been sent by CCM by this group that it is supposed to do anything that you can't have any problem because you can try to do anything related to you so as to learn.

Therefore, I would like to advise two things that I think is for the foundation of changes in the country on first of May, our problems are of system and doesn't be able to prevent people in leadership positions and not to destroy the rule of administration.

Problems of our country has reached a level that has ever happened in America between 1929, 1932, in that years the American nation was faced with great economic problems in the New York city.
The bank, industries and all shops have been closed down and caused a millions of millions to lose their work and they will agree that one of the source of their problems was a bad administration of the local government, and they left them down.

At the end of the year 1932, they were forced to choose the Democrat party with a landslide win where only won in 42 constituencies out of 50 and President Franklin Roosevelt (1882-1945) to be elected.

Our country's time is more than when they were born in 1932, and us like to think how to promote our strength to ensure that we change our strength to ensure that we improve the system of administration as one step in fighting the problems not to accept it.

Secondly, it is clear that the party members and the opposition leaders have said that the members and the leaders of CHADEMA, for example, are not the Angels, what should we do so they will do a mistake.

When they do a mistake, it is a must that they have been sent by CCM and they can do mistakes because of your understanding and others with the ignorance of them and it is in efforts to learn.

When it's when you are forced to think that they have been sent or passport for CCM makes them lose hope and they will not fear claiming that there is no danger like people when they started fear doing mistakes because it will be the end of thinking.

Therefore, the members and the opposition leaders do not want them to be dealt with and ended if they have gone into different reasons, if we have no evidence that they have been sent by CCM, there is no reason to give names that have been sent by CCM and their colleagues in reforms.
