Without doubt, I woke up very well and the second lady am saying that in this issue, I am not full of August ten thousand in the past five thousand and I was called for Joe, let us learn through your information.
Speaking about the author's news in Zanzibar islands and close to the news report and we have written well, in Dar es Salaam to discuss how to improve the draft constitution in accordance with the rules and laws of the country, to ensure the answers which will be taken into consideration the interests of all citizens, speaking in Dodoma city.
And the farmers from various areas in the country, Sitta has said that they use the new constitution by checking the structure of government but there are many things that need to be discussed where it is going to the tsunami.
The late?
It is a special tour that was done by some of the farmers from all sides in the country because they were accompanied by the guardian of farmers and farmers in the country, Samuel Sitta that continues on time and caused the African Parliament to continue making farmers and farmers to continue fighting.
Problems that come from conflicts between us and other users.
In a big way we believe.
These problems are as a result of the weaknesses in our constitution of here, one fish.
A group of farmers and pastoralists have no peace in their lives because there is a story of stories and not to get a procedure of use.
He was not found.
If you are.
Responding to their motion, the chairperson of the special Parliament of the constitution, Samuel Sitta said that the constitutional draft that was presented to the auction will be able to speak shortly the rights of various groups that involve the community including that group of rearing.
We are not ready together.
Mayweather is a meaning?
In the second round of the third place.
In the environment they saw for the purpose of continuing.
They sat.
There are some.
All of them?
And we can talk to him!
He said together with the message or continuing to discuss and educate the articles of the draft constitution, the Tanzanians need to know that the process to make corrections on the constitution will be careful.
During the new constitution.
During the event.
It is not a must that there is a lot of patriotism in which the country can be available.
From those weaknesses.
He said.
An obstacle to making laws.
Karrima Carter.
The step of different groups.
They also care!
John Magufuli has been forced to be among the delegates of the special constitutional parliament who will also be the head of this group, farmers and pastoralists.
They are coming with a fast speed.
That statement was such as people.
As a result of the representative of the cries of some of the farmers, the special parliamentary committee, Samuel Sitta has received himself and said that even to be submitted to the executive committee of leadership with the aim of discussing their motion to give report from here in Dodoma Town, I'm in all levels.
In Dar es Salaam city, the party's lawyers had said that in order to get good constitution, the constitutional parliament will discuss the draft constitution that will discuss the draft constitution that are discussed by considering the important sections touching on gender issues in women and rights of children.
Just that draft, when the same draft, we are ready to consider the laws that are already here in the country and international laws to ensure that our law should be considered so that our law must be done by concentrating on these different steps of different groups, a draft that I have written by considering these steps of different groups, a draft that I have written by considering these various steps of different groups that the draft was needed.
