Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has advised all those who feel that the government believes that the media freedom by using the newspapers law of one hundred and six hundred thousand shillings went to appeal in court in large numbers to educate them from Dodoma province.
Responding to the questions there and there to parliament in Dodoma town from the opposition leaders in parliament and the member of parliament of parliament, Freeman Mbowe said the prime minister said that anyone who is in the basis of that law he sees no rights on the way of poverty according to the procedures.
Following that answer, Mister Mbowe asking a question.
Why is the basis of the basis and it was a big problem that you believe in the month of Prime Minister by using bad law or laws of contraception?
We are in charge of good administration, therefore the prime minister, Pinda continued to insisted that the government will continue to use that until when it will be changed through legal laws and it was prepared by the parliament that the law has been composed by your parliament.
The grave of the law, if the law was used is used as a legal law and told him that you will continue to use up until there we will continue to know that there will be a member of parliament of Tabora town, where color has decided to know about some of the media that use the government's secret documents as well as laws of some media houses.
To give information on information, statistics.
Which are there?
The Prime Minister.
There is no law that is making sure that this is a break to the law responding to the question by this prime minister, Pinda that he took so much to announce that government didn't depend on the law to be satisfied with all those who missed his secret documents contrary to the law.
And the ones that are identified that it is tired of this situation that it doesn't know that it is a agency like a news agency or a person that can be used directly and it is being used by the government's revenue from all parties in the provinces of their opponents and they go to work to strengthen the party.
Do the work of the government.
Using the value of the tax tax in all parties that he has emphasized that district heads as it is because of provinces and ministers of the government of hundreds of the party in power and therefore, it is their responsibility to the head of the district.
Responding to the prime minister.
It was a government and we are paid income from the government.
What should I communicate with even?
The basis of the foundation of ensuring that order is implemented in our areas from Dodoma is to bring down.
The Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda is expected to postpone the parliament of the budget this night that has lasted for approximately two months more information concerning the national assembly to follow our news reports.
The government in the film industry has given a warning to the youth groups that came out in the city of Dar es Salaam and involved in possession of residential houses and even destruction of people that we find information.
Those youths who are estimated to be more than one thousand people have collaborated with more than three hundred thousand in the areas of Madega and killed in Kinondoni and these things are ready to capture the legal owner and they feel like in the city where the court has already made a order concerning those events that will enable legal action to be taken against them.
I request for you.
The law without activities of.
Before the end of
The marriage of marriage.
What is it?
The job will start.
I would like to see if they see if they mention.
Him have been attacked and they are usually found.
Already it is a woman.
.
People are legal.
Therefore, the arbitrator.
The police force.
Citizens.
In recent days, it is reported to have emerged with the youth group that is accused of killing two farms were identified by poor owners of the areas of being attacked and killing their properties as a threat of peace from Dar es Salaam city.
