In order to bring success and reduce the cost of operations in providing services to various projects that are under the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare in the past one thousand, the six hundred and six hundred thousand, are not supposed to maintain the projects that is under the ministry of health.
It is concerned with.
The late God rest his thoughts that you get to them?
Or different events.
What is your country in the country to ensure that this is increasing.
On the day of taking that award, we are also projects that is in the country.
Almighty God help the Ministry of Health in the whole issue of ensuring health services will we reach.
The Almighty God rest the medicine, but when you get more than ten more projects that are under the ministry of budget projects like the vaccination project for the children and mothers, there are malaria project.
Project manager while there is a project of children's health in school.
There are also other projects open a short time with the district and diseases.
That is given priority.
In ensuring citizens are getting involved with better quality at affordable prices and at the whole period of medicine it is prepared to ensure that it gives better service to its customers, that it has continued to ensure that if the customer comes to us, it doesn't know if we are accused of Black Americans.
He does not get.
If you have been forced to marry off the directive by a high level, if you say it is dangerous to them before getting to the university a good program of customer care service which is a cross-cutting service since we get the needs of our customers in life.
Until when we are being taught about services that if you want to take a certain thing, we do not hesitate to take them but they get now on how someone sees it, I will involve yourself until when getting Pascal Ngozi.
What goes with my friend of procurement.
We have taken place early as the results are the ones that do so that we be able to announce our tender early and be able to ensure that the initiative has bought drugs.
The medicine was found while we need.
First, it is spreading it to the right time in our stations.
All the health below and because of these reasons, we have been a good time we become a lot of drugs inside our previously so that someone asking for someone to get and if it is a product that has never been able to take legal action against matt.
We have the customers of Jesus?
That money comes from the ministry I will come to us.
And we are able to come a heart to give him a client, whose money has come from the ministry.
Will take their order every time after two months, once there is a day that we are organized.
For as a period of time to bring development, it is called on and others are continuing with the normal customer to come up with his mobile phone.
That's no one that does not come to the time.
And those funds are expected to continue as our customer needs a device that is not there in the list.
Which we are blaming each other for all the time he insisted.
To use a letter explaining seven, his needs a need to have fans for instance the danger of investigations they used to get a machine for the operation of heart operation.
Where after posting their needs.
Long can get the father following the tender and after announcing those equipment, including closing the machines and continuing to follow its use for the whole period of five years to seven, by giving anything that you love, which is not there in the list of May or live.
We have stolen it by a special procedure where our customer gets.
For money we will make sure that you visited the bus you will also make sure that Ras Makunja has a budget to pay what he has done because we're blocking our customers to pay so that we can be able to do so that we can be able to pay every year we have.
