
The Nyamukowa on his fans.
And has been found in eternal peace.
Some of the upcoming stars have continued to sit down here in the recent days, it has caused hope in soccer while playing the most of the fans in this game.
Upcoming star of the Green Initiative 'team, Alex Nyamitwe, Alex the Nyamkazi Primary School, Alex the Nyamkazi Primary School, Alex the Nyamisana of soccer in this area which has caused many teams to stay in the soccer field while leading his team of collecting taxes in various competitions in the Western Region.
This 19 year old star has returned to the camp to join with his colleagues in that squad, for a huge exercise that is going on at Kipala Primary School Grounds, after being out for a period of two months.
The Nyamgenda, got a bad injury during the race for the contest for the presidential race of Shangani early in March, an injury which was the very big player to have ever been a player of that team which it has dropped for approximately eight years ago.
That star will not depend on by non-Shabaab to take that crown when his team scored Young Simba 2-1 in the match that was organized at the Kigamba Bay grounds.
During the match the Nyamwezi scored all two goals in the first half, before being defeated and put on the back when he was arrested by his opponent.
While confirming him to return to his home in the Nyamgenda, the head coach of Nyamiyaga hospital, Godsniffing / says that she is happy with fans for leaders together with the commando squad, saying that their request for God was that the star should get quick decisions and join the team before the race of the hips that begins in the end of this month.
"We have been writing a lot for the Nyamitwe, so that we can be with him at the hips that we are expecting to participate at the end of this month.
God is good that he has done his good work and we have been able to join us again to our colleague in the field, "says the trainer Brendan Rodgers.
Moreover, that coach says that even his fans have been forced to see him together with his colleagues in the exercise.
That star has made that squad to have a large number of fans that arise in large numbers to witness a dance draw, while commando, as they appear and other teams in the tournament.
Many of the fans who come from the area he was not born with buoys, Kolo Toure, he believes that the Nyamkazi Primary School, are saying that the Nyamkazi Primary School, are saying that the Nyamgenda, was expected to be a player to be followed when he was in primary school in the previous years.
Speaking to the Uhondo program, the player says that soccer is like a food, because he was going on at the field for a long time, he usually sees far.
He mentioned the times he had a patient while he was doing an injury when he was alive.
"The one can be able to avoid accidents, but for me it is affected by a big level, it was a few days to me," says the mid-fielder who had gone to a time to reach his team at the national team, with a dream of playing for the England team, Chelsea.
