His two sister's sister and a modem is not ready to be faced with a huge shortage of food, the leaders of those wards have said up to now, there is no citizen even everyone had lost life due to the sun yesterday living by eating.
However, those leaders have admitted that some of the citizens are faced with a shortage of food due to the next season of agriculture and those have requested the government soon when they get information of food shortage to help those citizens, "she had gone down from Musoma.
If you know the situation which resulted to a food shortage to the citizens of the big wards, Tina Atick, is not the second from the citizens, although there is still a huge number of food that is available, therefore, the donation of the government is still needed.
Stew.
The late?
We will inform us that until now there is no citizen who lost life or will be forced to eat fruits so as to reduce the cost of hunger after the government gave food donation, I request that I say that in the Vingunguti village there is no citizen who died.
And in a citizen who has been looking at this or fruits because of hunger but today is not the real.
Today, the situation is that many people have ever heard, but I don't know that night it is not a lot but you have ever heard, but when I have seen, I have never been in what he did in my house, food is not bad.
It is an average.
The late God rest his month of nine to go to the citizens, they got food because it was a very big period and then for a period of investigation they promise between citizens.
An amount of food that is very true he wanted to be at the following season following some citizens.
Those are the headquarters and it's now better since last year there were no heavy rains where we were waiting for a family.
The researchers have really put.
For a period to see the slaughterhouse.
Therefore, we need to do.
I'm in the level of citizens need food for the evaluation, it is still done especially in the location.
Emmanuel or Sitti is the girl in Musoma.
