Commission.
And without doubt your good work, the readers for another time in the main news from here is called Ambassador Seif.
When you pass through this period, we have focused more out of looking at the results of the class seven examinations, remember two hundred and ten thousand.
Now water before starting to pass the hole of two hundred and ten thousand, the announcement concerning the class seven and ten thousand, the results indicate that the class seven and ten thousand in the world or three or at the moment it will help this country to be successful.
The number of seven days should not be for the morning and ten in the morning and two up to the mental percent of one hundred and ten thousand shillings.
But if you get another person to take the students that did the exams for this class seven, who had been successful.
Compared to that students, two hundred and ten thousand shillings.
Where we can be evidence in all the groups that has risen by six percent, a lot of less than five hundred and ten thousand, whereby two hundred and ten thousand, whereby two thousand and three hundred thousand shillings are believed to have forgotten more in the Swahili subject by ninety percent.
Doctor lost six and if not forgetting the very little film, since six months which he does not help a union by twenty percent and eight hours I have found Africa.
Where the also we were able to have a total of candidates, but a seven and six hundred and six out of eight hundred thousand shillings.
Among the women receiving eight seminar that took the examinations, they got a hundred and one hundred percent of five hundred and five hundred thousand shillings which is equivalent to 80 percent.
And if the ban, but the results of two thousand and ten thousand, the meaning that is there compared to two hundred and ten thousand in Arsenal will wait for ten and three years.
Ras Kiduku was told that the projects of signing has increased by six percent.
You have forgotten more than eight an eight hours but we are also told.
According to the secretary general of NECTA, Charles Msonde, the death of these events in a total of four hundred thousand candidates.
A business is one among the seven hundred thousand candidates and Beyonce and Beyonce and two statements even if they were signed, they were killed and then one hundred or more than two points.
We desire that there is a problem in science subject in science subject, Ras Makunja, if you check for the two hundred and ten thousand statistics is that you need to know in science subject.
It was approximately twenty percent and eight at two consecutive times, but if you check for this year it is supposed to reduce it.
Thirty o'clock and seven are from seven six six, a lot that has come out to come out in those events compared to two thousand American dollars.
That and you get very much after you have not aware about the ten primary schools why your Swahili is now in the lake regions where it has done well but in short news, in the lake region where it has done well but a school that has led it was coming from villages in Dar es Salaam Province.
Nationally, Mtwara Province have been in the ten best position that we want to hear this news which has contributed to the results of the class seven examinations.
Ten?
When the song was found.
Jamila June.
Six.
I won.
Class one.
Third is a solution.
Two hundred thousand close to the area.
.
My seven hundred thousand, the past seven days will be the Secretary General of Garagara Mtoni region announcing the class seven results where the lake region is seen to be the success in the best ten schools.
National exams in the examinations of finishing education.
Second time I don't know?
.
There are people.
That is in Mbeya Region.
To go to
.
Those are sick.
A youth.
There is another?
He talked to him.
Kilimanjaro.
Abdulrahman has said that different statistics in the studies have a percentage to 1 percent and be a decrease in one percent, it is the incident that Stephano Kaombwe is compared to last year.
We can we know if you will be?
It has risen up.
Of improving each six months up to eight percent.
Six.
It is possible for yourself after there was two days ago.
He has never seen more in the Swahili subject.
I will come to come that one without stopping.
Doctor father?
In a high level.
Several matches will be taken.
Close to seven percent.
In order of the results there was the best ten nationally in the province where they have been able to hold the first position in Shinyanga province, it has been a total of ten hundred and five hundred thousand shillings for three hundred and five hundred thousand, a total of six hundred and five hundred thousand shillings per day and three hundred thousand, which has been found with him, Joseph Mbilinyi has launched a house in Dar es Salaam city.
And maybe if you check it if you check the one that is very big success, we can succeed in class seven events for the two thousand and four years is that, only one, who has succeeded.
Ras Makunja is the cause of many cases that arise in the form four results were not in the year without ten in the morning and ten in the morning and ten in the morning and three in the morning and three in the morning till now, it is good for information to help them in order to increase the level of profession here in the country especially from the results.
Here there are things that have taken place in increasing the level of success.
Speaking in Mwanza province where in the preparation of the statistics that were killed since the beginning of the special region is that the school is the first that has done well nationally, the third position which is available in Mwanza province, being in a third position which is available where Yanga has paid good positions.
The referral hospital of Kagera has held the sixth position in the seventh position and also it knows it.
But Yanga at that position.
If we were other now, that is not the lake region to invest in position eight and the eight positions is to go to Msufini Primary School which is in Dar es Salaam.
Then we woke up to Ubungo region where a lot of faith from the husband to hold position nine in the ten years are very close to the lake region but the spread of the chicken is okay because if you look for it the top five nationally.
From the lake region and the province of Mwanza, we have also advised that you should have a lesson here in the city of the first one, and many others in the lake region can make sure that they are doing another well, to make sure that they do not support him and not to hold the first position.
You have heard that their results were ninety percent and eight percent for the candidates who were registered to do the examinations that used the system of testing for girls that were women living with two hundred and five people in Mister.
And four hundred and seven hundred and out of them.
Ten hundred and five candidates have problems that makes us think about different reasons including absenteeism together with the disease.
It is a big problem since it has identified himself one of the things that he said recently by the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete of making sure that the teachers Lucy Msoffe will be able to make sure that the supervisors are supervisors and inspection of education in the school.
To ensure that everything is going on.
We need but they can also take events this year, who had reduced as I would like to tell you that he was helped with only one results between the issues that have been seen that it has resulted in Dar es Salaam to follow the results since they were on.
Maybe it was expected that it was good.
He said that the problem of the challenges that are there in different schools is also equal to the cost that it is one of the things that has caused events like those.
This is another challenge where the authorities concerned have been burnt in the concerned ministry tomorrow to work hard and I do not look at this morning and I don't understand the incident and I don't have written early this morning due to these events that will be released for the next two and ten years but also I didn't know it.
