
17 December 2012

CHADEMA just after stopping.

By Rehema Nchimbi.

The national chairperson of the community of parents of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) Abdalah Bulembo urging the streets after the High Court in Dar es Salaam region to break the decision of the Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court, former councilor seat in Kijitonyama Ward on CHADEMA ticket, Wilfred Lwakatare.
That decision was presented yesterday, Judge Upendo Kilahiro, who was listening to the appeal that was taken by Athumani where he was involved with the argument of the appellant, (Athumani) of opposing the judgment that performed their position.

In that judgment, Judge Msuya said that Athumani has been legal and that there is no primary reason for Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court in that position.

From that decision, that court has been given to him Athumani, his councilor seat in Kijitonyama Ward, through CHADEMA.

Previously Athumani was announced to be the councilor of that ward in the general elections of 2010, after defeating his close opponent Abdallah Bulembo of CCM.

Later Athumani has handed over that position by the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court, due to the former candidate of that position through CCM (RUREFA) to open a case in that court opposing his victory.

Athumani saw an appeal at the High Court in Dar es Salaam, opposing the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court and yesterday emerged winner after the court made to be given to them his position.

In the primary case, Bulembo gave six reasons for not being satisfied by the results where among those reasons for opposing those results, together with different names of his names on various documents related to the election.

He asked the court to symbolize the results that gave the debtor to officially announce that it was very disturbing so that Tanzania's winner in his decision made by Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court, Genenis Mbaga, had agreed with the claims of the court given by Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court, Genenis Mbaga, so they agree with the claims of a patient that gave victory, Athumani.
