
Good leadership is the ability of the age of gender, religion, color or passport for 13 trillion shillings.

"Jesus started his service with 30 years, but when he is leaving, he did not leave the church in the hands of a youth.
The first one of the public of Muslims Abu Dhabi received his coupon after 59 years.
We will have a lot of mistakes if we will start looking for good leadership and to deal with the gender, color, tribe, religion or even the age of Tanzania, it needs leaders with ability more than any kind, which will be good for a car which has no ability and ability to be taught in the vehicle.

February 11, this year 2009, in 68 percent of the newspaper, I wrote a article that had a news reporter, "the problem of our leadership is the ability."
I wrote this before many people started involved with the age of age and therefore I crossed to today though I think those who believe that good leaders are youths because I try to continue with my topics which I have written in this newspaper several times now.

In that article I was trying to fall down of former Minister for Internal Affairs, Lawrence Masha, who for every time was among the youth leaders who were selling to the amount of sponsored by the Ministry of Internal Affairs.

It was after his letter going to the Prime Minister to try to intervene in the process of identity cards, his letter made him to interview his ability and not because of his age, color, tribe or anything else other than the ability to lead.

I have written in that article when I commend him and said.
"Other examples of the past that I have ever written about it is still the evidence that Minister Masha has decided to be a lawyer, not because he does not have the ability to make sure that it involves the rule of law, peace and calmness and more than that it involves the security of our nation."

I continued to say that, "for all tests, Masha has no ability to lead.
Starting from intervene in line with talking on behalf of the company Deonice Green Initiative (which you given out of billions of shillings from the Central Bank), to talk about the employment issue of the child's child in his legal company when he was born in prison and even the scandal of threats from Reginald Mengi.

Today, we are witnessing one of the very bad argument being faced in front of our community, which wants to make us believe that presidency is related to the same same as a youth then he will be a good leader with the youth.

I don't have a lot of problem with any youth who has the ability to be given any power in our country. I don't have the problem with anyone who has to be given power if I have no ability to do so like, I have no ability to do so like, have no ability to do so.

I don't have a problem if there is a Tanzanian of the Arab Emirates, or so much, who has the ability to hold any authority in the country like, so as to achieve, and a problem with Tanzanian Mzindakaya, a problem with Mtanzania has the ability to hold that authority to the extent that he has the ability to hold that authority.

The same way is not the criterion, it should not be mentioned as a criterion and should not be satisfied with the person being given to power and said that when the youth who came to power they did not be an old leader where he is going until today, therefore seems to be called old because he has more than 60 years.

This issue of "youth that we should be able to be the country" is an issue that it cannot get old and at the fact, because of these elderly we are doing, "when in the past, we want to be told that today, these elders have gotten lost because of now they have no longer.

This is true that every Professor in the world and a scholar who would decide to resign as I think it's true then I think this world can make their skills to go to the youth so that many youths do not want every day and said, "the relatives of them don't know where you're close to the youth.
For sure that our colleges would like it's not only Tanzania only that all over the world, education is still coming from the elderly going to youths and not against him.

It is true that when the elders are at a certain age, they are starting to reduce different jobs so that when they get married, this is not true for every human being that lives so much, but this is not the reason for closing the door to all elders especially those who still have the ability, mental disabilities, and interest in serving their country.

We will have a big offence if in my life, we will decide to unite his elders.

But behind this, it is possible that there is fear of youths being unable to win in front of the old men, I would be happy that we are vying and wanted those who have the ability to be given a chance to vie for the position in charge.
"The elders love you," we know why if the youth have the ability and experience to lead them and compete with the elders who have experience and experience which they believe that you can compete with the elderly with ability?

If there are youths who have the ability to look at what?
All the youths who want to come to vie for presidency later we can learn before the elderly and live in the legs.

Jesus started his service with 30 years, but when he is moving to the church in the hands of a youth. On the other side, it was not a young man and she had lived for 100 years but it's not an issue and she had the ability to get to an extent.

Leaders who want to help in making their ability in the vision, in the judgment, to make sure that the mockery, in choosing, to choose and be able to choose and be able to try and leave.
If you will stop using their ability, not in the chapter, color, religion, tribe or the age or anything which does not give the only ability to lead.
If you will stop using their ability to lead, because our problem is not color, tribe, or gender but it's the ability.
