Private candidates will avoid us.
December 25, 2013.

Charles Gombe (center is a veteran politician who was born in 1689 year in France, who cared about the argument of having three million American dollars.
According to Melela Kololo, the dollar has no need to separate the authority of these three institutions and it is important for the three months to be free and to work for being independent.

Mihayo said one of the dollars is the rule of law (parliament), administration (government) and the responsibility (court), there are those who need the argument that this three hands should have a close partnership.
Melela Kololo, when he comes out of that argument, he believes that separate the authority of the three-year contract to do his work without in the coming in, it is important to have a good administration that has been destroyed in the basis of justice.

In our country we need the president (government) with the constitutional change, the parliament with constitutional energy and the free constitutional court, the courts that will be appointed by the president and that this three hands is free and with the interests of the country we should prepare a constitution with the ability to make constitutional changes.

We should have a high court of constitutional change while the court has a responsibility to explain the laws and all the decisions taken by the Parliament by the constitutional court to have the legal ability to pass the judgment by considering the laws of the country without the benefit by the government or parliament.

According to Glynwood Hospital, if the parliament will not have strength, there is a danger of the parliament to take the position of government and that is why the whole process of the division of power in the country will go down.

Msambya said that if the ministers who are the implementation of parliamentary decisions will be taken among the members of parliament, then there will be no longer with freedom, because the government with the implementation of implementation will be discussed by the parliament.
The president should be given a power to choose ministers, but they will be tired of the parliament and even if the president shall appoint an minister who is also a member of parliament, then, they are saying they are forced to release his parliamentary seat and he will not be allowed to serve two people at a time.
And there is this argument of lack of private contestants as we are supposed to ask ourselves, it is now time to have a private candidate because the decisions that are brought by the sections of our community we live in another whole issue.
For them look at another community and compared to our here, I think that our country has not been unable to allow private candidates in a procedure as a result of political parties.
I am saying this by considering that the country is believed to be approved by the Democratic Field in accordance with the real situation of the country it's good and it is difficult for private candidates to be allowed to vie for the councilor seat, parliamentary and attractive parties, and not in the presidential position.
By putting emphasis in order to have a private candidate in the presidential position of the presidential candidate for us to avoid the number of members that will be accepted, for instance, he should be a Tanzanian who was voted for by members of his party not less than 1000.
Allow me for a Tanzanian environment, a woman does not mean by her husband because I am going to take the form to vie for the presidency! "In the end of our country, there will be the madness of people who do not have money, popularity and ways to arrive at the state house.
Therefore, the next constitution would have a procedure to allow me he should not involve someone from a political party at the councilor seat, member of parliament and cameraman on the presidency.
In order to try that you will vie for parliamentary seat in the province, will be voted in by their fellow members in the number of members that will be accepted by whoever will lead in the votes he will be a member of parliament to represent his party including the campaign funds.
That parliamentary candidate will be identified by his party members but the other candidates who failed in the voting process to stop themselves as private contestants as they visited the parliament like private candidates but representing ideology and policies of their parties.
