The eyes of the eyes of a child called Bowman.
December 11, 2014.

December 26, 1996, the body of a child of Bexhill, Ramsey Pamela who was six years old at the same time, was found on the floor of their houses, being close to eight hours since he returned to three people.

That incident that brought out different feelings among the Americans' community because it is a little service together with having a small age, but he had managed approximately 50 years of beauty for children who participated in different areas in that country.

The name of 'Bissau, is made up of names of her father John Benetton, Ramsey (53), musician and the owner of the United States of America and her mother Bizimana Violet, therefore he wanted the child to participate in beauty competition during his footsteps.

Previously, John scored a marriage with a woman who was mentioned by the name SHANGlasgow, Ramsey Nouah who was born in August 30th, but he was born in 1969, but he was born in 1969, but he was born in 1969, but he was born in 1969, but he was born in 1969, but he was born in year 1976 and 1978, Ramsey Nouah.

On November 5, this year 1980, John Ramsey scored a marriage with Danielle Graham, Ramsey Nouah (not pictured) at Atletico Madrid and the first child, Ramsey Nouah. He was born on August 6, 1990 in Atletico Madrid.

He was a gift to Ramsey the mother of a child called Bexhill, who died in the morning and earlier on December 26th, 1996 to meet the long-day seminar that was written by the support, it claimed that their child had already used 1 million American dollars to be allowed to be safe.

Also, that letter had a threat to there, it will remove the family of Tanzania's family that if they will leave the police or FBI, their daughter will not be safe.

According to the pastor, Ramsey Nouah, he started working on his home in a room, starting a room, where he was forced to see her son and elsewhere, but he could not see her child more than found another male child called Mwengi.

He went to her husband and gave him a letter of humor, so as to make sure that the letter had a threat to those families not to thank the police on that issue, John Benichou who was informed by the police and at that time he met with the manager of the bank when he stopped the plans of giving those funds that are required so as to soon as possible.

Police arrived at the scene for a short time after taking off of raging water and murder is not in place so as to date 26, December, there was no one person who was arrested for more than a year.

Police of Boodhoo who were forced to ask for donations from police, Denys and FBI.

As he started to inspect that house brought together a family of Baboons in several hours and they also arrived with the family for a long time waiting for a phone from John Ramsey to continue looking for their daughter 'Bexhill, which will continue at their home area.
