There is a car which is celebrated.
Dec 4th, 2014.

The Puma Energy Company Limited which is a company that owns the One One company involved with the mining of Tanzanite in Mwashiku Ward, Simanjiro District has sold "Masau boasted.
The mobile phone company was forced to release 50 percent of its shares in the year 2012 to the National Housing Corporation (Monbusho Scholarship) as part of implementing the minerals law of the year 2010 that caused all minerals of mineral that will be mentioned by natives.
However, in addition to getting into partnership with Stamili inspecting the mining activities in those minerals, reports are claimed that the company never had good relationship with Stamiko says that it was owning in losses.
The information that was found out of several sources said that the sales took place on October 31st this year, and those shares have been bought by a company that is mentioned to be creative by 5,100,000 American dollars equivalent to 88 billion American dollars.
According to the report given by the Chief Executive Officer of the company, Bernard Oliver Wema, has sold its shares to what he claimed was to be unable to build those minerals due to lack of communication in their mines and small miners.
"Due to lack of interference from time with the illegal miners, in our mines, has caused us unable to make production at a high level and therefore we should be forced to sell our shares to the Sky Associate technology that it explained that report.
Olivier explained that for now the company will direct its energy and its resources to build a lot of minerals that can't be self-malarial in Australia.
He said the sales have been done by considering the broader interests of the board of directors together with shareholders who will meet on December 22 at a Bergh.
According to the executive director, those who will also involve the other companies that are at Friendship of Tanzanite mineral companies and all assets of the company where up to June 30th this year had a value of 17 million American dollars.
In his report, Olivier continues to explain that, "Tanzania is a state of security, accountability, spirits, hope of the law in the mining of minerals that are making the mining of Tanzanite that is difficult for the public companies as our country."
Olivier also has been quoted by the poor network of the South African continent where he was quoted saying they are leading their activities in Tanzania and returned them to Australia.
However, the reliable information that President Mwema have learned that sales that took place and the price that is mentioned is the cause of the mines as it does not have the real value of the mines as well as the company's property.
"There is a huge cheating in that business, the money that was paid is so many that is happening here is the cheating of the revenue collected from various taxes," explained our source from within that company.

He added that behind the sales, there is a big agenda which can change to become a scandal later if the government through the Ministry of Energy and Minerals will not take a step to investigate on how the sales occurred.
He added, why the sales took place very disturbing without informing Leseiyo who is owning 50 percent of that company, and also why they did not put advertisements and that they sell their shares? "He asked.
Speaking to Good Citizen the day before yesterday through phone, Commissioner of Minerals in the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, Engineer Paul Masanja said his ministry does not have any information about the sales that took place.
"As usual it is a must to have a government (confirmation of government) like they want to sell shares, we do not have any information thus for now I cannot say anything," said Masanja.
On his part, the Director of Fly 540 Engineer, Edwin Ngonyani, said that the organization has no any information about the law that will be One to sell its shares and if a partner has gone through.
"We are just some of the social networks we have not been informed because we cannot talk about the issue," he said.
This company entered into the country and started producing the Tanzanite mineral 1996 at that time was known as African Football Association (IM) before changing the name and that he will be One One in the year 2004.
For a long time, that company has been in a huge conflict with small miners who sell their mines in the Yakya B area and on the floor of the company's mines.
The conflict between those two sides has contributed to the disappearance of people's lives, destruction of property and it is the cause of the deterioration of the mining activities in that area.
