
Pangawe Mafoto, 2012.

My last article last week, when I mentioned my philosophy of fulfilling his philosophy, that led to the lead in our politics here in the country.

In accordance with the philosophy teachers who was invented to be dealt with by a famous boy of France, the century of the 18th century, Francois-Marie Le Pen had become a young man who took the position between Professor Barqat Mvungi who was beaten by captain Barsheba I will have been found in Germany.

The great responsibility of Fly 540 Kenya was to raise them and educate children from the handover but others who tried to believe that life which were better than any other than any other, a thing that has ever happened since the beginning of the world.

Everything that was very best in the best world that was best than all the other, Mister Mnyabaleta was made up with a good reason because it has been made for a very long time, and we are proud of to live in a very long time, and we are expecting to live in a very long time, with us to eat the meat of pigs, and we are seeing the meat of contraception?

That's the philosophy of Delhi, who after several years ago I met with their students, and a student who was affected by a lot, the student found himself and has been denied the teeth.
The answer to resolve it is that he had been faced with the disease of syphilis, disease which resulted from the purchase of the European Union who went to go and there they get syphilis, and eventually going back with the disease and they will not affect the clubs in Europe.

When a student when a student did not care for those explanations, Professor Rogassian Mahunnah and told that which he has done it was a good thing in the best world than all that had ever happened, because if they could not get syphilis completely, they could not get syphilis completely.

It is clear that he does not betray it, a philosopher-Jazeera who had tried to oppose the mistakes of analysts and the leaders who tried to stop and believe that the situation they had had gone down because it is better than any other, any place or any time.

It will include us, we have people in conjunction with many in our country and many of them are in the administration system and the work they are doing and we believe that things are better than another situation in other countries here in the world.

When he questioned the ability of the president where he is expected and he was told to look for his saying that he said it is not allowed to say it's because it could not be noticed if he wanted to say what he would have been discovered early, he wanted to say what he would have been discovered early, he wanted to say what he would have passed since he wanted to say, he had been forced to talk for him since the beginning.

This is dangerous to the presidential organization is a very important institution, and it does not have been able to be defended by us all of us, but the security of this organization cannot be done by the citizens, especially the representatives of the organization to follow the ability of the president.
The defense and the truth of this organization will avoid several issues, one of them is for President Magufuli to make efforts to fulfill its responsibilities as he promised and swear that in doing this responsibility as he had promised and swear with him in doing this responsibility as it is expected to do his work as it is expected.

The president has a great authority to form the organization to select people (not able to inform them what they want to do when they want to do their responsibilities, therefore, that president is supposed to continue with his responsibilities, then he sees them but he doesn't know but he is unable to take action against them.

The logic explains that the opposition member of parliament (or all the member of parliament) has the rights to ask for the president on the weaknesses that he sees him as a member of parliament.

Here I see the importance of the speaker of our current constitution, (before the report "new") is giving an opportunity to parliament to give him the president of the Republic (in a certain environment).
With Prophet Mohammed of power if he will be found guilty, the section of a constitution does not have an aim of controlling any president, and we are supposed to understand that, this section is not just a matter that does not have any meaning.

I understand that we have come in the new culture of accountability, and some of us have not qualified in the areas where we were in 1970, the era of father who does not understand what you are asked in the news reports, and others should be announced what they have done?

Like I said in behind, we have begun to grow, and this means that we have to stop removing the thumb print on how they do, but the honor does not have any way to be made in their responsibilities.

Any leader should be the president, to be the minister or leader of any level, it is a must to know that he has urged the leadership to ask citizens, and especially their representatives, and especially their representatives, remove from power according to the constitution.

I think I think of our two president of the third phase and the fourth phase have had great luck because when they get married, the president of the third term has been proud of because of the past, but we get great courage to find out of that side, when he went to power.

My attack is that when he comes from power, President Jakaya Kikwete will be faced with a lot of attacks from those who are saying today are not seen.
Some of us have shown, (and sometimes by me), President Benjamin Mkapa with great strength and without seeing them without favoring any work that we did at the time when others feel extremely honored.

In Kilindi, we will come to and every new administrator who comes in power through the women in Pangawe Fuoni Province, and they will return to power, when they will move to power, when they will continue to work on a new chapter and there they will continue to perform well in accordance to the new administrator.
