
Fry onions, they will give me, will follow up but I will win on October 12th, 2012.

Johnson Mbwambo, has written in the Citizen newspaper on October 3, this year, about the mockery of Zitto Kabwe, Professor Muhongo (the Minister of Energy and Minerals).
I have read and I wish you a good understanding and I request for forgiveness from my report I have given to the media and put him in my blog that will not be careful.

I was taught not to prevent people, especially people who do not go to my politics and not the mockery, but on issues (details), through my brothers, I had apologized for all who witnessed the mockery, where he himself had believes that he didn't know.

The report was released by the secretary general of the ministry, Eliakim Maswi has given my statement just a few days after he gave him as well as there was no statement of removing the words of the minister.
I believe Brad did not know that statement but he decided to listen to him and his faith to Professor Muhongo with the ministers that he has heard of me in his article that he is the agents of the change, otherwise he believes that inside the administration of CCM, there are ministers with great intentions of bringing change.

I urge you openly that I was surprised to see one edition of our nation's newspaper with three articles against Zitto Kabwe, while in the article of my brothers, "Zitto Kabwe got a good article with the news of our nation, Zitto Kabwe, a good article with a big issue of the newspaper of Good Citizen, Evarist Ndikilo, the news wrote on the news headline.
"President Kikwete who we think like Zitto Kabwe.

I thank Mchage, I read it well in history of the construction of CHADEMA and he think CHADEMA has started in 2010. CHADEMA has been built by people, not one person.
Those who decided to vie for the party's candidate is not a few people who wanted me Mayage but it is the members of CHADEMA from different parts of Tanzania, including you praising him, Kigoma province when he comes from Mayage.

During this situation, he says that he does not know so much and it is possible for me, but I am not know and I have never seen him and I have never seen him and I have never seen him and then I think about you and then you win. "

Now I will be able to give him in the article of brother Mbwambo and Professor Muhongo not know that despite I have been one of the members of parliament who are in the front line to ensure the country's wealth used for the benefit of the country, I have never met Professor Muhongo until he was appointed to be the Minister of Energy and Minerals.

I have never heard about his voice against poor minerals despite that he is a scholar who is an expert in issues of rocks, under Speaker Samuel Sitta, who were forced to give your contracts to obey our experts but they did not hesitate to get advice from our experts but they did not expect it.

They were not supposed to say that if they would have destroyed the relationship between them and the leaders.
We suffered a lot without any knowledge about the mining industry and others were forced to stop parliamentary work and go to the public so as to increase the skills of legal issues and economic issues concerning the mining sector (minerals).

Most of us did not have us to continue working with advice to the companies of minerals in the country, today Johnson Mbwambo and these are the agents of the change, maybe he says if I have reached up and changes brought by people who are not in government, for several reasons.

One, as if he said my brothers, I was surprised all the contract of Buzohera at the new law of minerals, I continued to make noise up to the new law of minerals that happened in accordance with the new law, despite following up on information and even questions, in line with various articles.

Since the Minister Professor Muhongo has said his team along the office are the only words in addition without any actions, even when he knows how citizens are sick, even when he saw it is correct to say that he is not correct, even when he knows it is not right to an issue of electricity that is not available in the country.

I believe that the ministers because they say anything that makes them open the mouth, even if they believe it did not be implemented by the Minister of Energy and Minerals, he said about the contracts of oil and gas so that the government cannot do anything about the contracts he made.

Secondly, the Minister of Energy and Minerals wants the public to say that he knows the issues of the sector more than any other Tanzanian shillings, who is also the chairman of the board of directors of the Ukraine Company that bought the license that was paid by Mkunazini - Tanzania company of Australia, in 980 million American dollars.

The Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) wanted it to be paid tax tax (Capital Market) it started to court claiming that the payment of tax worth 75 million American dollars which is equivalent to 20 percent of the sales, the company from Russia was forced to appeal for this sales, so as to be given a special licenses for the mining sector.

I promised to give information to parliament that ministers are meeting with this ministers and retired prime minister of Russia about the Mkuzo of River, and put it open after the answers of Minister Muhongo that the success is not known by Tanzania but Australia and therefore there is no tax.

Very important I have left information on the TRA case against this company so as to see the keenness of our new ministers before meeting with the second phase of those minerals, Minister Muhongo said that the deputy speaker, Job Ndugai, said.
"We know more than Zitto" first, he didn't know.

It is very important to discuss the issue that one authorities of the country have got it to the court and is waiting for that decision but the issue of the minister not having information was handed over to the minister saying that he knows more and later he knows his assistant to look for information?

This is a very big possibility for leadership for not knowing not, it is possible that others do not study rocks, but we were waiting for tax issues in minerals and oil.

You are being asked in parliament you said, "I know more" by a vibrant writer, Johnson says, she does not lie!

When I heard the minister says that he has directed TPDC (Petroleum Development Corporation) through the contracts, I believe that it has not know, "he has said that the contracts will go through contracts without taking action against the contracts that you can't take action against you, you can't take action against you.

There are contracts that has got in bribery, our laws indicate that the contracts that he got in bribery is same as not present, even the international rules to ensure that the coming contracts is normal as a joke to now there are 29 agreements with 26 licenses.
Those who have remained right now were only nine.

The ministry is telling us we are looking at the 29 agreements so as to improve on 9th, this is not the review but it's just check if I said in very disturbing, it is the importance of all the contracts that we got in up to now and to prevent new contracts and distributing new fuel for oil and gas.

Human resources ownership is in two ways, one is a few people with their mobile phones when I advise that we should have new resources without caring for the future generations.

The review issue of contracts with an eye on the issue is an issue of supporting them.
But in the end of our country in this issues, you will discover that we are supposed to do more than the review of contracts.

We are supposed to do something which we have never seen that it is improving this contracts to the public, this is my motion.

It is possible that the words that I believe by some people, but it should be remembered that I am a member of parliament of the opposition, it is very easy for me to see the issue that is said by the government because it is very easy to see the issue that is mentioned by the government, because it is possible for people to be open and get involved with them completely.

Minister Muhongo will have the opportunity to do his work hard to do his work without Maswa District, Hadji Jamadary, as the member of parliament for Zitto Kabwe, he will have his work in accordance with the constitution, article 63) and I commend and let me do my work.

This article that was written by Zitto Kabwe, the Member of Parliament for Kigoma North constituency is for answers of the article that was written by a man of us, Johnson Mbwambo, in the previous edition of this newspaper of Raia Mwema, through her platform of Tufani '.
