
Lowassa is saying what about the security in the country?
Jide 16, 2012

These few days ago have touched some of us having a lot of questions more than answers concerning the state of security in the country.
Different events should advise the ability of our government to ensure the safety of citizens and their property and the security of the nation and its resources are saying that we are doing so much and that there is possible we cannot be afraid especially to the citizens of Tanzania to decide the leaders that are in power through a democratic way.
An incident that was caused by the attempt to kill Doctor Steven Ulbrahim and the claims that were given by the top leadership of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) is supposed to be a sober mind and asking him what is going on.
Doctor Ulbrahim and several leaders of the bridge said that even to the Revolutionary Party (CCM) have been seen to have claimed that there are a dangerous games that is being done by people feared, it is people of the national safety and if it gives the lives of various leaders and if there is an indication that it cares for the safety of ordinary citizens.
On all this is the silence of the chairperson of the Permanent Parliamentary Committee on Security and Security and Foreign Affairs, Edward Lowassa, is the surprising fact.
Lowassa is in charge where ministries that deal with these security issues and security has the authority to follow up on various issues related to security in the country, what is surprising me, and I can say the surprising fact is that his silence in these issues that are running as a nation.
The issue of switching off the army planes from Qatar, after an surprising incident and asked the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Defense and Security who is the first to know what has happened and discovered that if they were taken as Houthi rebels.
We would like his committee to follow up in details because also involves other foreign affairs, how come people with diplomatic struggles, they can get into the country on night and to leave the animals and until now the animals will not be returned?
We expect Lowassa would have shown the anger of this one and without those.
He has not interviewed or called a meeting or start a investigation so as to inform the citizens what happened.
The being beaten by CHADEMA's members of parliament and the killing of UVCCM youth in Igunga district, one of the biggest events in Igunga district and whose body was found a few days after the Igunga elections in the body having all signs of being treated well.
We expected to be the chairman of the defense and security committee at least taking care of.
The incident to be played for his fellow members who claimed to have been scored in the police where we expected to be a veteran member of parliament and who has also been the prime minister he would make sure that the prime minister could make sure the truth is.
Tarime incidents of Tarime, Songea and Arusha events that caused security agencies are those of Tarime, Songea and Arusha regions, all of them have been able to see leaders and members of CHADEMA and ordinary citizens as well as a state of pain after state organs using his power were badly affected and causing pain.
We have seen on how the bodies are seen in the streets and we have seen that the police are able to cause chaos in Songea and Arusha city, we saw how police were using their energy to Tukuyu, the councilor's seat.
All over the whole time, the chairman Lowassa leading without doubt the committee with more strength in the country did not say anything because there is no investigation, there is no investigation, there is no worries at each other.
The incident of Doctor Ulbrahim and the claims by CHADEMA was kidnapped by Doctor Ulbrahim and the claims that were released the day before yesterday by the leadership of CHADEMA seems to put Lowassa even to meet the leaders and even the doctors to know what is going on.
Recently, doctors have decided to write a letter to the United Nations about the fear of their lives, this time I made Lowassa with delegates of his committee being shocked.
Friends, these things are not normal though we are saying that most of the few events should not affect the time of Nyerere - who are some who want to be a queness.
Why Lowassa has decided to leave the security agencies that are going like if there is no political management but it's why Lowassa seems not to be afraid of these events and even heading a meeting with the citizens or to follow up closely so that citizens and their leaders are not living in a permanent fear.
Why Lowassa has left the nation of the nation, it started being the future of the nation "?
There is no one who doesn't know that, except he himself is.
I would like to think some of the answers - it is possible because it is possible for us to be opposition, maybe if this close things are seen to have the government of his party, it is possible for all the close people who were found in trouble, these are those who have been wrong in the government.
It is possible for that reason that chairman has decided to sit on the front so that all those who want to sit down in the streets have no reason to prevent police, she does not have a reason to prevent the police force, but he does not have a reason to prevent the police to meet with him.
This is looking for him because it has decided to sit down because, today he has decided to sit on the front reason because their opponents get pregnant women and he has been silent because their opponents are marrying their blood, how will happen if it comes to power of our country as the president.
But more that is looking for is as a parliament (under his committee), you can't discuss and follow on issues of national safety, who another can supervise these security people who have decided to go to Kombo?
Truly, there is a person who can be safe in the country but if the security guards (Lowassa) have decided to be silent, then it does not have been attacked by our leaders would leave it?
