The environment.
The late God is what you said.
We have not said safe for now.
The opposition party.
And other people who are only young people who use the activists, are saying that we are saying that we have a lot of forests, we have a lot of matches because the market of AIDS came to stakeholders so as to support young girls and why to do.
To be able to do other things maybe this week, they will be able to make desks which have better standards but they should be remembered that there is no development that is in good environment.
The late God rest his promise but when you feel that, there will be a lot of talks without doubt, we believe that Mwanza is very close to him but it doesn't know that Mwanza is very close to us because they are not ready to get good desks.
The late God know the problem facing a politician and to get the position she doesn't know.
As a year?
Therefore, maybe this kind of desks is a one who is looking for.
He says that you will do his bold statement that he will be getting in the way to enter the parliament, therefore, I was able to urge him that he will arrive in Dar es Salaam.
He would like to know our desks is the same.
Almighty God rest his desks to do other things because the children are affected and when you see your child, it's good or we're getting married to the African children and even the good foundation of God.
And there will give you another opportunity, more than my condolences to my election, I am coughing, is a big stakeholder in the environment that has risen up of six hundred thousand, and there's just two hundred thousand games and without doubt, there is a cry for close to each other.
Thank you so much, Mister James from Mwanza if it is raising my condolences to the topics of forests, the community explains its benefits again that among the ones who have been encouraged to discuss the agricultural opportunities we will not hesitate to discuss the opportunity to discuss the rearing of livestock, I know it is an indication that the authority of the development of commercial development?
The biggest reason is when we see that we are expecting to be the host of the international conference of the researchers, the workers are marrying themselves in Africa that is expecting to take place.
This month, this year.
And at the moment my visitors are still ongoing and maybe I would end up to you where we will talk and still get there on the eyes of you.
And now.
My colleague has caused us to prevent us.
Visitors want to go.
To move ahead of the head of the university.
But Emmanuel.
In writing, I will give some of the opinion that I think I will be forced to do my work on my analysis, Mister environment and other things that I will ask but others from the right answer from life that has been contributed by the contributes from.
Emmanuel Kalobelo, says that our votes were killed and those crops is for a forest that has opened up to Iringa but he bought for all trees so that all of them were taken to Kenya being the hands of vehicles to carry pregnant women and other diseases.
Without doubt I have given you a chance.
Emmanuel I have God to know that the community does not know enough about the effects that you have not found themselves because I do not make sure that we do not want to know where he didn't know because it is needed to know where he is needed to know where there are water catchment areas where there is water sources.
Let me remember that he has not understood.
One of the people.
That was unacceptable, today is an increase in people.
The number of people but also the residential houses have a lot, even Mwanza was married to Zitto Kabwe.
There are advice that give you know what they have.
Welcome me?
We learned that as a rise of trees on this weekend, we have planned to go.
And the leaders that are concerned with us to build things?
Because there is evidence that areas of people were taught.
The late God, says you will inform people to go for us because of the city you will find you.
You don't know before you ask for the agreement I will give you the way from when I commend him.
My day I urge you to help each other when you take a look at each other, they will make you know that the police force, but they have been able to get a difference in houses, we have seen even the day before yesterday to see that the stone fell because many people continuing with a permit.
That destruction and people should start getting injured and I think it will also see time because of your leaders, if leaders would be keen on the equipment that there is a park.
Muhimbili National Park.
The nation will be a source of caring for the environment in our nation that now we can have areas of the park but they have been written but when I was written, but when I was written here, I am happy that I got pregnant here, but if I got people involved in clean here, but when I got people involved in clean here, but when I got people involved in clean here.
How do you do now, the leaders like you don't know this because there is no wonder, we don't know where I am very fast, I don't know where I am very fast, I don't know what we go and see you, there is one of the efforts and thank you for you.
I have received cooperation.
In which way from the institution.
As the government, we should know the normal number of age and there in home.
I'm about when you know if you know if I think I got and I entered with what was found in their houses, it has been a person to get another friend.
To help caring and then after I have been waiting for example a good example.
Or a report is the head of that province, has been written when they arrived.
Little of them is very little.
The man had already succeeded so much even though he wants to uplift a thing that we are being unable to hold Coastal Union.
The late God bless you, she has tried to be very delicious with it is a little of trees that are continuing to live.
But as this year, that is why I have planned to make sure it is three times in the death of the late.
That the fights have not been unable to do it without told the police commissioner because there is a letter that has never seen him, but when I think it will be able to get those results now, the deceased does not give them an indication that we can buy.
If you know, when I started working alone, therefore do not like to speak from us to care for the environment about it.
In a way and the truth is a fact in there is the acting secretary of Mwanza Province, the letter issued last year and given it.
Therefore, it is something for presuming that we can get married, the late does not know that is why the work is going on, therefore you can see someone.
She thanks the late God, that is why I advise you and other other leaders.
They are saying that there is something we have written the end in the tournament and what do you have to look for how to find you, they are saying compared to the woman.
It has forgotten the community.
Now youths are the strength of the nation.
Ras Makunja has decided to encourage me in which way.
And where we are safe meat when you educate them, especially to get.
AIDS at the end of the mother, a person will be able to tell another person that instead of using an eye on the burial, or to sleep she is called traditional stoves.
The things like those which are very delicious.
Believe that it is not the level of those groups.
Truly, I commend God, so much we will start getting that gas.
I was request for the government only.
.
That is a Swahili dialect.
If there is an opportunity to be able to start running my machines.
To be used then it reached and there is no way to tell me a ten million Tanzanian, I woke up.
That it is a must that we do that and it is a must you know that and there is no another thing that is why you were shocked when I would like to give me a bit about it, but the government like President Kikwete is why we had already explained our votes.
And I think the day before yesterday, I heard one word that the talent has said that police has chicks in America.
They were not saying that President Obama does not concern them.
I became I am talking to one person keeping me where things have touched me, I told him and not know one thing that we will be able if there is no need.
Now appears to be a president who doesn't know how many people tell me what we want to keep the forest that the prime minister had officially launched a forest in the same hours and I see you.
