The farmers of Kilimanjaro are doing to do farming.
Dec 18, 2014.

Tunda Man is common which for a lot of century, has been being used as a bomb attack in Kilimanjaro Province, currently it has changed to be the gold mine "to the farmers of that province after getting the market in Europe countries.
Farmers and many residents of that province, who for many years were depending on the coffee price as the main business, they did not have ever contributed to the importance of Tunda Man's food used as a fools should use it as a fools should use it as a fox.
Following the spread of the gold mine in the world market starting from 2000, currently the government is seen to be an alternative for business after being found in a reliable market in European countries like what is witnessed one of the local farmers.
"From last year we've started to see the benefits of Tunda Man City after the investor from England started selling in large numbers to deal to the farmers in Europe," explained Billnas, who is a resident of Mbezi Ward, Kibamba, he said.

Yasmin Mussa who for all years had only five trees in the year 2010 in 2010, he has added that 3 million dollars equivalent to 1200 million dollars equivalent to 17 million shillings for Tanzanian shillings.
We thank God to thank God for bringing these investors who have been prepared for representing us that are not wrong, "he explains.
Tell me, it is a example of approximately 2,500 farmers who have benefited from agricultural sector in the provinces of Kilimanjaro and Arusha, to have several tons of that product because of being transported in Europe where the one is said to compete well and others from South Africa, Peru and Israel.

The production of those fruits started on the pace starting in the year 2007 when an investor from England, James Parwan when he arrived in Mwanga district, Kilimanjaro Province for an aim of investing in the agricultural sector.

His meaning was to get into the farm so that he can be able to maintain peace in their homes, which was at that time, it was a threat in this area.

"I arrived here I arrived here, most of the people that know I am a foolish thing, who I want to lose money in their lives, which is a food shortage," Parthiban Chandrasakaran.
Speaking to Raia Mwema, in a special interview, the investor told the head of Mwanga district, Anna Nyamgenda, who is the only person who brought him a heart until he succeeded to start a company known as African Dreams.
"I thank God in a few years later, I have managed to build a reliable market market in Europe and the citizens do not tell me, we are partnering to produce Tunda this is an alternative for business," he says.
According to the investor, African Airways which started transporting approximately five tons of the year 2011 this year, they are expecting to transport 1,360 tons of that product, and among those 14 tons will be confirmed to produce international standards.
"You know that in Europe countries, the issue of bringing food is between a very important things, there is the management and inspection of high level, so as to reach the required levels, we have encouraged the farmers to produce quality standards which will be accepted in the market and that is why we have helped the farmers," he said.

Parade said that currently the 400 farmers of 400 farmers for the purpose of verification of international standards in order to meet the requirements of the European market.

African Graduate company has employed more people of them being women in a factory for planning levels.

According to National Park, last year, African Airways has paid 165 million shillings as tax, as he was given a certificate of being recognized as a taxpayer identification number one in Kisarawe District, Kilimanjaro Province.

Even so, African Airways which at the beginning of this year built a factory to set free education in bridges because of being transported, it says that the history of their success will not be completed without mentioning the Kilimba institution for vegetables and skin disorders (TAHA) and USAID / = shillings for the major donations that lead the ball.
For example USAID, SDG s have been giving donations of clove seedlings to the citizens that goes by small-scale farmers who now have reached 286.
On the side of Taha, Parthiban Chandeka said that it has been a great help in solving the policy problems, the bridge between them and thousands of small-scale farmers who have not been possible to achieve the goal of benefit.
"Boznia has been encouraged to inform the government of the district, provinces and the nation about the importance of making a friendly environment for investors and the truth that has taken place in a big level," James confessed.
African Airways is one of the hundreds of investors in the small sector of vegetables, fruits and flowers that the recent days has been in a total of 11 percent led in the agricultural sector, according to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, Mobolaji Dawodu.
That Minister of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives, told Citizen newspaper recently in Arusha town that the sector being supervised and it can be 'pacemaker' to the employment problem in the country.
"Youths and many women like to participate in farming and fruits due to the fact that it is a type of farming because they are not ripe," he said.

Chihira said by recognizing that truth, his ministry has been in a strategy to encourage the youth and many women to do that farming by making a lot of environment that will attract them to love the farming.

"We are building a conducive environment to attract youths and women, to do vegetables and fruits because it is a easy way to look for income and also the employment source for those groups, thus removing poverty," he said.

Jacqueline Mkomagu is the executive director from Taha, who is proud to grow the important sector for the economy of the nation for a period of ten years only.
Statistics show that the agricultural sector of Cure (farming for fruits and vegetables) which in the year 2002, brought to foreign funds about 1200 million dollars, right now it gives 400 million dollars per year equivalent to 700 billion Tanzanian shillings.

Apart from the foreign money, the sector has caused employment to approximately 12,000 customers for statistics of the year the day before yesterday, while thousands of farmers who had gone up and businesses have been forced to have faith in life light.

Currently, Taha, which had a lot of energy in the northern region where agriculture started, currently they have reduced up to the Southern Highlands Region where Mkomagu says that there is everything needed for the area to be the biggest producer of fruits, vegetables, flowers among others.

"We do not have a good land and the weather situation which is needed for this agriculture, Southern Highland regions have also been set aside for Songwe airport which will be safe for the produce easily," he said.

Apart from the southern highland regions, Taha, also in collaboration with the Finland government has started a big project in Zanzibar Islands, where they intend to promote the car.

That three-year project worth 70,070,00 Tanzanian shillings is aiming to benefit from 8 million farmers, which will be set aside for paying the crops and distribution for waiting to go to the marketing of outside.
