
While the police got to read about struggling with the sick.
By Bashir Yakub.
Kaloleni East member of parliament, Mister Mwesa, has urged the police and other security officers to inform them on the effects of the Mnazi Mmoja fields.
He said that in his area and the coast region it depends on well the activities of drinking alcohol of the Mnazi Mmoja and therefore order to deal with the involved is same as bringing down life.
Speaking to the residents in Madukani area, Mister Gunga said that there is need for security officers to provide security to residents instead of blocking him and killing them when they are marrying their lives.
"Every person including the security officers know that this area of suppression of the Mnazi Mmoja economy is true that people are oppressed and even when they are following the laws given," he said.
"These we see the government to be able to strengthen the economy of the economy.
But it's a short economy which will be productive if the ordinary citizen wanted to care about her daily lives and I will not hesitate to take care of any kind, this is the alcohol that can be able to sell and educate children. This issue is very much, "he said.
Earlier on the month of March, the leaders of Pwani province together with security officers joined and gave the regulations of running that business including the time that business is going on.
"We are talking about this issues keenly and we agreed to agree that the business will make it be run in Kaloleni East area where the police officers agreed to be careful," said the member of parliament.
A large section of the Tawaf area depends on the Mnazi Mmoja fields in its many activities.
90 percent of revenue from various residents arising from the selling of alcohol of the Mnazi Mmoja and other products arising from the Mnazi Mmoja Grounds.
Mister Gunga said that he will communicate with the head of security in the Feri areas so as to expand the current procedure that will end the disturbance the residents were through the hands of police officers.
