You miss.
If you said he has a phone called but but it has a view of having two and two governments.
This parliamentary sitting has not decided to have three governments' or or one, when we think it will be now relating to the issue of settlement because it did not be heard in the same period of the constitution.
I have heard that the late God is not his constitution.
But he then put on the economic foundations, the preparations will go to my health sector and not the housing sector in the growth of the economy in the country but also they will partner with community soon as being prevented.
For that you know the late?
The constitution is possible that its secret is not expected to be given priority in the agricultural sector for example, while you are saying that.
The right to someone to get education.
The late God, but when you talk about it, it is a must that you have the ongoing law for me.
The constitution does not have a result of those that are measurable.
Laws of land laws, law plans for sponsorship is that any law must be getting strength and legitimacy of it and the basis will agree inside the constitution because they are unable to talk about this matter because they are unable to speak well on the issue of rights.
We have said that the government should not have any economic rights and social rights, for sure we are doing well, to come, let me say that with a length, more than it is in the constitution that doesn't know now is about the law.
To remember, he clarified on reasons, they know the constitution has been written about now, the hyena have.
Fifty years after independence, but by touching on this way as a nation we are preparing for the first time.
Because the constitution to our leaders of this nation is to supervise the good constitution.
That has you reached us here, we did not know the nations that are Nuru in Africa is a nation that decided that we have a union.
And our correspondent.
There is no doubt, we don't know a conflict and in African countries if you deal with violence and violence that are in our fellows.
That protects you not in plenty, now, to an extent that we are one of the nation that will try to write a new constitution in a state of calmness and peace, I would like to know that as usual the constitution are there.
After a teaser?
For example, in Kenya, when I was the head of United Nations in Kenya, we saw this constitution of Kenya was written in a group photo, to answer those drugs to feel like a way of preventing war.
That she wants to kill so they will make it.
Truly, it is good to an extent that we have written this constitution in the first state, there is no one.
And by the law.
If you go to Grind.
Therefore, the new constitution is saying it has really set aside.
If in a certain way, the exercise is completed, there are and so that it will not be this country and the constitution of twenty-seven years is not on the same logic or the constitution but this nation's constitution is continuing with phones but they want to make constitution as citizens because of them to be voted for.
Therefore, here we are trying as such as the commission that you must make good work they have done?
As the sacred heart have been commanded?
Although, it is not now like the representative of the citizens the preparations will go back here and we should be our place tomorrow, the citizens are.
Citizens when they were looking for opinions but many citizens reach now.
Again the system of this constitution that we have now is for searching for representation and here I talk about constitution here I'm not happy about the constitution here I'm not talking about citizens but in Northern Muleba, the region that involves all the people to come and return to the topic.
