
The request of Uhuru, Kayumba has asked for compensation.
By Richard Mwaikenda.
Four organizations for defending the rights yesterday opposed the request of President Uhuru Kenyatta, the Deputy William Ruto, and the commission of the IEBC indicated that they were given more than 130 million shillings to oppose them from their positions in the general elections of 2013.
Those organizations told Judge George Kagaruki, that the request of President Kenyatta, Mister Netanyahu and the IEBC is not allowed because the cases they started to ensure the law it has been observed.
In that case, those rights organizations said those two were not ready to vie for positions because they are facing a case at the International Criminal Court (ICC).
President Kenyatta said that Mister Ruto are faced with charges of killing them, relocating themselves about the killing of people from their homes and suppression of rights for people.
These cases arose from violence in the year 2007 / 2008 where more than 200 people were died.
The case that was presented against President Kenyatta and Mister Ruto, is about the great importance in the implementation of the constitution that passed on August 27, 2010, it took him in one event to inspect the implementation of article 6 of the constitution and public servants should be faced with the presence of human rights or killing of people, "Masau boasted.
Mister Logan says that President Kenyatta said that President Kenyatta said that President Kenyatta has presented a case at the main court following instructions that were given out by five judges who are involved in crime against human rights should be appointed to contest for the leadership positions.
Yesterday, Odas she was told, "if it will not take this step by President Kenyatta, Mister Netanyahu and the IEBC that we were known on October 31, 2014, and the appeal will be aired on October 31, 2014, and the appeal will be aired on October 31, 2014, that appeal will be aired on October 31, 2014, that appeal will be aired on October 31, 2014, and the appeal will be aired on October 31, 2014.
He gave him Mister Lungamano, Mister Loraine Marriot.
The lawyers of Mister Kenyatta asked the court that made those organizations to prevent President Kenyatta to 60 million shillings, Mister Ruto, more than 33 million shillings and the IEBC more than 70 million shillings.
