
The policies of the receiver on the presidency will not depend on us from Melela Kololo, 2012.

Recently, I have written this article together with other things, opposed the idea or the proposal of wanting the constitution to make sure that the presidency of the United Republic of Tanzania will be clear that the presidential candidate of the United Republic of Tanzania will be able to come from Zanzibar, or if the next term president must be a Christian.

I said that at the time and I continued to insist on that the policy is bad and it is dangerous for peace and development of Tanzania, despite the possibility of many groups, they emerged and claimed that the policies are bad and dangerous because the following are bad.

First, it's a policies that include a citizen of Tanzania in general, the policies of their leader, the policy explains the power of what happened to the community, and to be taken to the community that made him to make her to make her love.

Secondly, this policy has the smell of discrimination and fish inside him and those who don't speak about this issue, we believe that this country is Christians and Christians they do not know where this country does not go against the first article of the constitution of the United Republic of 1977 that does not allow Tanzanian to be elected in the position of the president of the United Republic of Tanzania?

Three, the policies explains the nation of Tanzania from a non-religious nation and to become a religious party to separate the government and other religious leaders so that we do not want this country to have any religious leaders and not to stop any religion because of our responsibilities, and not to stop or increase.

Four, this proposal is against the construction of democracy in the country since we expect it's right to elect the president and to be elected as the president. In the environment of giving time to be the president.
"The presidential candidate will have to be dealt with by Christians, Muslims and people of Zanzibar where others do not have statements.

It does not understand the fact that we're fighting for freedom from the colonialists as 50 years later, it should be understood that the main aim of the total of the new constitution is freedom and more security to Tanzania.

I know that the people of Zanzibar claim that they are very few, it will be difficult for the country to win a small number of people not being an obstacle to Zanzibar to support the president of the United Republic of Zanzibar, we want to build a good community system that connects people of the union.

There is another thing that doesn't affect the mind, it is the government of Zanzibar and Zanzibar the government of Zanzibar was put in order to protect the interests of Zanzibar through the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, this is because Zanzibar is the deputy president of the United Republic of Tanzania.
The activities of the union in the country are just few although it is important.

Five, the policies of giving presidency on religious issues or the same way, the late president who was chosen for this system will not listen to others what they put him in power, but the citizens do not have a statement by the leader until the community that brought him in power, otherwise they will not have the decision.

Six, Tanzania will loose the main aim of the founders of the sustainable nation of discrimination, abuse, religion, religion and non-infectious diseases and that every time these things are taken to condemn and prevent you not to continue.

.

In defending this argument, some people have claimed that they were given to Zanzibar and Tanganyika were free in time to join, there is an importance to make the presidency of the United Republic of Tanzania.
The primary issue here is that after joining and building a nation of Tanzania, citizens of Tanzania have the rights and opportunity for all the things in the United Republic.

All the positions to be appointed and employment opportunities are open by considering the criteria and conditions of all citizens have an opportunity and right to do business and living anywhere in the United Republic, just after doing that, it is the main foundation of human development anywhere in the world.

The thoughts of people of Zanzibar should be a certain number of employment in the United Republic are not suitable for reasons, first, and the second ones have blood cells to reduce the standards in employ.

This is as a result of the fact that the high position has been set aside for the purpose of Zanzibar, it needs to be announced by the Zanzibar islands even if it has not met the level of employment opportunities like the disabled and currently the claims of Zanzibar is very much and other difficult decisions are implemented by the coalition.

Eight reasons for allowing the policy is that it will cause its disappearance to peace and calmness in the country and the policies of catalysts and investment in the country and to strengthen groups that are inside the country instead they will continue to expand more day so that they can continue to expand more day so that they can agree.

Tanzania in the 50 years of freedom has been highly commended for peace, calmness and solidarity compared to some of the countries in the African Continent.
That situation did not be available soon as the founders of this nation were fighting with a difficult environment like breaking the sharp teeth system in Kagera, to remove flaws in the government system, to remove political parties because they can destroy the religious leaders.

In addition to the success made, the hope of some people wanting to go back to the old system is very big because some of these things have not been removed from the community.

Mwalimu Julius Nyerere once said that every president we shall realize that we will have tribe and religion, but we will not vie because of tribe or his religion because many of its citizens do not have education and poor.

In America in these countries are foreign affairs, most of the people are committed in their country and for some people now, it is the new tribe of testing themselves with it in America, it needs leaders to have a difficult way to win the behavior of building a nation of solidarity and unity.
Many countries in South Africa has been unable to build America in order to have groups of transmitting news or religious or all the two in Tanzania does not see the system that has caused the existence of these cells, peace, compatibility and calmness in Tanzania will remain in history in the short time future.

We should learn from our neighborhood and especially from the West Africa, Ivory Coast, it was a country for giving an example in peace and harmony, but the reality of tribalism and harmony is that the country has good and calmness and those diseases are still especially during this time of writing a new constitution.

In the year 1993, the year 1993 that was presented to the public, which together with other things, it wanted to clear the structure of the union so as to deal with the real situation and by considering the requirements of many people.
Those opportunities could be lost.

Today, 19 years ago that occur in every country, it's not seen in the country, it doesn't jump and it is unacceptable, it is clear that the action is taken now, it will be clear that it will be careful.

When I go back to the primary issue, I am saying that Tanzania's president should be elected by considering his ability, its education, integrity and knowledge of its policies and experience which have no need to lead well when they get an opportunity for private customers and policies which have the basis of deciding to be given to the leadership of the country.
