A bank is attracted more.
28th of 11, 2015.

The list of paying the big taxes which the government has resolved taxes for a period between January 2010 to September 2014, it has been put in public, with misuse of tax exemptions.
Some of the companies and those institutions have been forced to pay for normal things like stopping.
The Ministry of Finance has given that report through its website, due to the instructions of the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC) it wants to do so, although the day before yesterday on Monday, the network had been denied to show those statements because they have not been known.
More than that big companies have been able to pay taxes, that ministry was also prepared to put publicly over the names of private people and other institutions that were affected by that system in that period.
In that list, Good Citizen has succeeded to see it, companies to build minerals, to look for oil, various banks including the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), in charge of various government departments and they were seen to have the big number of tax exemptions.
Number tax has been touched.
According to the report of TRA, an amount of 1 trillion Tanzanian shillings was paid taxes in the last financial year, something that was seen to be presented at the PAC committee.
The report of the Ministry of Finance (Moalimu) has given a few light weight to ensure our citizens have managed to sign them.
"Madenge doesn't know what?
In the sixth page of the ministry, there are reports of M Bank (Bank M) of Dar es Salaam city to be given tax for taxes for the purpose of procurement of products using drugs.
More than those products are currently, that bank also requested for forgiveness from things like flour, certificates, and shoes.
BoT requested and given the tax payment of things like Galaxy Note 7, a draw for workers, renovation of radio, procurement of membership cards and an invitation from the invitation.
TRA itself forced to pay for forgiveness for the strokes and food that benefited in one of their meetings.
There was a lot of taxes also in the drinks area of the army, soda, beer and cold drinks, it was forced to be resolved for more than two billion shillings in that period.
A company that is not known is very fast in Africa, has been given a lot of more than 220 million shillings for the purpose of selling crude oil (drinking water).
German's gold mine, together with other things seems to have asked for forgiveness and given house (meaning I will go) in his office together with the purchase of rumors on his trousers.
In the year 2012, the Bank of BMM E which is currently under government management has given an amount of 76 million shillings to the purpose of buying houses in the office.
Although some of the tax exemptions have enough value, but our citizens has decided to realize that it is not because of its value but due to misuse of this opportunity of tax exemptions.
In that list which the day before yesterday did not open on the internet and there's no reason to be filled up in public, the companies that had been given major tax exemptions are involved in the mining of minerals and gas.
Crude oil for example, has got different taxes worth three billion shillings, 12 billion, four billion shillings for different reasons due to its use of devices to destroy the sea, leases of elite missiles.
Institutions that have been mentioned in that report by the Ministry of Finance and Minerals, the PPF fund, the National Housing Corporation, Aaron Nanyaro, which is in the oil company of Tanzania and Zambia (view) and Diamond Trust Bank.
Other companies that were mentioned are the Kunzugu Ward, NMB Bank, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Tanzania Airports Authority (Tanroads), the University of Dar es Salaam, will be held by the National Park (NIDA).
The police force, Mantra Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (REA), the project of MCC, Petit, BG Tanzania, TANESCO won a certificate of APM Bank, Alpha Mria, BG Tanzania, the gold mine of Bulyanhulu FC and Celine Itatiro.
Some of the others from that tax exemptions are China Glasgow, Commercial Bank of Africa (CBA), Stanbic Tanzania, Yang Fukeni Mighty One, Ecobank Tanzania, Azim Dewj and Eucharist celebrated.
Others are the bank of Al-E, Southern Highland, HTT, Hama (M), Kagera Sugar, Kagera Sugar Fund, Kilimanjaro Sugar Fund, Oilcom, Testosterone, East Africa Development Fund, Oilcom, Testosterone, East Africa Fund.
