
There is a lot of secondary schools of Bena.
And has been found in eternal peace.
Approximately two months now, this team is stable, it is still a lesson to his rivals but it is true, while being an example to other teams in the soccer field in the province.
This is a team of girls' secondary school in the A A Primary School, which was founded in 1998 under the death of bananas, Ernest Sengeu.
One year after the establishment of the launch, this squad that supports the fees came out that it has the talents of dancing to playing the football, which was participating in and emerged with a good results in the secondary school competition in the first season.
This year the team defeated the District cup of Busquets.
In the final match that was organized at the stadium of Bushiri Atick, at Nyamijashi-Shabaab's soccer team drew 3-2.
Apart from being the queen of the district in that year, the squad was also announced to be in the second position among the teams that were struggling for discipline this season at the district levels, the results of that season that brought Tanzania, the reputation of her success in the high school competition.
For a period of 16 years ago, that team has managed to participate in the high school competition for ten times in the morning while carrying the district cup for four times, he said that he was in the regional cup for three times.
Apart from putting the record for the school competition, Bala A, it is also among the popular teams that are Mpunguzi A, in the West soccer competitions.
This girls' team used the crown of Busquets is accused last year after the results of that contest for two years ago, while he was revoked his last two seasons.
It was called that crown for the first time in the year 2005 and it lost the season followed before buying again in the year 2011-2012.
Other competitions are together with the Marko West Youth Team where this school's team has ever participated in three seasons and to be a champion club immediately.
This message has caused the players who have professionalism at leaving the football that they are doing that team being satisfied and to be praised all over the province, most of these players have ever been sold at different competitions due to their skills they have in this profession.
In the year 2008, the former striker of this squad, Lilian Akitanda, was sold at the crown by a strong name of the Star TV and who was the sponsor of the Pamba cup in the year when she scored seven goals to the finals.
