
Some of the two heads of Madibira, 28, 2012.

Two retired leaders who had promised to serve the country in a good position of dollars is among six veteran players who had approximately 15 million American dollars (approximately 15 billion shillings) in Switzerland Bank, a good citizen has been told.
News about sure that this newspaper shows that the veteran players succeeded to collect those billions by involving some of the business people through the purchase of government system (need to continue at different times.
At the time he was known as the Minister of Finance, Doctor William Mgimwa, is expected to present a official report about the ownership of the ministers.
According to our news sources, some of the business people who were given those money from Switzerland Bank are not big names in the business industry here in the country, but it is with enough understanding in business systems in various countries in the world.
"The previous reports are facing six leaders of the Switzerland government is ready to mention the names of those involved and they are also ready to get advice on the amount of money and other important information," explained our news source in the government.
Our reporter spoke with the director of the institution for preventing and fighting corruption in the country (TAKUKURU), Doctor Edward Hosea, who has also already received about the issue and different media stations in the country.
In his explanation to our reporter, Doctor Hosea said, "we have been arrested, Switzerland, and we are expecting a full report from them, we have decided to get information about this issue, we are waiting for information about this issue and we believe that we will get good cooperation because now Switzerland has made changes in its laws and we will succeed."
But on his part, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Bernard Membe, when he was asked about his position as the minister in search of information of this issue, we are required to know how we are participating in the country, but that the government is ready and stable to address this issue.
The foundation stone here is that all the relevant laws will be considered as required.
As the ministry of foreign affairs and international cooperation, it has reached that issue, it will be the second time in the administration of President Jakaya Kikwete to do so.
Already Minister Membe admits lack of repayment of money presented during the purchase of money donated to the military fees from the army equipment of the United Kingdom.
Those funds to England million shillings (5 billion shillings) equivalent to 75 billion shillings (3 billion Tanzanian shillings) have already been completed in the country and already it has been allocated use of books to primary schools and 182 billion shillings will be used to buy desks for primary schools.
Also in that scandal, the fees was revealed that they had been forced to be the attorney general (AG), Andrew Chenge, given approximately one billion shillings at the Jerru Silaa in England in one of the banks in the island.
This discussion took place yesterday, Tuesday, Parliament by the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe, requested the prime minister for the government authorities to follow up on that issue and to give information to the public.
Zitto Kabwe said that it is a report of praising him and that situation is very worried because it is faced with a huge level of gas that will produce a lot of gas that will enable many foreign funds and he insisted on the loopholes of preventing those funds.
The reports of suffering from approximately 15 billion shillings (approximately 15 million American dollars (19648) have started to be written by media stations in the country for approximately one week now.
The reports about those billions were put in public at the Tanzania Central Bank report and explained that it is not only Tanzania, but there are other 10 countries that are popular in those countries have paid billions of money.
According to the reports of the Central Bank of Switzerland, in East African countries, Tanzania is leading the statistics show that from Kenya, Switzerland Bank have built 857 million dollars.
Those statistics of Switzerland show that from Uganda have been removed from 154 million dollars, Egypt 3 million dollars, South Africa 3 million dollars and Rwanda 3 million dollars, Somalia million American dollars.
Recently, Switzerland government used its various banks in the country to identify the names of the heads of various countries who put in secret billions of money in those banks.
