How is the project using what he wants?
Because of him are the reporter.
Still and it is still underway.
You miss this.
Here I will be far from what they want.
Ten years after improving the team different days.
We are not like a person who will get this course in the vehicle that we believe will be very good when they went to a trap.
It is at the sky and I have agreed with wisdom and we believe that Ongea will enable you to be buried in the neighborhood.
I have said I did not agree with the stakeholders.
A question is between you.
This is not a problem.
It is happening.
You want to have me this one?
A little time Mike right now.
And when you get this child, that is still the meaning that does it live near to them.
There is something but if you have said we are improving you so much, but I think it doesn't know what we are doing, but we think that we can make improvements but we will look for people from Africa in every day you will go from their game as they will be players from its system and other things.
Most of the teachers like you are a leader whose leader should be in power you know that there is nothing to succeed in the ball if he knows up until today, she can cause someone who will do so, when they are playing in a period of five years without getting a long time.
You want to say up to today, he is because his results can choose other people who are the first, my advice is that when you go to the ball, I know what I got into football, I know what I got into football, I believe it is not true that my advice should be able to see my advice.
However, two people have no eyes set.
In the sun?
Taifa stars have good improvements on first time of the death of the following things, when you were not with the leadership.
You must change you.
The team in the first level which will be in the second time.
And until the third class.
Therefore, due to those issues are those words.
It was bad.
At the same time, he was getting into power, he said that he will make the nation a lot of improvements it has been a slogan for agriculture because it is not supposed to give the players that we feel like, I would like to see another person not to go down, but I would like to see if he has not seen, but he didn't know if he has not seen, Malinzi.
All the question did not lead the league.
What should be found in a team that I will have a story because all the big days, the old man is not allowed to marry off new law who has played many years ago but I still come out to play for a team of the nation I have done my improvements on it.
Even so much even if his body last week.
Find out someone to contribute to the topic about my brother.
Hayatou, I was my thoughts, I request for maybe the long president with his delegation who will be happy in the provinces where they will see various competitions.
Among those told that players have no benefits.
Just to choose the commission of nation then Simba and Yanga.
Arsenal is just a good old man, his clothes were going to be because I will be with the teachers of the national commission, they have started that what players will be good for the money we had at national stand are good.
I promise to reduce by saying that the nation don't know that maybe the contest is Simba and Yanga you cannot see that maybe that, I will look for hands up and those who are under them and those who are in them are very good for me.
I have heard the name.
