
Samatta, Ulimwengu will lead Taifa Stars.
Deodatha Makani, 2013.

While Taifa Stars plays for a repeat match against the Morocco national team which will be played in the Casillas team that got home to move forward in the World Cup championship for the first time in Brazil, soccer lovers in the country have divided into the ability of the national team to qualify for the group.
In that division, there are some hope to qualify for the World Cup finals, and they have their reasons because there are some who do not have hope, who also have their primary reasons.
For now the Tanzania national soccer team has banned the youths that call the national soccer, but for several seasons now that team has not been unable to get the representative in the developed countries.
The only goal that we got as a nation, is to succeed to sell two players in the best club in this region, TP Mazembe of those players are Thomas Ulimwengu, that was started in the year 2007 and later announced bought by TP Mazembe of the DRC year 2011.
Another one is Mbwana Samatta who started showing his talent with African Lyon club, before being taken by Simba, where TP Mazembe stopped him and on his things when he was in the field and therefore decided to take place in the year 2011.
In a squad that runs a habit of ensuring Tanzania is participating in big soccer competitions in Brazil in the year 2014, it is only two players who are playing the international league who are two, "Ulimwengu and Samatta.
Our neighborhood, Kenya, their national team, Harambee Stars, up to now is proud of having a player who plays for Parade of Italy, and who until now he has put the record for being the first player in this region to play the European Champions League starting with Inter Milan of Italy.
His brother Maranga, Victor Wanyama who plays for Celtic FC of Scotland, for now being faced with two popular clubs in England, Arsenal and Liverpool is among the international players who are expected to be followed by Harambee Stars.
In Tanzania, up to now, apart from the veteran example, Renatus Nyanda, a resident who did in Europe who did not be played again in the national team is alleged to have only one player, Adam Ndonga who plays for Chelsea's youth team and also there are reports that he has decided to take the citizenship of that country.
After dealing with Morocco, Tanzania will be faced with a difficult time to cross the two of Ivory Coast and Gambia Union. It's not therefore, things have a good work to our defenders and most of their attackers, but also lack of players who have experience in the international league.
There is need for the rich people who like soccer to do the work of the agents and to ensure that Tanzania is known as football by selling players outside Africa.
There's no need to give examples of African teams where the national team players are playing in the popular English Premier League, France, Italy and Spain, but it should be no one to blame, although the efforts are supposed to be successful and every Tanzanian for the benefit of our country.
God bless Taifa Stars to win the honor of 3-1 goals they got into home, on a goalless draw so that they can move forward in the campaign to go to Brazil. God bless Tanzania.
