
228 billion to get the championship, eating the year 2016.
It is after waiting for the years KIA 132 with little income, not from registration.
Leicester City soccer club, Leicester City soccer club is the news headlines for now after succeeding to win the English Premier League championship in front of a big club and rich by unknown hands.
After waiting for more than one century, that club has won the crown which is the first since its establishment in the year 1884.
Different from the club like Chelsea, Manchester City or even Manchester United, Arsenal, Liverpool and Liverpool are proud to have the rich owners, with great money that caused the championship a total of 890,536 billion shillings (2), 82,070,00 Tanzanian shillings.
Those funds are the salaries of Leicester City team, which is the few players like, Jamie Vardy and Jeffery Webb are paid for 80,000 dollars for a week.
The others who died, including the winger from Algeria, Riyama estate and the French mid-fielder, Riyama Solo, who were being contested for now and the European Champions League live on salaries which had a rich club that could be avoided.
Different from the last season, the club will start a season with the expectations of increasing its income because of various reasons including championship of the European Champions League with the contracts of 10 million pounds per season since he completed 14 million pounds per season.
33 million pounds by playing in the group stages of the Manufacturing Company in Europe and a bonus for 3 million pounds.
The third win in the group and playing in the Europa League will enable to get 20 million pounds.
Its matches to be played early and get news on 10 million pounds.
Claudio Ranieri will hold his 5 million pounds if a bonus of the championship for the first time since that club starts the year 1884.
Fans and those youths of Claudio Ranieri, who is also known as fox has witnessed a big increase of fans who came up on the club in the television by 23 percent.
The England's television, the increase is from 29 percent to 7866 fans up to more than 3 million fans in Italy, where he was born, viewers bought that club more times.
The company of international sports issues, has touched the network of that club explaining that the number of fans of the club has increased from Kuala Lumpur to reach three million, an increase that is big in the world.
Algeria is the international striker of Algeria, Riyama, which has bought 500,000 fans from the number of 23,000 fans at the end of the season of Thailand, in that country there is 221,000 fans, where there was a loss of 117 percent of the number of fans.
Italy the fans have been fined shillings which is an increase of 6000 shillings from that was at the beginning of the season.
