
To ask for a prayer, he is not supposed to sign up 1st, 2012.

A prayer are enough "finally, a prayer which we have been looking for every time their national teams come out and the international competitions were given answers that was expected to be held last night on December 13th this year in Sudan.
In those results, happy, Tanzania has got an opportunity to participate in the first competitions in Africa for the players that play the home league that will take place in "Coastal Region," Ivory Coast earlier this year.
The last time the only victory like this was found in 199, where we were in a draw of 1-1 against Zambia's hard team, he won with a total of 2-1 goals and therefore succeeded to get in the African Champions League that took place in Lagos, Nigeria the year 1980.
This was as a result from the ones that joined the game at the stadium of Daisy and the old winger who is in the city of Vientiane when that day they believe that they were not involved in the stadium.
After that, Tanzania was unable to remain in the tournament in a pipeline and together with our great efforts to ask for a prayer every time we were related to that friendly competition in Africa.
For sure, if there is an issue that sportsmen, leaders and religious leaders get in general, they have been doing with all their strength and integrity and requesting them to work when our national team and other different games have already been rushing for by the international tournament.
And now every time when I become a small activity to bid farewell to our sportsmen who are going to participate in different competitions outside the country, every leader or a player don't say that he is supposed to explain words of "we request our colleagues to vie for a prayer"!
I request that I urge you to inform me that I don't have a word with people to put it and asked God to help them to lead them in their daily activities.
It is God who through his holy books, I used us to do that when he is telling us, we will be opened and also we should wait, and we will get them.
This matter will come out and put up well and put hope of victory in the "offer," Ambassador Ombeni, will get you more than to make preparations that were completed for their teams.
Let's follow our hearts of poor preparations and poor households to our teams in order to pray for them.
When we failed even to take a example in the country like Brazil, which together with being among the countries with many religious believers to an amount of Rio de Janeiro was to have one of the biggest signs more than all over the world of Jesus Christ.
Having a 30 meters long distance ", if there is no report about the leaders, coaches and players of that country was quoted saying they requested them to vie for a prayer when they go to the soccer competitions in the world at a fast speed we have in that issue!
I have not met with popular famous coaches in the world like Sir Alex Ferguson of Manchester United, Arsene Wenger of Arsenal and "Taifa Stars will help fans of those big clubs in the world to pray for them so as to win the tournament that is facing them.
Do we believe that these popular coaches in the world did not know God?
I don't know what we believe in God but they don't accept to do you in order to do what God has given his ability to do.
In that meaning, coaches and these leaders make all their strength to the preparations of their team, they were being helped by the great ability of the financial clubs and then put God to gain due to their efforts.
Often, we are from every player to show his private faith when he comes in the field, when he comes from or when he scored a goal, then.
Contrary to these, we are in the country because of directed by sports leaders who do not have goals for a long time, we have found themselves depending on their prayers due to the poor preparation in our team.
We are witnessing our dish where we requested our schools to vie for them when they go to the countries outside the country to compete.
We think we also Remy Ma and Miss our Miss we ask ourselves to vie for a prayer so that they can be able to win in different competitions for the most importantly they are going to participate.
In addition to these applications, urging Tanzanians to vie for their fellow sportsmen, still a long period we have witnessed our teams and our sportsmen when they return home they have failed.
We believe that all times and all the years God has been supporting our prayers and everyone was to listen to our opponents only?
It is clear that to fail in the competitions, we used to participate in the tournament and we want to go through to get achievements by depending on the success instead of preparing to fulfill the achievements we have made as a prayer.
And that is why our teams go back to the country after being unable to do a leader or a player saying that they were not heard and instead you are telling us that the exercises for his team was a short time while leaving the words he does not have been left.
We have witnessed our time Tanzania has been charged a three months camp which was accompanied by many problems and leaving with his leaders making sure that the team has done enough exercise and they encourage people to vie for a prayer so as to return with medals.
They are telling us that they know that they are going to compete in the competitions where other competitors were on the camp for six months and more than other countries like the hosts China has organized their athletes for more than five years before the games.
Here is clear that even when God gave himself the two time to listen to a prayer being a woman who seek her work after the preparation of three months and the one who do so after the preparations for ten years.
In addition to the performance of God, you do not have a special song, we believe that she will inform you more than this who used ten years to prepare more than this who lost three months.
The victory of our national football team against Sudan has come at an appropriate time and give a lesson to sports and gender which will benefit from general that there is no loss of transporting it to the success.
That any success is not only in soccer but all the games are expecting, plans and preparations for a long time is but you can bring up and raising talents, training from experts, food and care for the players and ask for them to follow after all this completion.
After the first phase of four years of the president of TFF that went hand in hand with three years of the leadership of the president, Jakaya Kikwete, the victory against South Sudan has claimed that it is impossible so that they want to do.
We have witnessed our country's team to break up the camp for a long time while its coach Marcio Maximo, has caused the talents of youths who at the time he believes that some of us have risen up but now we are witnessing its results.
We have also care about the high level of our players to the extent of those players to see the great benefits to play for the national team different from just a few years behind where our players are supposed to represent their clubs more than the national team where many of them were tested and even their allowances.
Certainly, we are being happy when we see every after three days, our players of the national team ended, "the virgin" is understood to the way from our African family that can have its problems.
The plan to be announced to build for affordable houses with our players is also a matter of being mentioned.
We cannot write something about the victory of our national team without seeing the sponsors and the sponsors of the team which they have pledged to take time to reach our team where it is.
They have enabled our nation's team to go through training while its players at a draw and seen as any international team different from in every player when he went to training with a draw and a draw of one match, "we have from far.
We believe that if we continue with this, we have already started, we will arrive at every time he would like to perform our team in time and his faith instead of making the flag the following day after handing over the flag during his farewell.
