
They want to brought down the government, "Kasunga said.
From the 1-1, Mister Ruto, said that the vote of the decision is not about a lot of money but it is being used by some people to enter the office in the 2017 general elections.
"We are ready to face 2017 but for this time we will bring development and development including health and education," said Mister Ruto.
He said some of the leaders that came out about the money every time they are not supposed to be allowed to supervise even the price of livestock.
"The leadership is not money, it is having a vision and you are going to perform your country," said Mister Ruto.
He said the leaders of Geology wanted the free commission of elections and the boundaries for the IEBC) that he could destroy the presidency through the decisions, though they are Kenyans who wanted them to participate in the 2013 general elections.
"You will be unable again if the elections will be conducted earlier," said Mister Ruto.
About the arrest of President Uhuru Kenyatta, he said that he has turned out a lot of words, Mister Ruto, said that leaders who are requesting the youth to pray to violence the 21st century are not supposed to lead.
"We thank you to learn from people who have a vision and plans of development," said Mister Ruto.
Deputy President announced the development projects of billions of money that will be implemented in Ethiopia.
The Indiana governor, Mister Godson Doyo, said that residents did not have time of losing politics of the decision and what they wanted are development.
He said that the residents of Ethiopia have graduated fully in the government and wanted to build road and other development projects.
We are leading the Diamond Jubilee fully, "said Mister Doyo.
The Senator of Elysee Palace will be careful, Mister Musomba, he said that Diamond's leaders are expecting to fulfill the promise that they gave for Kenyans at the time of elections and to stop campaigns for the decision.
"In our country there's no doubt when there will be votes of the decisions in our country, to build roads, to give them water and health services," said Mister Avit Nyambele.
Mister Onesimus Laizer and the leader of those who are in the Senate, Professor Kitogo who said they will continue to participate in the fundraising so as to improve the lives of Kenyans despite some of the opposition leaders to oppose that action.
"If Raila does not like the fundraising when he wants to stop politics and to try other things," said Mister Feruzi.
Professor Mbarawa and Mister Onesimus Laizer, said the vote of the decision is to control when it can't buy a bomb attack.
They added that the opposition's intention to wait for that vote is to fulfill the implementation of government development plans.
They said that instead of the governors and Geology that deals with discussions and the partnership was required in the constitution started fighting.
Professor Sigallah who was given his call to the governors of Jubilee Towers building and the vote of the decision.
Mister Doyo and Senator of that county, Mohamed Kengele said that the residents do not vote for the decisions and they wanted it is development because their area was set for many years.
Mister Netanyahu and Professor Sigallah who had camped the Eastern region of Mount Kenya where they have organized a fundraising for the public meetings.
