
CHADEMA is vying for a poster that does not depend on 27th, 2012.

Judge Amir Manento said that in the chief justice of Tanzania, approximately six years ago he made a tour to visit the courts of Mwanzo Kigonsera, Tanga province, where he met some of the courts, others put the foundation stone, but he also spoke with the court staff.
He made a lesson, which I want to thank the chairman of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Freeman Mbowe said Judge Manento said that the workers of the court do work with integrity and good governance.
He said that they are the last people to meet with citizens because they are believed to be the rights service.

Judge Manento said that for now, he is the chairperson of the Human Rights Commission in the country, he said there are people who are ready to find out a lot of things to look for a snake and to say the stones will fail.
"The civil servants are the ones that are believed to have the rights of justice and citizens will get that right to you, stop bribery, encourage people in doing decision and be integrity in your jobs.
"I wish you good work hard for those who even make it better to make sure that you can't congratulate you or decide that you live in good work.
Judge Manento said that in that example, he said that when he gets into a hole, stop smoking in mind, to be able to release her stomach, to make sure that the stomach can be released very easily, but you stop smoking in front they are happy to be released very easily.
For that act, you should give a lesson because it involves itself in the past you said, not to see a hat that she has no legs!
But also, he said that the foundation stone on the ground can have black patches on the side, but because there is a ground, you can't see if we finish with the whole stone, but if you failed to investigate that the stone has said and it is not true.
For example Judge Manento said that I decided to say Mbowe and CHADEMA who will look for a snake and to root itself, but it's not present and they will not get married, maybe they will continue to kill people, again those people are not in Tanzania.
Since the system of many political parties have been discussing that they want a new constitution and emerged to change the National Electoral Commission (NEC).
According to President Jakaya Kikwete, this process of the process of a new constitution has begun (I am saying anything because the power he was given by the constitution is now they could send it.
We have made many national resources to form the commission of constitutional changes, the opinions have been given, and the first phase of those opinion was heading to be presented in the constitutional parliament for the first time, but there is the second phase and three of the process of the constitution.
With the view of the media on December 19, 2012, Mbowe after completing the session of the executive committee of his party that happened in two days, announced the year 2013 that the fight for public energy because the government has not been unable to fulfill the issues that they urged them should not be completed or not to work.
Mbowe says it is evident, (CHADEMA) to be the trend of the commission on constitutional changes, maybe a new constitution should not be ready before the local government elections, villages and neighborhoods in 2014 and even the general elections of 2015.
Here I also asked himself, their first, they said that the constitution must be complete by 2015, immediately they are saying the time to give opinions to the citizens is little, now I don't know what is where I am saying that is where I am saying that is where I think it is that is what to look for him.
But I also remember the statement ever made by the presidential candidate through CHADEMA at the general elections in 2010, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, that if he would have come to power he could write a new constitution for 100 days, right now the constitution with the structure as asked the citizens in the whole country, or it is the one that contributed to the citizens the whole committee.
Mbowe says they don't have a reason to believe the commission on constitutional changes and the government because there is no one that is like the elections in elections, to come out, including the members of parliament for special seats and even the parliamentary system.
Mbowe says the fear that the Constitutional Forum on the trend of the process of constitutional changes and they like the party they carried out the fear.
Mbowe and CHADEMA, says that the process of the constitution that you had decided to do other primary things for the interests of the nation, right now there is more than the process of the constitution that citizens have already started giving their views in that country, including the free commission of elections.
But Mbowe and CHADEMA are telling more that I don't know where they don't know where they are already the chairperson of the commission on constitutional changes, Judge Joseph Warioba, has said they have been working for a good time?
But I want to tell Mbowe and his CHADEMA, not to get married, the death of Channel 10 news reporter, David Banda, as part of competing for political success.
Again, I would like to urge my fellow journalists to be able to wear shoes with politicians who can continue to enjoy the grave of the journalists so that they can be able to benefit from me, we shouldn't know themselves because we shouldn't understand the country and not politicians and their parties.
All over the world are the first phase, and not political parties, if it would have been heard its policies when we are outside the system of administration, this world could be heard, therefore, we believe it is more than shot dead by the government, but not to go to the political parties meetings with a working environment.
Mbowe says that President Kikwete has given a letter on September 9, 2012, if a result of a free commission of court to investigate on July first, two committees were made, including one of the journalists themselves (not politicians from CHADEMA) and the activists we are used to every day and the one for the minister of internal affairs, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi.
Secondly, Tanga we have a saying that, as you be able to learn the ones that spread, you have been infected with a question like Mbowe, if you are able to understand the commission that was formed by the Tanzania Media Council (MCT), to trust the commission that was made up by President who sometimes you say you will be able to change the commission that will involve him again from outside the parliament hall to boycott the president.
I have ever given advice on the previous days if you want to enter the State House to strengthen political parties and not to strengthen the national level only.
I started being impressed by the operation of the movement of change (M4C) because I believe it is an operation that goes by the lower citizens, in the villages and city but I see my hope is like it starts its disappearance.
I don't see you this operation being accompanied by primary issues, what we witnessed are the use of strength issues instead of the strength of the motion (motion), issues that are not aware of others who are outside CHADEMA, especially those with good abilities of writing issues.

Private individuals are not allowed to see our members of CHADEMA had lost their lives because of violating the law of the country or considering the legal authority of the country and even those sponsors are the important information about the movements of the political parties in the country.
You are going to them when you see me that those reports that they were collecting from earlier, the reports that they had reached since you were bad in your side, the peace of the country is a must it unable to say in peace, but in peace, there is also a must they unable to stay with sharp edges.
The writer of this article, Yusuph Musa is the reader of this newspaper of Raia Mwema, who identified himself as Tanga living in Tanga City and is available on the email support @ mkito.
