We do not have a lot of living in peace, but he was not seen.
Phares Magesa, 08, 2013.

In this world everything will be executed by an indication that I have been able to write, that South Africa will not get married, that will see a prey in the village.
And the country is therefore, therefore, the sign of the country that led to the lips of early as the Iniesta, are telling us that if you see it, and to go down.
I have written with fear about the increase in the community, with statements that symbolize the possibility of more than national consent and the citizens are not in the middle of this, but some of the politicians and sometimes the religious leaders are.

Our truth is that most of the people have not been forced to live in peace, but there are some politicians and even religious leaders, by using their interests, are forced to send birth certificates among religion, politics and even tribalism.
I have written this article to talk about the danger that involves themselves in this political parties to start the squads or security groups and the truth is that in the past 2001, CUF and CCM Zanzibar when I wrote on the danger of this risk to play.

And here I will come back one of the most important talks to do the opportunity to do, it was this evening on January 24, 2012 when I met Mama Samia, (now the late) at his home in Tabora Town.

First, Tambwe entered Tanu with 18 years old, he is one of the big political women in those days, first, Amissi Tambwe has narrated it that he started with Tanu Bank, this was a group of youth inside Tanu, which he was later by Tanaka Youth League.

At a long time of first, he told me their responsibilities as youths at the time.

It is those days after from Chipukizi, the next step is Tanu Youth League, others went to JKT Ruvu and even in the force, the great intention was to build the patriotism and national unity.

We have already found?

The answer is when the pressure for change in the world, and on the side, the ruling party organized to restore the system of many parties in the year 1992 (CCM), have decided to restore the major constitutional changes the year 1992.
Basically, the situation we have already started talking to you, even in this party, the parties to form the squads or security, is due to a huge mistake, like the nation, we have made in the year 1992.

I have written several times, that history is a good teachers, but when it is a good teachers also, we should learn due to climate change while in the time we have now, political parties do not hesitate to destroy the security groups and get even the military training.

What should we do?

If I would have been asked this advice today, then I would advised the political parties to be very fast, they should agree with the process of building the squads or security groups because that responsibility should be taken to security, especially the police force, and even security companies with legal action.

And if the ones that are in the scandal, these groups of security which basically we are groups of parties and our disasters, we will organize themselves, therefore, it will be an issue of time before we go to a big disaster. "We have never seen a sign.

Recently, I was at the University of Dar es Salaam to follow up on the peace conference of our country for the coming 50 years, with huge sadness, in the Nkenye region that it doesn't sell the youth.

For political parties, instead of using a long time and human resources have been forced to break a story to unite youths in the country to put restrictions, "it has come at the moment for change, to stop those recommendations that are involved in the 50 years.

This is at the time of building for youths of the parties, "reduce the mental disabilities," and a place like Nkenye region, and where by Nkwankwo Kanu and they were asked to go and educate their brain and they go to them to build and demolish other issues with strength and not the strength of strength.

Three, the era of "virgin" is not known, "these are the era of" Ukunguala, "is the fight to use the headlines because of mental disabilities.
