
The corruption of snatching a referral hospital on October 12th, 2012

Approximately 32 million shillings have been arrested recently at the Bendel Memorial Hospital, Tanga province, being an effort to control the theft that lasted for a long time now in that hospital, our citizens have noted.

According to various news sources, the corruption network of patients in the Bugando Referral Hospital involves some of the leaders in the hospital, together with the office of the administrative secretary of that province (RAS).

A letter written in living in prayers to witness the theft and how patients need to be in a difficult time to get a huge treatment, some of the workers in that hospital have exposed reports that is needed by checking and spreading a special letter to civil servants who have found themselves in talking to some of the concerned officers.

According to that letter from some of the medical workers, he urged the activists and those of caring for the interests and good services to patients, the theft is due to a bad system that is claimed to be made between CUF offices and that hospital.

That letter with the head of the Bendel Memorial Hospital in Tanga province is part of making a few leaders therefore the Ministry of Health may come in, "I was written by congratulations to the new leadership in that hospital which is claimed to be able to collect the loopholes of embezzlement of money and theft of drugs.

According to the letter, the efforts by the chief physician in charge of that hospital, Doctor Jumanne Maghembe (standing) to fill the loopholes that have started selling them, being together with lack of cooperation from some of his fellow leaders, some of them in service in that hospital for several years now.

"Doctor Bilal has a difficult state in his leadership and he is supposed to be given a donation from the government including the Ministry of Health, and not the office of the Provincial Commissioner of Tanga because we have faith that," it can be easily read in the letter.

That letter is called on the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, which for now is being led by doctors, Doctor Hussein Mwinyi and his Deputy, Doctor Seif Rashid, to help all the heads of the departments that were involved in the theft of drugs in the hospital recently.

The movements of those workers in that letter has given an example of one event on July 10, this year, at 9 of 15 in the afternoon where the main entrance fee for the car which was carrying away from that hospital was a vehicle of Toyota Raqqa (number reserved) and after realizing that vehicle and inspect them, they found the box of drugs.

But it's not only the box of drugs is the ones that were arrested in a small vehicle, but also some of the workers in that hospital which are accused of being involved in the theft, but in a surprising situation they were released later by police, and until today they are still continuing with their work as usual.

The incident of passing the gun shots together with some of the workers is not yet confirmed by Doctor Pindi Chana to go to the administrative secretary, Benedict Liwenga.

In that letter, Doctor Bilal (vice presidency) of July 12, this year, how many citizens must make sure that the incident of theft of drugs that occurred in July 10, this year.

"The vehicle had already carried out a large screen during the seat" seat, "behind the guards they saw and they decided to open those sides (part of carrying cargo from behind a car) and found other drug trafficking.

"After that they gave information to the leadership of the hospital that they took the step to take the vehicle the police together with the driver, the defender of the gate and his leader, explains the part of the letter signed by Doctor Pindi H.

Mwema should be informed that after getting the police and giving explanations about the theft, those drugs were issued in the box and counted at the and that the drugs are estimated to be worth 32 million shillings.

Drugs and the equipment that have been stolen has reduced the type of drugs and the devices that were nabbed include codile and Rafiki Surgical Mission (MARI), HFO) for the purpose of children, x-ray machine, and the shivered.

Other medicine and other equipment are (GEL) and the wife (GEL) that he was in the country, he was a fools should remain in the country, it could be self-reliance, roasting or, Yachoma, Rio de Janeiro.

The other is known as Jide, most of grenades have been doughing, from XXL of non-infectious disease, they will be awarded a penalty of the age of age, a penalty he had a difference with other different types.

What happened the news reports of sure that many citizens believe it shows that after the arrest of those drugs, arraigned in police, the head of Tanga Province, Lieutenant General (retired), Chiku Gallawa ordered three servants in the supply's officer of the Tanzania Hospital, Lieutenant General (retired), Chiku Gallawa ordered three servants in the communications officer of the Tanzania Hospital, Lieutenant General (retired), Chiku Gallawa requested three servants in the communication officer of the Tanzania Hospital, Lieutenant General (retired), Chiku Gallawa requested three servants in the communication officer of the England Hospital.

However, in a situation that surprised the workers of that hospital, the office of the administrative secretary of Tanga province is alleged to have requested the police commander of Tanga region, Constatine Massawe after the release of those suspects, and that until today, those people are continuing with work in the hospital.

"We are not aware that their cases are going on because we have people, they are doing work like there is no thing that happened in the office of the provincial commissioner has been unable to make her liable.
They are continuing to work here in the hospital until today since they were arrested by those drugs, "says a section of that letter.

The ministry has been requested to guide through that letter, employees of the hospital are requesting the ministry of health to give legal instructions about how the hospital is required to run its daily activities through the committee which are doing work and to verify all the hospitals in the hospital to reduce and then give the deputy secretary.

According to the information involved in that letter, currently there is a big shortage that is claimed by the performance of some of the workers of that hospital and the office of the Regional Administrative Secretary as a result of what is explained that "the executive committee of the similarity which does not do those jobs."

Instead, those workers claim that through that letter, they have a huge conflict to hospital equipment who are being received by the committee that was formed by the administrative secretary.
"This step is not correct, it's not correct, it's not true that the people of his office which do not have health profession to receive those drugs and waiting for them, the shop is under the Tanzania Tourist Hospital or the office of the Provincial Commissioner?

The statements by the authority speaking about the report and what is in that letter on behalf of Doctor Pindi Chana who was not found, acting medical officer who introduced himself by one name of Doctor Naima confessed that he didn't understand the weaknesses between the office of the administrative secretary and the hospital, especially the performance of the hospital committee.

Doctor Naima said that, the similarity between Theresa Ward started work at the end of July, this year, although it has been a difficult cooperation from some of the heads of the department and that it has been having a difficult time to an extent of his recommendations.

He said on June 11, this year, the administrative secretary of Tanga Province, Ole Torongey, presented a letter to the hospital's administrative secretary, Adam Swai to address funds of various departments while the parents' ward where those funds are supposed to be used by inventing projects that were set aside for six million shillings.

"These funds were taken out of June to today, we have been used to come out and month of September, this year, there are two wards managed to buy and understood well," we did not have money to get money from the fund to contribute to the system.
This is the situation that we won here in Tanzania, it is true, there is need big changes to work so as to end these problems, "said Doctor Naima.

On his part, the chief medical officer of the province (RMO), Doctor Ali Uledi, is advised that Tanzanian hospital should be forced to run for being independent.
"We want to get the whole issue between the hospital and the office of the administrative secretary and the current system in operations of this hospital, but this situation is not allowed to do a lot of equipment for hospitals to answer I have been called by RAS," insisted Doctor Uledi.

Regarding the issue of theft of drugs, he said that since it has reached that issue, police until today have not been given a report on the steps that had been made.

"We are waiting other things to be complete in police, but after the incident happened to come to the team from the office of the Provincial Commissioner, the police, National Security, TAKUKURU, and other security agencies, but they still have a report," said the MO Blog.

However, on his part, the police commander of Tanga Province, Constatine Masanja was asked about the scandal of theft of drugs and hospital equipment, he said the case was opened in court.

"The case of the theft of drugs in the United Kingdom, we will not stay here because we have already taken the court and he wants to go to court," said the commander.

When he was followed by this newspaper about the complaints on claims about the accusations that have been directed to his office, the administrative secretary of Tanga Province, Ole Nashi has said that all were surprised and they will work to work.

"All what happened it said I request you to beef up anything related to what I have improved.
I told me that I've heard that I've heard and I will work, "said Ole Sendeka.
