I'm with Aunt Ezekiel because she is four years old.
Put more pictures of the council of Mbulu district in Manyara province.
This is the widow of one wife and the father of the child.
He has been living in a village for many years in a household that doesn't have a lot of land in the country doing well and livestock before starting that game to Cheusi team, it was wrong.
Some of us work.
Other people are saying.
The man says that before that act, it was dangerous to his family to her family up to one of his children, he was admitted to hospital for a long time.
It is a must.
There was there a disease.
I was taken to hospital.
What is the disease there is a disease.
And I don't have?
Therefore, it is not good.
I advise that children to know that it's a spokesperson.
.
During this college I was thankful to the people of that village because the disease of Stella she told it due to the disease that is being run by feces of a human being in Mbulu district, Manyara province, where many residents do not know because I would like them, "believe those with people with albinism.
God is not supposed to get development that are supposed to provide development on the second floor and even if it is not a video for the entrepreneurs I want first to know how I don't know the constitution.
I will be afraid that until Friday is needed.
This problem of the invited guests in Mbulu District is the only national statistics show that more than ninety percent of several villages in the villages are not the high quality.
It is estimated to have more than seven thousand people in every year in the country because of diseases caused by dirty water and lack of better toilets in their children.
She gets a professional especially during the time of praising him, it is said.
Three other children have been given the city of Tunduma to make sure he says.
The fourth position and how many do not want to get married even after it survives the valley and their children are still in a dangerous environment for the safety of their health when they get to school due to a bad state.
Bad condition as I was in the first of the school, therefore we are able to identify which there is a school which has already been built because of lack of a bomb attacks, after a car which was sold to school and they are only six pit latrines and which was a result of the teachers, he saw it depends on.
Sun Flaviana Matata.
At home in the efforts to deal with the problem, the government has started implementing the national cleaning campaign which was officially launched by President Jakaya Kikwete in the month of July this year at the Catholic church in Mbulu district in Manyara province through an emergency health committee to implement our responsibilities, to provide education on accounts.
You mean to build it?
And the cleanliness of the environment.
If you are called, we need education?
