For you, I can say that things of the national team stars are not very good but if we do not see what I got there, I would like to see that if I get married, we should remember that if I get married, I would like to see what I got even when I am happy, I would like to see if I get married but you can see you even when I get you.
.
Just how many vehicles do not have a continuation of this topic after serving the stakeholders in this issues we continue with a continuation of close to my brothers.
Sima talked about anything about the stakeholders when they arrived.
Mashauri to put a hole.
They are required.
People from the top level now are to consider the reason here we have to say I want to talk even so, therefore it's just like what he said.
There are many teams that we become a lot of several years.
These days have been said but now its speed now we do not see the leadership that he had like.
This comes back.
It is told to work on them.
He is also known when I will be far from my fellow women when they were in.
We are looking at us here.
But in the past there was a team of I cannot get in the national competitions.
Said, now I don't know how if you check up with what if you look at Yanga soccer players, she can get a chance to play for Yanga and she will get a chance to come to the province and I think that if I think that they come at the peak of the youth in my fellow youth team, we're going on.
There is a team going to Brazil.
They will lead Brazil.
Because the players are.
If they would have put it not only one, we can have a big group of the country to listen to the national team but those players are there.
They are not present as a modern way you are not allowed, but I was surprised to see users.
We were with the teams from different nations of the coalition.
What is you looking for?
When you are not seen, they do not know what we know.
They were going to the name of that coalition who had the national team coaches who like to check if he said?
That coach is being waited for playing Yanga and Simba or the stand is the one that will play with Simba at the national stadium, is to see but he cannot get a chance.
Playing with Yanga not to go up until when I saw him, I will succeed in every time he didn't succeed in everything, we had in the picture, but if the first service of alcohol and we know what is like that is very close to you.
Simba is the Almighty God to look for God's father from Burundi.
Simba and Spencer also.
Simba as he will not be.
The one.
Are those who were born with Simba and I have heard.
In the stations.
I don't know that those who had a big team to fans without being prepared I see it will be a few people.
We are not giving a few people since they were very few people since they were very few people, but if you feel it is good, we don't know what we are doing, there are coaches who have been selected for what are needed because of Christ, why are some coaches who have been selected for now.
There are things to write?
He is worried about it is the players who had gone to see if we were.
In that judgment, we got the improvements if the police will have a working child every day.
You miss the sun?
