
Doctor Mwakyembe, our rail include us, avoid your sadness (right) May 30th, 2012

This is a continuation of the article I have started last week, there is when Mwalimu Nyerere passes away, "we have people, but we listen.

I have arrived in Kigoma, I've heard the local elephants I'm saying, it's a economy that we performed well and we complained that our country is poor.

Sometimes we ask ourselves, if it could not qualify for the first premier league of the world in 1914 I don't know why we are doing so that we are being done by today in Tanzania?

Because, German started building a central railway towards the port of Dar es Salaam in 1905 2016 and German's truth, but the job itself to build roads was done by youths who had the courage to build their country.
Yes, our central railway was built on Wednesday night with the youth who are the patriotic president of this country and the railway at a large extent followed the map of the way they were sent from entrepreneurship and Bagamoyo.

Within two years, that is in 197, youths of Tanganyika were finished 200 kilometers for the construction of central railway and it reaches Morogoro. The year 1908, were completed at 192 kilometers for the construction of railway, therefore, within nine years, the youth from the same time have arrived in Kigoma.
It is an illustration of the ability to prevent us because there is good leadership and good management of human resources and equipment.

And if it was not for the first round of the world that occurred, German had the plans to start another construction project to take up to Iringa and later on the Lake Nyasa to be remembered, the first project of building central railway was the central railway since it started in Korogwe.

And even when they arrived at the British if the colonizers of Tanganyika was left by the Germany who failed in the first world of the world, still English was able to manage the construction of another bridge that will connect Tabora and Mwanza.
There are laboratory that were built in Kilosa district, more than 400 farms, while in England also advised the construction of railway from Ruvu up to Korogwe and arrive up to Tanga.

What do we learn?

Germany discovered the importance of railway in improving the economy of Germany.
He came to Africa to look for natural resources to build Germany. They discovered a great opportunity to transporting natural resources to the port of Dar es Salaam from East Africa, Burundi and Rwanda through the port of Kigoma.
Why do we do not see the importance of the economy to an extent of checking it?
We ask ourselves, while German and England have built railway here in the country, which after 50 years of Uhuru we have increased how many new railway kilometers?

What should we do?

The minister who is responsible for infrastructure on railway infrastructure, Doctor Leonard Lutegama Mwakyembe has come to now and its plan to strengthen our railway, and here there is need to separate his responsibilities on first September, the responsibility of the operation of purification of goods and secondly, the responsibility of managing the infrastructure for road infrastructure.

Therefore, the first responsibility of the government through the concerned ministry can benefit from private companies.
They are those companies that will be involved in their passenger planes and cargo.
Probably you will be involved with the renovation of the railway as it is with the company of the buses that does not deal with the renovation of the road.

Therefore, those companies will be paid taxes in the government and will lead the machines that will affect the fare costs and transportation so that even the ordinary citizens have to use railway to travel and transporting their cargo.

The second responsibility will have the meaning of the government through the concerned ministry to carry bond of strengthening the railway infrastructure and even think to expand the internet network here in the country.
That the second responsibility will contribute to giving many employment to stem cells, because the renovation and expansion of the railway network has a meaning of a new employment for many.

Yes, if German was able to build 200 million shillings from Dar up to Morogoro within two years, again when the construction equipment were poor and there was still a job to ban a habit, but it is not ready to prepare well, but the management has been set aside.

I think that we decided to ensure we are improving 500 kilometer race every year from Dar es Salaam, it has a meaning that within three years we will finish the problems of poor infrastructure of the central railway from Kigoma.
That is possible, what is missing is the political party and some of our leaders to be ruled by a habit of masturbation.

For sure, in a situation we have so that, our railway is an illustration of the corruption that has been seen in our country and corruption that allows us to reduce the poor.
What was killed our railway system is the ones in some of our leaders, we have no reason to fail to run our railway, only a few people and lack of patriotism where there is a lot of patriotism here.

I was noted that last week, that some of our leaders are traders who are supposed to compete with the business government with the government which is their part.
How can it be then, the minister who has a company or shares in the oil transportation company through the road is about the plan to strengthen the railway as a reason to reduce its private income?

Its leaders like these are the ones who need stones on the road to protect themselves in poverty, today it is hard to see the mother of Kigoma is running the ones that cause fish, to sell the quarter finals, "said there is no reliable market in Kigoma.

But in that Kigoma, it has a high table in the railway, it has also its port and all of them have shown an indication that the passengers will leave at two times in a week and there is no doubt.
Absolom claims that severe attacks that is taking place in Kigoma once for a month, is like a time that was used for the journey to be sent in Kigoma town up to Dodoma, those days even before German went to us here.

I am told what happens even fuel for being unable to run itself when lack of theft of oil and aspects of poverty, an issue that contributes to that is the bad management of the Railways Corporation because its reason is the ones that are against corruption.
For sure, our railway is a shame, all of us, and it should be that for Doctor Leonard Lutegama Mwakyembe, the one with a bond of our railway at the moment.
