
The president is in the law, the parliament led to an end of July 20, 2012.

Under the constitution of 1977, the president has been given a great authority and seen in a quills.
While writing at the "
In these days of democracy, good administration and rule of law, without doubt the government has begun to see this, that in November 2007, the former Minister of State, Office of the President, Public Service Management, Hawa Ndilowe, told the parliament that the government was looking at the possibility of reducing their work, power and responsibilities, "since the work and responsibilities he has to say the truth is very difficult.
Although the prime minister did not mention the work and responsibilities that are being reduced, but it is clear that, the office of the president is a constitutional time so that the step will be on, it will need amendments to the constitution and now it is the right time when we are heading to the process of writing a new constitution.
In this article, we will look at shortly the power of the president that want him.
"A queness" under the constitution as it said Teacher, and why this situation has continued until today, the aim is to see if the environment that are measurable.
The "quack can have badly affected by the current environment to continue with that situation.
Tanganyika (now Tanzania) got independence on December 9th, 1961, and joined the African Community to be able to carry out the system of democracy and the government in a type of democracy, especially as well as the British of England.
The constitution of Uhuru (CAG) of 1961, is the one that started the system to symbolize the end of the veteran colonial history in the country by moving the power of the country and the administration of the patriotic leaders.
As it was for other African countries which are members of the African Community, the Tanganyika Constitution was given to the colonial office, but different from the constitution of other countries of that community, the Tanganyika Constitution did not have a human rights of human rights (Bill of Tanzania).
This constitution through the system of chemicals as well as an expert, put aside three months of the government, administration, parliament and the court, or in other languages, "the division of the authority."
Under this system, the parliament has a only thing on the administration (president and his skill) on the basis of the concept that many ministers benefit to the parliament for their decision as the council of ministers, and to one minister about the performance of his ministry.
According to the concept of free democracy under the system of "non-communicable diseases," said the parliamentary committee and the court is taken as summoning demons.
The constitution of Uhuru even so, it did not release the government of that time, get married or go to holiday as it is the current constitution that has been set aside just like parliament, different from these days where ministers have been forced to protect people from members.
It was recently, November 23rd, 1962, the constitutional parliament passed the law for the establishment of the Tanganyika Constitution (Chama Cha Mapinduzi), and he put the country in a great position for citizens through their constitution, President was made to be the head of the country and the government commissioner.
The president is the commander in the chief force and part of the parliament because without being informed, the parliamentary bill cannot be law, because the president is the one who had the law, and the parliamentary work is to submit it's proposal.
President Kikwete is the one who has appointed ministers from the members of parliament and is the chairperson of the cabinet, member of parliament when he was appointed as the minister for a lot of time supporting the government against his fellow parliamentarians, even if it is in a matter with a huge problem to the citizens of the region of the elections.
For this reason, the action of the nominated member of parliament to be the minister, is similar to the citizens of his true region in parliament and it is equal to that province not to have a representative because "the member of parliament," he cannot serve the two people at a time.
Accountability of the council of ministers and one of the prime minister did not be again for the parliament, but it moved to the president not to be completed or accumulate points, who according to article 3 (3) of the constitution, he was given the ability to lead the country where he will be forced to listen or get advice from any person about the issues of the country's leadership.
This was and even now, it is against the system of "mystery," that explains the leaders to implement their responsibilities for advice of ministers.
Although the time of passing this constitution, it was explained that it would have affected any way the responsibility of parliament's report (1 of 1962), which was contrary to the parliament to break the parliament any time (the constitution of Jamhuri), article 44 (2), who had the ability to break the parliament any time (the constitution of Uhuru, article 40 (3).
Like that way it was not enough about the ban on parliament, the constitution of the country was forced to bring up parliament the ability to vote and not having faith in the government, but when the president will decide "to be careful" for a long time, the law bill was prepared by the constitutional parliament of the United Republic of 1977 due to the great authority of the president.
The basis of the constitution of 1977 it is standing on the three awards, the first one is a lady who has not been able to be completed or accumulating the second one is two governments - in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar in third, is the administration of one party and politics of socialism and to be independent.
He has said that the party and socialism is between this three, which do not qualify for the policy of socialism and self-criticism that have been thrown out by the field of Zanzibar in the year 1992, and the system of one party has been presented with the system of many political parties since the year 1992.
This system and that of the internal economy, did not be with ideas of supporting the constitution of 1977.
When we say here is that, the great authority of the president doesn't be used to do and be able to work together for the support of the two vehicles, and therefore bringing a nuisance to the rule of law, and therefore bringing a problem with the biggest nuisances for democracy of the moment.
We are told, our country is following the system of administration of "non-communicable diseases, which affect the division of power under the system, one of the government was admitted to intervene in another pillar that is currently available for the same way, if we will be later on.
Amendments to here and at the time that took place later not affect the office of the president, but as the public sector, it was able to increase the honor of President as the president of the country and the chairman of the country, and that is the way until today.
For this reason, the president doesn't be completed that he was quoted as one of the poles or three capital city of the United Republic of Tanzania of 1977 that is going to be used now.
The legality of the great authority of the president, on the view of the leaders of those days, it was able to speed up development through "Ojuelegba." Is the head of the country so that they are not seen, the view that will last until today.
And in order to implement that, the constitution was supported with the aim of putting up power to the administrator of power of the country, to show that Tanzanians are free to run their things and the second, it was to enable the government to intervene in and without being questioned, in our community and economic life in order to speed up development. "
The preparations for the first election of the president doesn't be completed in June 18, 1962 by registering 2800,000 American Dollars in 50 counties of election.
The candidates were two-Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, the president of Tanu, and Zuberi Kabwe, president of the African National Congress Party (ANC).
The election was held on November 1, 1962, where Mtevu was unable to score against 276 votes, and Mwalimu Nyerere got 1,7,978 votes.
Starting from yesterday the constitution of the country has been being written or ended with the constitution holding the picture of Mwalimu Nyerere on their homes.
Although all the authorities of making laws are in the Parliament of the parliament (article 64), the law bill cannot be the law until it is not correct by the president. There is no special time to be given for that purpose and therefore he can sit on the bill for any time.
If he was unable to sign the bill that does not depend on, and the parliament is holding his position on the bill, the president has the ability to break the parliament and called a new general elections.
This is a great authority to the president against representatives of the citizens.
It means that although the parliament can pass the law bill, the fact that the president is the one who had the law because he is voluntary to refuse to refuse to reject the bill of parliament.
When the president refuses to be the law, parliament to make it mean?
In order to protect the status of the Parliament that supports the citizens, it is good that the Parliament involves itself in its budget, the commission of its service and the ability to pass the law is not correct by the speaker, instead of being correct by the president.
As it was on the constitution of the United Republic (1962) for the president leading the country, and that he didn't be forced to receive advice from any person, the current constitution (article 37), it gives the consent to be questioned and to be interviewed or get to any actions that he did with President and after that (article 46).
Maybe it is because this has been issues that are not involved with the national ethics in our State House without the fear that made him be the father of the nation to vote him, "he warned that, at State House we are supposed to be heard," he warned them that, State House are very disturbing.
President Kikwete has appointed the chief justice and judges who are looking for the pillar of the court), the chairman of the commission of human rights and good governance and other leaders.
The act of thanks it means that those selected people become good to him and because it is okay that the pillar of protecting the rights (court) is responsible for the president.
This is contrary to the whole concept of building power and the rule of law in general, to be the president to control parliament and courts and executives.
For the concept of good administration to work well, there is need for the president to be given this power, and instead the creation of special commission to address employment and performance of civil servants in the government, and that those employment opportunities should be taken by parliament.
President Kiir will decide the ministers by collaborating with the prime minister and those ministers to be supported by the parliamentary committee involved with leadership ethics, that will be a member of parliament and if he cannot serve one of the member of parliament and if he cannot serve one of the leaders and the pillar of the parliament.
A minister is not a gift, or not the opportunity to watch him or on trials.
"The educative seminar" there will be taught how to lead the appointment.
We want to know that, freedom and democracy will not come to them, but "freedom," if he said the father of the nation, "it is work."
