
These are the challenges of change we want to remember May 23, 2012.

Last article I discussed about changes we want to urge our colleagues to start a debate on these changes but others have started debate by touching on this debate by checking the challenges of changes we want.
In front of us, there is a challenge of our government that is in power and political parties that make peace to enter into power, to fail to create a system of dealing with inject poverty, ignorance, and diseases.
The fight to remove your identity is going on more than the political parties, it is a must to recognize that without great efforts to ensure we get good education and good health to every Tanzanian and the freedom to explain themselves and do it difficult to reach these changes we expected.
And it is important to remember that to learn is to know our history and our culture, it is not a must to follow up from outside without paying our strength and our weaknesses.
Education is a savior and it is the only way to bring true development.
Changes will be used by education and changes they will not be used by the international televisions that I will build capacity to target the requirements of the countries that provide money for building the ability to build the ability to build their ability?

Education is the pillar for change, but it is this education?
Change the direction of change and they can baptize 'name to reduce poverty as a dirty crazy person, "Africa has gotten lost, it has been directed to all fields, therefore changes are important agenda in our continent and especially in our nation of Tanzania.
We need good schools and colleges so as to reach the true change, universities to have reduced, and the catalyst to change in various research shouldn't wait or be able to bring change.
It's bad luck that our leaders have remained in the slogan and gave a promise to their opponents and they have shown their energy to be cursed by all those who have been directed by good governance and improving the economy of the cervix.
Those have been able to inspect the media and take them to change the ones that go with the policy of Peru coast region and all sectors which have been accepted on the excuse of paying experts from outside the country and other issues that are in one way or another will enable them to cater for their money in the country.
Our government is being built through a donation of fake funds that have been built on road construction and hospitals at the time they give the donations, we are told that their economy is not good and they don't have residential and housing.
Why will help as to help us as their time they have a lot of problems?
Or it is to ensure that they are building infrastructure so that their companies will be able to invest and supervise, our property without restrictions of transport and otherwise?
There is no one politician who is standing and explained that the stand of Tanzania on the Maseru coast will be allowed to be ruled by the Maseru coast province, for the benefit of those African countries, for the benefit of those countries.
Reliable statistics show that the number of 100,000 experts from the African countries have been buried in Africa, doing an advice of advice to be paid 4 billion dollars.
Money that could be able to bring development, are going back to them through the salaries of experts.
Donations, donations and loans has been given to the objectives of improving the Mashada stadium in African countries, the economists have advised Africa and financial institutions of IMF and World Bank, which does not do well but every time they go to Africa they are received well with a red carpet.
Without having a tough stand on the White House, we cannot make any true step towards the changes we want.
It is unacceptable, the repressive system that attracted borders and spread in the whole world.
Lerner has explained that the Blacks, which if it is dependent, it is faced with the spread of capital, investment in the fields of finance, industries and business.
The colonial era of French was controlling the industries and another investment in all the colonialist.
Luda, on his time, he did not look in details about the political parties of the previous years of globalization, although there is a big relationship between the economy of the New York City and political parties.
The relations itself is that dollars are supposed to protect the interests of the bus and have been cheated in any cost and in a modern system that cannot build and maintain a democratic system that cares for the rights and interests of producers.
The work of the dollar that is owned by motorbike riders is to put an appropriate environment for an entrepreneur, for the benefit of those who were forced, so as to ensure the interests of those who will be taught well, the local government will be able to put policies and systems.
1 billion, the police have a lot of examples that shows how the army of European nations will be used to protect the Indian Ocean by NATO army is the security of European nations who have been buried.
2 - claiming that the country is together with making the army revolution in the country and causing chaos that are young and poor as it happened in Somalia, Iraq and the ones that came out and Iran, is the projects of protecting the interests of the people that were told by Iran.
However, the United Republic of Africa has given those phones to protect the interests of the Maasais' in Africa through the army force of African countries (Tanzania) which have had relations with army forces.
Having the military relationship with nations that performed in the military attack and being involved in protecting the Blacks group and put it in Africa, it's an offense and our leaders assume the history of the country to protect the interests of the ones that have been buried.
3 - the IMF and World Bank.

Those international financial organizations are used to promote political parties.
This organizations comes with the danger of danger to the economy of the country is young to reduce the value of money, to remove dollars in all economic development activities, spirits, and making the private sector to have the development engines in these countries.
A-inch width is to make policies and new laws that are being exploited in the business sector, money, land, minerals and energy, all these are called "improvements" and electricity is produced through an issue of making a good environment to attract investment and grow the private sector.
It is common to build a culture of fish in economic activities and protect the government in ownership and operations of economic activities, something that is dangerous for the real change.
4 million.

To try to make sure and implement the policies of selling water, the Great Lakes region, health, land, land, animals, and even service delivery, services and these primary resources that were the norm for use of all people.
5 - the sponsorship for this word and wanted to continue thanking God, they say it's "beer in development." The countries that are leading in sponsorship are those who are leading in the list of African countries.
Here in Tanzania, all the major sponsors are the British and they don't know that the British wanted the administration and could cause enough amount, today, this is the sponsors.
For very good example, or that is the ones that concern them?
Americans who do not have a good record in Africa, especially in the south of East Africa, today, these are our sponsors and for good Samaritans we want to participate and our thinking is that our friends.
They have a habit of continuing with Kagera Sugar until the coming century, these sponsors are requesting them to fulfill those priorities, providing conditions and threats especially when they are unable to fulfill their procedures that affect the political parties.
If the main way of the country's economy is believed to have companies and organizations that have been cheated.
This is coming from another colonial kind, we will also have flag of flag, but we live in a country whose economy is run by foreign nations.
Until now, these have been mentioned in this article that has not been discussed in details inside the party manifesto, and even in meetings and debates of election campaigns.
The manifesto of all political parties are not allowed to change the shape of economic growth and the ways of dealing with sharp teeth.
Without changing the speed of the economy of the New York city it is not easy to have a democratic system because the political work is because of politics is to protect the economic interests of those who are happy about the production of production.
As the economy of the country is impressed by visitors, political parties and the government will be to protect visitors and their interests, as the economy will have a national chapter and it will be the hands of patriotic work and the government will be to protect patriotic and economic interests.
Therefore, when we pray to the general elections it is important for political parties to show the stand that is open and all the parties are currently, they are the patriotic side or they are the side of visitors?
This is a must they are clear that it is difficult to have any other two sides, this is time of parties to announce their stand on this good issue.
Unfortunately, we have not done enough issues on how to make changes in economy in our country and without doing so history will give judgment and hypocrisy when you have a good stand against the stomach, we have no right to say we want change.
History of our country shows that we have ever been a good position against the White House and we managed a lot to fight with them and to get a victory.
