They won't leave the city, it is the policies for being transferred.
May 23, 2013.

For many years, the Government of Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) has been advised to implement the policy of 'transfer', to prevent them so as to stop the middle of towns and cities to unite in those areas.
This policy has been built near every province in the country but on the great extent it has been used very well in Dar es Salaam city, Arusha, Mwanza, Mbeya and now we see a very big problem in the city of Dar es Salaam, Mwanza, Mbeya and now we see the very important policy being used in Songea and some of the southern regions.
They are responsible for this policies and those who work-time is the relevant municipality, they believe that they are putting up to small business people in the estates, they believe that they are contribute to a huge problem to the citizens, the ones that have been planned well.
In Tanzania the major examples of this policy is Dar es Salaam and Mwanza City, in Dar es Salaam city, small business people were killed (or used to be removed) from different areas of the city and given a special area that was specially set for their purpose in Kariakoo area, especially from Dar es Salaam which had already had a chance to visit the popular area of "Congo."
In Mwanza, popularly known as Makoroboi market was the center of traditional business which was a area where a person could be able to serve as well as well when they were involved in different activities.
And in Mwanza where it was so that, who are claiming from mental disabilities (enough), in the government of CCM who had led the government of that city, the time they decided to relocate the business people and take them one area which was far from the market and the city.

Bad luck in all the areas, the government has not succeeded to be transferred to Mwanza where he wanted the government to have failed in Dar es Salaam and we have been unable to return.

Small business people can contribute to a very big amount in running the economy of this place and it is possible that they will be recognized as part of the economy and big business people if they can be able to run their businesses in towns and cities.
