December 31st, 2013.

The press in Zanzibar does not lie.
And our correspondent.
Our colleagues in Nairobi.

The representatives of Tanzania in the tournament.
She takes care of that is going on in Kenya.
The Zanzibar Premier League, yesterday was released at the race after being beaten.
By Kenya.
Taifa Stars' 2-0 in the match that was played yesterday in Naimu.

Following those results, Kenya.
Spread by the teams of Ethiopia.
And the Democratic Republic of Sudan will participate in the quarter-finals of the competition.
Being supervised by the Council of East African Football.
(CECAFA).

The ball started with the speed of all the teams playing.
But Kenya got a goal.
The first half of the third minute through the boxer Edwini Mjwahuzi escaping through a penalty kick.
Mohamed Madengenya with Francis Kiwanga speaking at the danger area.
Kwaito from Somalia.
God commanded to give a penalty.

After that goal, football continued.
By strength while the players of Kenya.
Using a lot of strength so as to stop the youth of Zanzibar.

Zanzibar, it did a stern attack on eight minutes.
In Kenya and getting off.
That was played at a heated one with Chile.
That was defeated by the goalkeeper of Kenya.
And football were carried out by defenders.

In the 18th minute, Jacob Terry shot down defenders of Zanzibar and scored a great shot.
With talents and goalkeeper Abdallah Rashid.

The second half of Harambee Stars entered into the power wants.
More than 54 minutes, Alan Shearer got the team the goal through a penalty kick.
That left goalkeeper Rashid.

In Zanzibar, you are made changes to release Hamis Mcha 'Vientiane.
And called Ali Ali for the purpose of increasing the strength of the attacks.

He is not there.
Therefore, those changes will not be able to help Zanzibar.
For Kenya.
Continued to get the health of their opponents, but the goalkeeper Rashid was.
Stable, suffering from Mwanga and John Deere Company, who were connected to them.
And Igwana Maulidi who was in the whole stadium.
