
How Messi got Ronaldo and Neymar to win Ballana.

After being silent for the main desire, finally the star Lionel Messi of Barcelona club has won the award for the best player in the world (Ballness).
At the event that took place in Zurich city, Switzerland said on Monday night, Messi was carrying his close competitors, Christiano Ronaldo of Real Madrid club and his fellow musician Barcelona, Ludewa Constituency.
A total of 23 players were announced to contest for that award that is sponsored by the International Federation of Football (FIFA).
Although it is not easy for fans of Ronaldo believe Messi as the winner of the 2014 / 15 awards, to me I have no objection.
Messi who also emerged the winner of 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 is bigger than Ronaldo as the great contribution to his fellow players to contest, contrary to Ronaldo who gets a private success.
Despite the challenges that were badly affected in the last season of 2014-2015, Messi made his club Barcelona to win three awards.
Likewise, that star has enabled his team to make sure he doesn't know - Argentina to arrive in the Copa America finals before being defeated by the hosts Chile in the finals.
Messi is retiring from Ronaldo because he is collaborating well with his colleagues, Luis Suarez, Andaman Sea and David Villa among others.
But Ronaldo has thrown out many star of Real Madrid like Gareth Bale, James Rodriguez apart from lack of great help to his colleagues even during the time of time.
Despite succeeding to score a lot of goals, Ronaldo who had put that award for Ballidum and three times enabled his club to win the only cup of the La Liga since he left the club in 2009 from Manchester United.
Ronaldo, the goalkeeper from Messi for closing the goals last season, he scored B of Barcelona, has scored 61 goals in 54 matches, while Messi won the 58 goals in the 57 matches.
However, the famous match of 'El Clatchy Markhiya, despite Messi playing with his sentence, had helped Barcelona to win the 4-0 victory, while his squad goes against Real Madrid until the end.
Ronaldo has a good record for private success, but the success of the whole squad of Barcelona is the ones that brought him Messi.
Three awards and her experience that given out goals are mentioned like that made great help and it used the Barcelona to win those awards.
Neymar who completed the third position in putting me the award of that award that scored 45 times and gave birth to 13 goals.
The upcoming lady of Brazil was able to face the club while Messi caused injuries.
Ronaldo has no habit of encouraging his colleagues and awards they have been important more to her family than his team, a situation that makes Messi continued to shine after his partnership with the whole team.
Apart from the victory of the Premier League (La Liga), Messi also helped Barcelona in winning the European Champions League, the La Liga and Copa Deddy.
While being the captain of the national team of Argentina, the captain who helped to win in the Copa America finals before scoring for Yanga soccer.
On the side of women, the winner of that award was Carl Lennarth Hunter, a South American national team, who attended the second position, while AGAPE, who plays for the third position.
Lijuakali has enabled America to win the World Cup championship after scoring three goals in one match.
On the side of trainers, the coach of the England national team, Mark SCE will be unable to join Jestina George of the American national team.
The award of closing the goals scored for the Atletico Madrid's striker who identified himself as Lionel Messi held the second position after scoring a big technical goal after scoring a great goal after scoring in the field at the Copa Coca-Cola tournament.
The defender of AS Roma club, Virgil Hunter, at the third time in that level as a result of his goal that he scored as a distance of 55 kilometers dancing with Barcelona.
In a draw of best male coaches, the award was born by Luis Suarez to the rules of Bribian after winning his team in winning the champions league of the La Liga, Copa America which was among other small tribes.
Pep Guardiola is the Bayern Munich club he completed the second.
Coach of Chile, Jorendal has gotten a third place by enabling Chile in the Copa America championship by beating Argentina through a penalty shoots.
Winners of Ballness of Oreo 'in the year 2010, 2008 (Lionel Messi, Brazil), 2008 (Lionel Messi, Brazil), 2008 (Lionel Messi, Brazil), 1995, (Lionel Messi, Brazil), 1995, (Lionel Messi, Argentina), Brazil (Lionel Messi, Argentina), France (Lionel Messi, Argentina), France (Lionel Messi, Argentina), France (Lionel Messi, Argentina).
