
"Lieberum, wants the shoes to Samatta.
Zesco United striker, Juma Liunda (right) being in one of his activities in the Tanzania Premier League.
Eight teams that won the round of groups of the African Champions League have been postponed and between the previous teams are Zesco United Republic of Zambia.
Zesco United has set record for being the first team from that country to qualify for the group stages of that competition which the winner will not reach 2500,000 shillings.
Zesco United that is owned by the Tanzania Electric Supply Company came into the group stages to expected to get the service of the international striker of Tanzania, Juma Ndanda FC who had a long time and now he is in place.
The former Simba striker, Mtibwa Sugar of Morogoro has told all the bomb attacks, for now he is in good and that it will qualify for that step is one of the goals they had put in place in the participation of the competition is to play with strength, hard, and more so as to look at the shoes of Mbwana Samatta.
He says his squad can be able to reach far despite dealing with rocks of soccer including Zamalek, Al Ahly, Casillas mother, Eindhoven mid-fielder, Eibar Club.
At the interview with the bomb attacks from Lusaka, Zambia were right of your team who has qualified for the group stages, you can visit this?
Lieberum, I have received this victory to joy because these were our great goals this season, we said we must know that apart from it, we will fight with 2-0 to qualify for the group stage with a total of 5-2 were scored as a total of 5-2 goals.
When a question is called for a long time was injured and how your health is now?
Liwieg, is true that I was injured for a long time, but for now I have already seen and it continues with the program for teachers.
How do a question do I think this coach I think it?
Liwieg, who is happy about the head coach of Zesco United Club, George Lwandamina has talked to me and basically he had promised to do together in the players' squad that will participate in the group stages of the competition.
What does a question are in your squad, so as to prevent it?
Lieberum, there are players from outside a question from Mtibwa to go for this year?
Lieberum, I remember I was born with Zesco United of 2014, it was just a rally, I told Zambia and Zesco United States, then I have gone into an agreement with their player.
Question am Turner in the group stage, the coach has promised to create a number of which he did?
Lieberum, first I thank God for that, for me now my expectations is to do well, the truth I wants to be self-employed and to get married if he is Mbwana Samatta.
I am looking for Samatta as a friend, I want to reach he is.
I know what God will help, I have great expectations, I know I am supposed to play for the efforts and to be able to learn more so that I will benefit me more than here.
Question, but you know if you are doing?
Lieberum, I know it is difficult for the group stages to be difficult and competition due to the quality of the teams that won that step, but I believe Zesco United will plan to deal with those teams.
The teams that won this close to all are good, Zamalek, Al Ahly, Estrada, and the truth we have the work, but we will not supposed to do that, we will not go with the strength and I believe we will bring in a high standard.
Question, you have already played the premier league in Tanzania Mainland, how do it come from the soccer of Tanzania and Zambia?
Lieberum, different types, especially in the issue of running the team, I am happy, while the players are meeting at the field and training then instead of everything he is going to him, different from Bongo, during that league players are in the camp for a long time.
This means that it was released is good because it is required to do the discipline of soccer as a player and if it does not give entertainment that will not be seen on the field but it is not supposed to kick off, but it is still holding back, but it is still waiting for discipline according to the players of Zambia.
Question, I have been the norm in Tanzania there are players similar to, "those even exercises they don't know, but you will find the day of the match in the other list of Zambia?
Lieberum, different from the teams of Tanzania, it's true you know that there are big players in the team, they don't exercise by knowing that they have a big player, but it is a big player that is supposed to assure you, exercises and not to go to the field yes, that is the manufacturing of himself and plasma.
How do a question see them in payments, how do I think it is enough?
Lieberum, a great income is encouraging and because the money is in soccer, I'll thank God from one place to another, my work that I want to learn from one place and I believe I believe in front I will get more signs and I believe in front I will get more stories.
A question do not tell me what they are believed to have come back home?
Lieberum, I urge all the players from home, everything is possible to put effort in discipline and discipline in soccer.
It is supposed to be dealt with in exercises if they want to be far, if I am forced to go back to Tanzania, my goals is in front.
I am just advice to my fellow players who are in great home to sit and be self-employed so that they can get a challenge that will help them to reach far, then you know that you are left, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you know that you are not known, then you
