Boss, Richard Mwaikenda to be sold.
May 30th, 2012

Director of the Social Development Company in Tanzania have ever been given the contract of importation of emergency power generation in the country, I thank Adam Glasgow, yesterday was taken to court facing five charges, including evading documents.
I assure you that he was presented at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court in Dar es Salaam city and came to him the charges, after the opening of the 15th case of the year 2009.
I thank you, they will be remembered by the United Republic of Tanzania and according to the charges of charges, the first one that he is faced is unsatisfactory performance against the law.
Charges of charges explains that on March 13, year 2006 at Dar es Salaam city, he refused due to an aim of controlling the authority of the attorney general of the government and to make sure that Mohamed Glawogger who is the chairman of Richmond Development Company LLC of Tanzania.
In the second phase, is accused of submitting documents that are not correct against the law of the country.
It is alleged that March 20, in the year 2006 at Morogoro road center, along the Morogoro road, along the Morogoro road in Dar es Salaam city, knowing that it is wrong on the documents that are not correct for March 13, 2006, showing that Mohamed Adam Gusmao and the chairman of Richmond Development Company Limited in Tanzania.
The charges by the government Leonard Mao, and Boniface Kanemba claimed that in the third term, I put up a false information to the government contrary to the law.
He claimed that on March 20, year 2006, at TANESCO's offices in Ubungo in Dar es Salaam, the suspect presented to the board of tenders for TANESCO's information that are understand that are false.
In those reports, he claimed that Richmond Development LLC of Texas, America had the ability to produce solar power generation so as to convince the board to change that company and giving an agreement.
In that case that was heard by resident magistrate, Lema, as the defense was led by Lawyer Kato Zito, it was claimed that I am pleased as it is for the third time, presented a false information to the government officials, but in the fourth report, he presented the delegates of the Government Authorities (TET).
It was claimed that he presented those information to distribute T while recognizing that those reports of that company has the ability to produce 100 megawatts of electricity is not true.
In the fifth graduation, it was claimed that it is not correct, he claimed that it is not correct, he refused to prove that it is not correct, he refused to confirm it to the attorney general of the government that he has been unable to run the business activities of the Richmond Development Company Limited in Tanzania.
Gmwaijonga has been taken to Keko, in Dar es Salaam city and he is expected to be returned in court today.
An emergency power generation company is the source of resignation from the former prime minister, Edward Lowassa together with ministers Doctor Ibrahim Ajib by his fellow musician Mousa Diallo.
They were forced to resign after the chosen committee of parliament presented his report on the investigation about that emergency power project, the committee was led by the member of parliament for Kyela, Doctor Harfanti from Mwakyembe and be read in parliament on February last year.
