
Obama has intervened in a conflict about Sony.
Washington, President Barack Obama has threatened to revenge against the North Korean company because of destruction of the network against Addax Energy company relating to the film that is said to inform us.
President Obama said that the company did a mistake by checking it from the nickname 'Siri ya Mtungi' by the name of the name of the interview, "said the Christmas day that was trying to arrest the leader of North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Un.
Furthermore, the management of Sony company had defended his decision after getting threats that they would have raised the film.
The delegation of Pangamawe, popularly known in that crimes that was caused by the email support together with telecommunications communication, about salaries and record for workers in the workers.
While speaking to journalists after the FBI officers involved in that crimes, President Obama said that Washington will not have a lot of anyone "" we can confirm that North Korea had involved in this attack, "said Obama.
"Couples will partner with them a place and when you will not end at the moment," President Obama giving his condolences to the Sony company added, "this is true he does not have a mistake but we cannot be used in South Africa as a certain place they will benefit from America.
The attackers were said to use dangerous programs with AIDS virus on social media networks and caused several computers to buy a step that resulted to the supervision of all the networks.
FBI said that investigation showed that the equipment were used as a result of criminals who are known as "North West, according to the FBI, these crimes used a system and conspiracy caused by the South Korean bank.
"Those acts of contraception is among the newspapers contrary to the responsibility of any government," the FBI director told me.
President Obama said that there was no doubt that South Korean company partnering with another nation following the claims that China has been the only ally to Publisher Company, the concerned party.
Yesterday, the national newspaper of China, Global Times magazine has criticized Moscow, the article of "Ambassador of the interview" to the culture of the culture "during his lifetime.
And the former member of parliament of the Republican John McCiano mentioned the crime of the network as "act of war" Senator of Democratic Party, Robert Boaz and he wanted the minister of foreign affairs of America John Kerry will be mentioned as the sponsor of terrorism.
The delegation of Pickup, in America popularly known as well in that crime.
"Our nation has no relationship with any crimes," the expert on political issues in the northern region told the journalists.
Although Pangamawe, said that it will continue to blame from that incident on November 24, it was mentioned as an act that is not known as Russia by supporting Ukraine, of killing more than 20 politicians in Russia and the Ukraine officials to bring development, together with the Ukraine and gas sector.
The 13 phase of restrictions in partnership with the partners are done when President Vladimir Putin that Russia did not have an intention to change the Ukraine stand.
The minister of foreign affairs of Canada, John Baamar even so, he insisted that he didn't see restrictions from western countries you are doing.
"There is no doubt that those restrictions have had a importance," Mister Musomba said.
The arrest of the new transport sector that affect members of parliament, ministers of that area have announced that the Donetsk Airport in east of Ukraine.
