
The witch doctor will be accompanied by Kibanda, a shop of drugs, he stopped him as the hospital.

With the management of honor, the police force in Ikungi district, Singida province is holding the doctor who claimed to be the fake one, Prosper Alute (in the picture) on claims of stealing the patient, Prosper Alute.

News shows that, Junction died recently after being treated with a person who cared for the doctor due to what is claimed that he was lucky to be removed by nine% of water for the rules and regulations that were not known as a name immediately.

The history of the late Marijani Rajabu.
According to the brothers, the late was being disturbed by the chest, the hips and back where the doctor bought those drugs for a short time later, Junction.

The wildlife officers of Kasulu District.
Speaking on behalf of the chief physician of Ikungi District, one of the doctors in the district, Philip Mpango said the event happened at four o'clock in the morning at a special house which was built by the doctor for providing various medical services.

"After being given the report of that death by his girlfriend, tomorrow, we went to inspect the shop of drugs for the person," said the doctor.

According to the doctor, when they arrived at the shop, Lutema said that he was a doctor for human diseases, they stopped and discovered that he had not had a license from the Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) that brings him a license from the Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) that deals with the license that he didn't have a certificate of any university that he did to get out on.

"Even we are not true that in his shop, we found drugs that are not allowed to be used in the most important medicines, we found drugs and drug abuse, he termed it against corruption, he termed it and gives the services to give birth to the women," explained the doctor.

It is believed to be three times.
That district doctor added saying that in that inspection, they also found drugs that were given its time on the use and that an event is not third for people who were given treatment at that shop, two were outside the shop.

The suspect has given information.
On his part, the doctor who alleged to be a fake one, despite confessing to have received that patient with a bad state and that after taking his history found it was suffering from the chest and before being taken to him, he started treatment to the traditional healers.

"We came to my place to get advice but on how I saw him, I told him that we have the strategies to be in another place because I heard it has problems since June, last year," said Alute.

The child of the late Deo Filikunjombe.
And the child of the late Junction, Jilala, said that on the morning he went to greet her father and found guilty, when he decided to take him to that shop of drugs where after the investigation of "the doctor was told her father was attacked by chest, back and the hips.

"After a desire to inform us, what happens a father, I agree to go back home to look for money for him through the shop so as to take him to Singida Provincial Hospital for more treatment," explained the child.

He continued, "even so, before his father lost life, she was given a guarantee of drugs that did not know how the disease and when it reached at four o'clock in the morning died, I stopped the people to come to see the father's body."
The police commander of Singida region, Godfrey Kamoga has confirmed that the incident.
