
Thursday, March 5, 2015.

Tabora have praised Lowassa, or are the signs of returning in UKAWA?

The results of the small research that was done by the writer of this article in Tabora Town city today evening, has shown that there is a big competition between the prime minister who was admitted to the Democratic and Development Party, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, as the general election that was done between 10-12 (30) this evening. Those results show that Lowassa has 28 percent and Doctor Wilfredy Slaa was not getting 22 percent.

That research was done today by the writer of this article when he visited Tabora Municipality for other work activities.
The aim of the small research was to know the real state of politics in this municipality led by the Party of Revolution that the work took place between 11 o'clock in the evening, March 5th, 2015.

Mela Mboto.

A total of participants of this research were 100, men being 61 women and 39 women in addition, 12 participants were forced to find their votes or by acknowledging to know what is happening in politics, those who were removed from samples which was not easy to consider gender violence in the number of 100 participants.

The participants are determined through mobile phone by considering the criteria like the age of the work he is seen to make the participant together and try to resolve the gender although it did not depend on.
100 - the participants they collided with several work groups according to when they were found with a researcher.

Research praised it because my participant will be the only thing and if each participant was in a group / or he was accompanied by another person, a researcher is and he was not interviewed.

Likewise, the participants are determined through social networks is because the participant will be interviewed after one participant, were forced to be found on a distance of more than 100 meters to increase the opportunity for wildlife.

What is an actor of a question.

Research introduced himself shortly without mentioning any institution that is related to it, then he told me the aim of research and how it will give his private information to protect his privacy.

Then, a question that was asked for all the participants was that, "your election was done today, and if you get a chance to vote to elect the new president of Tanzania, I request it to say if he would have come up because it was required by a person and not a party and it doesn't ensure that anything which he will be correct.

The results are there.

28 participants, equal to 28 percent said they could choose the member of parliament of Monduli, and the Prime Minister who was admitted to the Ministry of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), while 8 percent said they would inform the chairman of the Citizens Party (CUF).
Professor Ibrahim Lipumba has said 7 participants, equivalent to 7 percent said they would have appointed the Minister of Construction, John Magufuli.

However, 21 participants equal to 21 percent said they are not decided or they are waiting for presidential candidates to be public.

Other politicians who got votes for being mentioned will have percent of their votes in brackets as the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda (2), Tundu Lissu (2) and Zitto Kabwe (2) and Samuel Sitta (1) and Samuel Sitta (1) and Samuel Sitta (1).

To the end of the subject of research.

The results of this research show the opinions of the participants in Tabora Municipality in a period that was mentioned only.
They didn't be used to explain the political situation in other areas of Tabora, more than Tabora Municipality.

Meanwhile, these results show that there is a big possibility of the candidate that will be suspended by UKAWA which emerged winner in Tabora Municipality by considering the number of votes they got to the opponents.
However, leading by Edward Lowassa in those votes, there is a reason that maybe the residents of Tabora have no information and a scandal that ever given his member of parliament a few years ago or he did not participate in the scandal.

In addition, because 21 percent of those who were interviewed they decided, it's difficult to inform me, it's a candidate that you could win in the research program.

Similarly, the way to ask for a question by mouth can be able to release a different answer and what could decide if he would be asked if he would have been asked in writing or not a researcher, there's a probability of each participant to reduce those effects.

The question is going to be, Jongo, the residents of Tabora Municipality we are looking for what they think about someone who is doing to be their president?

This research is a result of a private reason for the writer of this article to understand the political situation in Tabora Town, through your whole way, the purpose of this research, does not meet the writer of this article, the only vote is, by Justine Joseph, with his professional advice.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
