We are putting you to pray for Madiba, but we feel it more.
Dec 21, 2013.

Finally, Mzee Nelson Mandela or Tipi has been buried on Sunday, December 15, 2013, in Qunu village, the Eastern Cape county from South Africa since died on December 5, 2013, we had heard a lot to witness the man of the real child and the local government of Africa.

Although many were seen well in the history of Mzee Mandela, this short period has been very good by it up to the open up, urging them and go back to the history and the history of South Africa in general, especially the fight against discrimination.

It has been the right time to think, to tire us on this issue and even leaving our soul by considering the history of the number of Mzee, who had lost a long time to live in a few years and strengthen the opposition to the country that had a bad behavior of discrimination.

It was written, more than the millions of people from within and out of South Africa and Africa who came out to participate in hand over this man of its kind, the leaders of various countries in the world, great to small and all friends met to bid farewell to Madiba.

This period of people, and especially the leaders of different nations who came to bid farewell to the former leader of the Catholic church in the world who was on the forefront to fight for peace in the world, Pope, John Paul II left the year 2005.

In general, the life of Mzee Mandela, who Almighty God has identified himself up to the age of 95, and these events during his funeral will continue to have a heavy rains in the hearts of many people.

This records will also be remembered for many because the history is not yet known, "fact," the truth about that history is to be careful, the truth about this fact, most of them don't agree with any truth, most of them did not have any reputation, "he wrote.

However, if he said the former President of Zambia, Kenneth Kaunda for the Elder Nelson Mandela has given great teachings to me, let me get good teachings to people, and do not know what he would like him to be treated.

There are some who will claim that why are those teachings have been forced to be sent to them every day, racism, color, and so in this context, it is very easy to know what our marriage is not other than our age, human being like us, Nelson Mandela.

Think about the country that, for example, one person who decided to live in life is true, "it has been able to have a lot of people that go with, together with bad luck, it is not more than 20 years ago but it is this foundation has made them to inform each other and even having freedom of opinions, democracy when it is used and even legal rule.

We are some of the several countries, especially here in Africa, which they're working as a very good example in making progress in development and others, even so, these countries are among them have been on the front line to vote for Madiba in the country.

As it is not enough, many leaders in this continent have been the leaders of leading by bias against their wives, their brothers and those who helped them to arrive there they are (through legal or illegal) in different positions after the benefit of the nation and the citizens that are many.

It is this disease with conductors of this point that it cost the host in the funeral of Mzee Mandela who doesn't know her, President Jacob Zuma, without hesitation, said that their president has used the millions of money to build a very big margin in his village.
