Accord them the leadership lovers.
Brightiles 15, 2012

This is when the time of Zanzibar to stop and relocate to their leaders, will take place under the presence of incitement statements that we were seen recently, and the few leaders of CCM / Zanzibar are things.
Those are not for the ones to be stopped in the 21st century.

The speech that deals with hatred and threats of using energy and with the aim of introducing peace and stability that is in the country since impatient, is an example of incitement statements ("HFO).

The video of the videos of those speech is evidence of being able to open those statements, it is unacceptable, to see that the senior leaders of the CCM party listening keenly to see that the national government leaders especially its legal measures have also been silent without taking action against them.

I am sure that he has said that those statements have been put in Kenya then those politicians would have been made in court to listen to the charges of incitement.

It would have been so because in Kenya, it has a constitution that, although it has a constitution that, although it has not seen his own issues, but that is dangerous like those, therefore, Kenya has public institutions together with media houses that concern any symptoms that can cause the killing of citizens.

Similarly, the acts of suppression of human rights, actions be done by media houses having destroyed citizens that were not supposed to be used in communities which are affecting the system of democracy.

In the system of democracy, we said that it reaches dollars.
As a result of the legality of that validity, you can be built on three months of good governance and good governance and efficiency in solving their rights.

In this situation that is now good administration, it means that you will guide the legal action to be insane are supposed to take action against them and take action or rebuke actions if they are people of their party or passport.

The people of Zanzibar have gotten tired of having political unrest and have found how several decades ago, it's why more than several factors that participated in the national opinion polls of the political parties in that country, that is CCM and CUF.

Many of the people of Zanzibar had good hope that was made up of the national government of November 2010. I felt it will be found by the establishment of the government of that kind to make Zanzibar peace, peace and political parties because those reasons brought together one of the new government.

Zanzibar got a big step towards the front line was found and got up of that government and it is worried that it can be back behind.
Kiziguto said that the ones that are in the national government of the national union were able to deal with the challenges that are there and they continue looking for solutions to all problems which must continue to fight.

Their stand should be to look at the front line, and not behind it, it should be the first position to fight for other different times that are inside the community through brotherly; so that they can identify the interests of Zanzibar and all its people.

All this is important especially because the future of Zanzibar may be stopped in a period of two years coming up to 2014, it will end this time the current process of gives the new constitution.
