The number of ministry has sunk.
May 6th, 2013.

The new system of handing over the government's budget in parliament which has been made, causing pain, "dirty," A, and the Ministry of Water has claimed to have old issues that, the main council of ministers is a load to the economy of the country, our citizens have noted.
A confirmation of that argument which is if it has been accepted by the authorities of appointment, it is a way that in the budget of the ministry of water two weeks ago it got an increase of 1845 billion shillings.
Those funds were kidnapped in some of the tithes one have been sent away from other ministries, especially some of the others in some of the famous ministries like AIDS (other other).
As a result of those changes, the Ministry of Water said that its budget for the next financial year had gone through several restrictions in parliament, it has been added that the budget for approximately 397,94 billion shillings to a total of 5890,536 billion shillings.
Investigation that is being supported by some members of parliament has noted that if there was a small number of various ministries and the situation is now, a lot of money that will have been directed to the development projects.
Apart from that, the current system of discipline in parliament, confirmed that some of the experts who abstain from the budget without enough professionalism, unable to target the priorities in government projects in development projects, a situation that is not yet confirmed by the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on budget, Andrew Chenge.
For now, the council of ministers is made up with 30 ministries (you give the Prime Minister), and the Deputy Prime Minister, and the deputy permanent secretaries, 26, and assistant secretaries to 26 heads.
As a result of that big number of ministers that even the parliament through its constitution committee, law, and administration have been made in the size of the council in July, 2012 because its meaning is that the presence of a large number of ministry needs other senior directors and the use of other resources for the purpose of running the concerned ministry.
Kigoma North member of parliament who is also the Assistant Minister for Finance, Zitto Kabwe, has supported by admitting that the current system of presenting the budget, has confirmed that there are many money that could be caught and put in development projects if it would have a small number of ministry.
"It is important for now to have a special number of ministers as possible if in the constitution like Kenya and we cannot stop soon, while the big number of ministers should be used to run ministries when those funds should be used to run ministries when those funds should be put on development projects," said Zitto and added.
"In the current environment, we will see the commission of planning I don't see if it is important to have a big number of the ministers.
But another member of parliament of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), who did not want his name Engees Okoye was announced by the presence of a large number of ministers and at the same time, the government seems to have reduced the management and management of the activities that are supposed to be supervised by the ministry.
"For now, we have started a public service in order to follow the monitoring of supervision of issues that cause development of the country, because it is that we have increased use and also if we continue having a big number of ministries," says that member of parliament.
But the member of parliament for Bariadi West Andrew Chenge, who is also the chairperson of the new Parliamentary Committee on budget says that is happening now in Parliament (UDOM), shot down from ministry's budget, especially the area of priorities in the program.
"I don't see if it is correct to discuss this financial system and look at the number of the ministry, we aim to make sure that the implementation of the five-year development plan is being implemented on priorities as well as us through the parliament is what we are doing to remove the use of one area to its priorities in another five years.
However, in another step, Chenge, said that conflict between ministries will not be taken to the Ministry of Water but it will continue to take place during this year's parliament meeting so as to ensure the priorities of five years of development are implemented.
On his part, the Member of Parliament of Kahama, James Lembeli has agreed that the council is very big but he says that even the budget for the water ministry has been added.
