This is Lowassa or another?
Mr, 27, 2013.

This has been explained, but for sure I cannot be silent without holding my work to communicate with thousands of readers of this newspaper of Mwema, Mwema.

Today I want me to focus on behalf of Comrade Edward Lowassa for the last week to be worried about the natural gas sector in the country in a time that the country does not have policies or laws that are facing that sector.

Basically if it was given his statement that you were donated by another Tanzanian Tanzanian who has no reputation for Lowassa I would not be surprised that the system of our country will not have a wide opportunity for citizens of the village to know what is happening in the government, even if you concern it directly.
For the reputation of Lowassa.

Lowassa is the member of parliament of Monduli, has had a minister of parliament and doing well in part of its performance in the government and although other areas he entrusted the economy.
Lowassa has been appointed as the Prime Minister and his term some of the directors of the council, district heads and other government officials were admitted to the office every time when Lowassa will do a tour in their work areas.

Also, Lowassa is still the chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee on foreign affairs, the position that was given to soon as a result of those qualifications to get information from any ministry easily, even when I am a journalist, who can move forward and then decided to use the investigation on how to get accurate information.

Last week Comrade Lowassa made it clear that about the natural gas issue and was quoted by one newspaper in every day, he woke up to public that he is worried about their current and natural gas while the country does not have policies or law.

First, I should put it open that Comrade Lowassa is a leader who had been able to hold various positions as I have written before.

Comrade Kinana has ever been the prime minister who is the executive director of every government's activities in parliament and the first assistant President of the United Republic of Tanzania, after the vice president.

I believe Lowassa knows the whole government system, he knows and he can follow everything inside the government because he has experience, ability and reason to do that, he decided.

Lowassa and his motion.

Comrade Kinana is saying that he is worried about him that he is supposed to get worried about investment in that sector as the chairman of the parliamentary committee who investors in that sector are supposed to visit, why is what agenda?

Recently Comrade Kinana does not know that after the current Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, and his secretary general, Eliakim Maswi was admitted to the ministry they had a big challenge with the policy and the gas is the second one after a reliable electricity in the nation?

I thank Comrade Kinana that the gas policy was announced in all media stations in the country and what denied the lack of the concerned committee of parliament so that through that draft and then other steps to continue.

That leader knows it that the draft is required through the fourth important step, according to the procedures that Comrade Kinana participated in place them in his different positions including the position of the Prime Minister.

Those steps include the policies that was announced in the media, the parliamentary committee through the members of the parliament, the third step is to be presented in the session of permanent secretaries and the last step is to be presented in the session of the ministers.

Komredi Lowassa for his position was supposed to know that the first step of the announcement of the training was done, again for a long period and after that the ministry had been submitted to work which I believe will now be completed this week because that committee is continuing with work.

I am saying this because I believe my investigation and my good information is true, I don't want to be the spokesman of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and I have no reason to do so, but where there is a must, we get my colleagues to know how we go together as a nation.
