Professor Baregu said.
May 5, 2013.

"If it is a girl, my son and my country, I will follow my country."
The member of the executive committee of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Professor Sospeter Baregu said the county has called his party to give him inside the commission on constitutional changes, while he put his open stand that Tanzania is important for him more than his party.
The news that was found by the contractor Professor Baregu said the Secretary General of the party, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, called a scholar who is a member of the commission on constitutional changes, if he doesn't give him inside the commission for political reasons because the Revolutionary Party (CCM) has done that process.
Professor Baregu said that Doctor Slaa is using the answer Doctor Slaa through the words of English, saying, "if I get my country," I will follow my country, "he has told my country to elect one of his country and his party of CHADEMA, he would leave his first country.
Speaking to Good Citizen the day before yesterday in Dar es Salaam city, Professor Baregu said that his stand by his secretary general Doctor Slaa, together with his CHADEMA party, saying that his fellow leaders are supposed to ensure that since the beginning of the party the one that made the whole issue of Tanzania having a new constitution different from this.
It will be remembered that CHADEMA, through its chairperson, Freeman Mbowe, while presenting an alternative speech to the opposition camp in the office of the Prime Minister, announced a ban on the process of climate change, mentioning several reasons including the delegates of the commission they don't have enough professionalism to do that job.
"It is true that I was called by the secretary general (Doctor Slaa), he said that our party's executive committee is determined that the party has decided to remove the second process of making a new constitution," said Professor Baregu in a special interview with Raia Mwema.
He says that he has asked to be given an official decision in CC for short, so as to know that he will take a decision but until he is doing an interview with Raia Mwema, he didn't have answers while saying that in his opinion if the truth is, then the executive committee will have a mistake to achieve his decision without stopping.
Why is why I am not from the first time I did not see if this issue of being written on a new constitution is an issue of the fight because CHADEMA is the chairperson of the election manifesto, I am participating in the election manifesto.
"
"The bill will be returned to parliament afresh, the law should be discussed and accepted by the members of parliament of the opposition camp until now, I have never seen the problem of the process, it would like that I would have made it, we could make sure that we could make sure that we do not have a constitution of the party.
