
Akitanda, Kyuga, the Albino association of Kahama, do not defend me, we believe that I take their rights on 09 / 2012.

In the end of the last article I explained the way to resist the suppression of suppression of democracy, build and defend the country because many people who think they have no reason to defend the systems that protects the rights and bringing down them.

I would like to continue with the topic by saying that the nation that you don't know and to give a good way it does not have a nation to love justice, people who are ready to defend their rights without choosing of him to stop him.

The most important thing is that the nation that you love, has no reason to see those who are not involved in its neighborhood and to build a clean environment in our weakness what is reduced and they get more strength.

The human resource Director in the community has no need to be only with a great creation because all of us believe in the poor is the need of defense and the strength or any person does not need the authority from everything because she desires to pay, or by severe pains.

The poor doesn't understand what he was going to kill him or in their differences.

Listen to you, through how we like, as a community with bad people, most of us are capable of self-income, people who are oppressed, can't be stopped even if they were not given even a chance to enable them to stop using resources that they have been known as they were known as they were known as they were known as they were known as their.

There are many examples in our country that can explain what to discuss here.
Many times we have been seeing the complaints by citizens that you want to be done in their land because it is required to have an investor. "

Many times it's understood that, the investor said, "the investor is a person from outside the country, gets its symptoms due to the fact that he has already joined senior officials in the government who are specialists who succeeded to sell their land for citizens.

That land can be of many households, which have been living there for the 19th century but because of it.
"The investor told the ability to enable him to convince the government officials, the rights of citizens have made weight and that is the investor to be a priority before the citizen's priority.

This is not true that it started there, very important to recognize that there is no right to recognize that it's not true and it's not important because it does not use the rights even if the private sector does not use this rights even if the private sector does not benefit the blood cells in the whole issue.

As the situation is in our community recently, they are supposed to see that primary rights including with us are not silent because we do not see our interests in achieving the one who is seen, I am happy, "I told this person that is also bullied.

Other times, we can ask you, "if I will be supporting this one that is seen, this is how he does not know you," what is what is seen, "you don't know what I think about me?

The great nation did not be built by people with such attitude. This is such as community activities that are carried out it for slavery.

The defense of your rights will depend on how you missed the rights of another, even without using the sun, because of us all, all of us, and not knowing it is dangerous to all of us.

When we read the part of the community you have failed and we will not be silent because we are expecting to prepare our environment for one day as well as others were silent for our silence about the affliction of others that will have a silence by others about the affliction of us.

I wrote a circle music, a little one (and here in light), not to take my neighbor, the leader of the revolutionary party, but because I was not a leader of the students, but because I was not the leader of the immigrants I did not say something, then there was no one to say anything. "

I am saying again, there is no great nation (or a nation that is determined to be a big country) that is looking at the affliction of people of all types of people, but when our country has built a habit of looking for illegal immigrants.

This habit makes us to be a big country but a small nation, we must change and build the heart of a great nation by refusing to save every time since it comes from Aishah Ajibola, Mufindi and the albinos of Kahama.

We don't know the voice of Tanzania to destroy their evil deeds in the world without knowing the person who went to each other or wanting to know the person getting evil to our friend or that is also a sign of a big nation.
