Membe is disrupting Tanzania.
Brightiles 23, 2013.

The Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Benard Membe, has been appointed to lead the committee with the force of ministers of African Community (CS) in that meeting that ended in the Lanham act last week.

Cellphone Company is a committee that was formed in the year 1995, Auckland City, New Zealand and together with other things is the only committee that was given power to stop the membership of any country within the African Community.

In that appointment, Membe is the first Tanzanian to get that position and he will be with him as the chairman for a period of two years until when they take another meeting of the leaders of that community.

Speaking to Good Citizen about that appointment, Membe said he has received with two hands his honor, because it shows a great honor is not her private but to Tanzania and protect all.

"This position has been taken by ministers from developed countries because this is a very big institution and it is not a normal issue and that is why we have been encouraged," he said.

The appointment of Membe is the first to be done by a leader from the African continent for the recent years and given him for his position there is no diplomatic relations that Tanzania has a right now.

The reports that this newspaper has received that the qualifications of Membe led to how he made the arrival of two popular presidents of the world, Barack Obama of America and Li together with China, and the reception which they got the leaders here in the country were being shown a lot by the Lanham act.

Cuture Group does his work by following the foundation of the field of Harare, which is the main pillar in the preparation of that community of countries that has ever been postponed by England US dollars.

Declaration of Ufulaga, together with other things, explains the country members of that community not to resolve discrimination, to encourage the economic growth and to stimulate the rule of law.

According to the procedures of that community, that committee was made every two years during the general meeting of African countries (CPA) and ministers are chosen from the eight countries that form the community.
