
What's the corrupt people against who?
May 31, 2012

For those in the old youth, the defending champions and believers of the XXL program, will remember that you can't make the revolution or change in the community (like a good life by every Tanzanian) like conflicts in the community that is not enough for them and it's a minibus.
My brothers, what happened and said it is said to be said last week, at a session of the elders of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and the members of parliament of that party in Dodoma town explains the two things.
First, it's true that there's a request for the leadership in the country and secondly that conflicts in community is about what is happening and therefore giving an opportunity to make changes we need.
About the request of the leadership, it's not only that there's a request for the leadership, but also our political world has brought together leaders who are artists, they agree and get married.
Things that are explained to be said by the minister of state in the office of the president (good administration), Sophia Simba, at the committee's session led by the Retired President Ali Hassan Mwinyi of making the hostility among the members of CCM and their government, that stated all.
According to Sophia Simba, there is no be clean, CCM, has apologized to the members of parliament of that party who are seen to at least do not tire them before fighting corruption that has never happened in the country.
It's a picture that we see the members of parliament of the ruling party when removing them instead of being one thing in the war?

It is a picture of the nation with a request for the leadership to an extent that even those with a bond of taking the action is complaining.
Sofia Simba is reported to have complained to the session that Mzee Malecela, and his wife Anne Kilango, they were given to 200 million shillings so as to elect the wife of the CCM presidential candidate.
Such a statement as it as a minister who is under the minister whose security department are under him, explains many questions.
Why is it known as a normal man, though he is the minister waiting to do if he took the action and he was unable to resign?
Any reason, what happened in Dodoma is another person again that the nation gets pregnant, but that is not the first time for a swimming, but this is not the same time when we witnessed, but the situation did not be released as bad.
But today, we do not see the symptoms of this situation is stable but to continue being bad, since President Kikwete has planned to rule the leadership, it is just one thing that made them nation and what is going to save the nation-corruption, corruption, and corruption.
All the efforts of President Kikwete's efforts to try to prevent us continue to move forward together so as to bring development, they be satisfied with one thing of corruption.
And that is because he himself has been dancing to resolve the problem, but I say he is not supposed to be amant because you cannot strengthen the case and leaving those who were arrested and leaving the ones they were arrested and they are not arrested. "
Kikwete says that in corruption he does not have a friend, but he didn't have shown such actions, he is a lesson especially in the same way.
It's not a secret that some of the big corruption suspects who are for sure, are the source of the nation for approximately four years now, I will talk about corruption, those are trusted people as at least get married.
Those are the ones who make him continue to play in the Famist but every opportunity he got in the accident after losing this problem with for All Fund.

He got an opportunity in the historic meeting of CCM that took place in Butiama, but he was unable to use it.
He got another opportunity in the campaign meeting of NEC that took place in Dodoma, but he has also been using, and instead the meeting changed the killing of Speaker Sitta because of being the side of members of parliament who are opposing the corruption.
The Fammation of the problem that says that the nation of the association of educating the people instead of getting them to the law is the one that makes a nation not let me see other primary issues and Libeneke.
For example, form a special committee headed by the Retired President, Ali Hassan Mwinyi to address a lot of fear among the CCM members of CCM, it is just same as the presence of dirty and then abiding to the CCM members.
But he said President Kikwete believes that Mzee Mwinyi was meeting with the privacy of members of CCM and gave them an opportunity to talk and give them the problem they have already been found.
I have met in Dodoma last week, where the problem has already reduced because, hatred have continued to focus in the hearts of some members of parliament of CCM, after falling on the streets under the laying of the parliamentary sitting in Dodoma.
I don't know if someone who has a habit of how to do, but I can build a picture on her head when he used to see him, when he was his wife Ann Kilango, they toured Makonde ward under the funeral of the government minister, Sophia Mjema.
I don't know where Simba is a person who has a habit of how to do, but I also got a lot when Mzee Malecela said that after the session by saying that Sophia Simba was sent to be dealt with.
There is when the CCM was surprised by I don't see if I don't know if the committee of Mwinyi or even President Kikwete, he can't agree with him injuries and even if they will go to say things are safe in CCM.
I have given examples of Malecela, Sitta, Anna Kilango and Sophia Mjema, but the truth is that you are many, including even some of the suspects and those who had their political rivals (or business?
And the first blood is looking for the film of Rwena from Rambo 'that he witnessed in the country, it is the one that will open doors for other blood as well as the nation to enter in the first phase which we have been writing the phase of violence!
My brothers, there's when the announcement of giving his heart as it was raping and attractive to President Kikwete, when he gets my friend or not my friend, he has contributed a lot in my campaign or not to contribute to, a nation would not get to there.
I'm told that now the suspects of corruption have announced a full war, and they want to start a huge fight for media houses so as to control the feelings of the public, when I speak about those news, I am happy about who now the team of corruption United are against who?
It's only a person who doesn't know that the war is against Altay FK, most of them have live in the villages and if we would have been able to reduce the burden of the public money that would have been stolen every year by corruption, instead they were able to reduce the affliction of our colleagues.
Therefore, if corruption have announced the main war, then it is war against 85 percent of the poor households that are the biggest victims of corruption.
Whoever doesn't understand that, I give a challenge to read the Citizen newspaper on November 5, 2009, and read the picture of the first page that showing students of form one in Mgongolwa Secondary School, Morogoro Municipality, while they are doing their exams while they have lost 150 plastic seats in the class.
Think about people instead of seats, they are complaining of plastic seats in the class, and that is just few kilometers from Dar es Salaam.
But that did not be possible and will not be possible under the peak of our government, this is the ruling party in CCM.

All of each other in their sessions, but without stopping.
By Richard Junction, parliament has finished its session last week without discussing the implementation of the government of 23 resolutions of the parliament concerning that scandal, there are no primary reasons that were donated by the government to fail to present its report as it was expected.
The perpetrators of that scandal, and our leaders can't understand what the problem has already reduced, but it is true that the problem of Richard has already changed or it is true that the rapper has already been stolen, it is very delicious.
It depends on.
