Only, it is giving our education service to now, we will meet in a working environment, now you will like to work because it is causing the drop in a level.
For example.
There are some of the areas that you know there.
Problem of transport where the schools where children live as a place where children live as a result of the wall, they are using various vehicles of research to go to school, others use these vehicles to come from home to attend to school, he is the first to be appointed.
He arrived at a time that is not the second right.
When he was coming, there was a must for you to know what you are doing and at the transport sector when you reached where he is not ready to learn in school, when you arrived at the school area, when you arrived at the school area when you arrived at the school.
.
They take as a difficult studies like mathematics and science which needs a student of madness that has been planned in this afternoon and in time, you do not recognize that our primary schools have no food plan to students.
Therefore, you find the student who will have hunger and he is going to learn a lesson so that the signing of she was going to learn from that subject is that I didn't return home because this situation causes the drop in education level for my part when I agree and agreed that the training being offered by the teachers and the students to teach them.
This are not the same as a result of.
If the technicians are there and how they give those training to the teachers, we expect to ask you for the teachers instead of the teachers we expect to care for teaching opportunities.
Maybe the way to reduce.
Or the way of.
To make certain things instead of teaching ways of teaching there in primary schools.
I would like to support him have never thought by saying.
The use of equipment.
We look at the primary school colleges or a very big issue.
These students are forced to consider the first commandment is a good use of equipment.
Bye, as you are.
We expect to see what I will use well of use them and use them, it's why when it reached there I will give you the students to be able to get the concept.
They can be able to get the good concept of what the topics which you want to go to.
Dimakatso much on that issue because when the following time you're doing in schools in our universities for example, we are doing every way to enable the students so as to know where we are going in schools but we are going to know where we are going to school, we are meeting.
Local governments different books so as to be the head of extra books to go for in schools we have found those books.
.
When you go to you, you find you the way we are.
I will get married that I love you, I love me, according to each class when you visit the book, you see the others do not match their subject if you do not like, because there are many types of books that other matches do not be noticed, because there are many types of books that other matches do not be avoided.
Those contracts have been put.
There is something we are looking at.
News about the teachers lack.
Other people when they are doing business people are going on well but they are going on well but they are going there in the environment that are happening and different environment so that they can meet their needs for example, as we look at small salaries being supervised by workers.
Tennis star in a month of one month is to get a salary.
How does it mean?
We need to use alternative ways.
Teach you and also care!
At the end of it, they can refuse that it does not concern them.
We are expecting that teachers like teachers, even if they want to go as teachers, we will have a difficult environment, even when he has gone to the teachers to get good needs, therefore they meet when they meet with different environment and how they were found.
That work is work.
