Where we need?
Let's go together with Mister Richard.
We have heard a white house, they have started the process to build a stadium.
For your opinion polls came out and there was a reason for a trip.
I think plans we have ever made it previously through our director that they believe in.
Almighty God rest the office of the province so that we can be.
To be able to get a area for the purpose of setting up unity of the previous leadership.
But the?
I have given you the show already the area which has been planned by the authority of benefit that this area is not acceptable.
For the purpose of construction but the things are still in the church?
In the process.
It's still continuing with talk time when I see it is required to take a long time when you talk time when the instructions were reached where there are plots that are here in the country here in the country.
Most of them are not there.
You have done any meaning of improving.
And it is true that is the meaning of the competition for us?
It's not that TPL Board did not know the only stadium that everything depends on as the stadium they were at the National Stadium.
For the first time, we have gotten tired with the number that has gotten tired when you get a lot of life and safe and because we start a very high level and I will see you so much we thank the war to prepare for preparing for slavery.
And the people that will go to the first will benefit.
Only, to sit at the cost of maintenance at these hours you are in a good state that there is a high level of state organs.
You can be Ukawa in Ukawa, and you put him a lesson for a long period of time.
Therefore, it is the responsibility of the stakeholders.
We should partner with these teams that are in many teams in the country, there are many teams to meet the field but it was not the late for Tundwi Songai - Tanzania.
It has a very big possibility that we will be able to make these founders of the artists who believe in Dar es Salaam when they go through.
Sponsors should come out to use the Almighty God to help them?
Almighty God create a plot, does it mean.
You miss.
My brothers, meaning to leave you were seen in the field.
Burkina Faso.
If you see Karume was done well and I don't think it.
If you leave, he can be a activity here in our camera, but it is a disease that I have been going through and I believe that we are making renovations and we believe that there is a solution that you give them as one hour of playing for you Mister.
Competition.
There is a wall that you like to talk about it has been of a trip, there is a long time when you're near him.
Truly, and these people who have started this headlines on another hand, for the ten times in order to put laws together to blossom.
Ras Makunja has been true that we are disappointed with corruption, because it is not the work of the party because it is not true because anyone who is looking for you as a place to review any time our time we met with them to make payments so that our time we're welcomed to them.
They would inform you for the house but we have to try to speak with them and there is still talks so that they are registered well, I can do because their intention is to do.
I look at the spider plant.
In Karume, they have made big things that it does not have a discussion with all, maybe it should be a person who oppose the marriage, then they have done well that they are doing so that they do not see if they are doing so that they do not know that even so you should know that it is not good.
I love.
