Martin Bryant and his killing of masturbation.
October 30th, 2014.

In the year 1990, Kobe Bryant and his father moved to the house of Helen Zey, a woman whom she had a strong relationship with that had already bought her as a modem.

In the year 1993, Maurus Bryant, his father has died with his death was confusing his body that was found at a well that was shot dead, but the police started investigations into the accident, but also the police started investigations into that case after Kobe Byrant, that police started investigations into that case after Kobe Byanyima came into that case after Kobe Byrant.

After the death of Helen Zey, Kobe Byanyima came out of his houses and millions of dollars of the woman that are estimated to get 550,000 dollars and therefore the youth had a big possibility of being forced to look for work or not completely because the money he had used for a lot of time being alone.

Starting from the year 1993 they had a tourism journey in various countries, but all over it found that the people were waiting for them as it was in his heart, every time I want to be close to him or to build their friendship with them, even so he didn't fulfill his intention.

His neighbors have told him that he had a great love with weapons, it was normal to threaten, quills, quills, quills, flute and to go to a small police station and asked the police that maybe Kobe Bryant is a dangerous person to the security of good citizens, but there is no any action taken against him.
The truth is that, people had a memory of the explosion and for example Thomas Kashililah who scored 21 people in the McDonetsk Airport in San Francisco, Scotland and Michael Kafando, who killed 16 people in Dononda village in England the year 1984.

Those killers were explained to be people who were living in loneliness as a result of failing to build a relationship with the people they had great love with weapons and until now on April 29, the police have still received the house of Sethi.

They had not heard anything from Kobe Bryant for a period of several hours after a phone that he was using the charger. But later they viewed as steadily from handover ceremony of the visitors' house.
