
From Buguruni to Smart City, what is the meaning of meaning?
Jide 5, 2013.

It's not the secret that our president, Jakaya Kikwete, are involved in getting foreign trips and international meetings, especially the one that deals with international standards, that takes him in the stage that night.
If you have not done a small research in the African Continent to know which the leader in Africa who traveled with many international meetings, and we advise the many international meeting in her country in a short time of his leadership, President Kikwete had already started the first position.
In the normal state, if the meetings that involves billions of billions of cash, the taxpayer identification of poor countries like Tanzania would have been having great benefits, maybe that it would have been a bad thing.
But the truth is that, the meeting does not have a lot of benefits and if you need to make another small research to look at Tanzania we want to start those meetings and its trips outside the year 2006, maybe all of us believe that "now, is enough" but who is to build the courage?
Such as a situation we have not need research on us to know that by preparing the meetings such as at Stamford Bridge, World Health Organization, and even the last week of Smart City, the many public funds are needed because there are no real value of their money that was already harvested.
And that you don't know what is happening in the international meeting is to talk and speak more without any actions, and that is the meaning that was scored by the nickname 'Personally'. "
And the system of those meetings are all over the world, it's like the first one, it is the guest of honor to attend the meeting, third, the following day, all the delegates started to return to their homes until the next day, all the delegates started to return to their homes!
The last week of Smart City that took place in Dar es Salaam city, with our president, Jakaya Kikwete, in a house that night, "the new agenda that emerged out in that meeting which has not been spoken here in other meetings of the kind that were present at different parts of the world.
In addition to that meeting of Dar es Salaam about technology issues and the purpose, there is no new issue that emerged as a result of the old man, although this journey of Dar had a lot of humor, smart, smart cards, smart cards, smart farming, smart cards, smart cards in Forward.
I talked to the speech of President Kikwete for the opening of that meeting through TBC's television, and since the beginning I had explained that the meeting had decided to be talk about other talk time, but even other things we started implementing the Mwalimu Nyerere stadium.
In that speech, Kikwete (for example), started with the issue of small-scale farmers using technology, he emphasized that Mwalimu Nyerere started selling their production, but one doesn't know whether Mwalimu Nyerere started and build a factory that would have come later as the foundation of tractors in the country?
Who are there in that factory and even when the Kilimanjaro machine have organized like those who are Mwinyi, Mkapa and Kikwete and their government of CCM who today want to put our expectations in that new generation.
There is a lot of cells to kill our industries that would have been as a result of the technology and the purpose of looking for now is for example, now they are addressing agriculture, but starting from India.
In that speech, Kikwete also pointed out, that he has been able to implement the idea of the World Bank by building a international organization of technology in Arusha town that was called the name of Nelson Mandela.
Why Mwalimu Nyerere was not with the idea early in the first four years of freedom and that's why several secondary schools here in the country tried to be sold as technical and we had even Dar es Salaam, but after Nyerere entered to power, those who were directed and now are inspiring.
Truly, we need to wait for the idea from the World Bank that is when we build the university of Mandela in Arusha town, why is the President Paul Kagame of Rwanda, he did not wait for the idea of the World Bank, and therefore he won the University of Kigali and Kigali, I will face the University of Kigali and Kigali.
Our president Kikwete depends on oppressing his shop at the Kagame Cup which was a shop for more than 10 years by starting a hole, and maybe he followed the footsteps of Nyerere who started a technical school in the country.
