Small income in production of food.
Martti Ahtisari Center, 2014.

While farmers celebrating their day this week, Tanzania is listed like 12 countries in their maize production in the world, but it is also the end in the world in the benefit of that product.
Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda used the statistics to officially launch the farmers' exhibition in the country (Nane Nane), the Southern Highlands Region that is taking place at John Mwakangale Stadium here.
More statistics of that production of maize in African continent show that Tanzania is in the fourth position but it comes to the whole issue that is holding the bottom as it is for the world statistics.
Some of the statistics show as they are offered by specialists of agriculture, it is that the increase in maize production is available on the expansion of the agricultural sector, and not the uses of the disease, better medicine and modern tools.
The purpose of a total of maize production in the world has put Tanzania that the Easter concert from Africa that enter the list of the best 12 countries in the production of forests, but the level is not giving a good picture of success in that production but a level that is paid through hectares is by giving the real picture of production.
United States with leading in the maize production in the world, the list of starting first to ten in the world, is together with America, China, Brazil, Argentina, France, Ukraine, South Africa and Canada.
The importance of the breast cancer in the country is open and in recent days, it has begun taking place in business produce as a result of food needs in the neighboring country.
The market that comes out in recent years is together with Kenya, Uganda, Sudan and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and even so, there are also reports that some of the countries need fuel from the country because of their production of processing, increase the value in them and sell outside.
In his speech at the opening of the exhibition, Prime Minister Pinda also touched on the issue of processing of maize flour, where he urged the local investors to increase the speed of investment in that area of processing so that the nation will begin transporting more than maize.
The maize flour contributes to 45 percent of food that are studying in the country, 60 percent of citizens depend on maize.
Production of maize in the country has reached 52 million shillings for the statistics of the year 2013, being more than 1 million tons compared to the production of that product in the year 2008.
Production of productivity.
An obstacle to their production of maize together with other crops, especially in Njombe, Iringa, Rukwa, Katavi, Ruvuma and Mbeya are the use of poor technology that does not allow production with productivity.
The restaurants in the past was known by the name "the Big Results Now" because of its contribution in producing food in the country, today after the day before yesterday were four again, but six are six.
Tanzanian farmers is among the users of a very small area, better seeds, and farming equipment, especially tractors and it is because of the little use of their production has no benefit.
It is only 12 percent of farmers in the country that use tractors in agriculture, while those who are able to look for a support is 62 percent.
In the use of quality seeds, statistics show that only 10 percent of farmers in the country are the ones that use the best taxes and the ones that use their natural fertility.
Prime Minister Pinda who is known as a great stakeholder in agriculture, believes that Tanzania has the ability to have a food story in Africa if only farmers increase the usage of the disease, quality seeds and modern tools for agriculture.
The provinces of Njombe, Iringa and Mbeya alone, has a land area with 146 kilometers, together with the good weather in production of food and business.
51 percent of the whole area is available on agriculture, but the area that was tested in that provinces is 23 million shillings only, equivalent to 3511 percent only of the whole area conducive for 645 million shillings.
Agriculture professionals are clear that, as at least a half of the area that is fit for agriculture in the provinces of the Southern Highlands Region, we will be used in food production, quality seeds and modern tools in the continent.
