
Chelsea is open up the speed up of the coach Guus Hiddink.
The coach Guus Hiddink will believes that the victory against Crystal Palace of 3-0 is the number of Chelsea players, have begun to obey his request and urged them to work hard to clean their reputation.
After two draw in his first match as the Chelsea coach, Hiddink will finally got its first win through Oscar, William an and Diego Costa, the stadium they were held of St. Park, Sunday.
The defending champions in Chelsea, they believe and settling in the match out of switching off his opponent, something that lasted for a few weeks ago.
Chelsea now seems to be treated from the trap of being left out of six points out of a dangerous winger after registering their big victory this season.
Hiddink had a difficult time when he played at Stamford Bridge last month to fill in the place of Jose Mourinho, who was chased.
At the same time, the players missed to be happy with joy, while Mourinho stopped him, because they do not hesitate to maintain their position as one of the rocks of the England Premier League.
But it's good hope that Hiddink have written the players quickly, with its presence and helped to revive the desire of the game and try to convince him to be informed.
This Sunday's victory goes against Chelsea who were scored by Crystal Palace in the first stage and made sure that Chelsea was beaten four matches since Mourinho won.
"We've started working now and if the team did not make it well for a long time, then you must be able to perform well, and that's why our reason to insist on good work, in games and prevent the attacks," said Hiddink.
Even though the 20 meter from 20 meters was very delicious with all their goals and it used to get married, the contribution of a mid-fielder from Nigeria, John Obi Promotion has touched me.
Mafikizolo has given Chelsea the strength in the central region of that force not to be there for a long time this season because I would have Matic, she cannot get them.
Mourinho did not have faith with restaurants which he mentioned to be only several times this season, but Hiddink will have a great plans for this player.
I think John Obi can be a very important mid-fielder in bringing equality to the squad and can grow its own profession because he knows you to study well, "said Hiddink.
