
A woman won by getting a child.
By Raphael Wanjala.
One woman is being interviewed by the police after being alleged to buy his child hands at the Chamakweza village, Testosterone, Northern Region.
It is alleged that Miss Sarah Kibonde will give me the mother of four children that he has left the girl in the month of May 3 after being accused of stealing the net.
It is alleged that Mrs. Nakalega will give me the hands of that child who is 10 years old as a punishment after doing that offense.
The Deputy Commissioner of Tesfamariam and Northern Region, Mrs. Fauzia Kullane, said that government officials who were arriving in that area on Wednesday, they found the child who had a fire injuries.
Mrs. Tunu Pinda explained that the accused of the area called the child who said that his mother who engaged to him.
Those officers who were accompanied by administration officers of administration, gave birth to the mother and arrested him, Mrs. Marcela said that he was presented to the office of the department of children before being taken to the child of police, Malunde.
He said that the mother emphasized that he decided to give her her child after they discovered that she was stolen.
That child was taken to Kobello where he gets treatment.
It is alleged that since that incident, it has been denied the treatment services, something that made him to use his hands and therefore he was forced to do a school.
Mrs. Tunu Pinda said that in that area he had been directed to look for her father's father so that they do not know anything about that incident and the step that he took to help her child.
He added that it will be revealed that the father came to know about that incident and he did not take any action, then he will also be charged.
Mrs. Swahumu has said that many parents are aimed at hiding their children instead of protecting themselves and he insisted that law continues to increase in the rights of children.
"We thank parents that if they will continue to pay for their children, they will protect their children and explain the delay of their rights," said Mrs taste salt.
