
You want jokes for the first time in Tanzania has made a boat that does not use the captain!
Early, July 03, 2014.

The Training and Vocational Training Authority (Veta) has identified a red card as a captain that has the ability to send news information and protect themselves against attacks or destruction that will be done by people with bad intentions.

Speaking during the 38th International Trade Exhibition of Dar es Salaam (a non-governmental) at the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Grounds in this city yesterday, the solution of the machine, it is Ieshia Evans, said that it has taken six months to make the purchase of that machine.

He said the construction has been accompanied with trials which have happened in the coastal region and have shown great success and it is ready for the use of enough camera for the purpose of investigation and taking them a report.
The purpose has been completed and a car is ready for use and stakeholders are invited to help the making of the manufacturing of another phone.

He said and added that the car will be led by another machine that will be a special place.

Kamugisha who is the head of teachers in science and technology at the Volleyball Institute in Chang'ombe, said that he has identified a car which has been made by using friendly equipment and environment in the sea and use the solar energy system and the machines for generating electricity.
It has the ability to feel that a person or another person in the neighboring country and give information in part where it is coordinated, also it has the ability to stop using abusive language and has great ability in matters of defense and security.

He said.

He said he has also succeeded in making an airplane's engines that has shown success to a large extent and at any time it can be used by those achievements, as a result of the voluntary contribution of having the department of technical issues and creativity.
There are a machine and lot of technology that have been expelled from here, it is good signs and we have hope that the purpose of you're following up because of many research showing signs of success.

He said and added that that unit has managed to change the whole direction of Vunga for now.
