
First right is the Boers plan to raise land on May 31, 2012.

In the past two weeks, I explained how the revolution program in the village or "agriculture first right" to stop the small farmer in the country by making it a habit, in big farms, "said big capital.
I was also mentioned that this program was founded by Boers in South Africa, and now it is being distributed to us.
It is not true that before South Africa getting freedom in the year 1994 to that country, under the administration of the Boers and the Boers government, was the main stronghold for the Boateng.
And after independence, the problem that was facing the new government of President Nelson Mandela was on a way to end that situation in the whole country, where the Boers had remained as a normal citizen of that country.
The second problem that is from Kuala Lumpur to Mandela, as it was for Obama of Zimbabwe after Uhuru is on how to return the hands of ACT Patriots, land that brought in the White House during their administration.
Fear was that if he would leave Boers to continue relying on land and employment, there was every probability that the militants has come back to continue with the fight because freedom can have been any meaning to them.
And if on the other side, he would have warned him, suddenly, Boers do not have their wives, land and farms, they should remain with their hands, the international community should never understand that and his government could not be an international reputation on oppressing his fellow citizens.
Therefore, the only way to Mandela who want to have forgotten the which he took is using his six mind, by praying for them (5) the neighboring country, "Masau boasted.
It is because this country like Mozambique, Angola, and Tanzania have found themselves associated with Boers close to every sector of economy, minerals, energy, health insurance and now land, under the program of "agriculture first" where every time they enter is a scandal.
Before I have not continued to explain the source of the "agriculture first one" under the program.
"Tanzania Food Reserve Agency (OPD), such as Nyota Ndogo has called people of the National Business Council (TNBC), and the Investment Center (TIC) here in our city, to look at a short time what they did not do the Boers under the project to wave.
"Flash disk" with other projects.
The year 1989, heading to South Africa's freedom, in talks with the British rule, Frederick Wama, Nelson Mandela before he was set aside from Atletico has said, he wanted the government to sit in the squad (pre form one), he wanted the government to sit down before they were released free.
One of the gospel squads, known as Civil Aviation Authority (CCM B) that performed well with security, killings, and a surprise attack against various people who contributed to the Board. of politicians (Hassanali) who benefited from racial segregation outside South Africa.
One of the gospel musicians of CCM B and the 32 squad, Lieutenant Colonel Luizio, who led the 5 region involved in Europe, the 4 region involved Angola, Zambia and Tanzania, led by another film.
After Uhuru of South Africa, Baranaba, faced with the challenge of losing his employment in the South African force, decided to start the "Petroleum Bulk Procurement Regulatory Authority (EPOCA), 1989, when the other opposition parties include Lieutenant Colonel Mighty One, Michael Grafereo.
Eastleigh company, despite providing military training, expertise and security has participated in providing a mother of war in many parts of the world, especially in Asia, South Africa and even Africa.
On August 17, 1997, the Estrada company, with the aim of getting an additional source of money to fund its activities, entered into a contract with the Tanzanian government to attract gold shares worth 50 percent, under the project known as' Merseyside with companies. "
But here there is a little crisis, other important reports show that Merlin Repyson have been registered in England, August 19, 1997 and a draw in England in the year 2006.
At that time, the company has already been involved in transporting weapons and participating in the fighting in Congo and Sierra Leone and in the state of violence in Rwanda and Burundi.
After the Tanzanian public started depending on the presence of Merkel, in the year 1998, Eucharist celebrated the name and known as' Sura Sirambi 'which is the meaning of our government sent the mouth, each time he involves itself with the killings and the killings in Burundi and Rwanda.
But the surprising thing is that the Proin Promotion and Drugs Authority is one of the directors of EO / Tufani ', Tony Baamar, has been given a chance to look for oil here in the country.
Now we look at the source of the "agriculture first," and how Boers involved.
The challenge of losing the employment that happened in the White House, Colonel Lucha and Barbosa from Kitope B, following the freedom of South Africa, the one that led the army's head of the country, Major General Projest Rwegasira, Make Me Sing and Barwan.
He went on more than the first, he made up and leading the political party called "South African Freedom '(FF) to defend the Boers's rights against the new government of Mandela.
Secondly, he invented the plan to look for agricultural land outside South Africa, from Angola and Mozambique, and finally spread in the neighboring countries of South Africa.
The plan for small business production, production of food and tourism has intended to start what he called "Tanzania Food Development Corporation (food and Drug Administration), who are using the flag of the president of" agriculture first, "here in the country.
Other participants in that plan are together with the Boers party in Orange Free State and Southern Highlands, taking off the main purpose.
"Start a big farms for cleaning up outside the borders of South Africa."
However, "Tanzania Food Reserve" has no reason to provide food to the locals of the areas or countries of the investment, but contrary to that project, small-scale farmers have lost their land and will be sold to their homes or passport for the farms that are owned by Boers.
More than that, the East African Development Party (the South African Development Party (South African Development Program), has been involved in this program and worked at the Institute of Freedom Park, Major General Projest Race and the Democratic Party's secret of brotherhood of Boateng.
The government's efforts of the CAT and Freedom Park since the beginning were supported by the African National Congress Party (ANC) and President Mandela himself, because that was we explained to the beginning.
In a discussion with the President of Mandela, November 30th, 1995, in order to convince him to support the plan, Major General Ozzy, gave food and employment to the locals and therefore as to reduce, if it is not finishing completely, the neighborhood of illegal immigrants in South Africa, will increase food and employment to the locals and therefore to reduce, if it is not finishing completely.
The decision of Major General Ozzy, doesn't end to President Mandela alone, but he managed to convince the Union of European Union (EU), United Nations (UN) and other organizations for sponsors who continue to give donations to them, the plan of Jerru Silaa, which had come to Tanzania through the sponsorship of "agriculture first"?
In the year 1996, President Mandela asked the government of Tanzania, under the leadership of President Ali Hassan Mwinyi, to receive the Boers to help improve the agricultural sector in the country.
For the government of Mwinyi asked the idea of Mandela, those Boers were able to attack all the important sectors of economy and infrastructure as I have explained the beginning, a series of evil deeds for our country, the evil thing that the government is striving more to prevent them.
The policies that surround him under the Boers program are those that are supervised by the World Health Organization (IMF), and the International Trade Organization (WFP) that will enable the countries with debts from outside the end of some people from outside up to the end of some people.
Many times the political leaders are aired live by senior officials in the government, have been put in a business partnership with those foreign investors.
Investment of Boers in agriculture is going on with the land laws and supervised by the World Bank Inike Bussemaker in the land is a must that it is required by sponsors, IMF and WB so that the country can grow or pay the time to pay the foreign debt.
On this condition, the land of small-scale farmers (which before yesterday was land's land), it is sold at a price to score or put in international agricultural organizations for more than 50 and 99 percent here, we have launched the land bank so that those can be able to come up to the system.
The World Bank has organized a strategic plan to the African countries outside the Sub-Saharan countries, land laws that reflect the rights of using millions of millions of small-scale farmers.
Those laws are being prepared under advice and management of the World Bank Department, it is the same law but with a few renovations of here and there.
Therefore, our land law is the previous law of Mozambique, South Africa, Angola, Sierra Leone, Ghana and elsewhere in the African where the IMF and WB leaders are complaining.
And that is also the labor laws where we should be forced to remove the security laws that make sure the legal rights of a servant at the place of work.
All these are the aim of making sure the ordinary servant should be in his country.
It is because this reason that I have explained the beginning, the proposed law of land conflicts with the effects of the commission of Professor Shivji that was formed in the year 1997, it was cleared to the law and land policy without involving our internal experts.
That is when the Boers on the back of "agriculture first left," it was launched.
This plan to give the new residential houses outside South Africa which President Nelson Mandela was known as Funding, South African countries, is funded by all the European Union (back again to thank the European Union (back again, December 1, 1995).
It has been reported that, South Africa is the only country member from Africa with industries in the world popularly known as G20 which includes eight rich countries in the world.
Due to this reason, South Africa has said despite being independent under the patriotic administration, it will still continue to be the agent of the international market and the one that will involve the economy of the African Continent to represent other nations.
Happy the investor in a small way to the Chinese or an entrepreneur, because these are not supposed to buy or accumulate people's land, but by Kabigiri, the land is the second after God and the Bible. "We can be able to give birth to" Palestine, "inside our country.
