
24 October 2013.

A new division in the education sector.

Ministers Zanzibar, a political party.
To discuss the education curriculum, music.

By Zainul Mzige.
An entrepreneur (details).
The Ministry of Education and Vocational Training in Zanzibar, has said studies.
Religion and others will continue to be taught together and go for exams.
All levels.

He said.
That has not agree with the education document from Tanzania mainland to do.
Those should be voluntary, so they should not get any percentage in the success.
You're welcoming the deputy secretary general of that ministry, Mister Abdallah Mzee, he said that in Zanzibar yesterday.
Speaking to the press in order to fulfill the reports made by some.
The media stations indicate that the ministry has removed the curriculum of religious studies.
Arab Emirates in the national exams.

He said.
The directors from the Ministry of Education in Tanzania Mainland, met with the colleagues of Zanzibar in order to discuss the work of Zanzibar.
The system of education that came to them that you want to be done so that they don't know.
He added that in that document, their colleagues from Tanzania started learning.
The Islam religion, Christian Bella, the Arab language, French, computer, music.
Voluntary contribution to the student dealing with us can help any success in standards.
The cost of success.

"The document was done.
It continues with those studies including religious and Arab countries to help anything.
Increase or reduce the forehead what happens, "explained Mister Mzee.
That, it has given that new procedure for us to be dealt with for students who will enter the form one in the year 2014 and by 2017.
Those are required to use in the form of the ones that came out therefore, Mister Mzee said the directors of Zanzibar opposed the procedure because they did not give it.
The requirements of Zanzibar.

"The directors.
Our thinking about the document, will not understand us and it is not another one with us according to our argument.
We were not supposed to do, they also agreed to ask ourselves to prevent them to prevent them, "he said.

He said the ministry's ministry.
Education in Zanzibar is giving an average of the language of language in different schools.
Kiango, therefore it will be difficult to follow the procedure.
Speaking about the subject of religion, Mister Mzee said.
That market in Zanzibar is very important to be among the subjects with teachers.
Good levels of diploma level up to UDA-PHD is being taught.
Class one to the University thus change the procedure it has not been possible.
He added that, in the current world,.
If a computer is very important.
Therefore, making it does not have the need to cater for him development. "
A good relationship between our ministry and mainland, we are not seen.
In the start of the concerned document, "said Neema Tawale.
That issue, ministers of those ministries Mister Ali Juma.
Shamhuna, his fellow musician in Tanzania, Doctor Shukuru Kawambwa, are expected to meet tomorrow.
To discuss this issue.
