The food and drugs authority has given certificates to one hundred and six graduates at the drug trafficking area in Dar es Salaam city so as to improve the sponsorship of drugs in the cold drinks company in Dar es Salaam city so as to improve the sponsorship of drugs in the cold drinks company in Dar es Salaam city so as to improve the sponsorship of drugs in the cold drinks company in Dar es Salaam city so as to improve the sponsorship of drugs in the cold drinks company in Dar es Salaam city so as to improve the sponsorship of drugs in the cold drinks company in Dar es Salaam city so as to improve the sponsorship of drugs in the cold drinks company in Dar es Salaam city so as to improve the sponsorship of drugs in the cold drinks company in Dar es Salaam city so as to improve the sponsorship of drugs in the cold drinks company in Dar es Salaam city so as to improve the sponsorship of drugs in the drugs shops in Dar es Salaam city so as to improve the sponsorship of drugs in the drugs shops in Dar es Salaam city so as to improve the sponsorship of drugs in the drugs shops in Dar
Here in the country it is more information.
One hundred thousand graduates of six hundred and six graduates of training to provide medicine in the most important drugs in the province of Dar es Salaam, takes care of treatment after completing the training of drugs in the cold drinks shops that are drivers and the desks.
The aim of this training is to improve the drug shops.
The organizing secretary of Dar es Salaam province, Theresia Mmbando has handed certificates to those certificates.
And then gave thanks to the graduates.
The pain of stem cells who have graduated in today because that service providers and those of the bus have not been unable.
It is that to consider the regulations and procedures of the provision of drugs for the purpose of security of citizens because those drugs have been taken without a special procedure, then we will be.
And the great effects to the community that are headed to settling in which drugs and that is why the training have taken place so as to be able to teach those drugs and the way to serve them.
The Chief Executive Officer of s for a dummy check while explaining how citizens have informed people of drugs in bookshops.
You shall have.
City which has a rumor that he does not lie?
The late God after you know the inspection from you will get a permit.
You will have a permit that can be used this is a shop for medicine?
I've heard that I will get all that and they are registered as a shop for medicine?
Secondly, the second issue will face you that there is a must they have a person of the medicine to support them as a three months you want this.
Therefore, it is not good.
And this will also be something of his seat as a person who will also be a shop.
But it will also have different documents that has its service providers especially among stakeholders is reducing the most important shops that the man can be satisfied with the knowledge of those shops and also there is a special list of the party that is allowed to be released in some shops.
And if we do not have.
