
CHADEMA will destroy his fans of Sei 14, 2012.

The decision by the executive committee of the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CHADEMA) has sacked two party members of Igoma Ward and Kitanzini ward in Mwanza town, has been received with different items from the residents of this city, others believing that it is correct for some of saying it's due to a lot of life of that party.
The party stopped the councilors' membership and the councilors of Nyamagana and Henry Matata, Kitegu, who together were accused of being accused of other things, under the mayor of Mwanza city for votes of lack of faith in Mwanza city for votes of lack of faith in Mwanza City by not having faith in him, an issue that was given and managed by those councilors.
However, other blogs have told this newspaper that for that decision, we should expect to wake up and leave the faith that they were facing and that it's like the liberation of this country is because of it is like other parties and wherever he did, but Tanzania will last forever.
"I am saying that all the days I did not believe in life or I believe in you starting from time, an issue is an intention to serve our goals and CHADEMA is not only a way to reach those goals and CHADEMA is not only the only way," said other blogs.
He added that in politics there are a lot of things and therefore continuing to fight that you can be able to fight against them and that which comes now there are some of the party after seeing that they are trusted by citizens because they are expected to move forward.
"He said (the source of HIV) here is the member of parliament in the year 2015, people have started to plan their column in order to maintain peace, but politics and the liberation of Tanzania is not a must for forgiveness through CHADEMA," he insisted.
He said that he will not say a lot today at the public meeting that he will fly the Igoma Ward so as to talk to his voters and explained that everything is the real truth when the situation has reached when it reached after he has got an official report of his party to sack him from his party.
On his side, the councilor of Kitogo county, Henry Matata said he is in the sessions to discuss about his fate and requested to give his report later.
"Now I'm in the process of sessions to discuss that issue, I urge you to help him later on my stand, now I have been saying I will give you a half a half time, let me finish with this meeting that I will be with the official report," said Matata.
These councilors of CHADEMA have been in a long time meeting with some councilors and members of the party due to their standings, they have been sitting on behalf of their party's decision on explanations of the party leaders at the session of the council of councilors was being handed over by some of the party leaders at the national level.
The HIV virus in the party that involved those councilors started on May this year, at a session of the council of councilors to give a motion that made citizens who attended that session, but that has already been celebrated by strength and councilors of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) of wanting the mayor when he resigned.
In that point the councilor for other blogs, who gave a motion to vote of not having faith with the Mayor of that council, Jackson Sipitieck, who led by his party, said he has no faith with that mayor because he has been running the council membership without following the regulations.
I am saying I wants to say the truth because I am not afraid, I am an independent institution, I don't have faith and you're the chairperson, it has never been the first to write my name so that I can make mistakes of not having faith in you, "said the councilor.
After that sitting, the councilor managed to collect 16 votes of delegates dampening their argument of wanting to vote of not having faith with the mayor where the councilor was the first number two with CUF, including the nominated member of parliament of CUF, Jurgen Klopp.
Finally, finally they got the mayor in his position and making the city now directed by the Deputy Mayor, who also comes from CHADEMA.
The cause of the tension between that tension has been a political difference between the member of parliament of Nyamagana District, Hebert Mwinuka, with those councilors who believe that the member of parliament has become a threat to the member of parliament he has for them as a threat to the parliamentary position.
However, that member of parliament has been announcing those allegations and explained that those are the way of the group to deal with his name because he has never happened or even to do there against any person in the party and instead he has been fighting for justice and honor of the party.
The councilor of Kirumba ward, Dibogo Wenje, explaining that decision has said that his party cannot be able to drop by being even in the creation of Ilemela Council which is expected to be made in September this year, they have a chance to lead that council without problems.
I don't see if we shall get to be even when they are doing their contribution to the council and even to the party there had more problems, but we believe we will continue working well. "Some of the residents of those wards have congratulated the decision because they have said it is important to have the discipline in performance.
I think this party has done well and it is a must for people to know that a private person cannot have the strength more than the party, "said James Maasais.
On his part, Kikula has said CHADEMA does not work hard to learn the habit, "he will sack him from this way and instead they consider the opinion polls they hold on their views because they are maturity in the party.
The incident of the arrest of those councilors is as a continuation of the dismissal of some councilors of the Municipal Council of Arusha, who like it was for their colleagues in Mwanza town, who was in a tension with the former member of parliament of Arusha Town (CHADEMA), Godbless Lema.
