The era of Mkulabi and Auditor General!
APR, 03 / 2013.

For now, for him to talk to the country to talk for him, but let me just to listen to him, it's about my house in Magogoni in Dar es Salaam city, Jakaya Kikwete and his officer of JKT, Afande Sele.

Those days, in the year 1972, when I arrived at the National Housing Corporation (JKT) Ruvu, in Pwani province is serving the operation.

Mkuchika, recently has narrated it that he and his colleagues JKT in those days had betrayed him, after getting married after they came out and made him to be presented in the scene of the audience.

But first I will give a warning that, close to each one is an incident or his own kind, in his old days (since early or the same way), in which one thing is his incident.

Yes, it was on March 26th, this year, on Tuesday, President Jakaya Kikwete, himself without even was quoted saying, he had narrated it his life when he was Ruvu JKT.

In a story, he found himself about stealing a sexually transmitted disease, then they were arrested by officer of Kajunason Blog, that he is in the previous day after making all the previous steps of the incident.

I have not seen him, yes, it has narrated it those days of JKT the day before yesterday, when he was opening a training to members of parliament and that he will launch JKT, according to the law.

I want to talk to the country for him to talk for him but in a few minutes, Jkulu was JKT Ruvu in the year 1972, in an operation given by Tumaini.

Now in his story about the privacy of the sun, a food that is done well by the big number of children in the country, President Kikwete said (recently when Ruvu JKT), "I remember the way I was arrested by Mister Yaida while asking him in the food meeting.

The "to get to us would have a day that was scored by the meat and praying we are going to maintain then later we are going to eat after work.

"Now the day was my return to praying, as usual, I take a prayer so that I'm looking for, I am just outside, Hamad!

"She told me, while my work with my friends of praying for me, he told me recently, then you are a form one who has come to take training.

"In the picture, there is the vice president is called Rashid Mfaume Said, who came to that there is a young man of age Six has gone into the camp he will be remembered?

I told him no, he said that if that is how they leave that behavior, he added that it will continue to continue with the behavior that I had been arrested but I succeeded to leave me. "

Now, let's go in a short debate while although Kikwete managed to be released by Officer Majano (if it has shown the name) for himself, I don't have sure that what he did in the country are discussed with two primary issues in the country.

First of the foundation is a big message of officer Sele brings people just after arrested a very big delegation at Magogoni that he was a high leader when he was a member of parliament for a form of one million who will be compensated?

We want to talk to the country for him to talk for him, he believes that this is a great message even in these days of life's life, instead of theft of illegal immigrants.

You will be able to identify the discipline of leadership that he would like officer Sele does discipline, discipline, discipline, discipline and ability of the high authorities in the camp and that is why his question is in the camp and that is why his question is in the camp and that is why his question is a big lesson.

We ask ourselves, Kikwete entered the pregnancy of those days and we are warned by that heavy question from officer of messengers?

Youths to the elderly who live in public institutions, their authorities can protect the hope of the high authority more in protecting the property of the country, by considering the example of Ackyshine.

Officer Sele does not have a problem of success in removing the hope of the authorities of his country and that is why he interviewed Kikwete for using an example of vice president he was happy that a woman feels a scholar.

But the second one on this event of theft of Ihanga village, Jamil Mukulu was admitted in front of Marketing Officer, that the vice president, Kawawa said that the vice president, Kawawa was that I'll read it.
