
The business of girls from Zanzibar are blocking the sun.

A human business has come up with fast in the country and caused security of the country because of the age of 8-15, some of them being students of primary and secondary schools are being transported to go to the neighboring countries.

The investigation that was done by one newspaper of every day for approximately two weeks, has revealed that the business has come out from December last year and it has taken to many female children from different provinces in the country.

The Police Commander of Water, Mboje, in the country asked by one newspaper in the country confirmed to get reports of the existence of that business, although he said that he does not have statistics of children who have been arrested while being transported.

The problem of transporting the children is there but I have people who are dealing with this issue when I will give him tomorrow (today) I will give you all statistics concerning that business after getting my people.
More investigation has revealed that provinces where those children are bought by special agents before being transported to be taken to the neighboring country, Lindi, Manyara, Coast, Tabora, Tanga, Tanga and Shinyanga.

The reports show that those agents have succeeded to get those children from those provinces that they took place in Dar es Salaam and later transported with water transport from the port of Dar es Salaam to Zanzibar.

The investigation has revealed that those children came out in Zanzibar when they met with special people who received and given the plans of helping the transportation of air travel or water to go to be stable where it is taken to various jobs.

Those agents have succeeded to invest in the port of Dar es Salaam, it is usually paid an average of 8 million American dollars (8 million shillings) for every child that made it successful in Tanzania mainland to Zanzibar.

According to the investigation, so as to legalize the journey to protect those children, the agents eat conspiracy and some of the chairpersons of local governments by writing a letter that explains the reasons for those children to go to Zanzibar.

The letter said that it has been revealed is extra, they are written by being beaten by the chairpersons of local governments of Temeke Municipal Council, Dar es Salaam city.

Part of the letter is easily read.

We request that this child should be remembered (doubt) but to be given a partnership, he went to Zanzibar to listen to her brother who are in there they will receive him.
