07 / 2013.

The fight for the small-scale farmers are accelerating.
The fights that are inspiring.
Causing deaths have happened in Mvomero County, Morogoro Province continuing.
Farmers and pastoralists, where yesterday came in the second day continuously.

How is the news.
Reliable sources from the scene in that town yesterday, explained that the fight.
It started the day before yesterday in Jihadist area after being sent to prevent two groups.
The cows and pastoralists that are alleged to buy products.

One of the people.
Our witnesses from the scene area said that after a cow.
Their detention were given the farmers of the Maasais' to seeking that livestock.
Where the fights were started dealing with all the two sides.

According to the picture.
The topic giver, during the fights broke out in 11 o'clock were also injured.
He said that he has died from the side of farmers, it was reported that their side won.
Seven injured including one was injured by the spider plant that left her.
From the chest.

The service provider.
That person has talked with a condition of his name.
Not published the newspaper, he said.
The occurrence of those fights are groups of the Makumbulu.
When you arrived, while the Mahege tried to save their livestock without success, a situation that led to them without success.
The fights broke down.

The fights were found.
Yesterday it came in the second day, where people who were on the front line.
Witness the bodies of five people being down, but it was not known.
One if they had lost life.
No.

".
True, the situation is bad especially in Kigambini bridge, where the bodies of those people are.
It seems to have already put aside more than 1000 that are self-employed.
The village of breeders taking care for the aim of encouraging poverty to the Maasais.
Stop their houses, "said our news reporter.

When he was asked.
If a wig?
In the park, as a result of the fights being bad, women and community children.
The Mawere forced to seek refuge at the police station.
Efforts to get.
The police force to talk about the violence erupted after phone.
It is not a problem.
