28 December, 2012

Two police have arrested.

By Zainul Mzige, Kigoma.

The police force in Kigoma province is holding two police officers on allegations of causing the death of the resident magistrate's Parish, Makanya, Kasulu District.
Information that was released by the press yesterday by the police commander of that province, Fackson Shamenda, said the event happened on December 25 this year, at four o'clock at night in that village.

He mentioned those policemen to be expelled from 8622, Peter and G336, Sunday during the bar which they were playing with Mister Gasper Mussa (36), who is a farmer in the bar they were drinking and after beating them, they arrested the station.

He said on the 26th of December this year, the head of the station gave a report from Kasulu District, SP Sospeter Muhongo that the suspect was a patient but died on a short time after being taken to Kasulu District Hospital.

"The source of the fight is after the deceased failed to pay drinks as it is where the police started against him.
Caused pain that caused his death, "he said.

He said as a result of that incident, those police have been arrested and being held by police for more investigation so as to identify the source especially of the conflict and if it will be revealed that they were involved in court to answer the charges of murder.

At the same time, the police force in that province is celebrating Mister Hassan Abbasi, who is the teacher of VETA Vocational College, in that province, after he has left the police force of swords and all two hands and a result of lack of love.

Commander Kasibu, said that the incident took place on December 24 this year, at four o'clock at night where Mister Shija who is the teachers of electricity in that school has left Ruvuma Province, Mrs. Rida Mbilinyi (35).

He said at that event, Miss Mbilinyi got huge injuries and was forced to be admitted at the Maweni Referral Hospital for more treatment.

He added that until now the suspect is under defense and he will be presented in court to answer the charge that he is facing.
