If you go to Grind.
The potatoes inside now that is said in Tanzania?
The projects of different campaigns and explained the importance of the potatoes during food as food and an income to the household.
In the best agriculture in the world, it will be able to see and view from posters that focus on drinking alcohol because they are trying to continue with other types of diseases on behalf of all the teachers who will participate in your clinic and the one that is involved in your diet.
We should not inform us that their own kind will be encouraged to remove it because it is normal for small teachers every time when it comes to big victims of the shortage of pregnant women and children.
This product is also very important because they can bring the reliable food and eventually improve the lives of the households in general.
Why are you say they are saying.
Doctor Evin a cup is a researcher in the research center for agriculture every time I commend and here is you.
We have been used to be used so much by farmers to sell the potatoes which are white or color or color.
We were still on the terms of blood we have not yet to be able to rise and carrots until they are called to a reason why they believe in which is inside.
We believe that a very difficult time for anything which is very important for the sake of mothers who live a good thing because the mother had shown because it is important for people to patients or even the same day you use the shoes and sure of improving their health especially by increasing.
A certain amount of patience is abolished, including doing your health at the event making sure that during that time it is a gathering of participants to save house from the Azam Complex and me.
They met at the agricultural research center because there is a great aim of ending the second step of encouraging the environment of cooking oil before starting the third step which is a last step of environmental protection.
When it is wrong, Faith Asenga has also care about events of actors of their markets during their markets with an opportunity for various participants to deal with being part of great changes in markets, wherever they start in markets and production at the agricultural sector.
And therefore, it is supposed to see that markets is why I start before someone has not be in place.
Currently, this system does a person we want people to start with the market.
If they do his needs to know the customers want to know that the market needs to have an extent and after how it will help these needs and be using this system, you can't miss the market.
Now in doing.
These symptoms of dealing with the whole issue of markets.
There are rumors and sometimes it is done in the first phase.
Its the previous research that basically you are doing?
What are the opportunities of that markets we have done?
And in that phase.
In this way you will also care about operations of markets which are in English?
In the fight against Mkamba Rangers or also James.
It can be three consecutive years for the first phase, the month of eighth last year, following ten years now, every phase has the last event.
At the end of the last phase of this first phase of this festive season, the fate of the markets comes to the previous results were presented to stakeholders in the last event where many people including the journalists.
Therefore, and this opportunity to be known.
About the ones that are available on the cold and cold drinks, which were put open and were put aside from the opportunities we are based, it was the third time for the first opportunity, it was an opportunity for markets of cooking oil.
Or drinking alcohol in areas that have a shortage of rains.
Or the areas that are a result of having a period of one season maybe a lot of time in the whole period of this year there will be a lot of time in those areas like the beginning of Shinyanga and the central provinces especially Singida.
Therefore, if we feel it is an opportunity that he has not been touched but your people are complaining that they are complaining.
Right now we got.
Ras Kiduku was second.
The market or the employment opportunities in Mwanza town have passed but the beginning to pay more priority because in our research, we discovered that it has started to build factories of natural gas production.
The farmers and gefarnate are important participants in the improvement of the whole issue of cooking oil and these participants are saying what about agriculture and distribution of livestock.
They did not ask ourselves to have written their good life.
They do not lie!
When you go through your second time you're getting off at a time you will be at the same time you will be at a time.
The White man can end up on behalf of Instagram you will meet.
And the cooperation that will be enough in the activities, Andre Villas Boas has its availability and also to look for markets they did not get the range of products because if you check between the crops that have not been avoided.
It is.
And its produce that its products are supposed to be Pius and it is an issue that will help them to protect themselves because three months have been used quickly easily and its market than open.
And if we will be able to increase the strength.
And to generate more, then we can grow themselves from the only way, we will be few to leave the family and other things and also the government to resolve the farmers.
We listen to the schools they have started as it is and help organizations that are participating in the development activities of citizens here in the potatoes branch, so as to improve their farmers and the government institutions to give them more income and for sure that they are believed to have more income.
Those equipment are for teachers, can I get market quickly and where it gets easily more than the year.
Doors for entrepreneurship after getting that seminar is shown to the religious organization that gives your services easily.
And some of.
I took that education my education, I took her in a good environment living but before the issues I believe is together with the speaker of the party that your own kind should not be given, together with other things; therefore, the Swahili does not use it as a careless spender.
Later, I continued by, I sat at my memory, we will also be praised if we will be praised if you will leave if he will leave each other.
And something that it took is together with bananas, after the eclipse of the global financial organization, I have given them a chance since they go to the residents, and to see if they are in the standards.
Then I was forced to inform you, small seats have changed the end but at the end of the day I have been able to sleep and let you find the best women or the father who have not registered themselves because there are many women or mothers who have not found themselves so that we're close to groups until now we are in the fund's education.
We are running a lot of potatoes inside.
To get divided into different stations from the researchers and our researchers of the station.
This year we will cost the country to go.
The British does not lie!
And until now we are still continuing to be true but there are challenges that we have in our group.
There was not less than not less than it.
What are the sins related to us?
We are looking for a check for these hours.
But our spokesperson form the church?
To continue.
