
Coastal Union B has gotten a lot of Life Deilee to 27 years.

The European Champions League that involves youths under 20 years to teams participating in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League ended last Sunday with Azam FC will be champions after scoring against Coastal Union by 3-1 after scoring 2-2 goals.
Those who follow the tournament will not accept the truth that Coastal Union B which is in Tanga together with losing the final game, was the best team in that tournament.
The Manager of Azam, Said Salim Bakhresa who is also the organizing committee of that competition, did not loose the words he got a chance to say anything after the tournament ended.
He went on the reputation of the Coastal Union squad that it is the best squad in that competition.
"I thank you very much, again, the leaders of the Coastal Union for being able to raise these youths up to be able to play soccer at a high level like this, is why I would like to play this way," he said.
I was supposed to win this game but if it was not there but I heard the Coastal Union under 20 years is a good team for the youth I have ever arrived here in the country, "added Bakhresa.
However, the former chairman of the National Sports Council (BMT) Retired Colonel, Iddi Kipuyo has said the president of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Leberata Tenga, different programs they were posting on the Coastal Union for being able to give their youth entertainment.
In that tournament, Coastal Union had lost only one game in six previous games that they played where four in two groups is the quarter-finals.
In all the games, they bought international soccer especially in the quarter finals when they met with Ruvu Shooting at the Chamazi Stadium until the time they were going for two goals.
But when they came back for a long period of safe, youth from Coastal Union succeeded to return all two goals and got into a penalty where they succeeded to move ahead after winning 4-3 goals.
In the semi-finals, they met with Simba and that is the match that was raping his head, because Simba were the defending champions of that tournament and are believed to play soccer with attractive football.
But the situation was different from the youths of Simba agreed to be beaten 2-1 goals from the Coastal Union, therefore being chased officially from the Coastal Union in the finals of that tournament for the first time.
Azam was the first one to get into the finals after eliminating Mtibwa Sugar in 3-2 penalty shots, that was after the 90th minute was 1-1.
The finals was being waited for desire especially considering that Azam has a reputation of playing soccer in the attractive soccer though this year they were forced to kill him by fans claiming to buy the referees.
In the first half, the youths of Azam FC bought soccer in a high level to make the leaders of TFF and other sports parties being silent and not knowing that it was a result from people about the level of high level of youths of the Coastal Union who until the first half, it was behind by 2-0 goals.
However, in the second half, Coastal Union came back with a speed and playing soccer in a high level that has raised the noise and making of soccer leaders to fail to sit on the pitch and Coastal Union.
Until the 90th minute they won 2-2 goals it was added on 30 minutes but the situation did not change therefore, due to their goalkeeper's goal to save three months from the Coastal Union and won by 3-1 penalty.
By taking the second position the Coastal Union left with a sum of one million shillings while Azam were awarded one million and a half million shillings to be the champions of the tournament.
Coastal Union is the one that gave the best goalkeeper who is Mansour Yussuf Simai description that is not enough, the coach of Coastal Union, Bakari Shime is the best coach of that competition that takes place every year.
In addition Ruvu Shooting emerged winners with discipline, Ramadhan Mkwavi wanted Simba emerged the best goal by scoring six goals and best player became Azam who is Joseph Kimwaga who had the best referee, Isidore has emerged.
Coastal Union B has three years since its establishment and I have been following up on their development, I have discovered it is a team with youths with great talents although they don't have an official camp "Academy" like Azam FC and Yanga which are the teams that are doing well in the premier league of Tanzania.
The success of the team since the importance is to participate in four youths competitions, the East African clubs competition and among the youths under 20 years of Rolling Stone that participated in two times, the first time they participated in the year the day before yesterday and will end the quarter-finals in Arusha town where they were defeated by Simba.
This year's competition of Rolling Stone that took place in Bujumbura, Burundi, Coastal Union got great success even so as to get into the finals where they were defeated in the semi-finals against the team from Congo (DRC).
Cup of Life has participated in two times for the first time to participate in the group stages, later they have planned to organize afresh and this year they will fight again.
For sure, the president of the Football Federation in TFF, Leberer Tenga, wants the congratulations to start the procedure of putting laws for it to have teams participating in the Premier League to have a small number of youths under 20 years.
That process is to bring up youth talents who were previously used to play the school teams and remain in the streets without being seen in the sports world.
Colonel Ali Iddi, who was the head teachers of Makongo secondary school, is the first one to help the youth by admitting students from the secondary and famous primary schools popularly known as BISON.
That procedure used to strengthen the players' talents who came to kill a lot in soccer in Tanzania, among them is the number one goalkeeper of Taifa Stars, Juma Kaseja to the others named Boniface Jacob, Bob Entertainment and Haruna Shamte.
But now it is a must for any team of the premier league to have a youth team.
If the team will go against that procedure it can also be removed from the tournament.
In the past two teams like Simba and Yanga are the ones that had the team B where they used to get new players for the use of later, although it was not a must to do so.
The advice that was given by the TFF president and the Coastal Union leaders are to ensure that they take care of the skills of talents which for many years later, they can defend Tanzania and Africa as a whole in bringing up football.
But it's not the Coastal Union only, but all the teams that are participating in the premier league are required to give them well the youth so as to ensure the goals of soccer leaders in the country are hopeful.
