Lowassa Thailand, Kikwete.
May 15, 2014.

Joseph Tetteh Zito, the leader of the Kisangani region of the year 1920 until 1995, when he was shot and said that he has no strength to think about it more than gun strength.
I am surprised by the view of 'Thanks, because our thinking should be more than everything, the right thing is what is building a stable economy, the ones that brings success in any sector.
But different from the many countries that are developed have a big problem to some of the African countries, are some of its leaders to be able to withstand the amount of accurate information and the thoughts that are not correct to protect themselves between the thoughts that have no benefit, again without considering the requirements of the concerned country.
Here in Tanzania, there are a lot that took place in the course of correct instructions in all the leadership positions, but there are other things that were held in mistakes and should be satisfied with it is that mistakes have been working on them.
That is the mistakes that are used to make other extra mistakes for the mistakes of some minister can be used to expand the mistakes of another minister and in the middle of those mistakes, it's proposed to a few interests against the interests of the nation.
By considering that, I will discuss about the tour of President Jakaya Kikwete in Nigeria recently.
According to State House news analysis, the president used the whole day of May 9, to visit the factory that is Oberlin Kisanga, a 400 kilometer race in the east of a famous business city of Nigeria, Lagos.
As it is normal for the training tour, there are a lot to learn and sometimes to prepare themselves even so, other out of those are for the purpose of learning and stop because its benefits is not for the great range of the nation.
Between the things that President Kikwete and his convoy are supposed to leave there in Nigeria, again let them stop inside the fence of Dangote cement, it is a decision to the rich and its spherical process from China for the purpose of construction of expansion of that factory.
That in order to ensure that the expansion of that factory is going on with a very high speed, the state house across from the media explained that Dangote has ordered thousands of 14 lorries of China to participate in that construction and being a present quickly.
The company's decision that supports the cement factory here in Mtwara Province should not be implemented here in the country Doctor Kikwete and his convoy without doubt, we have learned a lot, but this issue of payment is "a class.
I write here in order to give a warning because it is possible that Kikwete and his convoy have been impressed with the truth, "said that, the company has denied its obligations from other countries.
Yes, it is not true that Kikwete and his convoy comes to a result of the idea and even discourage them or considering that they will be used for the working law against the foreign citizen in the country because there is possible especially considering experience from our leaders, who have been keen on issues of controversy in the use of human resources.
The evidence of that experience in some of our leaders to follow things that are proud to is obvious, again in this administration of President Kikwete for example, it will be remembered that in the year 2007, the former Prime Minister for that time, Edward Lowassa did a tour in Thailand.
While in addition, he was surprised by the truth, the idea of controlling the experts of the rains to come in the country because of making rain water into dams to produce electricity in the country, from Mtera dam and others.
On their opinion of thanks, Lowassa and his convoy showed that there was a goalless draw in Thailand, the office of the Prime Minister has announced his great plan of making rains.
That experts from Thailand are ready to come up to produce heavy rains in the country, some of the colors of the probability of a lot of range of range of range of shortages and thinking that they will destroy the program "great" but the office of the Prime Minister has mentioned above.
And more than that, in confirming the difference of the ability of the leaders to think about that issue of "Lowassa's rains, they will emerge with the parliament in September this year.
It was on September 2nd, last year, in parliament, two ministers of the government of Kikwete, found themselves insulting each other about the rains.
It was a objection between the minister of the country, the office of the vice president - environment, Doctor, while dancing in Huvisa added by the minister of state, the office of the prime minister (policy, coordination), William Lukuvi and these were able to attract so on the truth about the rains.
In their tension, Minister Huvisa said that there is no ability of that kind, but Lukuvi also presented to parliament and presented him, emphasizing that issue is there.
In his statement, Minister Huvisa said, "I am the president of the African environment, I say there is no something like that (rain), not America or Malaysia and can make rains, those are climate change."
It is by considering that, Kikwete and his convoy which they are participating in the things to consider for the benefit of the country and others being satisfied with the interests of the country.
