China and disadvantages of goods.
October 2nd, 2013.

This week I was reminded that my speed to learn Chinese is very small and I will not be able to try more after getting the tragedy that he threatened to dispose it into the community.

Earlier on the incident I was going on in the class and then after the from I went back, I decided to send a new meal to pray together with frying onions, mixed with tomatoes and shoes.

After food, I began to go back to the office of the health here Shanghai, for the purpose of tests, being part of the process of getting a permit for living in China.

When I was on the way to the train, the stomach will begin "know" with little pain, "Mujahideen," every time I continued with a journey to believe it is small, stomach, will not last.

One station before the rise, stomach, comes up to the desire of the journey to go and start looking for God to see God create an effort to look for pregnant women and when I was forced to ask ourselves even when that time, her stomach pain did not understand.

All the passengers that I asked, moreover, he did not know the world or the Chinese that I used did not have any other, and therefore, I don't have the goats.

Lead the train together with his skill as seen to sell the ship. He knew I was sent and I need to take a quick donation, but he knew that the whole station fainted often.

You can sign him for being unable to communicate the Chinese even after attending the classrooms in the language for approximately two weeks, but the truth is that Chinese is difficult.

Its difficulty there are reports that this statement is a native language (HIV) which is why the word depends on how you will be understood, not only some of the words, but all the words that you want to be true.

When we are doing so, they are insisting that everything is a word "couples," because the way you go through a mother, the natural resources of making clothes, make sure that you get married or it can be a threat.

In showing the importance of the program, the first subject of the care of a period of five hundred thousand in the country and up to now, every teachers who play in class starts and exercise before continuing with the subject of that day.

In my journey that made noise from stomach, during the tests on the health center, they were able to inspect their clothes and put up clothes at the laboratory, causing the clothes to fall into a small draw and taking the key.

One of the ones who went to test the number and put his things in the draw without her found it found, later when he wants to take his stuff at the draw, but it was the one that gave birth and scored a draw without his number, he stopped his things.

The quality of products is an important thing even if it is very important if it is the key to the owner in the draw is among the popular products from China, the country whose quality of products is a critical condition which is needed for a good issue.
