
Every Tanzanian has a responsibility of protecting the Indian Ocean on 09 / 2012.

Recently I commend him from the two-day visit to visit Selous Wildlife Conservation Area, the aim of the tour was to see for himself the benefits of one of the origin of its own kind of Tanzania with international importance.

In my tour, I met with the manager of the park, Benson Bana, the wildlife officers and other employees of the Selous National Park, so I got an opportunity to look at different areas of Selous Wildlife Conservation to arrive in the sky, those areas include River Ugandans and their homes in the reserve.

In addition, when I was in the safeguard the market I was reminded the Teacher Julius Kambarage Nyerere from his annual statement known as Arusha Manufacturing Company, "life of us are very important because of our resources and also the future of our life and also the future of our life in future."

Some of the things I have seen in this tour, he has touched me in a unique way.
It is reported that Selous Wildlife Conservation has a huge number of elephants, but in my tour to go to the air, I was able to see very few elephants, this issue can be an illustration of a huge number of elephants which were destroyed, up to now, it has shown the size of this problem.

Tanzania has made a big step to set aside 28 percent of all land, in the whole world, the world cup, and Selous National Park is one of the important areas that were set for the purpose of being affected.

The big challenge that is in order to create human resources and enough energy in order to improve and develop themselves in those areas so that the animals will continue improving and attract tourists and investors in the tourism sector from all over the world.

Protect yourself in this reserve and protect its own importance, it is a must to have a good position among the community development, sustainable development activities and to make sure the climate change is available in Tanzania.

People from the United States through the United States Agency for International Cooperation (USAID), are partnering with the aim of protecting and developing a lot of land disputes, prevent land conflicts and get rid of land areas that have been destroyed in its previous situation and to improve the lives of people's lives through various projects of conservation.

In collaboration with the government of Tanzania and various institutions of conservation, these efforts have enabled changes to its policies since the establishment of a procedure to have areas of climate change being supervised by community themselves (bulb).
In this procedure, community benefit from one of the conservation and improving the resources that are in their areas.

The truth is that the conservation projects that are run by Way Company has developed the community members to supervise and maintain quality students of their areas through the year 2010, more than 350,000 people have got income directly, being one of the benefit of economic growth and sustainable development of resources.

The Selous Wildlife Conservation and does not have a great privacy of Tanzania, one is his legacy of the cultural and environmental activists of Tanzania. It is thinking that every Tanzanian generation will benefit from human beings all over the world. Therefore, it is your responsibility to protect themselves.
The writer of this article, Alonso minute was welcomed joyfully by America's ambassador in Tanzania.
