From Kinyanyiko area, live and corruption.
Mr of 15, 2012

On August 23, this year in the capital city of Sweden, from Kinyanyiko area, it occurred the world that was surprised the world that criminals involved the bank with an aim of making weapons to use weapons.
But after the efforts, police requested them to join the criminals already by serving the hostage.
As a result of the whole world, the rebels managed to grow, instead of waiting for the liberation, the police opposed it and did not meet the robbers who were carried out and they failed to take them by those criminals in their truth and instead they failed.
They saw those criminals in different ways that include for creating a environment of not knowing if they were given a good opportunity to eat, sleep, not knowing them.
The efforts of the police and other various donations to the government tried to be the problem in the rebels instead of criminals with their violence, the surprising incident that happened yesterday was a great talk and eventually being given the name of Stockholm, Sweden, having a great talk to defend what they bought through the production of bad luck.
In the basis of the regulations of "virgin" that is a mixture of feelings is true that when a human being is missing, they were waiting to prevent it, without the expectations, and at different levels, what is used to prevent people and they will sell those thoughts, therefore, it is needed and be a solution to them.
Even if it will be a bandit from the bank, the colonial era, a big disease, bad luck, different types of relationship, and faith or security.
In the subject of "mystery," during the book 'Follow suit', she is looking at a long time when you go to the same time when you get married, the soybean seeds that led to the understanding.
Your thing, what is going back after that was a surprise of their colleagues instead of falling, causing it to the same, when it was found, he didn't know it, they can't understand and even find him. "
He continues, "you can be able to find themselves in an environment of love and attraction to a dangerous environment that destroy their skins or passport.
The scene of Sweden is only one of the many years that shows and explanation at the improvement of the regulations for caring for the thoughts, "if it can grow and affect the community.
It is embarrassing for being the ones affected without the consent, but at the same time, I cannot get bad thoughts, it is impossible for her thoughts and planting is recognized by the benefit of those criminals.
Let me know.
Follow me and you will be followed keenly, the big number of community members should be abducted by a small group of criminals who are not like the colonial era of AIDS "what they would have happened to the thoughts of the communities that have been affected by the ones that had been oppressed on them?
The truth is that a little group and a disaster will have the ability to maintain peace.
Those hostage.
Or many people have a need, forcing us to maintain and serve the disease of AIDS without their own.
Mentioning that they are led by the thoughts that will be sent against this disease?
In the foundation of science, bad luck and the whole concept of searching for feelings, the disease for slavery.
It is the regulations that goes by a great-inch width in the whole issue.
Health, welfare of the community and the concept of being removed in any way, science and pain.
Bad luck and the concept of a mixture of feelings are regulations that have demonstrated to the disease.
Depending on the thoughts and having no boundaries in affecting the community on the foundations of human standards, religion, different ideology and other community groups, whoever can be affected.
