
Our problem is not the political parties but Superior, Fredito Entertainment, 2012.

In my last article, I set aside analysts and my debate about the political state, especially those that occur inside the Revolutionary Party which is in power, but I started expanding the debate so that you do not just do not just do not immediately do not live.

I went to believers that our problem here in Tanzania may not have only one party and that one party has sat for a long time to power and therefore we do not have a problem, then the problem is not for CCM only.

The beautiful lady of Germany who many arrested here in Tanzania, Karl Marx has ever said that you cannot change the administration system (Superdoll), as a environment in the community of the community has not been ready and see the importance to bring change.

In other reasons, it is that if the thoughts and desire of contraception is the same to say "who gave them those who was caught to me," or "with great strength"?
"The best to go to the reception" or "Mpanda will face" or "all are to be left to God," or the Lord Jesus Christ, "we must know that here we are doing so much.

And the argument of Marx doesn't know your impatience will have to be satisfied with the thoughts they have with bad information about the big problems facing the community can never have a good governance and that is responsible to them as an example of Singapore.

Any administration system is fruits in the thoughts and behavior of the concerned community, that is why we have done noise against corruption, there are true that we believe in corruption, our thoughts and things about bribery are different.

Go to the streets the talks of citizens about bribery are very different.
There are some who are saying that some of the mental disabilities got only from BoT has gotten a lot of millions, but they are saying the ones who bought EPA were loved "men" and that it's just bad luck that there are girls who are marrying them and then they were found.

It's not true that in general, the citizens believe that bribery are something in our systems, since the colonial era, it is controlling the environment of people to look for human ways to achieve their things.

And that's why we are going, we are expecting to make sure that Superdoll has been given for the thieves, the Mafia district, which they will start selling land in our country to Mafia, their colleagues will be forced to make their requirements for the farms and visitors' businesses.

How many gods are when we saw the main problem with the foundation that causes us to meet if we are of Africa, where there are signs of lobbying and think that now we will continue to return afresh in the era of our grandfather who will be sold to him from their weakness?

And in this years of democracy of many parties, it is clear that it will be very easy to prevent African countries (if it came up when they came up during the arrest of people that will be sent in order to avoid sexual abuse and suck as usual.
When the ruling party will use everything in every way, including taking dirty business funds so that they can win the elections and remain in power and continue eating the country, the opposition parties continue to struggle here and continue eating the country, the opposition parties continue to grow and so on.

And there is a big possibility that the opposition parties will also be forced to look for money from being self-driven cars, who do not have an opportunity of visiting power so that his leaders can also get an opportunity to visit different vehicles so as to be safely and so on.

I explained that there are countries whose citizens have, due to getting tired of getting married, having an error in the state of their lives, but even those new members who registered themselves in power due to fear of the most-day leaders, ended up being a problem like those who were removed.

Therefore, maybe there is a lesson that we are forced to learn here that the issue of changing leadership in power is not supposed to be the main agenda in our efforts to change that company, so we can change the parties but to prevent us to change that company.

For other words, if he did not say a philosopher-scientist of 20th century, you cannot solve the problem that deal with any thinking that match with the problem, you cannot change the state of life of your people by continuing to use that situation.

Today, the reason for contesting for political power has been a group of people to get an opportunity to hold office and use them for the private benefit of the concerned politician and his family.
Today, political power are being distributed as holiday gifts to friends and others in the country so that they are not satisfied themselves with their soul and while the leaders have condemned the citizens to be patient, continue to ask God and so on.

But behind it, it has managed to expand this situation that it cannot bring any changes to the meaning because the thoughts that are used to try to run our country is those that are part of the primary problem.

I believe that instead of us the voters continue to do things in mind, then we have no reason to look at the high level of thinking so that they are told that the elections we are doing by our leaders is not a matter of humor.
And where we are happening and this is a problem of the world in general, we will come to the right and Wash your teeth if we will continue to elect our leaders as well as a permit.

This type of voters depends on the alcohol, then we're going to vote while we are happy and he would end to choose good people to get into power, to come from yourself.
Careless leaders will come to us all of us themselves and our land for a few days because they borrowed them and now those who use their money can be sold to the rich of other countries that we will be sold to the rich of other countries.
Others will be able to come out of Refugee Camp, and we also will also be part of switching off in agriculture (because of them, we have been unable to produce industries (because our industries we have themselves) and others will put up industries (because our industries we have themselves) and others will put up industries (because those industries we got themselves).

Others will come to resolve our land for claims that they want to maintain the environment, even land that attraction sites like minerals and minerals of the value will be silent because it is for the purpose of agriculture so that it can be like that.
We are heading there and there is a group of people to take them on free tickets so that we can be able to sell it there and we are like free for free we will cheer up free tickets.

Its results are all of us, which studied in eternal peace, we will see a better land for there and that's where we will have to be able to sell your muscles.
And we will not be shown by the visitors such as it was during the colonial era because of us alone, we are being identified as a human being but our minds of others living in this world.
