
Sumaye now will take place on October 5, 2012.

After being defeated in the internal elections of his party, the former prime minister, Frederick Sumaye, says it is hard to win CCM if you have no money.

He has been questioning the close people with him that he was defeated by his former friend, Doctor Mary Nagu, in the parliamentary seat of the executive council of the Revolutionary Party (NEC) in the Hanang district, last week, it was contributed by a huge use of money and a threat to the presidential elections in the year 2015.

Already, that politician has said he will talk with the journalists this week, to explain how he has died in his home, but the news about him can talk about bribery in that election, Sumaye can speak about the possibility of him to vie for the presidency in the year 2015, even so as to discuss the possibility of him to vie for the presidency in the year 2015, even after another political party or not a private candidate.

Analysis is saying that because of this words of Sumaye, it is that his opponents do not believe that at the Hanang province, then the work is already used to vie for the presidency, but he says one of the people were close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the people close to CCM," says one of the people close to CCM, "says one of the
Our reporter of Manyara province says that if events were taken to the elections, it could not be easy to return to his stand of opposing the use of money in the elections and that its people are saying that those results have been done for more strength.
Sumaye who has served for the 10 years as the prime minister and who was the nominated member of parliament of the Hanang province since 2005 till the year 2005, was defeated by the Hanang province member of parliament, Doctor Nagu, who is the minister of state, office of the prime minister (empowerment and investment), who in the past was his great friend.
Sumaye's information was unable to participate in the earlier before the announcement of the election results at 4 o'clock in the morning before yesterday, while some of his colleagues have found themselves to leave the stage and left the supervisor of that election, the provincial commissioner of Manyara Region, Elysee Palace Homes, announcing the results that already had been made.
Mbiso announced that Sumaye got 481 votes while Doctor Nagu signing the 648 votes while the another candidate who was competing for that position, Lewis Hamilton have announced his interest in order to get the opportunity to vie for the position of a member of CCM, Taifa Stars won.
The victory of Nagu, which is claimed to be as a result of political parties from outside the Hanang province and great use of funds, has mentioned some of the veteran politicians who attended the campaign to vie for the presidential position (anonymous), who is alleged to have plans of vying for the presidential position (name we are currently).

"The issue is open, since the beginning of this election, who previously the delegates of the political committee of the district had handed over the explanation that he has a lot of leadership positions, but the political committee of the province denied its name to the leadership," explained that candidate and added.

"For a long time, Sumaye has been the victims of the groups of groups inside CCM by being dealt with by support as seen and we believe that that's why the primary reasons for failing to fail is the truth.

In addition, it is also alleged that even the election procedures with a large extent were surrounded by the information that many members that were cast were not legal members of the election meeting.

The number of dirty equipment used as part of the members to sell their identity cards at the meeting at an amount of 100,000 shillings to other delegates, who them sweating as they were forced to get money and get into the meeting hall to vote, "he claimed another number.

"The officers of the institution for preventing and fighting corruption together with the national security officers admitted the area of the meeting but their presence did not help something, delegates continued to be given money and campaign started even inside the hall contrary to the election law," he explained.

CCM Secretary in Manyara Region, Gaudensia Ndey has been found the day before yesterday giving explanations about the claims by those cadres of CCM.

Apart from what happens, all the names of CCM members who have been mentioned in the list of presidential candidates through CCM has been high.

Those are together with Edward Lowassa who has been known in Monduli District, in the election that attracted many feelings of many as a result of being there and another former prime minister, Lowassa was preparing to fight with the rival sides for a long time, Doctor Saluna Toure.

In that election, as it was expected, Lowassa got badly in Toure by getting 709 votes while the retired doctor received seven votes only to leave Lowassa being beaten and together with him, entering the decorated with a result of his colleagues that had gone the whole country.

Others who have already passed is Professor Mark Mwandosya, Samuel Sitta (through the parliament), Emmanuel Nchimbi and several names which are waiting for votes from the general meeting, Bernard Membe, Stephen Wassira, William Lukuvi and two-thirds have.

A report from Arusha province that is saying in Simanjiro District, the Member of Parliament for that constituency, Christopher Ole Sendeka won the NEC delegation by getting 471 votes and he won his opponent who is a famous businessman Justin Nyari who got 130 votes as they joined another candidate, Lengatei ward to get 5 votes.

In the chairmanship position, Brown Francis Kipilimba was vying for the position by getting 423 votes and won his opponent Lengai Makaka where they got 168 votes.

From Mwanza Province, our reporter said that the elections for various leaders at the district level of the Revolutionary Party in Mwanza province that took place at the end of the last week has made the position of the final examination because of some of the winners who will be said to be of the rival groups in Mwanza Province.

Various political analysis of politics are saying that in those results, they can put the party in a difficult time and in doing his efforts of wanting to restore her in the party, to some of the leaders together with the rival sides.

In Nyamagana District it was stated by the analysis of things that the former member of parliament of that province and the minister of internal affairs, Lawrence Masha, who won the position of a member of parliament of the National Executive Council (NEC) to represent the district will be required to work closely so as to make sure that party's chairman has been selected to be the chairman of the party.

It's goal, who is an employee of the Sahara Media Group which is owned by the former member of NEC of Mwanza Province, Anthony Martial, who is saying that he is in a political relationship with Masha since he was not in a good position being taken by candidates of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).

Speaking to this newspaper about that victory, one of the members of the political committee of Mwanza province who wanted to know her name in the newspaper said that the district will have a very high speed because his leaders are coming from two consecutive days and that so they can serve the party, they will be forced to serve the party, they will be forced to serve their differences for the interests of the party.

"I am supposed to say it is true that they have a big challenge, Masha has until now they are not in well (in the political relationship) and one of the candidates vying for the party position but they will decide to put different meanings in the interests of the party but it will be difficult because of every group," explained the news reporter.

Speaking about that situation, retired Captain Ansudane Soulaimane while one of the candidates who came for the position of chairperson of Nyamagana who however said that his name did not be done by NEC, he said that he was unable to use that opportunity and instead have shown how the party has been the source of that party to lose attraction to citizens.

He said that the situation that happened in Nyamagana is an illustration of the party to supervise and supervise the procedures and its regulations because it was supposed to avoid people with groups and lack of people who do not lie in any part in order to save the party.

"The party is making good problems, we've not been affected by groups and we say the truth did not hesitate to listen, we are very bad, but it is like the party to make the work of returning its life, but now it is like this opportunity we have lost," said Mkiwa.

He added that Nyamagana will have a great job to return the party's status because the chairman and a member of NEC coming out political groups and in his opinion instead of building a party, there will be conflicts that doesn't end every person being fighting for the interests of his group while their opponents failed in front.

But the new chairperson of CCM in Nyamagana District, Raphael Chegeni, told BBC Sport that he has never attacked them or there is a view by his new member of NEC, Masha and believes that their goals were in building and strengthening the party in that district and not otherwise.

He reminded that he has already worked with Masha when he was a member of parliament and he is a member of the political committee of the district and therefore there is no place wherever they have ever been grafted by people for their interests and not a tough party.
"I request that I thank me, I wish you very close to me, I will partner with him in every step to strengthen our party, that's our great job and even if he has no longer problem, these are words with such attitude.

He added that in ensuring that they are determined to make sure that Nyamagana's opposition party has formed a stable committee that involves people living with professions and professions so as to bring new thoughts in improving the party to deal with the current state of the opposition.

The sessions of the revolutionary party talking about lack of keenly the sessions of the ruling party, Captain Bausi said that the high sessions of the party have been praising in certain ways of regulations of the party which he believes will cost them a party.

Ivanovic, who has also been the councilor of Nyamagana District, has said that the action of the council to bring names of two days and called a election is an illustration that the party decided to start campaigns earlier when the regulations refuses.

"If the party does not know that people have already started working on 26 and the elections to take place on 29th October, by 800 votes but someone can destroy them from all wards to reach these wards after a short time, this means that many people have done the campaign," he explained.

He explained that the party was unable to pray for article 6785, the regulations of the leadership and ethics in the year 2002 which will destroy the CCM leader using religion, color or the area which will destroy the voters with them and to maintain groups that cause solidarity inside the party.

"The party was unable to break the groups, instead it is claiming that it was impressed by the father of the nation Julius Nyerere (that is what we made, this is dangerous to the future of the party in these competitive matches," he insisted.

While those on going on so, one of the candidates vying for the parliamentary position in Mwanza Province are Aisha Mashimba, Hussein has urged CCM members to choose the leaders who will fail to vie for the honor they were of CCM and walking the chest before having a draw of their party as the past.

"I thank all leaders who will give you the honor of this clothes (draw of the party) that it was walking, but these days you put on a bag what can take him in the hall, even these clothes have his honor to use this election," he said while greeting the members of the election meeting of Nyamagana District.

It was Glory Mlay - Kitwanga, though they did not wait for any position in the leadership of the party in Misungwi district, the former member of parliament of that constituency and the prime minister, office of the vice president, Charles Kitwanga, and the former chairman of the council Benard Hopkins, was in a heavy competition through their aides.

In the race towards the former chairman of 4, whose CCM party announced his sponsorship when he was unable to resign as the chairperson of the council, and therefore was required to resign as the chairperson of the council, has emerged with the chest before the member of parliament.

The new chairperson of the party, Judith Mlapa and member of NEC who was appointed, Jacob Saso and the former member of parliament of that constituency as explained to be at the Bernard Membe.

Speaking with this newspaper, Senior Bernad has said that the failure of the camp he deserves for the rival sides came from citizens to understand who is true among them and that conflicts are still ongoing.

"This is supposed to know that conflicts are complete, members have discovered that they have decided to consider the basis of the party by deciding to elect leaders who believe that they will work right to serve them," he said.

On his part, Kitwanga said that he is disappointed with those things that are owned by people who did not get that party, especially in this period that has a job to improve and strengthen more.

"Friends, these issues are very happy, and I don't have camp, all people who tried to be appointed by the party, now the camp can work with anyone and I urge my colleagues that we are saying, these issues of the camp are needed by the party," he said.

From Mbeya, our reporter said that after a long period of heavy names to rule politics of Mbeya Region, finally, the new names have come out to the CCM election in that province, to its new members who had emerged victorious in various leadership positions including the chairperson of the party (NEC).

At the same time, about the winners, the CCM elections that are going on all over the country, have confirmed that for another time again that the money does not have a chance in front of public energy, after candidates with worship use of money can be able to get the leadership.

The awareness of the delegates against corruption during the elections in that province is explained to contribute to many members who do not have names of leadership positions in the CCM elections have been brought together with that awareness, a step of some of the leaders of the party in Mbeya province not came out to get the position for youths and members who do not have great names.

The minister of the office of the president, Professor Mark Mwandosya, for another time, he has demonstrated to its implementation in the political parties of Mbeya province, after emerging the winner in the position of member of the National Executive Council of CCM (NEC), to see him apart from another member who sent the popularity to the politics of Rungwe District in the recent years, Richard Kasesela.

Professor Shumbusho emerged the winner in that position as a member of NEC representing the Rungwe District by getting 18 votes and leave him from his opponent, Kasyte.

Those results are taken by many as a blow to the young person in his political life in that province, while considering that it becomes the second time to fail in the elections in that district.

Some of the youth politicians that lost their political strength in that province after fighting with Professor Ninatubu Lema being together with Nicodemus Thom Mtonda, who is the child of the former director of road safety in the country, Yekonia Bieldt.

Mwanachoma during the position of the NEC member in the last elections of that party, at the time the position is only one of the province after being arrested under Mtemi Isike to be completely finished, even after being mentioned to be among the politicians in that province.

The election had a huge conflict that has not ever happened in politics of that province.

The landslide victory of the elections are saying that in the book of Professor Mwandosya, "the art of the public is the director of the Democratic Party," Aisee Mjengwa, as it was surprised by names of all participants of that camp that tells you to change the money for the elections in that party.

One member told BBC Sport that it is not easy to win Professor.
Mwandosya is now in that province, because he was quoted as the picture of that province, he is a leader with it's better and people of all of all of the province, therefore, to any member who decided to fight with him, usually not depend on politics after being unable.

Other politics who tried to face, "a curse from Professor Mwandosya," is a employee of BOT, Mbeya branch, Stephen Kirambe, who in the last general elections decided to resolve the problem in the Rungwe village, Eastern Arumeru region.

As it was by Richard Kasesela, that youth who is also the youth commander, CCM, Mbeya Province, found himself fighting after getting 300 votes!

As it is not enough, it's not an albino, as it was for his fellow youth Nicodemus Thom, found himself in the contest for the position of a member of NEC of Mbeya Town District, in the elections that we witnessed are Ban Hashim and he also wins the position of the chairman of that district.

A young man from the speed in that province, Philip Mwakosya who is the deputy minister of education and vocational training, when he emerged the winner in the position of NEC delegate from that district, getting 1034 votes against 314 votes followed him.

In the position of the chairman of Chunya District, defending champions of that seat, accompanied by OPMR, he succeeded to defend his position after winning her for his former lover Ify So Valid.

Together with many not to follow up closely the elections in Kyela District, maybe due to names of many candidates not using people, still the results in the position of the chairman of that district have never seen many believing that for another time, some violence has not been unable to the district.

That position that was sent by three members, Hunter, a lot of feelings of citizens in the district due to the existence of huge expenditure for one of the candidates being alleged to use more than 30 million shillings.

The internal reports from some of the delegates of the election meeting, are required that the candidate started by giving five thousand shillings to each representative, then he added by giving them 10,000 thousand shillings every member said they were more than 2000 shillings.

Other results that were done until yesterday include new district in Momba district where Juma Rashid was elected as the chairman of that district, Jackson Mbembela, he also wins a NEC member in the district.

Mathayo Torongey was first elected as the chairman of Mbarali District, Godfrey Simbeye, who succeeded in seizing the position of member of NEC of that district, where in the Mbozi district chairperson, Aloysius Mujunangoma, managed to defend his position while the third member of NEC was going on to George Mwaruka.

For the first time in the elections of CCM in Mbeya Province, the journalists have succeeded to get various positions of information at the district level, province and the nation, a situation that is different from it was in the previous elections where they were seen as usual.

Among the journalists who succeeded to get the leadership positions in that party include the writer of the Majira newspaper, Charles Mwakipesile, who won the third position including the delegation of the National general meeting.

Others are the owner of Ikhanoda village in Mbeya town, Emmanuel Kalobelo, who is being the secretary of politics and the chairperson of Mbeya Town District, Jackson Naftari KitFM in the city who is the member of the general meeting of that province, while the owner of the center was elected as a member of the CCM executive council.

The coming from many journalists in contesting for the leadership positions within the party has raised one big question, and it is why those journalists will be able to put in the port for the interests of their party where they will have the position of leadership and those of the public against the leadership of the party.

However, different from the last election, this year the elections that are ongoing in that party are explained to lack of attraction to ordinary citizens on an amount of people not to follow up closely if it was in the past where citizens who do CCM members were able to follow up on the elections of the party so as to know the leaders that are chosen.

Some of the political issues of politics in Mbeya Province have explained that the current situation has been caused by the CCM's step to take the position of NEC at the district level so as to reduce conflicts in the regional level as it was in the past.

Until we go against the results of the Ileje district and Mbeya villages, it was still a result of voting on Monday different from other districts, while the position of the NEC member in Kyela District being postponed after two contestants, Rajab Rutengwe got their votes to be a head on.
Elsewhere, Chemba district, member of parliament for Kondoa town, Juma Nicrox, was called on behalf of Fredrick Dumu and Said Sambayamoto, for the position of the chairperson going to Shaban Kilimba who died without being beaten.

Other delegates who passed are Msemo too, Mwanaharusi Shaaban, Mary Mkwajuni, Halifa H.

In Uyui District Mrs Mlangali Village won by garnering a member of parliament of Igurubi County, Doctor Athumani Mfutakamba and Nagigi.

Chairman Mrs Salma Kikwete was appointed Mussa Ntapata Wapi 'by defeating her Abdallah Kazuka and Hamisi Kigwangalla.

In Tabora, the nominated member of parliament for special seats, CCM, Markhiya, Sitta won against Chisholm, the delegates of the general meeting that were selected are Doctor.
Zakaria Mighty One, Adam Malezi, Emmanuel Gogo, Anna Magula and Blacks group.

Economy and finance miss that won is Francis Kasanga and Publicity, the position has been taken by Paul Shija.

In Kibaha, Rugonzibwa Mujunangoma, who gave them, Rashid Bugesa, and Khajida Kopa, the national secretary general, with Catherine Katani, Joseph Chale, Jumanne Nyamlani, Mohammed Mpaze.

In Kilosa, the chairperson of the chairperson went for Nassoro Bribian, who defeated Christopher Werema, who was vying for his seat for him, Doctor Chesensi Gallas.

Masasi, former chairman Kazuka, Malilo, emerged the winner through his seat by scoring Andrew Kasibu, while the position of NEC's delegation witnessed a lot of two days of manslaughter.

Newala Ambassador Seif Ali Sambo emerged the winner by the chairman while the minister of state in the office of the president (good administration), George Mkuchika, while he also wins a message by garnering 13,276 votes and Shaibu Ndeki.

Tandahimba in Zanzibar, Abdul Razaq Badru, when he released his opponent, Sophia Njema were the chairmanship in the chairmanship while Ambassador Makame Rashid being appointed to take the position of NEC's delegation after defeating Namibian, Salum as Lihanya.

In Mtwara Town, the chairperson has been Ali Mussa who came out after defeating Yusuf Minutes Network, Hawa Manguanjuki and Bakari Mbwana, Godbless Lema while he was announced as the winner of NEC's message by 13,409 votes.

In Mtwara villages, the chairperson has been Ali Komba of winning FC Liky, while the position of a message was approved by Salehe Solo, who defeated them and Salehe Sakali.

Smoking of Fly 540, Ali Maswanya and Chibwa said that she gets that chairman while Hassan Gwae, Lennarth Hoja, Lennarth Hoja, Lennarth Hunter, Issa Ponda at the position of a message.

Nyasa to be the member of parliament for Mbinga West, the captain John Komba receiving the chairperson of the Hope Program Tanzania, Adolph Mkenda while addressing NEC's position as the chairperson was taken by Francis Hanga, Esuvatie Masimba and Naronyo Kicheere.

The delegates of the general meeting who were selected are the head of Nyasa District, Ernest Sengeu, Edna Mdoe, Grace Haule, Adam Ismail and Erena.

In Mbarali, the deputy chairperson who was appointed is Mathayo Torongey, after defeating Cercle de Bruyne, with Benedict Liwenga, while NEC's delegation to go for Geofrey Mwangi, Paul Kicheere.
