Member of parliament "a fool will not be voted for.
APR of 18, 2013.

Some of the citizens of Ethiopia have been living by considering the famous phrase, who in a certain way has carried out the same logic.
They are saying that "you were working hard to work hard which could be hit by the Lion hotel" that you will be careful when you will be connected then it can get even Simba. "
Buchosa County is a dangerous winger and basically, a modem is not stable due to the power of the animal, but they don't know that the ship takes place well, then it can sign that Simba.
It is in that context, we can start looking at this parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, as an instrument that shows or confirm to a level of blocking us among small and decoration in large numbers, we should be heard in parliament, the member of parliament for Mbeya Town, Joseph Mbilinyi has stated that the council of ministers have been filled with a lot of pain.
It's not that Mbilinyi who has ever been a Kenyan musician, wrote on the words when singing new song with the Bongo Flavor artist, he spoke with the parliament in a debate on the budget of the office of the Prime Minister for the financial year 2013 / 2014.
A fools should understand that you are not abusive language but even if it is not abusive language, it is a must that every place of language or other statements should be used in the village to avoid drug users and even if not abusive language, can't be used within the parliament.
The language used in the village without various streets (even if not using abusive language) which have its position in the concerned areas.
The language of doughing, for people who are in the national level, is the same as a language of humans, and maybe it endangers the level of the status, maybe the cause of those words.
For a national leaders to recite on the front of the public (again through the Parliament that is aired live in the world), if it is a fool (even if it's not true) is to indicate the possibility of the conflict between the concerned leaders.
In the system of democracy who without doubt, all political parties in the country have made them even if it is not good for the citizens who are involved in the country and not to make sure that what is affecting the country and it is not supposed to lead the country.
Unfortunately, the member of parliament Mbilinyi was not ready to apologize for parliament and even to carry out his statement because, the word doesn't know or a man is in the Bible.
Normally, the effects of certain words depend on so much environment, these words should be demolished and eventually the cause of the involved words.
It is possible, we have ministers who don't work well and for me, I agree with this situation that there are ministers who are just a lot to the country, it's like they do any changes in the sector that they do.
But even if there are leaders of this way, it was not correct for a member of parliament to inform you, by considering the parliamentary environment, maybe if you want it, it is possible for the village to attract marijuana and elsewhere, but the official opening of public servants is to cross the borders.
We shall think, it is very possible that in his life, Joseph Mbilinyi has did to witness his parents having a mistake of here and there is big or small because different types of primary or primary schools are, he can realize that his parents or her mother is a fool like it is not a foolish thing.
Without doubt, the answer is easy to believe that he cannot get two nights but despite a certain kind that he can be calling me because she can't know why he cannot get married, but it did not have the old child among the son and his parents.
We should realize that, the ministers who have been outdated, are people with their families and among them they are hard working even though they are also critical in their performance.
But not Joseph Mbilinyi alone, the member of parliament for Kondoa town, Juma Nauye as he woke up to the Parliament for his fellow member of parliament for him (NCC) they did not talk with a dog but he was talking with a dog.
