Today you must be better than yesterday, and tomorrow more than today, what should they be there.
Dec 6 shillings, 2012

Among the many things that are being taxed are there between a small nation and the biggest nation is the light of the light.

A small nation will have leaders and citizens who we are looking at their daughters and they're doing so much even though I don't see your eyes as they are looking at the peak of heaven and land, then they sell their eyes and check the air.

A small nation will have people to do quick things quickly, while getting into the floor of their planning, it's for a short time when they collect them within three weeks, therefore will give them pictures and bake.
After eight weeks they will not have anything.

The leaders and the religious leaders will urge them to teach their people (and their people who understand) to do their things for long-term plans, the plans to look at and tomorrow and tomorrow, but the benefits that we will continue to mention them, but the benefits will not be shaken, up to the next five years.

If you check the nations of Europe, we are forced to accept that this is a great change, and we also agree that they have been great nations.
For a long time, people should come out and there are some who had a problem with the size that was in the past, we do not see this by seeing what they are doing our human beings and as compared to what we are not a full human being.

We see that the person with the elderly women were able to see and eat a variety of shortages and build up about the basis of those thoughts, and today we are still going to fruits after those ideas which are still stable and every time we look at the whole century where we are still stable.

We are looking at how they tried to improve their education services, health.
Other social services (which is already good) when we as we see even the ones that were done are there.

When we go to England, France, Germany, Italy and elsewhere, we see the evidence of the big nations who we think, but because we have lost our long time, we will not think about our time and they will not want them to buy a difficult time and they will not want them to buy a difficult life and that we don't know.

The great nation will have leaders and leaders who want to see the development of all the time, and they don't accept?
Today's not be poor more than yesterday.

Father will have a better education than my grandfather, but the grandson will have better education more than the father and the father will be better than the father and even the size of the blood is required to go to the best way for every new generation future.

So, in the smallness of us, we are able to speak?

In the middle of 1970, the government decided to build a four road road.
From Ubungo until the port of Dar es Salaam, that is the one that is called Nelson Mandela who made me to check on areas like Ranaldo and Tabata.

That is also the main road that deals with many products that are being transported to go up to our neighborhoods (they are being transported to Zambia, Congo, Burundi, Rwanda, and Uganda which will enable the important economy to our country.

But the 30 years later, we are doing it is to measure the road that for a long-inch width due to reducing color, while we witnessed how the vehicles congestion in the whole.
We get a statement of registering him in a big construction that we used.

We have already joined the city of Dar es Salaam to learn in many places in the middle of the city where in the estates, they had gotten a lot in every place, and water have been affected by this problem, we have been cooperating with this problem, and they have been studying in a bad state in our country.
