
The presidential candidate of 2015, members of CCM should start fighting well in the previous day, the responsibility of writing the candidate of the party is not one of the party but it's a member of the party.

At the time CCM continued to start the process of passing the name of his presidential candidate in the general elections expected to take place later this year, it has been explained that state is not well in the party from what is believed to have a strategy of some leaders to carry and remove their people with the aim of protecting their interests.

Our source of natural resources from the CCM has explained that heavy rains continue to participate in the process of getting the name of the candidate because of some leaders and those who believe that they will benefit from protecting the personal interests.

Speaking to the growth of development yesterday, on a condition of not being written by the name, one of the famous leaders of the party, who is also a member of the national executive council of CCM (NEC), said there is a big division among the leaders of that party in getting the name and the presidential candidate, a situation that said it has every sign of bringing down the party.

"There is a problem in getting a name, again it is a big problem, this problem is in some of the leaders of our party, everyone is going on with the name of our party in the pocket when we are looking at how to protect their people.

We will not agree with this!

"However, Pinda (Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda (Minister Mizengo Pinda) recently in Iringa province has warned the behavior of leaders to support the leaders, while he did not give that statement to the air, but he knows what is happening."

He warned that different types of musicians to carry out their people has caused a big division within the party and in order to save that, a big wisdom is needed.

"We think that we are not aware, each one has its person need him in night and in the afternoon, we are supposed to do a mistake during this because she gets its results, CCM will put into pieces pieces.

In this behavior, they saw CCM, is written every day, "he claimed that the player and added.

"We are told some of the musicians who carried out the names of some who had been expelled from Escrow.

"We are coming from people who have never been affected by fear that don't have no doubt, they are marrying them and fear of others without any reason if they will face power," he said.

He explained more that another big problem that affects the process is what he called, fear of some of the leaders, fear of some people while going to power.

"Today people are unable to do justice because of their interests, they should be able to carry the even the party's candidate is not the responsibility of one family or a certain group!

"The candidate was found in the desire to enable or to protect the interests of the people, we are looking for a candidate who does God create the president of Zanzibar?

"We see things, on a big issue like this for personal interests, the answers we will get time for a long time, the party will enable them to expand more than private individuals that have no benefit to the party and the nation as a whole." He warned.

He said CCM has a lot of good leaders with your hopes of doubt, therefore there is no reason to prevent anyone because the party is looking for a leader of the party and we are not aware of protecting one family or the households.

That candidate insisted that every member of CCM has a right to vie for any position inside the party without fear or threats from the members that are the responsibility of wanting him or to ask for a democratic system.

He advised all parliamentary sessions inside the party to do justice and pass someone with the reputation, ability and ethics in serving the citizens.

He emphasized that the activity of passing the name of CCM is supposed to be done concurrently with the veteran leaders of the party including Mzee Ali Hassan Mwinyi, Benjamin Mkapa, John Okello, Pius Msekwa and Aman Karume to help them, persuading the people to carry out that responsibility.

I advise that again, leaders who will referee the process will do justice to follow the rules and follow up on the regulations, to consider the 13 reputation of the presidential candidate on this, there is someone who don't tell him, this is vice chairperson of CCM Mainland Tanzania.

"By considering that Mangula is happy and is true and does not have any kind of carrying someone or people, while some of the names in the pockets and the criteria in his pocket."

That candidate advised CCM members of CCM to come out and fear to vie for various leadership positions including presidential positions since it reached, he insisted that the only right is that it will help to get good candidate that is followed by the members and all of them.
