Employment is now one of the thinking outside.
Sep 18, 2014.

There are two major events in the recent days that are required to move forward and each one of us is about the problem of employment in the country.

The Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) together with the Immigration Department which were announcing work positions in the applications have been sent, although the job positions announced were under 100, the request for work continued to thousands.

In the management of the Immigration Department, non-reliance, to an extent that we were forced to go to perform at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. This is not a small thing.

The recent report of the World Bank (WB) shows that during the next 15 years, Tanzania will have an average of 40 million people who will have a lot of employment with albinism.

The statistics of the government show that for a year, more than 800,000 American Dollars have completed their studies in different levels and therefore they are expecting to enter the market and get their employment opportunities to be ready.

In the current state of our economy, this number is very big and I have done research on big organizations that make many people here in Tanzania and I have noted that the employees do not join 20,000 shillings in those areas.

And here I'm talking to big organizations like Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO), Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Tanzania Railways Company, Mohamed Enterprises, together with Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA).

All these organizations, if you're of-shirts together, do not employed more than 30,000 shillings.

I have talked with some of the leaders of those institutions and said that many of them believe that if they get their decisions, they would have reduced the big number of employees since it is now a big challenge to have a large number of employees that it takes.

This means that we will go as we will go as we are going to now, this country will not be able to meet the great love for caring about the issue of employment.

The only way of doing so is to think outside a box that we are looking on every day when I think that thinking is outside a box, I have the meaning to leave things that we have been doing because they have been doing because of fear.

Research, our economy is growing well and basically the level of seven percent of the Tanzanian economy has been ending in a period of recent years is huge compared to many countries in the world.

However, the growth has failed to end the problem of employment that is in this country and this is why we will continue to support these statistics without seeing the problem that is in the end, you can be good.

There are many ways of doing so as to fight with this first employment problem, and this is due to the second report I have talked about, it is to enable the agricultural activities so that they can give a great contribution to the employment market.

For example, the new CAG report known as "we need employment with Robin van Persie," it has explained that there are small businesses that are measurable.

These are business that will be done more in towns. Many people know themselves because they are here in the areas where many people were known and understood and then cut off the environment to grow, can be a great source of employment.

If these businesses have been done, there is a probability of getting employment to one million shillings for a year, there are other businessmen who are big but their businesses did not require these issues of the independent business of business (TBL).

There are people like actors of film, and I thank you that during the launch of that new report of WB, famous actor, Jacob Stephen JB, visited and spoke.

The film actress did not need to go to Diamond Platnumz as he is for a musician and some of the other art, but all of us will be identifying it is because of a modern procedure of business, the entertainment sector has been able to help youths.

Who did you know that the film industry can be big as it is now because there are many youths who did not have life hope but today they are living because of film or music?

The subject we got in the film area means that there are a lot of opportunities to help in the conflict that concern them and maybe it has not been discovered and put it publicly.

If they will be known, and a good environment, youths of taking care will be there and we will have made great steps in dealing with this big employment problem.

If employment in the film industry did not be an issue followed up to 2005 and in a short period of ten years, the situation is now, the nation will benefit us if they will emerge as a few sector and have a profit like the film.

The basis of us all of us is to think outside the box of looking for employment in the relevant sources and the view of the news, engineers, lawyers, journalists, pilots and so on.

We think outside a box and answers that we will get.

The writer of this article, is the executive director of Inflexionpoint Company and the reader of Good Citizen.
