
17 December 2012

Police contributes to the strategy of the women.

By Moses Mabula.

The police force has warned the men that call him.
And their children that it will take stern measures against them.
In court for the offense of doing gender violence and children.
Shivered, he wants the community.
To see and give information to the police force against violence.
Gender against women and children being done by some people.
Various districts in Uyui District.



Kauri has been released.
A chapati cook with the police commissioner of Uyui District Sophia Njoki, while giving a topic at the debate to mobilize the community above.
Development and gender equality.
At the Ilolangulu village in Uyui District, Tabora Province.



Mister Kimwana has said.
Most of the women together with their children, have been getting married by men.
For reasons that are not any foundation.



Following that situation he has said.
Citizens to cooperate with the police force by releasing those acts.
Violence so that the police can deal with people of that kind as required.
To check on the right law is a picture, and to take them to court.



He has said that despite.
Activists and media stations making noise and opposing violence against violence.
Women and children here in the country, still a problem.
It is going to have warned that someone who will be paid for that offense.
Quickly.
It took him to court it will be taken against him.



Moreover, he has advised to be careful.
Now a woman or a woman who will be infected on any kind of life.
The other one, they should not hesitate to give those information to each other, the society is in a center.
University of Tabora.



Previously the winner of the debate.
That was released by Tabora Nuzulack Dausen to Mister.
Cuthbert Sawe has explained that the main aim of the debate is to provide education to the community.
Concerning the issues of development and equality to the community, and that the debate will be done.
It has been successful by the Ambassador of Foundation for Civil Society.



Mister Ndeki.
Tabora Nuzulack Dausen in collaboration with Foundation for Civil Society, after being found.
To identify the existence of violence against women and children being done by men.

