
Are the experts called on how to make history?
Sinyati Enterprises, Australia, some of the Australia surgery on Friday said they were used to great success in the hearts that had left them to give them patients who need the heart surgery.
Those doctors said that the step may stop the way to help them the body organs in the near future.
To date, doctors have been using the hearts that have a saving of patients by giving them the mid-fielder from those who are safe but in danger of death.
That situation does the heart made by putting off the first half by taking them to those who need the mid-fielder.
However, the sacred hospital, Victor Moses and the Research Institute of Victor Chang'ombe, Syville Smith has launched a way to use the hearts that have been in 20 minutes after a person died and later left for patients in need.
Affordable to now three people have received the hearts of the way the two of those patients are continuing to get affordable, though the third patient is going on a keenly.
"The whole world is the only day," said the lady Humud DFAA, Professor Msepwa.
"We know that between a certain time, the other organs of the body can be dealt with and is now the heart that has left them to do and put up inside the machines and get a patient," he said.
That means involves the hearts that were transferred to the machines that can be paid known as' dirty ', "the heart" has been placed on the mix of food.
Professor Peter Macmilan Donald who is the medical director in that hospital at the surgery and blood unit, the hearts of the hearts of the hearts that have left them completely will improve the number of those organs for the patients with needs.
"The victory takes a way to reduce the shortage of organs which are being sponsored," he said.
Michelle Grandas, who was the first runner up of the heart of the type, he said that he was more patient before being operated on.
"I don't know that very different person at this time," said the woman for 57 years. "I feel it is 40 years.
I am very happy that, "a second left, Jan Petrie, who received the operation two weeks ago said he felt very delicious.
DPO said that in addition of the hearts by using that machine can improve the safety of patients because it gives them an assurance that the mid-fielder is making work.
"I also advised that in the next five years we will use that machine to save the hearts," said Deddy.
