When we used to bury his million who died as a lot of hundred thousand shillings.
Brightiles 30th, 2014.

If you know, I saw one of my-in-law that is found in football, her legs has shown an example of the elephantiasis disease and in one of the legs she does not know.
My in-law, you have narrated the challenges of the diseases that are facing him saying that poverty has thrown out his activities of inspecting and treatment, my law will also pay for tests and treatment from Muhimbili and return to Muhimbili and return.
My-in-law cannot even walk due to severe pain and weight in the body and his legs, which is approved by luck, it should be remembered that my in-law is not working on for treatment, children who have their health status is not good.
The last time I met my sister, the husband to in-law, he told me that for now, due to lack of money, in-law, we have been standing for the last time when he went to Muhimbili, he had been directed to prevent meat from time so that they can decide the source of problem.
While my in-law looking for a treatment money, I have received a card and the other sections of the journey, to contribute to several sections of those activities through my wife with the name of "our photographer", a draw of activities and those from other organs.
, the award of contributing to the wedding ceremony was not high as a public, there is a lot of contributions made by as brothers and community members is a must for caring for these activities, an amount of 300,000 shillings (three hundred thousand) that have reduced because of contributions for wedding and other social activities.
At the time I explained to you the contributions of the wedding, the heart issue, I remember my in-law who are struggling to get two hundred thousand shillings for the purpose of getting his treatment tests, and who for now is at home, he is at home.
At the time I gave birth to the wedding, the soul wants to remember the widow of a husband and asked for four children, among them who reads one hundred and one hundred thousand at the market of Ilala, I know his life is difficult and only one hundred thousand.
The brain of writing, I think about to be three hundred thousand dollars that I do not want to reduce the servants of Almighty God this week and will bring productivity to hope in their lives.
I have never released a card for a contribution or even the invitation of the mouth, to contribute to the treatment of my brothers, not because there is no my brothers who are sent and they don't have money they are sent and they don't come out in those things.
But I think about very much and I wish you a lot about problems more than the celebrations.
When I decided to think about what this culture of helping others during problems like suffering from it's not there and instead do not take advantage during the celebration and happy, I realized that we are depending on payments or profit of our kind in our country.
For example, the wedding contribution is accompanied by an invitation of the relevant activities where the ones who will go food, drinks and other entertainment, it doesn't use it so that we want to change you, then you do not use it, then do not lie!
That is why some of our brothers do not get treatment but our one followed, we are contributing in eternal peace with the aim of bringing up them, we have also Tanga brothers, Tanga, all of them have a three-day visit, depending on the other day.
But this is the late we want to have millions of millions to remember as she was sent to a little amount of money for treatment, and brothers and friends we did not help him!
This habit of depending on one way or another is not good and we need to learn in order to give priority and if it is payments we should depend on the Almighty God and the creator of us all in heaven and the ground.
