
The Minister of Yamoto Band on 19.

They also revealed that all the war in the world is between the country and the country, rebels and the government or the war against them and it is abolished about land, water or the sky and the perpetrators use different types of products as an important source of victory.
The results of the war is bad, among the bad results that can be mentioned is every part of losing life to the police and citizens, destruction of property.
The destruction of the environment.
70 kilometers in South Africa of Arusha town, at the Tanzanite mineral quarry located in Simanjiro District, Manyara Region, there is "war" for a long time that is going on between small-scale miners (UTT-Square) on one side and investors of the Huawei company One, South Africa on the other side.
Different from the war that occurred in the world, "war," at the Magogoni ferry is burnt down (inside the mines that are high) between the Apollo Hospitals and investors and the aim of the fight is every side to get the wealth of the Tanzanite mineral that were sunk in the mines.
The fight between the Apollo Hospitals and the investors of the United Kingdom has resulted to the relationship between the two sides, but also it will cost the lives of people, though the destruction of property and loss of value of money.
The war is pumped by the mines while miners with all sides, when they meet in areas or low ways of land, that were known for the language of extraction, "conflicts."
The Apple Phone One company is expected to use its officers with fire weapons that are accused of beating the small miners in different events and causing deaths, injuries while others getting permanent disabilities.
On their part, the small miners have been accused of getting into the Uhuru One mines under land and went to win the employees of that company using the bombs made by support, and other traditional weapons.
However, the surprising thing is that those miners do not meet again in the face of the world, hostility, among them is really terrifying.
For more than 10 years the two sides have been writing each other while for the time he seems that the government has been unable to get a permanent solution to the problem and the situation found so far until last week, the Deputy Minister of Energy and Minerals, Steven Masaudi, when he toured the quarry while looking for a long time conflict.
The deputy minister tried "you can be a bone, a player that lost its election by doing sessions with all the two sides that are involved in the conflict to vie for the borders of the mines.
The complaints by small-scale miners in their meeting with the Deputy Minister Masaudi, gave claims that mines affected by the Capital One company has been unable to work due to that company of investors to place water that are from their mine by breaking the course to the mines of small miners.
The complaints by those miners were presented by the chairman of the Miners Association in Manyara Region (Rhema), who explained that the step of the shop is One to direct the water project on land to their mines, to fail to continue with the mining.
"The greatest job we are doing every time is to provide water from the mines by taking them by using the highest price and the cost of providing water every time is very big, a situation that enables you to get economically," explained that chairman.
"Sometimes the servants of the company in the blessings of their management is making water through the mines by using special tractors and the water spread inside our mines," he added.
That chairman of small miners told the deputy minister that the government is supposed to take advantage of the existence of a mobile phone company in that area and because the period of his license is usually very close to then they are supposed to be responsible for the mining of mineral gemstone.
According to the reports from the government, the mining of mining in the country is expected to end its time in July, at the end of the week and already the company has carried out new application that its process is still ongoing.
The argument of the chairperson being built on the basis of that the government passed a law of minerals of the year 2009, that explains openly that minerals of mineral like the Tanzanite will be mentioned by most natives.
He also said that in the east African countries like Thailand, Palos mineral companies were sunk by most natives by using normal technology and the aim is to increase the needs in the market and also minerals that continues to be available for a long time, "he said.
Small miners have also given their applications to the government to be self-communicable diseases to get easily and mining licenses, dynamite, fuel because the prices of those equipment have increased in 200 percent in the last year last year.
Complaints from investors from the country will be One One on their part, will be One One through the chairperson of the board, Ambassador Ami Mpungwe, claims that the claims that were given by small miners have no basis and that the company has never done water into their mines such as they claimed.
"Water is available in those mines arising from burst water pipes to enter the mines such as small miners arising from existence.
"Conflicts" which is caused by small miners who use the theft of minerals in our area, "explained Ambassador Mpungwe.
"These small-scale miners for a long time have been getting to our area under the lower level and sometimes it gets pregnant, therefore endangering health of our workers are in turn," said Mpungwe.
He said that as a company after complaining for a long time about that issue of being attacked, they have left small-scale miners because of the presence of small-scale miners because of the existence of a small security for their employees.
"We are following the law by 100 percent, otherwise, they would have been banned.
I have banned this country with great integrity for 25 years, today I cannot go to prison for a private sector and here I have a meaning that I am the chairman of the board to respect the country's law together with the company that is leading with its total, "added Mpungwe.
He said the company in the period of its investment has made many things to the benefit of the community including local society including being the first company in the mining sector to pay taxes.
The statement by the deputy minister moving after listening to the complaints from both sides, Minister Masaudi, instructed for the time the company decided to direct the water that is inside the mines as the aim of buying minerals.
In addition, he said that he acted later to make small miners to attract small miners that are available in the mines of small miners by using modern technology and the implementation of the directive started quickly under the management of the minerals officers of the northern region.
This issue of water is a must that you get a solution so much, and the solution to be found within one week from now, and this exercise should be the first to be opened up in the page of relationship between you and small miners, "said Deputy Minister Maseru.
"You must buy a culture of preventing and small miners with the investor so that every one can implement its responsibilities with productivity and the government as a guardian about the interests of each one," he said.
He wanted that company to be close to the citizens by improving its relationship and to put new strategies that will help to remove the photos and bad thoughts that are built among the community members as investors of Mbinga villages.
Masaudi, added that the investors who have promised several issues of development projects in the villages that surround him as the construction of classrooms, water and other important areas in the community, and you know that you have been surrounded by the community with a lot of primary needs. "
On the side of small-scale miners, the deputy minister wanted to consider the law by respect the borders of the investor when the government continues through the process of their request for enabling them to eliminate some taxes in connection of the minerals.
He said that the government is still continuing with his skill of beating all those minerals from outside Asia who come to the areas of mines and the city of Arusha with the aim of buying Tanzanite from small miners.
Any kind that I have brought in the business of these minerals must be signed by being given a license for the purchase of minerals (Master Fer) and all media stations to promote themselves because the government structure, "he said.
If the situation at the quarry will provide a long time, the Deputy Minister Masaudi, will have succeeded to resolve the conflict that had gone into the conflict that has made those minerals to do not have a great income.
