
Kikwete and Kagame takes a little of Sei-12, 2013.

Last Thursday, President Jakaya Kikwete met with his colleague in Rwanda, Paul Kagame in Kampala city, Switzerland, where some of the pictures were waiting to get a good position of beating the picture, those presidents did not discriminate them.
Instead, they did not desire to give their hands and what would you know or we don't know or we do not know what is going to in their homes.
Those two were able to attend the Saba Saba International Conference on how the Great Lakes region discussed in the state of the east of Congo, Kinshasa.
They took that opportunity to try to fulfill their problems and therefore, they stopped him for a period of ten o'clock at the whole time without food and not to talk about them.
This was a good first, unfortunately, it is not many of us who want to know what those two heads do not talk about what happened in mind and behind them as seen in each other.
The secret of their talks that they have remained with them as Kikwete and Kagame's Kagame who had come out and those who come up for a long time. Before going to eat, they started in the army, each one was ready to know the strength and the weaknesses of his colleague.
For a period of three months until when he was speaking on Thursday last week, Kagame was giving a lot of things to make sure President Kikwete, even though he tried to marry off their brother Yoweri Museveni, the president of Uganda when he tried to break it.
Another step he said that President Kikwete is to oust thousands of many livestock in Rwanda, from Kagera region and the government of Tanzania said they were able to live in the country against the law.
There are many that we were able to come up due to the tragedy of JK and PK for example, the request for JK and PK for example, the request of Kikwete for Museveni can close keenly if they agreed to Kikwete that Museveni is the biggest challenge in the East African Community with a total of not less than five million people.
He did not see that Uhuru Kenyatta, the president of Kenya, Pierre Nkurunzinza, the president of Burundi, are looking for them to prepare for him and the Kagame.
That is not true because, as I think about it as usual, as usual Kikwete is a person who doesn't know her husband, who wants them to respect them on the age of age.
Without doubt, in politics especially politics, the leadership of presidential to carry out the major reasons for their age, only when I think it is true and that Museveni will continue just the Kagame Cup.
But for sure, if we look at the current leaders of this region of East Africa, Museveni is the one that rises at least his colleagues despite using his good administration.
Therefore, if the East African Federation will be made tomorrow then the first leader, the first president, of that federation may be Museveni, although he can be the transition president.
That one happening will not be accountable for Museveni followed keenly that Kikwete is supposed to lead the biggest nation in the area and to the number of people among the members of the community.
Museveni did not visited Uhuru Kenyatta, even though Kenya is the country with a great economy that brought him to win the other position in that community.
Another suspect, we decided to say that leaders meet each other, responding to each other and thinking that you are supposed to consider the peace and security between their countries and therefore, it's how the situation was for a period of three months since Kikwete was surprised by the rebel group of Libeneke.
Kagame's side, on his part, she felt that Kikwete was proud of having a ring on him and informed him.
That conflict, but it was not a threat in peace and security of Rwanda and Tanzania only but it was also a threat to the security of the whole Great Lakes region.
When we decided to also know that there are those who came out that there are no effects that Rwanda and Tanzania can have the effects of strengthening the East African Community, although I believe that the community will die as the previous day had only three members of Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda - Uganda.
There are several reasons for several reasons that caused the death of the previous East African Community and among the thinking is the economic systems that lasted among the economic growth of Kenya and Tanzania that was stable.
Likewise, if you know your and not knowing you, a queness of Uganda are attending to Kenya for wanting to have a lot of time more than the one of Tanzania and Uganda in the decision of that community.
In the last example, I will give the news that we have made to come from that conflict of Kagame and Kikwete, it is how Rwanda and Tanzania citizens (together with Kenya and Uganda) they will play and then try to get them in the sea where conflict that was started by the presidents of Tanzania and Rwanda.
The ones that were written by citizens of those countries in different parts and in the social media networks are saying that the ordinary citizens how they got into the logic and instead they have been able to leave the logic and instead they have been able to leave each other, instead they have been tired of their counterparts.
That is not a good sign to the future of the East African Community and the union of people of our country, and not leaders or not citizens who agree on how to prevent them between Kikwete and Kagame.
What I hope is that the issue that sparked controversy between them, the rebels of FDS, did not be identified as required and get a solution.
A series of attacks will not be found when leaders in that area, they don't have the heart to look for what the rebels are continuing with them and who is able to help them in the condition and property.
