
23 October 2013.

Kabigiri ends his delegation with him.
The candidate for the position.
Delegation of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Geofrey Nyange said Kabigiri ends.
Through the region I'm with 11 from Morogoro and Coast, he has urged voters in my colleagues.
General elections that will be held this Sunday, to elect him to cooperate with them.
His fellow leaders to bring quick changes in that institution.
Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Kaburu said, he is requesting you to know what we have.
You have taken a lesson so that he can be allowed to be demolished because they are forced to get out of the year, like it is called me.
This will be the deputy chairperson of Simba together with an entrepreneur, on the side of the committee.
The league of that federation said that if he will succeed to be elected as a member.
He will ensure he encourages soccer in the first youth, which will give birth to players.
Traffic police officers.

He said that he has great faith that the youth have now failed to be priority and is the one.
A big fan of the national team to perform well and under construction in the International Football Federation (FIFA) and if he will get that opportunity, to make sure youths are given great opportunity so as later Stars can be a threat.
"If I will get a chance to be.
The member of my region of Moro United and Coast for the ability and the great efforts that I wrote in sports, I will start first to supervise the youth in conjunction with my fellow members, who will succeed to be with them if I will be discriminated, "he said.
Kabudi, added that, without the youth it's impossible to get a good team of the nation, Kaburu said, he will also make sure he will make it.
As a result of different stakeholders who will not involve Yanga soccer continue to grow,.
And managing the teams of women in collaboration with his fellow members.
They can get even the league as it is for the men team.
He said he will supervise the interests of the referees.
So as to be able to have great morale and all of them are not in work for the purpose of doing their work.
With great integrity in line with managing the interests of the players in the club.
Their lives so that they can be productive, even if the national team can serve well.
"There are many things.
That I have planned to do if I will go inside that federation as a member.
Then I have faith that the voters do not know my ability as you are in leading.
Soccer here in the country and I believe in my thoughts and my delegates, we will arrive well.
In soccer here in the country, "said Kabigiri.
