One day after President Jakaya Kikwete did a tour in Mabogini area where he was a new residential houses for floods that was affected by the end of last year and criticized the citizens who continued to solve the shortage of compensation to the residents of that area, Dar es Salaam province Said Meck Sadick, met with residents who continued to solve the shortage of compensation to the residents of Dar es Salaam province.
In a meeting that is owned by that area, they have shown the fear that the testing of those fields is going on and therefore asked the government to review the procedure for compensation to the people who were in that village, there is one sister who will not allow him to sell for this place and not to sell them on this place.
There is a person found?
If you see the legal action I went up to the local government, it is a must they want to live and everything depends on that I request for the government we are there.
Without our correspondent.
There is a day if we decided to decide whether they are doing?
Therefore, the project has started citizens where we have been told that it is easy to know this area so as to know the fact that there is six months and I would like to give the citizens close to a big blow here, and I don't answer the citizens at very few months and that I don't know that because they don't be paid by recently.
Responding to the issues of those citizens, the head of Dar es Salaam province Said Meck Sadick, said the government will ensure every person who is paid in accordance with the law.
Now, I say Tanzanians have been asked how many times you live.
You are usually told to be at the area.
And the president.
It is going on.
If you go to Grind.
It's been advised, to be easily read, we will put your gold trees!
You know that there was a end of a day.
To any problem if you see someone who is putting up the ball in that attack, she told me that I have destroyed my skills here in a six million shillings.
Even a little.
At the time it is going on some of the citizens that were affected by the floods or those in various camp in Dar es Salaam city, I thank the rapper for its efforts to enable them to get new residential houses in Mabwepande claimed to be preparing for information.
I say that we give thanks to our president of the United Republic of Tanzania.
By being touched by this issue, a matter and the hands of thanks from the victims of the floods is evident in a different camp in the city.
Others remember the benefit of Tanzanians who came out to help them in this period of Martha.
We got this problem because I thank God that has been received well, we thank Honorable Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete for the services offered to me, this month we will give our government's efforts to be truly for us.
Things are help.
I have been like that they have been able to inform us because of their side, the organizations which aims at improving the construction of new residential houses are the victims of the floods in a new village of my grandfather who came from them to be satisfied with the promises they made in it.
I thank you so much.
This event has been written so much.
May, when we look at those children they have to be able to sit on the level of good needs, therefore the company has urged different stakeholders to continue coming out to help the victims of those floods while he mentioned the donation that was given by the police station and police stations so as to contribute to various construction equipment to be an example of construction.
Saint.
AIDS has when they have.
