
Mbeya City comes back to their brother Zigamba, will give 2-0.

Rashid Mkonga.

The Tanzania Mainland Premier League today has continued at the Sokoine stadium in Mbeya City, where Mbeya City team had showed their daily brother-0 goals.

Those teams have met for the first time after Mbeya City got a bridge and gave a unique issue among the soccer lovers in Mbeya City.

That match that was shown to have great opposition started with all the teams playing for the past, where in the first half, they claimed to use experience and listen to them in the premier league by owning a football for a long time.

However, together with owning the ball in the first half ended with all teams from the field without scoring.

The second half started with fast while every team is vying to get a victory goal where in the 62 minutes, the Mbeya City player Peter Mapunda, who died in the second half instead of Alex Sethi.

That goal took the celebrations in the whole stadium where the players of the team were seen to take advantage of it as a penalty scored as a penalty that was scored through a penalty on the 67 minute by the player Deogratius Julius.

The referee of that game Israel Nkongo gave that punishment after a player of Barcelona, Deus Kaseke who was cutting the vehicle heading to the defender of Mbeya City, Deus Kaseke, who was cutting a penalty heading to the Majimaji goal and caused a penalty in hand with a yellow card for a player, Laurian Mpalile.

Until the final match was asked in Mbeya City, it was ahead by 2-0 goals, different from the other matches at the Sokoine stadium, it had flooded the fans and gave the use of its own kind in the game which previously was talk with feelings of the residents of Mbeya City.

Mbeya City was represented by players David Bromwich, John Lukuwi, Hassan Mwasumilwe, Alex Masinga, Paul Mazombe, Paul Nonga, Jeremia John and Deus Kaseke.

When he was represented by Lawyer Kakolaki, Salum Kimotho, Boniface Hama, Boniface Hama, Jimmy Hovind,, Jimmy Dongo, OSasi together, Ibrahim Lupumba, and Peter Michael.

Referees in that match were Israel Nkongo (Dar) Samuel Mpenzu (Arusha), Mohamed Mkono (Tanga) and Miraa Cargo (Mbeya).
