We start with news reports.
President Jakaya Kikwete has advised the international institution for organizations that are found with permission in the world.
Signing it a rich country to help the poor countries that are continuing in the fight against corruption due to the difficulty of the issue that is increasing every day without informing them.
Opening the meeting of the institutions to prevent and fighting corruption in the world that took place in Arusha town, President Kikwete said the union has the ability to unite people from different countries and to help the government of the country that has the ability to make sure that the development of many countries in the world does not affect all the countries in the world.
The problem is not all over the world we shall give them bribery.
In the past, giving me the ability to be the government of those countries to deal with bribery, he advised the countries that are continuing to have a great capacity in all the countries in all countries.
Our poor but for what you have the great ability is needed, they are also needed, where this can also help and know how to help him?
And easily enable their work to believe by the director of Finance, Edward Hosea, said the goals and success of the institution will not be reached without the existence of bribery in the community without collaborating with media and non-governmental organizations and community in general.
It should be careful not to fail on the fight against corruption because of fighting corruption, it's only the journalists for a good work that you have written about in general have been done?
My brothers, this is one of the responsibilities that we are doing in.
It was.
Look in fighting corruption and also true.
The computer day did not depend on us for us.
Who is not insults.
I will come to come with the police.
A person who is born?
Country is now.
On his part, the minister of the country's easy administration Mathias Chikawe has noted that the cooperation that will be administered in different countries will help to eradicate it, only he is accused of protecting itself.
What happens the collaboration of the white house.
People help me being found.
That meeting includes heads of institutions to prevent and fighting fifty and one from other countries in the world, I will come to me with Oman at a time.
