By saying it was surprised that there is no fear that parties.
Preparing the youth.
I have not completed many youths?
All of them were for a house Jakaya Kikwete a modem that has come out where there is a period in the next elections, you know that there is a matter of doing an issue in an issue of stopping.
It is there.
Concerned contracts and I was in a youth to kill him but I don't want to vie for presidency but it continues with there.
For a youth.
In the year we want to see if I was coming here to follow keenly.
It is not in her work.
It is not because until the elders, I was asked for me.
And the elderly of the church for example the loan the deceased's loan.
He found an elderly and apologized.
My friend, Athumani has said that even if it is not his foot and you are in the process, let me give me a year, let me look for me when I think my young man to be done well by the name of the budget.
Private people by saying that currently the executive officer says that they will vote in their party and a person you have said, why is her friends and wisdom and his punishment can be a leader.
So necessary for the child to go to the teachers.
Through the picture.
One acre have also stopped and said.
The youth said that this is a time in Dallas when he was not allowed.
A young man from the other, the chairperson of the Eucharist celebrated in the hall that is still in the same same Said I think this issue of sending ten youths while going back to our time.
According to me.
I have not seen to hear.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, I don't recognize that she is thinking about the thinking person who sent away it is not every person that he knew that human beings will be happy with the thoughts that can prevent each other to other people I don't see each other.
Even one day and a human being in crime.
When he arrived in Dar es Salaam city, I met Makamba to come up with the idea and at the moment, though to take the fish he knows poor among the youths who fight for them.
This gets a draft including the women to Zitto Kabwe.
He has not said, if it's alone and Wiz Khalifa have said.
The late God revealed that he took a lot when he mentioned and if the medicine has caused many contributions to fight for but I say only is the issue of God.
In the investigation, it does not have a capacity building because popular as the young people, we should make sure that the youth have no chance but in a different levels, the youth have never been successful because of the location's position as a young man.
He is saying that it is a child before I'm doing well it is good for Tanzanians to follow up in Mwanza town starting from ten years, but I believe it is good for many people that we want to see if they wait for ten years up to time to try to break five years with the courage to like the youth here we talk about.
And the writer of news and great opposition is not very attractive, an amount of bad people who told this is that he was opened and that he was opened by the vice president if you talk to them.
Who's the responsibility of a sharp object, we have noted that fifty years or the age of this headquarters here when I was impressed me is a youth I have met with him.
For a way you look at and with a wife and the Tanzanians have set it well to follow up in this age because the people who go in the country, but if those leaders too was supposed to confirm that this age was true and I don't understand that this age was done by bad luck.
How is it if we agree.
