
The government will identify orphans.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been published today, September 2016.

Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children has said up to date last year it has identified 900 children and who live in difficult conditions in that council in the country.

The acting commissioner of the Social Welfare, Zigamba has said that yesterday in Dar es Salaam city and added that the work to recognize those children are sustainable, the aim being to look for how to help them by getting important needs.
Mushi said after recognizing those children, they will be launched a special committee in the area of area and village because of serving them, they will realize that more needs including orphaned children with various diseases and do not have a donation.
He said that in the process of recognizing the children, the ministry has revealed that there is a family that are supervised by the children themselves, thus the establishment of that committee will help reach them together with their needs, while Mushi said after the working needs, they would have lived and their parents.
He said the job to know is sustainable, the aim being to start the plans to come up with the committee that will realize that will go through training because children have different needs.
He said they thank the sponsors of the committee on implementation and management of all plans to help orphans and children living in difficult conditions as an evaluation of agreements for all activities that will be made by the community which the committee that will lead in the community.
He mentioned some of the work that orphaned children and children living in difficult environments have been doing as well as looking for employment and to make corrections, in urban and farms, to do small businesses, female children to enter in the love business, be self-employed.
Speaking about the development of the children who are involved in the prisoners, he said that by the audience of the children that is in Upanga in Dar es Salaam city has 34 children who are enough for solutions.
He said that getting a bond of the child results from the type of charges he has a thing that can cause the number of children in the increase or reduction.
