
The census are, August 26, it will fall in Tanzania?
Jide 16, 2012

"You did not happen on August 26, this will be a very important question that we shall get wherever they are in the country, they will be requested to give birth quickly so as to make the census on people and residences that will take place in the whole week from that day.

The census results in the whole week will visit a house to house, asking the question to the first level and to follow up with several others which will have its importance.

All that will be asked will be with the purpose of knowing the number of people in the country and also to get their important information like the age of gender, a place where they are living, a situation of marriage, education standards, employment and other things.
Maybe I asked himself it is why all the challenges you are made during the census because there are many reasons, and among those reasons, it is true that the reports will be used to follow up and assess the implementation of the millennium development goals in the year 2015 and various development programs in the country.
Also statistics of the census will also give actions that will be used to follow up on the implementation and evaluating the national development commission of the year 2015 and the year 2020 in Zanzibar together with the strategies of promoting the economy and the Pickup, in Tanzania Mainland and MEMKWA centers in Zanzibar.
In general statistics collected during the census is the ones that are used to plan the development plans in every area in the country.
The current needs for now and more than ten years of social services like education, health and water in every area is known during the census.

Therefore, the government and other stakeholders use the census statistics to take resources in every area in the country.

Another thing is true that statistics of the census will enable business people to choose the area of investing because everything they need to know in every area being open.

The first census in the country was held in 1910 and after that four examinations were made after Uhuru.
The census happened for 1967 in 1978, 1988, and 2002, according to the final results that took place in August, 2002, the number of people in Tanzania had 346092.

If the last census showed that stem cells are 3424603, it is why then it has been heard very much in the recent years that we are more than 70,000 million.
The answer is easy for experts who have been sitting on the increase of people in every period by checking the criteria and different reasons thus causing them to reach this year 2012, the number of people will be 457,975 million shillings.
Those are the estimates of if we were not correct or we are we find themselves to themselves, the census for this year will give you a true answer, why we continue to inform me.

After the real results of this year, the number of people and the housing is where I will be viewed as a problem that has been made because of the previous results or not.
For example, due to the results of the previous results, the budget of the year 2025, shows that bird feathers will be 65,3918 tons by that year.
There are all signs that this exercise will be successful since every time until now it is done as it was planned and it had been planned more than 141 billion shillings depending on the budget of this year.
Not happy, it is that preparations for this exercise for people and housing in the year started since the year 2004 and it has been going on well.
For 12 days last month, we have made training to the census on people and housing, the national level, at the rural development institution, in Dodoma town.

The training was bringing about 150 participants from the ministry, departments and various government institutions, together with higher education institutions and parties for disabled people.

After that training, the participants were allocated to teach students at the regional level in all provinces in the country, the exercise that is ongoing currently.
As they have been planned to get training at the regional level it's those who will be the directors and supervisors of the census at the district level and the top level in Tanzania Mainland, this procedure is used in all the previous census since it is needed, by the United Republic of Tanzania in the year 2007.

When the end of August 8, there will still be a primary question that will be asked by the departments which they will start activities of counting, 6 o'clock and one minutes on the night of that day.

That night, the departments that will be different places, even those that are not allowed, for example the Ubungo bus station in Dar es Salaam.

However, those who will be sent in the same night from the popular bar in Machakos town, Magomeni of Dar es Salaam, starting from 6 o'clock in Dar es Salaam city, starting from 6 o'clock in the city, from 6-1 will be stopped so as to eliminate the counting.

Children in the streets have also been called by those directors, because the training that is given will enable them to know themselves on the night and to be available and counted at them.
Because the census results will start their work at few hours, they will be accused of getting police force, but the police force will be to protect the officers not to protect themselves or be done to any other actions.
The police who were accompanied by the demonstrators they will not involved with the ones that will be held or asked by the chairpersons of those results, citizens should not hesitate to have any fear.
In general there are no boundaries that will be called by this exercise even if there are there that there are poor opportunities to be heard.

It is important for the citizens to be true in order to answer the questions of directors who will follow up so that their answers be given to the government to plan various development activities in their areas where they are.

Different statistics show that in that census will enable the government to know the level of development which they had reached, they have reached thus knowing what is what is supposed to happen.

However, organizations and various institutions will be able to know how they will be taught in different activities depending on the number of people as it is in the areas they want to get.

For example, as a water project you are required to make that project, it will be easy to know that the project will be easy to know that project should have a lot of development as it is in that area and the number of people in the area.
Statistics also have been made as a school of which kind that is supposed to be built in the concerned area after the census results show to show the number of children in that area and to also the ability to the citizens of the area according to various economic activities they provide.

But all that will be possible if the citizens will be true in giving the answers that is being asked by the departments that will be supported through the whole week starting on August 26th this year.
It is not true that the census for this year is giving the real picture of the orphaned children and those children get from what is where those children benefit from the disease like AIDS or a erosion of ethics that is causing the violation of a lot of marriage in the country?
The answer to emerge with a huge wave of orphans found, the government will be able to know which way to improve the situation get to continue being used.
Therefore, it is important to remember the existence of the census results that will start on August 26th, and in mind, make sure that day and answer to each other questions that will benefit.
