
The German club have gone down, Bayern is not only!
Germany, Germany have launched a big debate that occurred about the Germany Premier League after defending champions Bayern Munich started a gap of 11 points the best signs of winning their third friendly match.
The source of that debate is that that league has started getting good Samaritans who put new record on Friday when they drew 2-1 when they were scored four goals since the league started in August.
Bayern Munich got 45 points out of 51 in the first course and it has been normal to register a huge victory against their opponents in that league.
Their close opponents Wolfsburg, Modupeh Cole, Robert Schuller who did not give him signs of closing that gap in Dortmund who finished second season to be aired on the bridge.
The former coach of Germany national team, Bertrand Bailly, wants the amount of money they get Bayern by taking the championship in that country to be investigated.
The Sky Associate television station has lost 4 billion as to fly the Bundesliga league in Germany, with a big amount looking for the winners. "Small clubs are supposed to benefit from for example through the end of this money," said VocationalTraining together.
Those news, a person standing up the former Bayern and German player, Paul Feyerabend.
"Bayern cannot do anything to help other clubs to register good results.
Bayern is some of the rich clubs in the world recently, Bayern completed it to pay their loan of 3736, a period of 25 years to build their at the Allianz Arena in celebrating 16 years.
The German team now are supposed to play only so as to continue living in that league.
"Bayern is in another world and all of us agree with the issue," coach of Ausilio admits that after Bayern is forced to win his 4-0 defeat at home.
After winning the German Premier League in the year 2011 and 2012 and finishing the second behind Bayern, last season, Borussia Dortmund now seems to be playing with them because it is now in the past, after retiring from Robert Lewandowski.
