
The physician being read on fire.

It has been written by Pickup,.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

Residents in Kalege village in Nkasi district, Rukwa Province are alleged to be killing then put off in fire in the body of the local government in Kariakoo, Patrick Ngowi (44) and accusing her daughter, Silvio Gazzaniga, who is one year and a half years.

Rukwa Regional Police Commander, George Kyando, said the event happened on September 4th this year, at 2 o'clock at night in Kalile district in the district.
While talking about that tragedy, Commander Kyando claimed that the incident that he met with his lover Maria Kapele (21), in that village while carrying his female child aged one and a half years.
"Which was asked for her husband (Maria) to give his lover then he left her back to his home, he did not turn back, but when he arrived at home, he found his house," he explained.
It is alleged that the mother of the child when he arrived at home for his skill of giving her a child, but he refused that she has no child to be able to release his house then he gave him inside.
"When I got into the sacks of maize, I wish you any person that doesn't affect the state house, where the mother of the child was surprised when asking for a donation when he called people.
People admitted to the scene of the incident, because many were able to break the door and found himself when she has held a sharp object on the child with a child of the child already died, while he has revealed some scared of his neck by a sharp object, "explained Commander Kyando.
He said that when the citizens were involved with traditional weapons including stones, a bag of swords and pieces of the bricks started against him and caused the death then they left his body at a fire.
"The previous investigation has revealed that which he was a professional surgeon in the country, now it is possible for the killings on her close things, we found the child that has sent the blood.
Some of the residents of that village with conditions of not written in the newspaper claimed that the bodies of all the deceased was operated on the day before yesterday in that village, but the citizens were swept away from the body, while the big number of residents of that village came out to bury his heart.
According to Kyando, the human body is under the defense of the police, the burial have been witnessed by their brother's brothers and two leaders of that village.
