
The UWT secretary of finance, groups to decide the winner on May 29, 2012

The ability of the running mate in leading is the criterion done in various elections of the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM). Instead, the strength of groups and money is the criteria required to stop over the cooperation between candidates and voters.
Those are the environment that supports the general meeting of the Union of Women (UWT) of CCM, and when the delegates of that meeting were in that environment, members of CCM outside that meeting who ask who is the new chairperson of UWT?
Yes, why is the new chairperson of UWT, this is a question that even when you are the reader is waiting for the answer that will be found after the completion of that union's general meeting that begins today in Dodoma town.
The delegates from different provinces in the country on behalf of the members of UWT, their colleagues have a great way to look for the successor to the chairperson of his term, Anna Abdallah (68).
Anna Abdallah who was born on July 26th, 1940, had enough qualifications to be a leader, a scholar from the university's level, who was leading in various ministries in the country including the ministry of health, regional administration and local government and the Ministry of Labor.

In the political leadership, Anna Abdallah has held various positions including the chairperson of UWT national, who were in them since the year 1994.
We can say Anna is a leader with success in the sector of leadership.
The reputation are another big challenge to the voters in looking for his successor to UWT.
Without doubt, that is a huge responsibility to members of voters, especially by considering difficult environment that are affecting the elections as the situation has shown.
How delegates were shocked as to elect the new chairperson, that is the basis of the difficulty of the environment of that election, it will send a winner who will lead that union by approximately 14 years.
The difficult environment comes from the requirements of the fact that there is a normal state, the best leader is determined by good qualifications, even corruption have no qualifications to the public and to someone who is not a leader.
The reputation of a good leader is together with the private ability to think for the interests of many, and also private ability to involve or cooperate with other stakeholders so that finally speed up achievements that do not meet public expectations.
But in this UWT election, as it is for another elections for the community of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), as the youth union (UVCCM), that you will say it is a large winner in the port.
Mizamburakis said the reputation of the private ability of the candidate and caused the interests of the political groups and other ways of corruption, especially the use of money.
We can say that the basis of the former elections of CCM in getting a good leader in the party has lost its direction and has ever heard several times and senior officials of that party, including the chairman President Jakaya Kikwete.
It will be remembered that during the end of the UVCCM general meeting at the end of last year, President Kikwete also pointed out about the previous election of leaders of that union being hands with politicians outside that union and some being removed.
Therefore it is not a mistake to say that the elections of that party and its community have been losing direction and it's not elections, that can attract themselves and not a better class to be given example to scholars, they receive the opportunity to present a topic in different areas of the country, or outside the country.
It is different meanings associated with issues that are involved in kidney transplantation, hatred and mix up according to the issues with direction of endanger the love and worship conflicts.
In those agenda, the issues that arose are the strengthening of political camp, all these are difficult environments to be taught in the general meeting of UWT in Dodoma town.
Now it has been common for voters in the CCM elections to vote in political camp, instead of the basis of getting a good leader.
Unfortunately, the delegates who are voters with this problem.
Therefore, it is clear that some of the voters in this CCM elections, including the UWT of the UWT in the middle and it's possible that they were selected to represent their colleagues in the meeting after being involved in corruption, by bribing the delegates.
And the truth is that there are all signs that in the UWT elections in Dodoma province, they will cause voters who have played 74 votes out of the direction and even so, an issue to ask for it is that the number of delegates of the votes they lost their direction.
As it comes from the ones that lost the direction, the UWT will have a leader who had lost direction before starting to fulfill his responsibilities as a new leader.
But apart from that, there are other environment of challenges in that meeting, the general elections of UWT, Dodoma.
For example, when you talk to some of the voters, because of the delegates of the UWT general meeting, you hear you saying that some candidate we are supporting him because it is in our camp.
And remaining, you will hear you explain that a certain candidate is for the camp's camp and the one who is in that camp is something sad, here is that these camp have turned into a long time.
It is a permanent camp, and the results of this situation is the presence of some voters who are mocking him from the reputation of being a good leader, and not for their camp.
They will defend that position as the minister of state, the office of the president in charge of good governance and the nominated member of parliament, Janet Kahama and another nominated member of parliament, Joyce Masunga.
These candidates are going to be voted in within the difficult environment as it was explained before.
Symptoms show that, Janet Jackson and Sophia Simba are the ones that are seen to have a great opportunity to win, especially by considering the trend of their campaigns.
Their campaigns have been faced with great tension. It will be remembered that on September 15 this year, some of the newspapers in the country reported that the tension between these two candidates and some of the news headlines that emerged is the Minister for Simba, Kahama Town.
It was claimed that the conflict came out during the session of the political committee of Dar es Salaam region that was being led by the chairman of the Revolutionary Party in that province, John Guninita.
It was claimed that the delegates of the session found themselves in extra work and even listen to the women, the sitting was specific to stop the names of various candidates for leadership positions in UWT.
Cause of conflict was alleged that it is a decision by the Minister Sophia Simba, to claim that in that meeting being his opponent (Kahama), he has been trying to stop a name to delegates that he will not be satisfied by the leadership of the wealth of the son.
It is alleged that the Minister Simba continued to say he is a child of the town and that Mama Kahama can compete with anything which was using the streets that made Mama Kahama's language to prevent him.
As a result of those arguing, it was claimed that Janet Kahama was unable to wed and decided to answer the charges.
One newspaper in the country did to watch his news source in that sitting because he said that while Simba continues to say, Mama Kahama, he refused and started saying, "the place of God, why is what to stop honor."
"We see that, the delegates we decided to intervene in line with relocating, while others helped her mother in Kahama town because he had an entrepreneur," is claimed that Minister Simba has been campaigning by President Jakaya Kikwete to contest for the seat.
The benefits of the presidential candidate is to be a member of the parliamentary sessions of CCM, National Executive Council (NEC) and the Executive Committee (CC).
Those candidates were asked about the reports of the occurrence of their conflict, each one had his answers.
Kahama I refused to speak about he asked, but the Minister Simba said.
Our session was secret, those reports have written where I am a good leader, I know what I did, I cannot get the secret of the sitting, maybe that I have been caught up, he said that which took place inside that session are not supposed to remain outside.
Apart from the minister Simba and Janet Kahama, other previous candidates in the position of the chairperson of UWT, Taifa, together with Joyce Masunga, Halima Dendegu, Halima Mdee and Ziba.
However, others who were dismissed from the remaining is Janet Kahama, Sophia Simba and Joyce Masunga.
After the being reported with that tension, the chairperson of CCM, who is the former chairman, who was leading the session that witnessed the tension between Kahama and Simba, John Guninita said he was announcing the existence of conflict, saying those candidates appeared before the region.
According to Guninita, the session of the political committee in Dar es Salaam will meet on September 12 this year, to discuss the names of presidential candidates of UWT in the province.
"It is true that every one had an illusion, but it is not true that he is not a leader among the two who cared for your own language as reported in some of the media," he insists.
The special message for these three candidates is the one that has ever been released by the CCM Chairman, President Jakaya Kikwete, in a special general meeting of UWT which was held in Dodoma, July 27, year 2007, to fill the position left vacant by Amina Salum Ali, who was appointed to be the representative of the African Union (AU), in America.
In that meeting, President Kikwete gave challenges to members and leaders of that union whom he called her sister saying that, my message for a short time is that I would like to see that UWT is continuing to be the solution, leader, we will sign up of honor of the Tanzanian woman.
"I would like to see the UWT in order to rule the leadership of women in Tanzania without to be shaken."
