23 October 2013.

The case of Uhuru Kenyatta.
The high court in the region.
Dar es Salaam, yesterday was unable to continue to listen to the case of constitutional.
The he was opened by the Prime Minister, Mister Mizengo Pinda and the attorney general of the government.
(AG), says Rehema Mohamed said the situation led by the leader of the commission.
Government lawyers, deputy AG, George Mwasobwa said their absence of court.
The case was there.
In front of the panel of three judges, was led by Judge Lubara, where he was yesterday.
It was forced to go for the purpose of continuing to be heard, but before the same time.
The government's chief lawyer, Eugen Maluja giving the court that they have a request.

Malunde.
Assistant AG got an emergency report about the presence of a union meeting of the community.
East African Community is on the issues of law that started yesterday until October 28.
This year, Arusha Province, at the headquarters of the EAC.

He claimed that the delegates.
The participants of that meeting are heads and heads of five countries of the community.
And there was no way of him not to attend that meeting where lack of him are not present.
They are inspiring.

He added.
They have already directed AG, it would not write a letter to serve that court and on the side.
The one has brought the claims about that meeting. "Deputy ministers, deputy AG.
Who was leading a panel of government lawyers in this process.
And the reason I have ever been previously, we request that they have made news until after the meeting.
To end so that he can be able to attend the case and listen to the issues of the second side, "
He claimed Malunde.

As a result of
The origin of this case, is requesting the request.
We should agree that due to the reasons that I have given you, he added on behalf of
The side of has brought the claims, that lawyer, Maputo 'Mpoki had agreed with the request of the side.
Therefore the judges of that case were postponed that case up to November 8-11.
This year.
Pinda and AG were opened by that case number 24.
The year 2013 and the activists of the Law and Human Rights Center (LHRC).
Together with the Tanzania Law Society.
(TLS) said Mister Pinda has broken the country's constitution.
That step was attributed by the statement of Mister.
He made in parliament, in the 11th meeting of parliament, giving instructions to the president.
The implementation of the law to capture the citizens at the time of tension.
Parliament in Dodoma town in a period of questions there and then, June 20.
This time Mister Pinda answering a question about the increase in Kilwa road.
(CCM), Eutropia Mwabeleko speaking to Mangungu as he wanted to know the stand of the government about complaints.
Against the media stations in some areas.
Mtwara, beating the citizens.

Mister Pinda.
He said that if you do the violence, it has been told to do this, putting it themselves.
Only, when he was in a mosquito, there's no other way, as a must we agree on that the country will be able to agree on that country.
We are running a legal basis.

"Now.
If you have reduced, you don't know that it is stable when you are the arrogance.
They will just vote and am saying it's just the same, because there is no other way, "he said.
Because we are happy, "you can be read the documents of the audience.

In a case.
That the complainants claims that statement is against the constitution because it was going against the constitution.
Article 12 (2) 13 (1), 13 (3), 13 (6) (a-1) and they are requesting the court to be a leader.
That statement is contrary to the constitution and serve Mister Pinda that he has been charged with me.
The decision by the command, when those were issued by a leader with the status of the debtor.
It is being taken as the law that is supposed to be implemented by the agents.
