
17 December 2012

SUMATRA has disclosed the secret of fighting for a ship.

The Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA) has noted the secret of entering the ship in the country from the Mv Bukoba villages and the others which have continued to happen in the Indian Ocean and caused the deaths of thousands of people.
Speaking during the seminar on water stakeholders and owners of the ship in the country, the head of implementing the services of exploration and rescue services SUMATRA Captain Ken Nyauncho Osinde said many accidents that occur on water are caused by human laziness.

He said as usual, it is required to start the ship to start their journey to avoid problems during the journey.

He said many deaths in those accidents are caused by human beings themselves because before starting their journey, being elected as its quality, including knowing how many passengers have the ability to carry passengers and cargo.

If you look at an accident that took place on May 21, last year 1996 in the Bukoba ferry that was playing in Bukoba and go to Mwanza it has not completed the rules and laws of the ship on how he wants.

The ship bought a lot of cargo different from his ability to carry cargo that was carrying the cargo that was carrying many passengers, the ship had a poor conditions, it would have been able to carry the cargo that had already been discovered.

But all that was a result of that ship heading to dock without getting anything done so that they can give them the passengers being safe to him and his property played in Dar es Salaam to Pemba, the cause of the accident was many passengers to be in that ship than the ability of the ship.

The commission where water has reduced that ship said that the bomb attacks was made in 1967 in the year 2007, Tanzania bought the ship which had already reduced and it had no ability to carry many passengers.

But the commission said that the ship bought more than 2000 passengers even though the captain of the ship said false accusations that the ship bought 500 people.

The JayMillions Promotion Company has the reason to fall into that ship was a high standard in the sea, there was a strong winds, therefore the ship of this type could be able to withstand 4G network which is the reason to sink in that ship.

This ship had the ability to take 250 passengers only, and how it was no ability to go to different trips as it was done, the same day he got an accident when he got more than 400 passengers.

However, the captain Herbert Mrango said that situation has also contributed to the workers of the aim of getting the training to time so as to be able to run those security.

He said that contracts of work has resulted from accidents from time to time in the sea.

Will face the captain that he does not have any contract with his company and that situation causes the captain to work hard.

Most of the people missed a life when a ship did not give information quickly to areas that are concerned, therefore, it needs the ministry that are concerned with the rules and legal laws so as to reduce accidents that arise in Tanzania.

"Up to now, there is no one that deals with the ship.
