
When it has come to leave the debate on May 25th, 2012

It is not true that if we are now, we have been people of directing superstitious talks and not having a huge debate.
I commend the great debates because it has no benefit, and or it does not give the solution to the problems it's a great reputation of the debate like this is that you have tried to stop problems and not to solve.
Among the important debates that took a new chapter recently here in the country, it is together with Khajida Kopa, the organization that is involved with giving and receiving money from roads contrary to the law and procedures of the country.
Examples of other parliamentary debates are the issue of oil in Zanzibar because it is a union or we are believed that the issue has been put into a chameleon because it did not be on a union card and they believe that even the constitution didn't have an increase or reduced.
The opinion polls continued to take place in the country after two business people - the chairman of IPP companies, Reginald Mengi, with the member of parliament of Igunga District through CCM, Rosary Aziz Abood. The conflict was made to inform the other his colleagues that are believed to have no boundaries.

It was a debate that had been received with different feelings including fingers, from my view, they were affected if you missed the enthusiasm to each one that does not help any citizen.
In my opinion, that debate is clear that if it does not have productivity and not it does not give direction as a nation but instead it gives them an important service like the clinic, water, and even when they go through their wealth!
Listen to me, such a debate is to see if it is not giving direction.
We must inform the debate that is giving priority to the country even after the coming 50 years for the benefit of all?
It is a must to focus on special debates that will be able to answer the challenges that the country is facing, in order to bring peace and development in our country.

We ask ourselves about the important questions like Airtel, we have organized us to deal with our people in dealing with the challenges of the coming of the East African Federation, especially in the important areas like education but what will benefit from the local market inside that federation?
We thank you, our education is compatible with the reality of our life and many challenges that are in our country as Tanzania as a country, we are able to cooperate with our scholars and we are being used as required by bringing development in our country?
In addition, we ask ourselves who are the priorities in Tanzania in the war to avoid poverty that has taken out of poverty that prevails in the community of banana?
So, we will solve the shortage of teachers in our secondary schools that were able to build in farming without having better strategies for getting teachers and medical equipment, we will solve the shortage of teaching and nurses in hospitals and our clinic?
The writer General Ulimwengu has said in some of his thoughts in this newspaper of Raia Mwema, I succeeded to write, "so as to build the ability and development of any country, there are two important things that are, clean education and good health to your citizens," he said.
I hope we have succeeded to do that in those education and health sector, what many citizens do not have money to pay for their health as well as many citizens do not have money to pay for their studies because they do not have enough teachers just after failing to get a low income.
That is the real situation of our country which, without doubt, it needs special debates that will give direction and direction of our nation, because of the policies, direction and will to work with ethics in order to build a community with peace and that has not moved forward.
That is the main debate that gives a direction for a nation, because there is no country in the world that is continuing with good future plans of development.
It's not true that Tanzania we have been like this Jahazi will not be known, therefore there is no wind who is an appropriate time.
We must have the eyes of the vision of opening a political debate with a direction for today and tomorrow for the interests of the whole nation, they could make sure that you will be able to evade worms and non-infectious diseases, who believes that the brain of a black person (type of age), has stopped in the open war or events without considering inside.
Hehe is saying that a black person does not lie on a high level, not to mention the name or at the middle), it is our responsibility of all of us to confirm if Hehe is wrong in his view.
In raising parliamentary debates, our leaders also must know that a human being have learned well due to the difficulty of the problems that he is facing.
I am saying that because our leaders do not use a lot of time to check the problems like section and a lot of difficult decisions, and finally they see you in bad opinion.
A good leader as to bring up parliamentary debates and to agree with the problems if the right way to reach that success is the good view of a stable leader inside the debate.
I think about words that were stated by President Obama of the United States, when he was asked in power he was asked how many people who are opposing his policies than those who fail to learn a lot from them for the purpose of development of all people.
The statement means that all the good leader is a person to learn from other people and the leader must have no challenges as well as the issue that has decided to bring up parliamentary debates that will give direction for the whole nation.
Because we have said that we and themselves as teachers, they will affect the life of a human being, it is a must that we give them the parliamentary debates that will give a direction in the nation for our interests and not knowing what our ability of writing things are unknown.
It's not true that our leaders like more than criticized and criticized for example, the minister whenever they were forced to do more without asking yourself why you are marrying.
Although it is true that the truth is that it is not good because it is not good for anyone, but on a certain side, "the message is important to have a group that may not get justice or it is not aware of the areas where we are going.
The British are saying that the name of Vital Voices Global Partnership in the country, "this means that the results of them give them an important opportunity to see the problem, therefore as a good leader we should take advantage of the problem that had caused the situation to be taught.
Wisdom if these are able to see problems if correct way to protect themselves, still there is a new thing to our leaders, the British say "when the queen of the half a half," there is a reason to know the problem is a half of solving that problem.
And there's when the importance of the concept of parliamentary debates is up so as to bring up a lot of challenges.
"But difficult questions (debate) is the only thing that will give you the experience and good professionalism that you will continue looking for solutions for the procedure and even without knowing how you get experience and good answers and finally be the winner day until day."
The quote of the cause of the sun, shows openly that the parliamentary debates (difficult questions) is the ability to give direction so as to get a solution to a certain issue, because this difficult questions (debate) makes it a human being to see things by his inch width.
All the days parliamentary debates concern heavy questions and with productivity and makes a solution to the thoughts between people, then when he is in the chest and the direction is determined by the concerned community.
Experts of science and community experts have agreed to be the name of the Ambassador to change, "we have a meaning that conflict is the basis of change in any community, because in every important step of changes in development, it must be accompanied with the conflicts or tension.
What's what is required is what is called "" Matatizo 'program, "the Ambassador of Dar es Salaam, will take a stern warning to the previous steps, the following step is easy to have been cheated.
This is the good foundation of opening the parliamentary debates, and the leaders to have the ability to receive problems like the right way to identify themselves and not a good issue to know and to see the problem and to see the problem and to see the problem and to see the problem and to see the direction and responsibilities of development.
I conclude by saying that as a nation, we must have an important culture of love to bring up special seats which are required to build a new constitution with hunger, a bad education, poverty that prevails.
There is when we will have the ability to oppose the vision of Spotify Network and Hebdo magazine who used doubt about our ability and thinking of thinking and not to understand the things in details.
The writer of this article is called Gulamu Mtande, who is a first student in the University of Dar es Salaam, Faculty of Science of Social Welfare, Eph7753.
441 households.
