
So, oil of Simiyu is safe.

The Ocean Road Safety institution in Dar es Salaam city has said oil is no effects in the human body such as the ones that are being used well, it has said that until now, there are no reliable research that has ever been done by showing that oil is a source of breast cancer.

The report was made yesterday by an expert doctor of cancer, in that institution, Doctor Cromer, when he was speaking to Mtanzania in a special interview.

"Crude oil is not drugs but also preventing non-communicable diseases, including cancer because it is professionally known," Who Lives Fores, which is also determined to some fruits like skin disability, soap and infants.

"Different from which is that, the fuel have a lot of food, different from which are already in the fruits.

Another job of shivered in the body has mentioned that it is to remove poison that help create human cells in the body.

"In that meaning, I should be able to say it is that any drugs should be used well and at the level is needed for the patient, can be able to marry a patient.

"Sugar or a salt if it has caused many effects, that is even a loss of cancer if not used well has effects.

"We return to me, crude oil is no effects as used to run well, but the effects that they have said, arising from the way they use the oil, because entrepreneurs who give them don't know what the patient is supposed to have used them in which way.

"Another problem is in its preparation, because it is not known in the environment," he said.

While explaining the ability of the fuel for skin disability, he said that they don't have the ability to prevent the solar energy if they are there in that skin.

As a result of that situation, he said that albino is not supposed to used them because they increase the effects on their skin.

Doctor Aifena Mramba, advised the institutions that are concerned with the control of various products, to make sure the investigation before products have been spread on the consumers.

Also, he said there is need for the community to have an understanding of drugs to avoid the effects that can arise after using them.

The use of crude oil is believed in the controversy recently, after Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA), said that they can cause cancer cancer.

According to TFDA, those fuel have a big amount of misuse of oil including the type of cooking oil, "which can affect the health soon as used as food.
