
The projects of COMING is accelerating in Mbeya on May 25th, 2012.

During the drought season, residents of Chimala ward in Mbarali District, Mbeya Region, believed more than 700 million shillings as the only activity of bringing about income and Haazu taking any other activities of that agriculture run in rivers.

It is agriculture that has already been in all the years.

But as they continue with that farming, they did not understand about its effects on the environment of their area, and how it cares for the changes in the world, what he told them is the because of various crops they were given at that time which includes vegetables and maize of drought.

We are happy about the maize and ninety minutes that have been discovered every time they pass from Ignance Mchaga until Ignance Mchwaa will be rains and drought.

But the changes in climate (not change) that I would like that is facing the valley of Keko location, caused the effects on every day of the citizens of that valley.
However, as a result of the ones that are not aware that they are part of the contributes to the destruction of their environment, continued to attack the valley areas with the moisture.

In addition to various strategies of the government to prevent them to continue with the farming, still it was not easy to leave it because they did not see another alternative ways that will give them income during this drought season.

Recently, the recent years of the WFunding Board (Water Program) which is partnering with the Mbarali District Council, to encourage the residents of the Mbarali District Council (Community), has managed to change the thoughts and views of the citizens of Chimala ward about farming.

The Environmental Education Officer of Way Tanzania Program (water) in Ruaha), believe Masser has explained the step of the start of COMING, that was the source of the citizens of that ward, a keeper who has been able to return to other activities of property with giving them more income.

The environment expert from Wiwa is mentioned the main aim of the program of COMING that was started in the year 2004, in that district, it is to give farmers in rural economic activities so as to get rid of agricultural tools popularly known as seen as contributed to the destruction of the environment.

"

Some of those activities include the making of soap, rearing chicken and alternative treatments and business of the human and second drug shops.

Feng Gikombaa is one of the members of COMING in Chimala, who passed with irrigation farming, and to turn out of soap.

While explaining his success, Nay wa Mitego says, "this is the making of soap has touched me in the eyes and my income right now is very big more than when I are struggling to get married but I had a lot of income but it was very little.

The farmer right now does not want to hear a thing that is known as a result of his current income and his current business of soap.

"This activity touched me so much, I use 800 tons of soap for one month and everyone I will sell 1000 shillings and I have never got money at each other.

According to the farmer, it uses two days to make sure that, one of 800 tons of soap is at a price of 1000 shillings every time it gives him a lot of 800,000 American Dollars in every corner of one week.

It is clear that, as if he knows the farmer, the plan of COMING, has helped to give them the farmers of that county, alternative economic activities, different from farming which have a lot of income in that farming and therefore leave it.

The step by those citizens to stop using abusive language after getting alternative activities with great income is very important in dealing with climate change due to the fact that the Sunni rebels are needed to save water together with natural vegetation.

The executive director of Mbarali District Council, George Kaguo has stated that the issue of climate change in the district is complete and they love each person at the moment.

Inspect, he gives one example of change in two seasons of rain in that district where he says that during the 2007 election season, he says that during the year 2007 the rains have started to rain in August, last year, they started in the month of December and for this year 2009, he said they are not sure.

He says that together with the changes of rains, the citizens are not given information about more than half a half hours they have heard on the radio and among those important reports of heavy rains that he mentioned to be used to deal with its results.

These groups of COMING was started in the year 2004 by the Wiwa company in collaboration with the Mbarali District Council in five villages which are handed over to Isakweza village, Upendo Primary School, Upendo Primary School, Mwanzi and Neema village in Ihenga town.

The report of those groups shows that since its establishment, it has given loans to its members worth 92 million shillings in a high level of shillings 200,000 which is worth 75 million shillings at a high level, and that process is 75 percent.

Those groups in addition, have managed to collect a total of 57,800 shillings as well as the shares (212,070,00 Tanzanian shillings), 4,070,00 Tanzanian shillings, a penalty (212,150 billion shillings) and other revenue (24,743).

In addition to the alternative economic activities, those groups are involved with conservation of the environment including buying seedlings of trees where every member contributes to the area of its house, to encourage their colleagues to abandon the habit of looking for water sources.

Part of the projects that was started in Mbeya due to the manufacturing of soap and left, receiving soap and on the first stage made by right is pieces of soap was made at home.
