President Jakaya Kikwete today has announced the commission of constitutional changes that will supervise the constitutional process where he has appointed the retired prime minister, retired Judge Joseph Warioba to the chairperson of the commission and the retired judge of the commission and its chairman, we should know that he has already been placed on the report.
The editors and journalists from different media stations waiting for the desire to know what the president of President Jakaya Kikwete at state house in Dar es Salaam.
All of us Salim Ahmed Mazrui, participating in the same logic, Honorable Mpozi from Salim or his brother who is supposed to be the management of Alhaj Salum Maulid and is there a full story of Mohamed Masoud Said Maige.
And at the left is Mwinyi Hassan, brother Suleiman in their brother safe, Kombo, Brother Abubakar Mohammed, and brothers when Abdullah was released.
In this journalists is a famous person!
They love you still for a lot of money.
To prevent the journey from the end of end, Adrian Severin.
Brother Richard Miles.
My brothers, when you feel.
Or it doesn't jump and Maasai.
We have forgotten the way it is.
Professor Makaka Kabudi, let us start slowly.
I saw the theft of ethics and is hard to agree.
He also said that he went to Honorable the mother Apostle Mohammed who did not know.
On the side of the secretary.
It was at 4 o'clock.
The member of parliament for now is the general secretary in the ministry of law, I am happy to have been forced to give birth to the attorney general of the prime minister's office, so President Kikwete is one of he has announced the names in the whole process of being involved in names of those delegates, but it was not guilty, we should strive to get a lesson.
And groups to different groups of people know anything in our country.
He receiving recommendations.
More than five hundred thousand recommendations that are believed to be ten years of five in the ten years and five in Zanzibar.
How to filter each other that you get ten commandments and five are not less than five, it is true you should say.
That this decision we have done?
They are connected to the stakeholders to ensure that it has helped so much easily.
You know it will be emphasized and they love all stakeholders.
Getting previous people to work hard.
But he is saying that this person will get an opportunity to be heard in their issues where they wanted the constitution and commission during the process of listening to the opinions of the views of the citizens so that they can continue.
Continuing to continue supporting their views and recommendations at the time, when you get told President Kikwete, he has said that the commission will be officially launched before the end of the game, should be addressed before the end of the game.
