This is the secret of Idd.
Jide 24, 2013.

The prosecutor general of the Local Government (DPP), Eliasa Felex Ngamlagosi said charges together with them were seen in the case against the former Minister of Industry and Trade, Idd Simba, a step that led the government to fail in that case, our citizens will be told.
The institution for preventing and fighting corruption (TAKUKURU) was determined that for Simba and his colleagues will be known as an offense, it has been seen in a few mistakes and also the director of the Kisena Group Company, Simon Kisena claimed that he will be like a witness instead of the small traders.
"The case for Simba was very open and the evidence was to look for last month and the government could not get the respect if the right is that the DPP office was discussing the charges," said the real source of this newspaper inside the moment.
June 19, this year, DPP gave a certificate of removing that case (Nagutwa) under section 91 (1) of the criminal offenses act, claiming that he does not have an intention to continue with that case.
Previously, Simba and his colleagues, who was a member of the board of directors of the Dar es Salaam Civil Aviation Organization (UDA), Salim Bimani.
When she was brought to court for the first time on April 29 this year, Simba and his colleagues have already been unable to vote for forgiveness, misuse of power and causing the UDA-1 billion shillings.
However, tomorrow April 30th, last year, the charges followed the case and opening a case to strengthen the economy, having six mistakes including abuse of office, bribery, and caused the organization a loss of 84 billion shillings.
In that new case, DPP decided to connect the Kisena accused in that case as a suspect when he was required to be used as the witness of the charges.
In the case of this way, there's something called "use the small fish so as to attract big fish," this means that the support of the law is not to be left to be left to who did not have a big offence.
"By losing BBC if the witness, the government had scored a very important goal to the government but through this DPP decision, the government failed in this important case," said one source of this newspaper from the charges.
Simba and Milanzi were alleged that they received bribes from 56 million shillings from Kisena so that it can be able to pay the UDA-Fi shares that had not been built between September the year 2009 to January the year 2010.
Although TAKUKURU has complained to the value of the UDA-22 billion shillings from its investigation, Kisena claimed that it was sold to UDA-amount of more than one billion shillings.
In an interview that was given after the emergence of the UDA-RT scandal, Simba claimed that the money that he is alleged to be given by the Kisena claimed that he had given out the payment of good work (MARI) although he also quoted saying that he has never worked well with Simba.
The money for the purchase of Ebola was put into a private account for Simba and not for that organization as it was expected.
"It is true that there is a fact that there is a probability that he gave bribery to the women, but if you want to buy my house and I am giving you an account number to pay and protect it, there is what offense?
"It is possible for now to be at a witness, Kisena claimed that they had already been considered as many people with the authority because it would have been an important thing to other people with the authority to urge him Kisena claimed that this opportunity was approved," said one of the lawyers who were involved in close to the case.
When he was asked by Raia Mwema, he explained the truth about the claims that the DPP office was discussing the charges against him, the Executive Director of TAKUKURU, Doctor Edward Hosea, said "because I am not knowing that the case is being presented (review) for now.
In another step, the efforts to get a DPP issue to talk about the issue, we're going to bear fruit, although he told our reporter to a short message of the mobile phone that you can be called on Monday this week going without answers.
