The reputation are there.
Those college have said that the act that was done by the Executive Director of that council of owning a report on the Swahili language and through a financial committee in ICU through the solar energy regulations and causing the council to loss of more than ten million shillings.
Our eyes continue in one of our experts we want to be a week of love and love.
Normally every end of the financial year, the council is making a special council to discuss the report of the last year's implementation and to form a permanent parliamentary committee and to elect the vice chairperson, directors.
But for sure that they have written the government to bring in payments where the councilors will do a problem which is on the same time, I was walking and carelessness, I will not hesitate to assure you for a long time, I will not overlap.
In fact, many things are unable to bring down a lot of relief like the law and regulations and the procedure of working, the defendant with a lot of work that is caused by the head of province and the representative of Tabora Province Fatuma Mwassa, Turkey for a week and explained his disappointment about the laziness of their directors and to discuss our problems that I have talked to the law like religion.
We should know where Jane cannot get.
Because our customers only is to wait for them?
As a result of the management not fulfilling their responsibilities and giving direction by the Chief Justice and Auditor General of Tabora province, has lived for a short time, but that situation has been a lot of time given because the situation has resulted to lack of teachers who want to prepare.
And to achieve any place.
Why should I change?
You want to know.
That council was called again inside the seven days was attended by the finance committee while the chairperson listening to his executives to consider the regulations and regulations of the councilors sitting in Nzega District, I have been Mwaibale.
Head of the traffic department at Mikumi national park in Morogoro Province, Christine Ishengoma, has said that the department has continued to be faced with various challenges including eating wild animals that has become a total of six hundred and ten thousand shillings since last year up to January up to January up to January.
Since June up to June to June this year, it is only ready for ninety minutes and nine of them were touched by more information when it takes money.
Through mobile phone, Christine Ishengoma, has mentioned the other challenges, the father could destroy the road that had been killed.
Change.
Have come with a lot of vehicles.
For a period of five years.
By ten o'clock.
Four, it has brought.
.
Animals.
The tourism reserve in Mikumi National Park is a sister and the king David Lugenge from giving an indication that they are sick.
And Tanzanians?
I have seen it will play.
Religious in the whole community.
Attacks have been supported in the directive has shown as the head of the security department of Mikumi, Joseph.
.
Children.
At the time of Christian?
In the referral hospital of provinces, they have been urged to borrow medical equipment's affordable prices and pay for a special procedure from the health insurance fund in the country, that is to ensure that the board visited the Provincial Hospital of Mount Meru together with the hospital's referral hospital, where they were in the region at the province where they were in the region at the Provincial Hospital.
Many patients of Msama.
