
Doctors coming back for 19 o'clock.

After the decision by the council of doctors, Tanganyika came out a total of 319 doctors for violating the ethics of that profession, those doctors have started selling those licenses.
Apart from involving those licenses, some doctors have been in communication with the minister of health from one of the countries that are in South Sahara Desert to go and work there.
According to the news just reaching, those doctors have been doing talks with that minister in the country's embassy in Dar es Salaam city and the previous agreement reached is that those doctors will be received and put in the training system for actions (VAT) and then given the licenses for those countries.
"There are 50 doctors who have already been talking to the Minister of Health in one of the countries that are in Southern Highlands, so they go to work there and because there is an agreement he will also go there but when they will be under the supervision of other doctors so that finally they will give the legal action of having a medical license," explained our news source.
But at the time it is going on, more information states that other countries that are vying for doctors were canceled due to the council of doctors including Namibia, Botswana, Lesotho, South Sudan, Rwanda and Swaziland.
Last week, the council of doctors played a license of 319 doctors, on allegations of violating the ethics of that profession and out of acts that were claimed to be postponed for the ethics of that profession together with those doctors to fail to provide service to the patients.
Some of the doctors in the country entered into the strike so as to convince the government to fulfill their interests together with improving their interests according to the salaries and various allowances, but also improving the environment of providing health services in the country.
As a result of that claims, President Jakaya Kikwete announced that the government does not have the ability to pay a high level of wanting those doctors and that he wants to leave for the employer.
According to President Kikwete and the statements by government officials, doctors have been urged the government to pay a salary of shillings three and a half years, but doctors at different times have been denied those reports and claimed that they did not want the amount of salary.
A report from among the doctors say that in discussion with the government, doctors agreed to be paid a salary of 1 million shillings, a level that will be mentioned to be used to be paid by the government in the new financial year government.
