
See the main government in developing the health sector.
By Bashir Yakub.
The Member of Parliament of Kilimba North member of parliament, Mister Gofrey Zambi has urged the health sector in the country to be keen in the management of the main government because the local government will not affect the costs of management.
He said that the health sector has been poor even under the main government, and being surprised by the local government that it will compete with.
The member of parliament who is the former member of parliament for Coast Province, said that by Zito Samuel Samuel in the Ngerengere area where he warned that maybe he may start a lot and lack of better health services.
"The truth is that we get problems as we go to the public hospitals to look for services and in these health institutions to get drugs, unfortunately, and even those who will participate in those stations are not in the country," said Mister Pengo MMG.
In addition, the member of parliament said the health sector is very difficult and that the government's government led to take its management at least three years before putting things same as handing over the government's management.
Even if the new constitution is speaking about taking health services in various parts of the country, but we must be truthful that this sector is very expensive and it is not true that this sector can't be productive because this government will be true and "said Mister Msasu.
He said that if the local government, he said that if the local government will run its budget of budget and set up to the health sector, then any services will be badly affected.
"We must have transparency that local government can't be able to supervise the health sector in this time and even try to set aside a big amount of money in that sector is to believe that other sectors will fail to improve and continue ahead," he said.
He made his speech during the time when many public hospitals in a lot of money are faced with problems.
