CHADEMA depends on behalf of CCM.
Brightiles 21, 2013.

Some of the leaders of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), who participated in the small-election campaign for Ighombwe Village, where in Mbeya town, they received youths followers of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) hooligans.
In that election that took place on Sunday, June 16, the candidate of CHADEMA, Charles Mkingie has emerged winner by collecting 1,918 votes, and therefore he sees his opponent from CCM of the Jaguar type, who got 1,202 votes.
Other candidates in the contest for that seat were Amos Makalla the Democratic Party (DP) who had 20 votes and Andulile (5) and Andulile (17).

The Assistant Manager of that election, Sainy Company, announced the results at the College of Health Center, Mbeya branch, on Sunday night, which had flooded the CHADEMA lovers who were playing with a new song for CCM, while being mentioned that the victory is a sign of the victory of 2015.

The statement of some of the leaders of CCM requesting the followers of CHADEMA, that most of them are hooligans, is mentioned to be among the reasons for the youths of Mbeya city, to leave more than that party, and decided to move forward.

The chairman of CCM in Mbeya town region, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that it is among the leaders of that party who believe that CHADEMA's followers are hooligans.
However, the number of those who came out to vote was very small contrary to the expectations of many, and CHADEMA have assured their blame to CCM, claimed that they used the police force to mobilize the citizens so that they should come out to vote.
According to the statistics from the National Electoral Commission (NEC) in Ihenga town, where it has more than 12,000 customers, but those who came to approximately 200 shillings only.

That small election was given a unique importance in politics of the two political parties in Mbeya town for now, it explained openly that its results are the real value of the local government elections in the year and the general elections of 2015.

The campaign process up to the casting of votes for those two parties, explains the way that he went for each one to market the ward with many economic activities together with higher education colleges.

In those activities, CHADEMA were seen to be so cunning, in ensuring that they were more than young people and women who are making a big group of voters.

The small elections of Ihenga town, has intended to increase the youth and women in political parties, where for the first time in history of political history in the city, it is the mother who made CCM campaigns to make sure it win in that ward.

Due to the fear of violence, day before completing their campaign on Saturday, CHADEMA was forced to stop their campaign meetings in twenty minutes (20) before the official time of finishing the campaign.

When closing a meeting, the member of parliament for Mbeya Town, Joseph Mbilinyi, urged CHADEMA's followers to care quickly so as to evade a bomb attacks since it happened at the 2010 general elections, where followers of that party were beaten water during a campaign rally that was taken by the secretary general, Doctor Leonard Lutegama Maboko to be the presidential candidate.
Two vehicles of the traffic squad (FFU) with the police who were ready for the fight, came in the area that was happening at that meeting, however, they found citizens being ready to leave already.

Another incident that was affected by citizens in that ward is defense of the police force in that ward the night before voting.

However, the police commissioner of Mbeya district, Richard Kayombo, said that they discovered that they help them to evade the effects arising from the opposition that was there between those two parties.

"Here there is no good thing, as we are used, there we should be used," said Anjeche.

Speaking soon after the announcement of those results, some of the leaders of CHADEMA, warned the police force in Mbeya province, saying they were going to the right time for the campaign together with that day of voting.
