
It is not true that Nyerere had not registered their disposal - Judge Warioba Mshereheshaji Shebe Machumani.

You know the day when Mwalimu Julius Nyerere when he wanted the errors and finally they used to be responsible for the future of the country and later the minister of law and constitution, Judge Joseph Warioba also explained that as part of the commemoration of 10 years of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.
In his talks that he made in Dar es Salaam city by the press recently, Judge Warioba also spoke about a lot about the current state of the country, but also touched on a little of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere.
He started by talking about the claims that have been directed to Mwalimu Nyerere that he had not registered their disposal because he was not listening to his skill.
Judge Warioba says if you know there are people they are saying they don't have at their disposal, but Mwalimu Nyerere is a person who was listening to me.
I have been with him in the government when I was in the field (council of ministers) and I have been in the party, I was in the National Executive Council (CCM) after being released from the presidency, I was the secretary of defense and security.
"The teacher of a teacher, should be on the headlines or it should be at a short time when I started a debate, you will write names, then he knows one person and she knows, he was a very big expert to build a plot," said Judge Warioba.
"You know everything there are groups at the moment you can have a group of these leaders see their colleagues are saying our colleagues are saying what this person is speaking, you that this one is talking to him.
"When the teacher entered the ,-@-@ day, he says that if a person she had said, when I see our decision, you can see what we believe in the same time, because if you feel it is good," he asked Judge Warioba and added, "it was to build a song together," he asked Judge Warioba and added that "it was to build a song.
The attempt to break the law.
"And contrary to those who are saying that she had not registered their disposal, it's not true that she had no longer a person and he was able to tell me," a teacher here is unable to tell him, "you cannot appoint you."
I told him there is an obstacle to it here, because he was a person who was supposed to be appointed), she had been unable to do so because the law is unable to do this because the law is told, no one did not agree. "
I told him a teacher, this is an issue of the constitution, you do this time there will be a conflict (conflict) in the parliament and he said that it's not true?
I told him that it is an issue of the constitution, and he is the guardian of the constitution.
"I continued to told the teacher that if it comes from him and he is the one that was caused by the law," said Judge Warioba continuing to see the incident and said that "Judge Warioba continues to see him today in his home, Msasani, Dar es Salaam, his things are different.

They went to see Teacher Msasani, because he had his small office that he was using and he was at State House if there are official events, as a meeting of the council of ministers or others.

"He reached me just he started crying, laughing or said," Edward (Sokoine), I told me this yesterday but he told me that he has not identified himself, but now I don't know what is seen here by the prime minister.
"Teacher said, I has followed her advice." Said, Joseph Joseph, you are a joke to, (don't see Teacher Nyerere) in the constitutional conflict, they used his decision to appoint the head of the region.
It was in the year 1983, a person (name is reserved), previously he had a case in court, and according to the law at that time, it was taken to court when they lost some of the rights of citizens as voting for some time.
Therefore, because the teacher wanted to appoint a person to be the head of the province, who at the same time is one of the member of parliament, the crisis had happened to that, a member of parliament is a must to have a full member of parliament because if the player had already been used.
Judge Warioba explains the story of the incident by saying, "but now sometimes to get a person, you will help him, it is true that you believe is okay, but sometimes the teacher had a lot, but sometimes the teacher had to live.
"For sure, he is one person who for the leaders I have ever done my work, he does not have a shame to come to say here I stopped.
"The teacher was a fashion model in the aerial balls, who doesn't jump and does not tire you at the headlines," says Judge Warioba and added.
"But he was a person who is ready, Locomotive Zagreb of a person who together with that he arrived at the high level, basically he was a normal person.
"If you go back in Butiama, you found it only one goal and those elders live and you want it to know, and then those elders do not tell President is here, you can't know.
"I am a fine, I cannot talk with fluency, I will play with Swahili only, but the teacher did not live with each other while he said Kiziguto.
"He was a normal person, if you see his emphasis on development issues when he was saying the people with the red carpet was saying that the Tanzanian health is a clinic, it means that when a Tanzanian health is a clinic, it means that when a Tanzanian education is in school."
According to the teacher according to Judge Warioba, political parties here in the country there are more freedom and that it is a must they agree. "The system of one party had its discipline, but I think the party and leaders at the time they are committed."
"There was a desire to send himself to serve the public, right now politics have been very fast, that is my emphasis in public service.
"You know that Mister it is very difficult, you know that these days I do not forget.
At other times when I say you are supposed to be expelled, I have been seen as a wonder because he deserves poverty, there are some love you, and even when you know her as the honorable member of parliament.
"Leave others to look for Honorable, it's not you so much and then I think it has not been successful but if I think freedom has gone further but it knows the politics in general it is reduced.
A teacher against corruption.
"If there is something when a teacher was suffering from bribery, misuse of power, and there is a place where there is a place where there is a place, he said that together with knowing that there is a place, but he accepted or bribery they have been confirmed to court they are inspiring.
"He had a saying something, Mrs Cellphone Company, who came into the same platform, it is enough that your leadership has come at the end of these days to confirm it by the court, but also it is enough for forgiveness from leadership.
About democracy, Judge Warioba said right now I think our democracy (in addition to all the conflicts) have reduced and I think the system of many parties has reduced democracy when I think this problem is in the parties itself.
"We insisted to democracy of the country, but if we are following an eye on democracy in our parties, we have been more importance of democracy and procedures, but if we consider democracy, especially in political parties, we will arrive far from the moment so that democracy is like fighting."
