
The Deputy Governor of OMPR, while taking off his head.
By Bashir Yakub.
Hostility among the senior leaders have noticed that since it was revealed that the Deputy Governor Joseline Itatiro was surprised at the great public with the desire to work with him.
Mister Gonga has told the citizens that he led the celebrations of the United Republic of the Jamhuri stadium in the Old Trafford stadium on behalf of the Governor Joshua Mirumbe said he didn't meet the governor for a period of six months ago.
That leader who identified himself has gone up with the eyes of the citizens that bad leadership of Indiana governor has loosened his development in that he said.
"One person has been using a whip, and he has been looking for you like God, but I want to tell him that he sees that he is very big than he and his colleagues who have such behaviors," Gabo has said after reading a speech of Mister Feruzi.
Governor Pence is in message from Kenya in one of the world with climate change in Peru.
Mister Greste, said that governor has thrown out the ministry of water and Mali in his office as a step that surrounds them.
"Since leaving that ministry under my management, what is near the rivers has been destroyed by" those who had been buried and those who had been buried, "he said.
We will benefit us to avoid politics that are not aware because the governor believes he knows me but to know that I am not worried about why he knows the voters or not me, "he said.
But the assistant commissioner who is also the head of public service, John Fisher has been condemned and said that his claim was not true.
He said that he was waiting for the governor for returning to it in case and he decided to present his soul in his home.
"If Indiana governor did not have faith with his assistant, should you take the position of representing us in this event," he said.
Mister Musomba added that Mister Gonga has failed to meet and spoke to the governor because he is (Gonga), he has been getting the meetings in every week of the main committee of the police officers.
He wanted the deputy governor to respect the governor so as to give a good example to the leaders and the residents of that he said.
