
Surprisingly, they have faith, they are hard working on May 31, 2012.

The local government elections will take place all over the country on Sunday this week and again the future of our nation will be in the ballot box.
Elections of this journey are important maybe more than another previous elections.
We believe that because this journey of this journey is taking place when our country will go through a difficult time and a very difficult time.
It's not only that our country is currently available as a result of the increase of corruption in the country, but also the gap between the rich and the poor continue to grow fast and therefore forced the peace of our nation.
It is not true that our country has reached here where it is because of having good leaders and regulations of money from the top level up to top.
Those leaders shouldn't understand the power opportunists who have been able to arrest power after serving the poor citizens by giving them poor citizens by giving them the poor and even other words, they have used poverty and ignorance of citizens to enter into power.

Experience have shown that leaders in the way you enter into power you are not involved with corruption and it may not affect the development agenda when they know that another elections will expire.
Therefore, if there is no development of the meaning that are seen in our streets and our villages, it is because of taking them to power, so as to get out of that samples.
It's up to where we shall get to break their own circulation by refusing to sell our votes through a red sweater, a cap and there is Pilau and sometimes we can verify development and bring hard changes in our villages and in our villages.
He said that for that basis, we urged voters to use wisdom in this Sunday elections.
I decided to hear that the votes are not a game and they need to mention them and cause every candidate.
We urge the voters for this Sunday to be by their party, because their problems are more than political parties and to inspect them, the best political candidate and it doesn't know CHADEMA, CUF or CCM.
We urged them to be satisfied that the person getting him are especially the ones who want them to lead them even if they bombed corruption, shivered and another candidate for each other one.
