I see I think the late God will be the last year to be successful again for the success of the success.
For every person, the late father of two Diocese, but every one of us celebrate here in Kenya each one can be bullied.
I was called?
Last year, the year of Man.
It will be a year of Man United.
You came for a year of peace again with the war.
The late?
Things will be very good and this year is needed because we shouldn't jump because it is a campaign of the campaign that is needed we're very humiliating.
There is a place wherever he is going on.
Police.
The late?
Same as a man, I would like this?
The late Adam and without everyone at the place, you don't change our nation in Kenya, the Almighty God bless us because we got the problem when they died in a place and we should vie for this Sunday.
In Kenya, the Almighty God rest in eternal peace and even if you are not a Christian God, what is not the Almighty God because it is not this God, I will bless you and it is supposed to be the words and action against what they are in.
Because he bought Ghana, the late God does not have great benefits, the map of getting the case brought to the grave, it is a day to bring poverty to the late God bless us, because it is something that God created us to continue with them and in peace is the wealth of the human being.
Yes, it makes a lot of poverty to this whole nation of Kenya we should vie for our leaders, the Almighty God bless you and you know that it's not good.
Peace is the main foundation of the late God is the most Kenyans, where you are in peace?
Every time in Kenya, if I want I have been able to see if you have been sure, the person we have begun to know what we know in peace and prayers.
The Almighty God bless our country and where there is where he wants to pray for God, to do you!
Themselves as I lead recently 'sorry' again?
You miss.
Or to believe that here is not true.
I read it recently.
It does not lie!
Almighty God, already he has planned for a plan that he has already given, he has chosen as the one who will lead you including the lead in peace, the late God will lead you with great love but someone should not be satisfied with the death of that leaders.
If you play in that, all the leaders all Kenyans live in a place where you love me.
They are supposed to do something which is very important in peace.
We are happy to see again we want to read again in blood when you receive him when I was very close to him when the late does with him, I am happy with me, I am pleased with us with us with me.
There is a place where you want to do a lot of seventies and continue ahead, if you check if you check the nation that will live in poverty, but this is not good to the Almighty God, he has said that all of them are not good to the Almighty God, he has said that he is still needed.
It does not lie!
The late God is needed so that we are going on how to go through when we go to Dar es Salaam, I think you should not be just a good leader, I know you will lead you with a good leader, I know you will lead with the war so that there are just one thing for a whole person.
A fetus.
If you go to the world, our human beings are saying, this is where most of the human beings are saying, this is a fact that this is a surprise of the nation, but I would like to know with the request that does not allow me to abandon that we should wait until Kenya is not good.
Almighty God rest his people, I would say you're with me.
Us all of us are one family in Kenya is a family.
Christine Ishengoma, who are Africans who are on his home which is to say, I am a certain thing, "the Lord Jesus Christ is one of the age and tribe of the age of pregnancy, what does it mean?
We Kenyans have.
Kabila is one of the age of age and the real life of the world, the real meaning you know that if we have written this time, but if we cause Kenya, but that is not good for people even when the time they have a problem with Kenya.
