
Heading to Kinana about the issues of Sei, 27, 2012

The decision of the former member of the executive committee (CC) and the National Executive Council (NEC) of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) to step down in position of leadership of that party has left the misunderstanding among the residents of Arusha and its neighborhoods.

Kinana was appointed as the member of parliament of Arusha region between the year 1985-1995 when the province of Arusha was the center of its political activities in the whole period of 25 years that he will serve various positions within the party and the government.

"I have been a member of NEC for 25 years, without doubt, this time it is enough, because CCM they have given honor to be in the top sessions of the party in the quarter century," he quoted Kinana and different media stations the day before yesterday.

He said he believes that he leave him and politics there will be no effects on his party, because CCM has a huge number of leaders who have the reputation and they can lead that party towards the 2015 general elections.

"The leadership is the receiver on the village, they are good CCM members who have great ability and enough qualifications to lead CCM and I thank CCM members and leaders to respect the time," he said.

Kinana will be remembered as a vibrant manager of the presidential candidates of CCM since 1995 until the year 2000, during the meeting of Benjamin Mkapa and between the year 2005 and 2010 in the year 2005 and 2010, the party got a great victory apart from the candidate of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa.

The report to step by Kinana has been received in different opinions in Arusha town where for two days a decision was a community debate for people from different regions especially those who have ever worked with them.

One of the leaders of the party who confirmed to be close to him told BBC Mwema, that the leader will leave before claims that the ruling party has continued to lack direction after donating the shortage of groups for a long time.

"Inside CCM of today, the promise by the natural foundations of the party have been touched and instead, members and leaders have agreed with groups and the political parties which have brought in big division," said that candidate.

"I will not say the truth I have ever heard, this is one of the promises of the member of CCM, and elder Kinana as well as part of his promise every time when he arrived at a time when the party members and leaders joined that promise then he saw it was a good time to leave politics," he added.

He said even so that decision together with being painful to the CCM is a lot of work because he will remain with his honor different from the other elders that have ever happened to a shame after being unable to invest in different positions within the party.

Another party member of that party, Khajida Kopa, said Kinana has shown a way to other leaders who have participated in power for a long time to leave the honor than just after failing to fail in the elections for different positions that will benefit them all over the country.

"Those leaders who are in the age have given them the support it's good to go to the elder Kinana so as to deal with the strength and blood is young in politics that can be able to deal with the current speed of competition," said Mnishi.

And the popular actor of CHADEMA, Ally Bank who once worked with that politician explained that "CCM have continued to lose" equipment "and I am not another person who does not like him (Kinana) in Arusha town and I will remember them in his great politics that were not groups."

Bank has ever held various positions inside CCM between the year 2000-2012 when she went to CHADEMA and among those positions is the chairperson of the National Youth Union of UVCCM, Arusha Town, 2003-2008, a member of the provincial council of the district and the representative of the National Executive Committee.

That candidate of CHADEMA added that even so he can congratulate the leader for taking any decision to leave that party which is at the way he is in the way to release his team's power.

"It is clear that CCM's CCM is not the one for 10 or 20 years ago, CCM's today has gotten a lot by his leaders, they do not have a new song to tell ourselves, therefore I congratulate Honorable Kinana for recognizing that early and decided to release the level," he said.

However, he added that many opposition politicians and those of the ruling party especially from Arusha Province have a lot to learn from Kinana as one of the leaders that have ever used to fight for the development of the province of Arusha, political and economically.

"We will remember that one of the leaders that attended the construction of parents and children at the Arusha Provincial Hospital in Mount Meru which up to today, it has been a savior of the pregnant women and small children who receive treatment just," added Bantu.

He added that Kinana is also fighting for the national union by partnering with different groups even the leaders of the opposition parties with the aim of protecting the interests of the nation.

And the member of the Executive Council of the Youth Union of CCM, Mrisho Gambo has told him as a leader whose leader who was following the footsteps of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere because he was surprised to leave without hiding anything or any accusations that have spoilt him in politics and inside CCM and his government.

"He has been another example after Mwalimu Nyerere and that decision to be a lesson to other leaders inside CCM who have numerous acts of corruption, but also Gambo who is also the head of Korogwe district.

Kinana apart from holding various positions in CCM and the government, he got to serve the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF) for a long time planting up to be Colonel.

He got the deputy minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation, Minister of Security and Defense, (JKT), at the time of President Ali Hassan Mwinyi and also was the speaker of the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA).
