
Showing that it cares for the citizens that he had not need the money, it is to show an accident, then affect 22 million.

I have been trying to explain things that do the country as a great nation, being together with managing the basis of the rights and refuse to protect themselves and even a person you don't know whether you are not recognized by any system and what should be allowed by bribery and other items of injustice.

Now, in this period they have been held a general meeting of the ruling party, and some of the issues that I have come out is among the issues that came out and that the ruling party is needed, at least a very difficult state that does not have sure to be supported by citizens as it was in the past.

Not being supported by the citizens' if it was in the past, "alone it is not an unusual circumstance, because politics can grow and direction for citizens can be able to follow ups in any life that happened in accordance with the changes in their lives.

However, we must know that if we look for the ruling party in a special view, if the party has been like an indication of how many citizens of Tanzania are their responsibilities every time they vote since we get to the register of many cases.

In the year 1995, which was the first general election since the return to this system, citizens wanted change which he would make changes in the system that deals with corruption, corruption, and theft, and that it was the first time for a long time to the citizens, but they came out and said that they are needed.

I, as one of the campaigns on behalf of the presidential candidate of the ruling party, there was a true possibility of our candidate to fail because the ones that are needed to remove the ruling party in power, it was high.

Bango-shirts (with the requirements) of several issues donated our campaign and our candidate will win, but it was not easy even a little of the own kind of Julius Nyerere and its formation, among the citizens, what would have helped the ruling party.

It is important to inform us that the main issue that was done by election campaigns at the same time, and we asked this question that we will not know if the people they have been forced to do anything which they have had to do anything related to me, most of them believed that she was successful.

The ruling party did not learn from that election, because if it got it only victory, and business is as usual.

The political tensions was done in 2005, by many people, even if they do not have party members of the ruling party, they want them to look for another video again, this means that you should end and wherever they are surprised when they get more questions more than they agree.

This is that you should know the biggest thing that is going on to protect citizens as a result of giving up and those who will go to be the first leaders from this world, as usual, as usual they are going to meet the name Mkubwa Fella who died.

Eucharist is faced with the desire that bothers citizens similar to their leaders or not big to that amount, but it is an issue of faith and remove those affected by the citizens and their government, and that the citizens have great problems but the government did not give birth to them.

When I got a answer by saying that the government does not have the ability to solve the problems of citizens, he wanted them to say that money does not have a chance in showing that, "he said," and that he will remember me, "he has already helped me if he also brought him a little money for the child."

Our leaders, and especially the heads inside the ruling party, have been unable to understand this, and the one that makes them politically.

For example, the government, which wants to show that it cares for its citizens and it will ensure he does not make him in his use, I have heard one minister saying that they continue walking out of the country because of those trips are forced the money to build the road.

Without doubt, this minister did not understand that the appearance of a leader in the country every time has a lot of embezzlement as a must, do not tell someone if the work of the head of the country is to ask you and if his work is that, he does not have a chance to travel on his behalf.

Many things that can prove 'do not require money, and at the fact, there should reduce public use, like to stop the use of public vehicles so as to stop the theft of public vehicles and all those involved with bribery, embezzlement and corruption.

All these do not do money but to reduce the use of money through the party when you see it is the grave of the government that doesn't know this small subject of "couples" will leave in power, like it is not today.
