
The recent competition is important in promoting football.
He believes that the lack of competitions between the provinces which were in high competition is the main source of the Coast Region to start it has dropped.
The competitions between the provinces made players that know her dream of being best in their provinces and it was also a way to get a chance to get to be elected in the national team.
The former Chelsea's defender of Mombasa, Suleiman Nassor Somba says there are many old people who believe in their times their times in the competitions between those regions were sexual excitement to improve the soccer state in various parts of the country.
Surely, he says that Coast Province led by being better and won the competition more times more because the scientists were playing very fast and they will give the province the reputation.
The veteran is saying that it is a must for the competitions between the provinces to be shaken, but truly the managers of soccer have a need to play soccer in Kenya, back as it was in the past years.
"Competitions between those provinces are happy and help in a big level to ensure the best players from every province should be easily available and the ones who receive the opportunity to be in the squad of the national team of Harambee Stars," said Sakali.
He claims that the lack of competition is same as that is the main cause of the deterioration of soccer not in the Coast Province alone but all over the country and that is the weaknesses of the Taifa Stars team where it is unable to do well in international competitions.
"I am sure that this competition will be held every year if it was in the past, we will not have any problem of having a strong team of the nation and also young people who can join big soccer clubs.
The Jaguar type is reminding the how the competitions between provinces helped some upcoming stars to be elected and joined the national team, "many times the Coastal Union got an opportunity to put in the national team after being seen to play for the Coastal Union," he explains.
While explaining further, Somba says that those competitions are helping the national team the national team to have a easy job to choose a strong squad and which can be allowed to participate in the international competitions including that of the African continent.
.
"I remember leaders of soccer in every province, they were given an opportunity to take names of young people living in the headquarters so as to be employed on the list of players of Twiga Stars," says the player, who was born to play for the Tanzania Post team.
.
Osaka who was born in 1961 is insisting that it is need to save in football that is affecting the development of that game and especially in Pwani province, "if the headquarters will be clean, in another part he will go through development steps," he said.
