Doctor Sengu, Edmund Rutaraka.
Brightiles 23, 2013.

Doctor Mvungi the patriotism wife, happy, who plays for forgiveness from every field of reforms to prevent us, by political interests, this one is a member of revolutionary people not to make sure that the nation has a good foundation of respect the rights, good governance and democracy.

From 1957 up to the year 1972, Doctor Mvungi joined with Livingstone Secondary School, which is now called in Kigoma secondary where he made them to expand the skills in debates, derailing the country's effort to be elected as the head teacher of the school.

In the year 1973, up to the year 1974, he joined form five and six students in Mzumbe University, Morogoro, how his leadership was revealed since he was the head boy and the leader of Tanu Youth Limited and his fellow students told him as a big defending champions of the students.

The movement of revolutionary politics especially the Socialist Republic of Socialist Republic of Socialist Republic of South Africa has had a habit of visiting secondary schools to speak to students and therefore as a vibrant listener or Isakamatwa kwa makosa ya uhalifu na kukosa kusajili kadi za wateja wao.

With knowledge, Doctor Mvungi urged the those books, his delegation encourage us to have died and let has narrated how even when that time already he had resolved at the liberation debate of poor farmers and workers with the intention of improving their lives.

While he was addressing the form six students in the year 1974 in the major changes in the higher education system in the country, the declaration of Musoma was announced and put conditions to serve the Nation Building Forces (JKT) for one year instead of six months while the camp was prepared to serve at home in the whole year when the camp was prepared to entertain at home in the whole year when the camp was prepared to entertain at home in the whole year when the camp was prepared to serve at home in the previous year.
To start working and join higher education.

That same law wanted JKT Ruvu to work in a period of six years before continuing with higher education, the first center of Doctor Tanu and later CCM, in Uhuru and Mzalendo newspapers.

At the same time the newspapers were a catalyst to the issues of the parliamentary debates in the country and in the African continent, so as to attract many young people that face the nation at the same time, he has already launched the creation of different issues that were facing the nation at that time when it has reached an opportunity to work but it's an opportunity to entertain and get married.

Doctor Mvungi has introduced himself and she allowed me that he is a member of reforms of control, vision and strong winds of its participation in events or the western countries in the country, because he would continue to introduce himself more that he would be a member of reforms that could lead to the state and wealth of his position in the history of helping many revolutionaries of Tanzania.

His plans on changes has started while still a student of law and later on the law, he had joined the Law Committee of the University of Dar es Salaam, at the time was led by Professor Issa Gulamu Mtika and every Wednesday evening a donation of law to people and the ordinary citizens in Dar es Salaam city.
