South Sudan does not lie!
Dec 27, 2013.

South Sudan is looking at this nation because it is enough for three years now, it has been in danger of at a period in which it is expected to break up on how the nation will land in that nation.
The results of those results are that other nations will not depend on a conflict that it will involve living without a poor vision, already Kenya and Uganda have risen from their army in the borders and South Sudan. Therefore, there is a need to win that the army of Uganda are on especially in South Sudan.
For now South Sudan has turned into a large extent that allows you to protect themselves inside, in addition, you have several types of corruption, bad administration and income of oil.
There are several things that can make that country not to stand on.
Money for foreign donations that are worth billions of dollars in the United States have been removed by heads of revenue collection of oil worth 20 billion American dollars which have no boundaries.
Last year President Salva Kiir has confessed that servants of 75 government workers who were under him have arrested four billion American dollars during the transition president before that country was free.
There are allegations that the bank's accounts of private leaders which were only five years ago had more than three months now show that they have millions of American dollars.
Carelessness of government and corruption have denied the government that it will not be able to promote the mining sector, forests, agriculture, and those are the reason why the country does not have infrastructure or any development of its roads being tarmac.
And his army has collapsed due to the tribe of the Sahara Desert, they are complaining that their colleagues of the tribe failed to get into the army without having the qualifications.
The ones that do not care about them are complaining, they are complaining that analysts have been able to destroy all levels of income in the government.
South Sudan, races have made 64 hectares or logos, such as themselves as you like to know that are many as 15 percent of all the residents of there and Maasais' (or those drugs) is 10 percent.
Tribe of the holiday has risen up and has its branches such as the same type to wait and the one of the type hypothyroidism or or the ones with the organizers of Tanzania or not to have been cheated.
The fights that were done in Juba last Sunday between the president's followers Salva Kiir and Doctor Riek Machar, his former vice president, media houses outside South Sudan which were desperate to prove that the fight is because Kiir is Mdudu 'and Machar are Mnonga.
The real truth is that although the conflict later, it was taking the chapter of switching off his source but it was looking for a political case between Kiir and Libeneke, who is backed by Doctor John Garbo passed away as Kiir.
Another big veteran in collaboration with Machar is Pindani Nyalile in the former secretary general of the party that depends on the Soundton Sound Band, this is Mujahideen which is a big number of people in the regions of Bahama Gwao.
Analysts and stem cells have been rivals since old and old men have been suffering about land disputes and causing severe pains, therefore, those two have been severe pains according to their natural vegetation.
Owners of Baboons who are seeing the people of tribe of Muriet, who love their joy is to put up the cries of the cows that are close to the city of Bor or Human Resource Mobilization.
Ghost workers are saying that you don't know what they made in Machar, the year 1991 Machar had ever been supported by Kiir will be supported and he made a great movement that is being supported by the people of the tribe.

Later the fighters of the tribe sprayed bullets and those followers of Manchester City killed several thousand shillings of citizens if they were misled, including women and children, they are saying that the striker were led by Machar.
For a period of several years later, Machar had been cooperating with the Local Government Gazzaniga, that they want to make corrections, Kiir will fly their M-Pesa party.
In the year 1997, Machar failed to sign a contract of peace and Brenda Kharono who was defending the official contract with Manny Kiir and other leaders of Sawe- M-year 2002, that agreed to boycott the M-Pesa party and became the senior commander of that party's army.
