
Sunday, February 23rd, 2014.

The recommendations of the artists in the new constitution of the new constitution.
I was not found.

After the instructions from the commission of the constitution, that every group of organized proposals for the draft constitution, artists who are under the national examinations, the Federation of arts and technical colleges have decided to come up with several recommendations that have been presented in the draft constitution so as to enable those sections to be open in our new constitution.
Recommendations.

1 billion.
Being recognized by artists as a special group in the constitution.

In the second draft, there are several groups that have been mentioned, like farmers, fishermen, pastoralists, and even so that the number of employment in this sector was more than 6 percent and therefore they have been able to join this group since in the year 2009, it has shown that the number of employment and revenue in the country will enable artists to increase employment and income, and the nation to benefit from the economy of this resources.

2 million to be mentioned by the Property International Agency for the constitution.

Assets are with 3 types of age, there are property that are nontransferable for the property, that are not allowed by the property, two types of creativity which have been mentioned in the constitution and security is also known as usual.
But this third type of property is difficult to defend his system that it will not be shaken, therefore the special law should be taken to protect this type of property (IP address).
The purpose of various technology, the discovery of various ways of improving life, art and many that do not be known as copyright, but if we see you are important to protect all the rights of Ulbrahim and the development of our country.

All countries which have signed the stable procedures of protecting the Mumask Investment in the world, has enabled its expertise to change things that have been able to change the lives of other human beings and technology in the whole world. Maragumu.'

Kalyalya together with protecting the rights of the art activities that have been mentioned above, Msalika as the rights of our expertise, research, natural medicine, natural medicine, and many of our resources we need to know and which are still not known.

There are a lot of losses which is determined as a country does not have security of Ulbrahim and a few examples here in Tanzania, it's only losing to the Tanzanite, which despite being mentioned in Tanzania, but the name is owned by the South African company.
The Dongfangzhixing Ship, together with Tanzania's natural resources, popularly known as Japan, the group of drawings popularly known as Japan, and this is a big need of mentioning Borussia Dortmund known as the constitution and enabled the need to protect themselves and the benefit of this generation and of generations to come.
