
Tanzania will be able to fall in the pocket?
Ezekia 22, 2012

Musician Bob Marley has ever played a song with these words, "you will end me against some people for a long time, but you can't stop anything due to the donation of the students's international and tourism organization, Ambassador Hamisi Kigwangalla, to oppose the claims of the students' International Trade Organization (Adil Jomo), with its headquarters in England.

At the beginning of the previous week, Amast was running a stern campaign on internet internet against Addax Energy SA Company Limited, a presentation on the land of farmers of the Maasais' in Ngorongoro District for more than 20 years.

Ateletico Madrid had succeeded to a large extent that it wanted to sign shillings only.
Inside 24 hours, 1,000 people got their signing up and until I have written this article Aqsa in which he got a close to one million from all corners of the world.

The Deputy Minister of Communication, Science and Technology, January Makamba, was shocked by that campaign said he wrote on one of its social network that the campaign is spreading such as well, but the Deputy Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism Lazaro Nyalandu, wrote that he would go to Serengeti National Park for the truth of those allegations.
However, in addition to all that, suddenly Ambassador Kagasheki, asked journalists to break up the words, claims of a threat to the Indian Ocean.

Kagasheki, wanted to say Ulimwengu, without success, that Adil JZ is false.
The truth is that Amaso is correct for the Loliondo farmers are in danger.

Job Ndugai, the deputy speaker of parliament of the United Republic, continues to sit on the report of the suppression of human rights in Ngorongoro district for more than three years now since the government made violence against Loliondo people.

On the 9th of July, the year 2009, the Member of Parliament for Ngorongoro, Sankara said that the government has requested the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, for what the government is making Loliondo farmers and they have banned private explanations in parliament as he wanted the information about violence against the Loliondo citizens.

The speaker of parliament on that time, Samuel Sitta, has commanded the standing committee of the parliament of land, natural resources and environment that was led by Job Ndugai to investigate about the claims of honor.

As a continuation of that situation, suddenly in the minister of natural resources and tourism, at that time Shamsa Ford, had appointed Ndugai as a member of the board of Ngorongoro Conservation Authority, the appointment that was accompanied by an feelings that maybe so as to pay him in a dirty scandal of History.

While Mwangira has appointed Ndugai, the Member of Parliament for Kongwa constituency as the representative of the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority, has removed the Member of Parliament for Ngorongoro, Santa Eto'o in implementing the board.

As the representative of the farmers who live in Ngorongoro conservation, there is a panel of member of parliament for Ngorongoro to be a member of the Ngorongoro Board, it is obvious that Mwikabe has denied spongers to elect him for being only, maybe, she was banned for Loliondo citizens.

Until today, together with preventing the millions of value of the tax tax, still Tanzanians have not registered themselves in public reports of abiding against the human being.

This scandal of its own kind in Tanzania called Wienerschnitzel that was started in the year 1992, during the administration of President Ali Hassan Mwinyi, the government of Benjamin Mkapa made your scandal without caring about the cries of Ngorongoro citizens.

Jakaya Kikwete entered into power in the year 2005, this saga has got bad luck more than any other time in the month of July, 2009 the government stopped a fire place of Loliondo farmers and celebrated every kind of embarrassing for the United Arab Emirates countries.

This is a company of the type that are being dealt with by the government with great strength to this extent, it is a company that is owned by the name of King Mohamed Abdulrahman Kinana.
The executive director of Shamo World Foundation Company Limited, Isaack Mollel, has thrown out this matter in the biography of that company which she wrote on February, in 2007.

Mollel claims that Al-Ali had been forced to Tanzania for the first time in 1985, Al-Ali, to go back to October 1987, and this one usually comes back again in December, the year 1990 and tried to come out to wildlife from Tengamano, Longido district.

New York Times magazine of November 13, in the year 1993, made news that claimed to be trapped in United Arab Emirates from United Arab Emirates, who were kidnapped in Tanzania because the animals were affected by the animals that were in danger of its disappearance.

January 20, in the year 1993, the newspaper of the newspaper released a news with the news reporter, "Tanzania is known as' Machinga ', claimed that on January 18, this year 1993 that is owned by the United States of United Arab Emirates that was played at the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA).

Those boxers and their children were accompanied by one of the ministers in that time who was accompanied by one of the senior officers of the Tanzania People's Defense Force and the senior officials of the army and the government who came to give the journey.

When he was impressed by the media, the Minister of Tourism, Natural Resources and Environment, at that time, Abubakar Karsan, confessed that they don't deserve a crime and don't have a lot of animals that those who want it will be allowed.

They arrested diabetes, contrary to the law and Mgumia, he also claimed that some of the animals were displayed in accordance with Sunday night of March 21, in the year 1993.

November 11, the year 1992, Minister Modi, bought a permit for breaking up in crime against the law, Brigadier General, Ban Ki-Ali, to Dubai, so as to win him in the Indian Ocean by 10 years since January first, in the year 1993.

First, Minister Modi added that article 4 (1-2) of the public organizations number 17 of 1969 that wanted the time that all the private companies are able to bring their visitors through the public organization, Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited, in a short time.

Secondly, the government also broke the wildlife law number 12 of the year 1974 because he warned the public organization (RCO) the ministry made a permit for fighting for five years (BMC), from the year 1991 until December 1996.

The government intends to break the law by giving her personal person, Brigadier Al-Ali, a permit for preventing and again for the 10 years instead of a company again for five years.

The wildlife director at that time, Muhidin Ndeki, was opposed to the amount of his ability, but he explained that they will face them until when Ndaiyo said he didn't know when he warned the public organization that is ready for breaking the law that is a person who doesn't have a company and again for 10 years.
Ndayisenga says that the Loliondo land would send himself to go outside as it is now.

Spread from the State House in the same time, Mwinyi was a very big.
It is alleged that the provincial commissioner of Arusha was given a order to convince the head of Ngorongoro District, Leberata Mulamula and ensure that six villages are giving correct contract to allow George Al-Ali to come out for 10 consecutive years.
On November 20, the year 1992, being within 10 days since Minister Chikawe had given a permit for permission to thank Al-Ali against the law, a contract that was given right by various leaders of Ngorongoro District.

According to the first member of parliament for Ngorongoro, Christopher Ole Torongey, the leaders of six villages were unable to give members of Al-Ali to come out of land in their villages.

But the Member of Parliament for Ngorongoro for that time, the late Richard Kobello, while there is no legal authority to sign anything on behalf of those six villages, it gets correct for behalf of six villages in the contract.
The District Commissioner for Ngorongoro, Leberata Mulamula visits them on behalf of the main government.

It is clear that the committee of Ndugai has a lot of hiding anything about this scandal.
It is very delicious "to listen to the" Ambassador Kagoli where she fainted often.
The truth is not understood.
The writer of this article, Navio Ndaskoi, is a activist for human rights where it is available on phone number + 754 53 in 192.
