President Kikwete gave an example, a lot of peace and Othman!
May 16, 2013.

After terrorism events and destruction of state of security for a long time in Nigeria, President Jamal Malinzi of the court said he found himself not on how to take stern measures against reliable energy and showing an example.

The year 2010 in September, Jonathan decided to make great changes in the army and other security agencies including the police force and the department of safety in the country, which for a long time has ever been under the army administration brought a plot to be thought, it was not possible.

Those who was removed include the inspector general of police Ogano, Ono longer, the executive director of the National Security Department, Alhaji Adam and the head of Security and Defense Force, Doctor Fred Kadiliana and the commissioner of defense and defense forces, Doctor Fred Kadiliana and the commissioner of defense and security affairs when he saw the need to do so.

After President Mohammed Moris not of Egypt being elected there are people that the situation could have been successful how it was in the beginning of the security situation continued to be volatile and President Morsi is not found on how to do that as a leader of the country was supposed to do.

In the month of August last year after a group of Islamic militants led to 16 soldiers of Egypt, due to the criminal department of Egypt being unable to work on the director of the Department of Israel, President Morsi's work.

Speaking about himself on that they had those reports from Israel, but they did not think that Muslims would have risen up to their colleagues during the month of Ramadhan.

From Afghanistan and the situation was so that last year where President Hamid Karima said that he was forced to congratulate the director of National Security after failing to work together with the result of the Head of Security and his deputy minister, all of them are due to security situation in Afghanistan.

All these examples have been made so as to continue giving my motion which I have started to have since the beginning of this year (and before the beginning of this year) and Rashid Othman, the national security director should be expelled from my last article two weeks ago it is enough evidence that these leaders should be removed.

However, I believe in this list, we believe in this list, we should wait for the minister of internal affairs, Emmanuel Nchimbi who claimed that she has no ability, or professionalism of managing that ministry to be a series of events in the country, events that show the control of criminals, and failing to supervise well the police force is just a sign that Nchimbi.

His speech in parliament and how it has shown to address the issue of Arusha town claiming that the state of the security in the country is also critical and continue with these people is to continue with laziness, not praising yourself and encourage us to be responsible.

Unfortunately, there are people with poor thoughts that we think that we want these directors to curb them then we are doing so because of their religious leaders, that because President Kikwete is a Muslim and Said Mwema should be a Muslim because it is, Muslims. "
