
Ebola station got a new device.

The Ebola bus station on the border of Malassy, has received a new month one month after the recent machines.
That new machine in accordance with the police officers of Malassy, shows the signs of the disease of being infected early.
"It is an official that the inspection is going on," one officer who did not want to be identified because it is not allowed to give information about the activity he told the nation today.
The bringing up of that new machine is self-one month after the parliamentary committee on health, led by the members of parliament, Michael OAFRI, and Doctor James Muruma (Kenwanja) and Doctor James Andilile (the new one after the past history.
Those members of parliament were on a tour to inspect how this nation was put up ready to deal with the bad disease if it will increase in the country.
During the tour of December, December, health officers in Malassy, they told the members of parliament that due to the availability of the machine, they were forced to use methods of inspecting passengers from Uganda and other neighboring countries.
Therefore, the activities were presented their condolences, because of a long time takes a long time to get quick tests in the body.
Town of Malassy, is in the main road of Pemba Island in the northern region (Monbusho Scholarship) and is the main entrance to the Central African nations like the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and the Democratic Republic of Congo (car) which have ever been facing the danger of Ebola.
Those two sides are close to the western African countries which have been affected by the disease since the first time in Guinea and then spread up to Liberia, Sierra Leone and Nigeria.
Thousands of passengers from various, Kinshasa and Congo involved in Kenya through the neighboring country of Uganda and usually have the danger of spreading those infections to Kenya.
Kenya, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), has been listed like "areas with the main danger of being infected by Ebola because it is the University of transport.
