
Minister, board ilipotembele China- 20 years.

Minister of Industry and Trade, Doctor Abdallah Kigoda is accused of carrying out and finally they wanted to be given a work of making vehicles out of the country, the company of Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) refused because of going to meet the conditions and criteria of the contract, Almighty God, have noted.

As a result of that situation, the board of TBS has ordered the management of that organization to make up the minister in business court, so as to deal with other things, the court didn't change the decision of getting the company that will do that job performance in the country from outside the country.

According to the news that we have, that company, Doctor Kigoda is alleged to destroy the TBS board to collect the inspection of vehicles outside the country has been mentioned by the name of 'Tufani' in August this year, was suspended by the TBS Board to continue with its inspection responsibilities.

Among the reasons, we have stopped the company to continue with its responsibilities, including the allegations of the former director of TBS, Charles Nkondola, for the suspension of work and also lack success in implementation and management of its responsibilities.

The reliable news from TBS are saying that the leadership of the Board of that organization is divided into that company outside the process of signing, a situation that has forced the board to encourage the management of TBS to identify the minister in business court so as to deal with other things to break the blood of the minister.

Several sources of these news have explained that the decision by Doctor Kigoda has resulted from two things on first of first, it's a lesson to the minister of parliament and secondly, it is alleged to have a big veteran child who has worked inside that organization.

The Wolf-RT company was on the list of the company that is in the past, under director of iron sheets, were given work to inspect vehicles outside the country before dealing with vehicles to come to the country, as one of the ways to control the country to be sold at the scene.

However, that company and some of the others are believed to have work under efficiency, while others were alleged to have ghost companies, therefore there could cause a huge debate at the parliament that caused the existence of the investigation on that issue.

That scandal of lack of ghost companies that do the work on inspection of vehicles under the success, that is where it is caused by the former minister of industry and trade, Doctor Asha-Chami, and instead President Jakaya Kikwete was appointed as Minister Kigoda in the small changes of the council of ministers that they made in May, this year.

TBS Deputy Director Dominic Shoo, has confirmed the presence of a veteran politician in the decision between Doctor Kigoda, the TBS Board and his management.

Moreover, John Magufuli who is also the director of quality and quality education in TBS, confessed to receiving the directive of the TBS board, urging its management to report Doctor Kigoda in the business court.

"We did not want to obey the board of board (not to see Doctor Kigoda in the business court) when they received the order where we gave the lawyer, therefore, they are waiting for his advice, and we are waiting for," said John Mwakangale.

Mwema should make efforts to look for Minister Kigoda together with other things to give an explanation on those accusations.

Those efforts to get Doctor Kigoda through his mobile phone managed a day before Monday, after a short message that he has been used last week to show that it has reached.

After receiving our message, Doctor Kigoda asked to be given a five minutes in order to give an explanation even after 30 minutes, and when he was called by our writer to remind me of his promise, he wanted to be given more time saying he would have an answer through a short message on his mobile phone.

"I urge you to answer after five minutes, I will answer to a short message of phone (HIV)," said Kigoda.

Mwakangale mentioned the companies that were in the final process of tenders for the contract for vehicles outside the country, before the minister, Doctor Kigoda together with announcing the explosion and also in the list of Wolf-Fi (Japan), East Africa Dairy sector (Japan), East Africa Dairy sector (Japan).

Ji-Kilimanjaro and Auto Fm, Timbo Kalugira (Radhiyallahu An'ha), Serengeti Boys and Forums Limited (London) England), has carried out of 92.

While explaining to what the Wikipedia company, that is owned by the local government was not able to be elected by the management of TBS, John Magufuli, "there are many issues, but the biggest of the company has been unable to pay the money in time."

Before the minister, Doctor Kigoda urged the company of Wines, Tuface Idibia.

One of the delegates of the new board of TBS, who talked with this newspaper about that scandal, on condition of not being mentioned by his name because of the open reasons, he says.

"We say as the TBS board, we did not agree on the issue of giving a company with allegations (Who Sangho) and already it has already been banned since August (this year) due to other issues that we would like to make them open that made him to the minister (Doctor Kigoda).

Even so, we have ordered the management (TBS) to reach the issue of the prime minister in business, which is happening in the minister is due to fear of killing members of parliament, that is why some of them are doing the decision against them.

"Wanjala (M) is a Tanzanian company, the information that we have is that the mother of the company's owner who at the moment are the deceased, was a servant in TBS for several years ago, that boy is doing this work as the honor of the late mother.

Therefore, that youth is the one who started the work of inspecting vehicles outside the country until TBS when they decided to stop August this year due to the success of its activities being small, and also paying payments together with other issues.

"After being stopped, he decided to appeal to the prime minister, that is where Doctor Kigoda explained to TBS that the businessman should be discussed by using the old procedures including the TBS management where it has brought up this issue to the board, we refused because of now we should not use those old procedures in the provision of government documents.

"Because we have already announced the tenders (the tender) to the company to ask for that job, him (Who Sangho) did not ask for himself and because he has been giving certificates in England to collect vehicles in the country without those vehicles.

"There are some of the big business people that have been put in the country through that procedure.

On his part, the Deputy Chairperson of the Permanent Parliamentary Committee on Public Accounts (POAC), Deo Filikunjombe, when required to speak about the new conflict between the minister and the TBS board, he said.

"Wopler (M) is a bad company not to even be given again with TBS. The first one is a company that has succeeded in inspecting vehicles, I commend the company with numerous accusations by being unable to manage its responsibilities as required."

Doctor Kigoda just after being handed over the ministry, he took several steps including registering the former managing director of TBS, so as to pave way for investigation on allegations against the operation of that organization. Until now, they should end the day still continues.

In addition, Doctor Kigoda is the one who had appointed the TBS board under the chairperson, Oliva Mwambope (center) together with Donald Chidinma (the Constitution and Social Welfare) and Professor Ntachwene (center) and Professor Ntachwene (University of SCA).

Others are Peter Mwalukasa of Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), Doctor Godfrey Maranga, (OFCC), Suzy Laizer (UE), Eliona.
