
Recently, my wife is preparing to leave me after 10 years of Ndeki.

Concerned with the news reporter, I have been asked this question for a very long period without answers, I am my wife that we played ten years ago, we have three children, all of us are employees and all of us are running.

Seven years ago, my wife did not want to have my friend, that friend he had living in many times when I arrived here in Dar es Salaam, and I went back to our country when I came back to Dodoma when I came back again, I came back again.

When I arrived, I was looking for a small thing, I was born on the vehicle outside, when I heard a cry like when she entered the in-level and he does not see him from being expelled from those who were completely expelled from him and added me with two hands.

As it came out of our game, otherwise, the surprising thing was to put a trap while we put up a trap where I went to in-in-law when I stopped him and asked for forgiveness from that night when he started a habit of privacy on how he involved her things especially for development.

(1) the first incident.
He used to build houses in certain areas in Dar es Salaam without knowing that his technician gave him those information.
When I was approved, he was surprised and asked for answers of the meaning.

(2) an second incident.
He opened a shop of clothes being silent, I've signed through Intelligence Unit that I did not expect his shop.
But later, I confirmed that it is his right.

(3) an ancient attack.
He bought the farm in Bagamoyo a 10 million pounds I realized after they were infected on them, Auckland City and finally the court today.

(4) an incident.
He bought 35 million American dollars with his car, since socialism has asked the money that runs Japan for a little time, I was silent until when I arrived, I had just come up with the truth when I arrived.

That vehicle was very fast, I heard, I reached out of what was found?
So, the youth would like to marry off at the port and he didn't pay the same youth.
Janini wanted to reach 5 million American dollars and they are five hundred thousand, he said.

After that period, the vehicle took place at Kibo Complex and Tegeta Thermal Power Station, as a man, I arrived at work. I went to work with 1 million shillings to the police because they had stalls with communication technologies and therefore the vehicle will be found in the past.

However, he didn't leave this habit, right now he has a great business to give people with interest, he does work with a great secret but I am not ready to leave today because I have talked about what he doesn't have anything related?

On my part, all the businesses that I do apart from my work, you know it and I have a house where my mother knows all over the village where my mother knows how I am happy although I would like to see what I am happy and what would you know if I am happy and to feel it?
Are our journey of life is one?

Our photographer, I request for your heart and love me.

If I have a work place again since I has said that he has had his seven years ago and I have never met or see him at the end of it.
