
Obrey Chirwa has been accused of evidence.
And apologized.
Luis, Yemi Alade.
The challenges that emerged out in the efforts to prove to the involvement of three Kenyans who are in the 2007 election results led to many to blame the former head of the prosecutor in the International Criminal Court (ICC), Louis van Persie.
Mister Obrey Chirwa has been accused by some of the politicians and the analysts of human rights, it does not want to look for more evidence that they had confirmed to be involved in preparations for the violence against that election.
As they stopped him, they said that the steps that he took place are caused by the accused time because he was there, there was no enough evidence to confirm the claims that were given against them.
However, Mister Odax said on that against those allegations in a different interview that was done by various media organizations.
In an interview that was done by the BBC media station of BBC, he explained that his action had success since those cases came to the presence of peace in the general elections of 2013.
"Every person informed you the existence of violence after the 2013 elections.
In Kenya, the fans of peace were Mister Kenyatta, and Mister Netanyahu and they won, "he said.
According to the President Uhuru Kenyatta, and his Deputy William Ruto, evidence that they joined the election because the two were faced with charges of court in the court.
He said that to join them and also to maintain peace in the election period because they put a lot of peace in the campaigns that they were doing in different areas in the country.
Mister Odax said, he stopped the claims that the court comes back to African nations, though there is a crime of war that is affected by the Western nations without being taken against them.
According to a small nations, especially in Africa and south of America, it was being forced to have been set aside when ICC has been started because they have no great law to address people who are involved in war crime.
Mister Odax said that the nations that if it is like America, China and Russia are not supposed to be supervised by laws of ICC because they have big military forces that can deal well and those who are trying to implement crime against human rights.
"There is a difference between the explosion and the police came into the law aims to protect people who are trusted or small nations and big military forces do not require these laws," said Mister Osarika, "at the BBC international news station.
Other African countries which ICC has advanced the case against citizens or its leaders include Libya, Congo and Ivory Coast.
