Children.
My opinion, we are looking at everything or a girl, who is a woman with great shape and already how many things have already started to take action to achieve your dreams and you have never put your dreams and how your company is involved with us.
What is it?
Royalties.
Yes, when I want to live a life that I want to live a life that I don't want to live a life that you are not asking someone to look at here I have a lot of support who we look at anything.
Ahenkora has said they are from part of every person to carry and I want to have a example, but an example of things that you want to do when you are not looking at a bit about that Tanzanian is not available.
He gets to see you?
What happens, I would like that I will not see why I can see why I see I am pleased with many, what I know I'm and most of you feel extremely honored.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, you will make sure that if you want to live in that life, but not getting a company!
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we are doing different things that we are doing different things.
We are expecting to you the Global Education for people we want people who are very close to those who have not found.
We want this is what we are doing so that we are doing work so as to get the new help to stop and get out of them.
When you're in Dar es Salaam, we're getting to our place?
We believe that?
Even if the bus has been affected by a woman, we have a lot of things that I have from reproductive health and therefore we want to take care for women they are and then I want to move forward to the members of parliament and we do that we are doing so by the king.
We are conducting a brief training at work, we one thing we give different training to improve it.
Most of the men know themselves from outside and sometimes we will begin a long time, we have already agreed with people and we are still continuing to receive another we have done everything that I have done you to go to one year when we are doing.
Which is great to be released every day you want people to learn and don't see for instance the whole year we can learn what is ongoing in an event because you will also begin with one festival of Swahili Carnivore hall has been held on date.
Ras Kiduku was given a lot of time as it is; therefore for Ambassador Man City are visitors in the market.
We did not mean that trumps mirror does not be done for three days the challenges are there.
It is good for you to work with someone and until it helps you to believe in that, it has been a challenge that we have been able to climb the festival from three days up to one day about that day.
The way you are saying in one day we have succeeded to say that our child was married but they are unable to make it completely that if we were told, there are Swahili who does not be patient because we are told the Swahili people should not be patient.
What are we understood.
When we talk about the thoughts, they don't know that, our company will not like that, our company by partnering with me is the first time to put it open that a Swahili of four people do not lie!
In addition to the community together with that, we have still building other classes that come up to entertain and do people to learn and get them from where there was no other issues that he is going to achieve, there are some challenges that he is going to achieve, there is a challenge that there is a challenge there is a challenge there is a challenge.
The challenge is so many.
Many challenges are there.
What does it mean that we are looking for us that we are looking for us, we are supposed to look at the smell to make us see what we have been unable to say that we have been unable to say the challenge for example.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we believe that we believe in the new market.
When you go to the office you lead you.
Wema and their names are ready to know that someone who does not teach them is certain and some of this person has from.
Those work is done so that we know our children and we have been?
There is a time we are going to see that, the list of work we go and do not want to do a little time to come from all things we give him that when we get married and we believe that we believe and stop the work.
Other challenges are there.
You miss.
I hope.
Members of parliament and friends at work.
There is a thing that is like that river you want to have managed to cut off the fees and the phone is going on.
Currently, there is no reason why you know that is in Singapore, you know that there is a challenge that is facing them, if you know that you will be able to cook with me, I know that you will be able to reduce my responsibilities as an old, we know you but up to someone to understand it.
Therefore, it is the first challenges.
