
Those drugs are resorted to you.
October 30th, 2014.

Big debtors of the financial institutions in the country will be controlled after the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) to provide a license to start the institutions that will reduce the history of the loan funds, it has been known.
In addition to collecting the normal information from the concerned bank, the agency is also following up on all the history of people who want to borrow, from their payments for medical services, electricity and even transactions in their mobile phones.

The manager of management of the financial institution of BoT, Salva Rweyemamu, told the newspaper the other day on Monday that the two institutions that will do those jobs have not been given a permit for doing those jobs.

He mentioned those institutions to be Dakar, Bradford City and credit by Inflexionpoint Company and that the aim is to ensure that the bank will be keen with people who use the financial institutions in the country without paying their debts.

Mke Mwema should be told that if the borrower will be revealed that they have problems in the payment of its debts, the bank can decide not to get houses or to find themselves with great interest so as to prevent them not to be trusted by the rapper.
"We have already made two license to the institutions of that way, the aim is to ensure that before the loan it has not been released, the bank has satisfied itself and it knows it, it reaches a contract with a person in which way.
More than that, we believe that this will be a good way to increase the number of people who receive loans through financial institutions, will not be worried and also people who will be known as faithful will get loans to small interest than it is now, "said Constantine.

He said the introduction of the system of collecting information on loans and debts of customers in the financial institutions are a continuation of the government's action against the financial sector that started since the year 1991 when the laws of banks and financial institutions.

The law of the Central Bank of the year 2006 gives the Tanzania Central Bank's authority to start a system of loans for customers and financial institutions so as to collect and give information to the concerned institution concerning the habit of paying loans to all banks and financial institutions, parties that provide loans to the institutions that offer loans in the country.

These news came out during a period when the nation is in a huge debate about the possibility of the government to lose the shares of its ownership of the NBC Bank after failing to increase the capital.

The Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC) was told in Dar es Salaam last week that the capital was required because the NBC used to get loans worth billions of shillings and which not be paid as required.

This newspaper is worried that even the Barclays Bank have been caught in a big problem of not paying them, an issue that had caused them to get losses.
In his talks with Raia Mwema, Kazimoto said on the average, BoT made loans to prevent them by five percent, but the situation is by June this year, the level has reached eight percent.
The lack of the system of collecting and getting information on loans and debts of customers in the financial institution has caused the banks to give loans by putting great interest to them so as to avoid getting losses when some of the visitors will be unable to return the loans.
According to the law of BoT in the year 2006, the Central Bank will still have affordable houses belonging to the banks in the country and these institutions to collect information that will run its activities under registration and management of the Central Bank of Tanzania.

These private institutions will be receiving their information from Masala location of the customers that are sponsored by the Central Bank of Tanzania and other institutions that provide services like phone companies, clean water and water services (BRELA).

The private institutions of loan services and debts of customers will be providing information on loans and debts of customers and sells them in the institutions that provide loans when they want to provide loans.
Kazimoto told this newspaper that the real users of the loans are among the different institutions that have been followed by those debtors among the loan so that it can request that report so that it can make the application for the loan and give correct decisions.
