
President as a woman, vice president.
January 17, 2013.

The activists of the gender issues have proposed that that the new constitution of Tanzania does not want him to be if the party will choose a man's presidential candidate, then it is a must for his running mate or the prime minister to be a woman.

This is part of the recommendations that the Tanzania Gender Network Program (TGNP) has presented a statement to the constitutional commission last week when they met with special community groups.

Those activists have claimed that if the president will be a woman, then the vice president or the prime minister is a man to be a man so as to put gender violence in accordance with the decision of the African Union (AU).

"The government will be able to take legal action against the law and budget to make sure that the implementation of economic growth and the government, the board of public organizations and the leaders of these organizations, have been successful," said part of those recommendations.

This newspaper has been able to get involved in recommendations of those activists, which also wants to make major administrative changes including the nation to be the prime minister who will not meet the elections of the elections.

The activists have claimed that forcing the prime minister to avoid the general elections to avoid other community groups to give the leader of that position although they are representing groups that are needed in the community.

The current constitution wants the prime minister to avoid the elections of the elections because it is a must that he will be elected by one citizens to one.

Another proposal of the activists is to be allowed to be allowed to get private candidates in different elections due to the fact that many of our political party and good leadership will not be dealt with and cancellation of the political party.

In general, a lot of recommendations at the activists are in the agenda of the 50 / 50 Cent and more than TGNP in the constitutional commission and look more on women's rights.

In another step, the activists have requested a new constitution to ban the marriage of female children who are shown early and they were tested for other community rights.

These recommendations of TGNP in the marriage of children can get great opposition from religious institutions that have been encouraged to ensure the age of female children get married have been described in religious books and there is no legal authority that can remove it.

Those recommendations at the TGNP network with a total of 11 years have been presented but they did not give anything related to the rights of other gender groups such as summoning demons.

However, while speaking to Good Citizen in Dar es Salaam yesterday, one of the top officials of TGNP who did not want to be told his name for explanation that he is not the spokesperson of that institution, he said 83 households were in the group of people who are in the outskirts.

"If you go through the report offered by the commission of our country to help us get a cover song each other in people who are called groups of the periphery, including the disabled and other people, we have learned that they need to be right.

However, if rumors have their things, I think they have their institutions that can be able to go to the commission and take advantage of their recommendations, we have learned more research than other groups, "said the officer.
