
Kinana is class to you.
Brightiles 29, 2012

There is a new system of running politics of the stage that has come out for the tour of the secretary general (new) of CCM.
Abdulrahman Kinana, in some of the provinces of Tanzania Mainland.

There is a matter to learn among the senior officials of CCM and even other political leaders outside the party is happening in the country, something that is another class to politicians, our scholars and the citizens in general.

In all the rallies to be a public or the internal meetings that he did from Mtwara, Rukwa, Arusha, and Geita, Kinana without any political attack, or mentioning the name of any political party in his talks.

We don't know abusive language and other language of privacy or those who could be heard from.
Some of our politicians in all sides, the ruling party and the opposition, these we want to meet in the small elections of the parliamentary, Eastern Arumeru region and elsewhere.

If you make sure that the weaknesses of his party and the way to be selected will help those weaknesses, Kinana spoke about the issues concerning the citizens in general, including the members of CCM.

He spoke about small industries, fees and contributions for schools from students, issues of infrastructure and economy in general.

This means that it is a important step towards the danger of competition of issues concerning the lives of citizens.
That concern political parties or politicians.

The answers of the problems of the citizens do not affect the citizens of CCM or the government through the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) to be on stage or in internal meetings of the ruling party, or CHADEMA and other parties to join CCM without giving solutions to the problems of citizens.

The citizens can know how you get correct for their problems and listen to how those problems are recognized by the direction of getting problems, and not by listening or passport.

Problems of citizens are resolved for the right implementation of plans and strategies of the government.
That is the ones that collect taxes of citizens and it's difficult to believe that it has taken out, approximately 30 minutes of the leader to address them again by being required to answer the problems of citizens, use 28 minutes to join the opposition party or making political parties.

We must realize that political parties have been started in accordance with the country's laws, have the right to run politics and their leaders have the right to lead those parties, although according to the country's laws.

Therefore, on our part, we would like politics to discuss issues (SMS) and not less than a lot of time informing them or passport for political issues on stage, and in this, Kinana has shown a better example.
