
Kenya lost millions through modern technology.
Kenya is losing approximately 5 billion shillings from theft of technology.
According to the report given by technologies.
According to the report given earlier this year, the company and the organizations were forced to reach 21 billion shillings from the theft at the end of last year.
Also private people lost the millions of money from the theft of public relations.
At the time the use of internet network and new technology equipment like phone and the phone has planned to improve, the government has got a big challenge of preventing theft through the internet.
This crime has come up when there have been major changes in the technology especially about financial activities.
It has been easy to get money through mobile phone through the internet.
Similarly, it has been easy to give money to the bank and set aside directly to the mobile phone accounts through social media networks and also people can pay products by using cards instead of giving cash money.
This situation has launched a lot of things to many people but it has also put thousands of people and organizations in danger of or being conned their new technology with great ability.
According to the experts, people have to understand well the type of technology that they are using and how to protect themselves from the theft that would be implemented through the technology.
Already the case is going on in the court of 300 citizens from China who were on claims of making the headquarters in Rondo area in Nairobi city to reduce the citizens through the internet network.
The cases of theft of that kind are many in the country because of the situation that people use new technology and that they not understand.
For example, time to time when they enter into areas to provide the internet services, they have left their secret word to open your account or social networks being open due to this, it is easy for those who depend on the technology and maybe they get important information like the bank's accounts and use it to implement the theft.
Also fraudsters has use the social networks or the letter called for money from the friends of the person being affected by their accounts.
The Kenyans have been fined shillings on social media networks by the trap and have lost millions of money this year.
Also fraudsters has changed the ways of knowing words that do not affect the bank's accounts, Mpesa, and other ways of giving and laying of money through the internet.
The website of the police department and the Central Bank in the country has also been affected by the agents of the way, it was among the social networks that were affected by authorities in the way.
According to the ministry of information and communication in the country, Kenya is four years after Algeria, Egypt and South Africa in theft of using communication network in the African continent.
According to Mister William Makinga, the Relations Officer of the digital research and social media outlets believed to have an increase of attacks on the year 2013 by 108 percent from 54 million shillings compared to 26 million shillings in the year 2012.
Secretary of the Ministry of Communication, Mister Joseph Kiwanuka has said during the launch, he said that due to the increase in theft of the network, many people have started fear using business cards.
That secretary said that the internet system is distracting the industry of natural resources and the purpose of strengthening investment.
As a result of that, he said that the government was able to launch strategies to protect citizens against attacks on the internet.
He said that the report from the research that was done shows that the internet crime broke the boundaries for theft and corruption of the money for now the terrorists is using the network to get youths to join them in terrorism.
It has been noted that many youths from here in the country have joined the terror group of Al Shabaab. Some of them have joined the group through the internet, that report said.
