The danger of politics take place?
Sep 27, 2012

I have fear that our country's time is not long, it will get in the social network that will be done by politics to take place with the religion.

My brothers, religious marriages have already been planted, where we will not put wisdom and wisdom, then we are not worried that we must understand that, we have the must to resolve it, the seedlings to the religion that is needed, and that is there.
However, some of the politicians, make changes, the distribution of water so that it can be able to leave, that it has its benefit.

And sure, it is wisdom and wisdom, for a human being to recognize and to respect the authority that is available and more that are derived from people to recognize and to respect the authority resulting from the law, rules and procedures of the concerned party, therefore, the authority resulting from the constitution is a must to do a third issue and to address those authorities.

It is possible that in the company the authority is to have conflicts between the law, regulations and procedures, but those that are not seen.
In doing a political process in the community it happens inside, politics has a reason for sustainable talks and it's a important discussion in politics to remain in the high table.

When you get rid of political steps and take advantage of its position, and here is also because of the political parties, therefore, we allow the presence of a political request, therefore, our social responsibility can penetrates through the desire to fill in the request.

All the days, without a human being, there is no need for a question that we are not supposed to register myself from now, it is about who?
Our president in the year 2015, but we need to stop asking themselves, if we see our president of 2015 we will give you a good constitution, and in which we are we must to look for answers of these questions.

Because, the right answers will be given the hopes of the existence of justice and we need to fulfill the hopes of breach of peace and causing a bad state of politics to be done by religion because our country's general elections have been facing a bad behavior.

Usually, we are witnessing some of the religious leaders, Islam and Christianity, using the house of worship.
It's not for human rights to us, the work of preaching and is good for a human being, but they did a political work to address issues of politics and to give instructions of one politics to one.

This has been done in eternal peace and fish, it is dangerous to our country's peace and others are children, they have not ready to receive a political speech, but those children are ready to receive the arrest and symptoms of us.

We have heard a place, religious leader is looking at a house for a service, "he asked them to choose those who want.
And a person, "another one is clear," we wish you who will be vying for the war, "in the two sides of the statement, it is clear that even without mentioning those who were involved with a cap, but those who have not found themselves are pregnant for believers from the religious leaders.

When it is grafness of hatred among the believers, because believers don't know how religious leaders are involved in their evil deeds and divide the citizens in the basis of religion because they are involved in a judgment without being forced to be given a chance to register it.

I have been able to write, that the Iniesta, said that you lead you to take a bad behavior, "you can't jump and make them close to politics because this country has more than Sh1.

There is a place where you can uplift business people and even to succeed is on issues of faith, it's in religion and we believe that what is where there is a bad state, in a move that is still underway.

For sure, it is our patriotic responsibility to talk about this due to me, that here is a problem that is wrong to you.
We believe that if an issue that you're going on, then you are not present even if it is.

The problem that you have seen, but you do not do, then you are just silent but what is happening there is to resolve the problem under the Parliament now instead of making it to eliminate it.
