Tanzania tomorrow is joining with other countries in commemorating the African Child's day where the slogan of this year is the rights for children with disability, it's our responsibility to help him to respect themselves and identify the aim being to put effort in the rights of the group in the good community.
In Dodoma town, the deputy minister of development of gender community and children Ummy Mwalimu while speaking to journalists about the commemoration.
He has said among the goals are educating and educating the community about the development of children's development in the state and how all of them by considering the primary rights including the availability of education and health.
Assistant minister has emphasized that what is happening during those commemorations are together with evaluating the environment.
The national policies for the child of the child said he placed more effort in the slogan of this year.
This situation has driven many children with disabilities.
Being one of the victims of gender issues because they have been looking for important reports which could destroy them and environment for being operated on.
According to the report of these research.
The government and the community in general, have a responsibility to ensure that children with disabilities get the services and rights as provided to other children even so the challenges well in the area of availability of education has been discussed including the problem of infrastructure being a friend to children with disability, even them have been impressed by the Minister of Health and Social Welfare.
Seif Rashid.
For the same time.
Being a friend for the purpose of children with disabilities but as well as poor people themselves so that they can use those buildings well.
To get enough services.
Almighty God rest his position.
That commemoration took place at the regional level where different activities will take place.
The chicken in the province have agreed to have been reported that they will go hand in hand with the international meeting about issues of children.
Like that President Jakaya Kikwete is expected to be the guest of honor.
I have been seen from Dodoma town, he has caused five debt.
