When the surprise of God?
Martti Ahtisari Center, 2014.

New research shows that lack of many do not know something about the huge scandal together with being written in the media, while explaining that bribery has been bad, more than 10 years ago.
At the time media houses have reported a lot about the issue of lack of money given in the Tegeta Escrow account, the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), research has shown that the Independent Power Tanzania Limited (IPTL) is the issue that deals with not well completely to people here in the country.

That research that is known by the name Sauti Sol of the citizens that was done by the Advisory Board of here in the country between June nine up to June 25, this year, is the first one that explains about the fact that the surprising fact about the plain truth about the truth.
Among the people who were interviewed in this research, 78 percent said that they have never been seen about the IPTL scandal, which is still at the media concerning the most important topic in the year 2008 and the resignation of the former prime minister, Edward Lowassa.
The research of the citizens of the citizens are taking place for citizens to be sent and asked questions to approximately 25 citizens of Tanzania mainland were involved in this journey.
In questions that they were asked, citizens, a big scandal that has ever happened here in the country in recent years were listed in Richmond Development, David Jairo, IPTL and purchase of fees from the Coke Studio company, England.
In the issue of Richmond, the government changed billions of shillings for the purpose of importation from outside the machinery that produce electricity which did not be brought.
Jairo has been the permanent secretary in the Ministry of Energy and Minerals who was claimed to have been sentenced to members of parliament in the year 2011 so as to be the budget of his ministry to be supported by members of parliament.
About the fees, it was noted that the payment of more than 12 million dollars were taken to various government leaders so that the government is supposed to prove the purchase of electricity prices by paying a huge price than the market.
EPA is involving the payments that were done by the Central Bank of Tanzania through its foreign accounts in the end of the year 2005 and at the beginning of the year 2005 and at the beginning of the year 2006, whereby a total of 114 million dollars (more than 100 billion shillings) were alleged to be compensated.
However, together with the being reported all over the scandal, citizens have shown to have a lot of knowledge about it.
Basically, the report shows that it's only four percent of those who were interviewed and they gave the answers of showing enough problems about the issue of IPTL.

Two percent explained that I have ever heard about the issue but failed to provide information about them while 16 percent of those who were interviewed said that they have ever heard, but they did not understand anything about what they have not understand.
About IPTL and another scandal that were mentioned, that report to ensure our citizens have shown its own kind, it has been touched on how to avoid themselves and a big difference of accessing information between the rich or people who are dug well and poor.
For example, research has shown that 84 percent of the rich people were interviewed they have shown to know about the same scandal while 47 percent only having an understanding like that among the poor people.
Also, 86 percent of those who were interviewed who have education on grade four have shown to know about one scandal, while those who did not end up to 49 percent only.
It's been reported with this scandal in media stations after time, it is possible to make the citizens to be able to understand more about these things and not knowing how these events can affect their lives directly, "says the report with 11 years.

Bribery.

In bribery, more than half of the citizens who were interviewed have explained that they don't know if bribery can be shaken, while 70 percent of them were interviewed insisting that even if the opposition party will take a power, it will not be able to fight with that issue.
A new report on this report is the explanation of the citizens who explained that 60 percent of the citizens who have ever been swept away by police and 43 percent of them have paid the bribery.
If many days in the previous days have ever explained, the police force has been caused by other institutions such as political parties, the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Ministry of Lands, non-governmental organizations and local institutions with the end in this group.
