
Slaa has taken him in eternal, Salma, May 23, 2012.

The national chairperson of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Abdulrahman Kinana has admitted that the wife of President Jakaya Kikwete, uses government planes during a surprise of his husband, President Jakaya Kikwete and other candidates of that party at the parliamentary and council membership position.
However, Kinana has supported Mrs Salma Kikwete by saying that there is no law that was violated because the planes are usually found.

According to Kinana, even the presidential candidate of CCM, Kikwete, sometimes it uses a government plane to rise up.

The explanation of Kinana is due to the event of president's wife, Salma, arriving in Mara Province on the type of Octa-infectious disease with number 5M-TGT, and was received by other government leaders including the district commissioner, Geoffrey Nundu and other leaders of the province and district levels when they arrived at the field by using government vehicles.

After arriving and was received by the members of CCM at that stadium, different from the other tour that have been required to receive him, at this time it was not announced and therefore he was received by people who are trusted people of CCM who were given information with conditions of not announcing that arrival.

That leader after being received and inspected the music groups he went on in the vehicle that had a number of traditional singers of Vogue Baboons and that is believed to be the government, while his message use the government vehicles towards the small State House in Musoma town.

Speaking about that situation, Kinana congratulated Mrs Salma to use the government's plane and that it is not for its own journey but even when he went to Mwanza used the government plane, he said that plane has been renovated from the government's airplane and that any person is allowed to climb that plane.

"We have been using government planes without paying, especially during private organizations that are directed to ensure that its security will be there in other ways that we cannot use security and therefore we can use those planes so that we can use those planes."

"There is a big possibility it is done by people who know that those planes can be recorded and any candidate for that presidential candidate had to use that plane in some of the general elections and cannot do contrary to that the law has been called under the government of that party.

However, Kinana did not talk about the use of government vehicles at the Kikwete campaign meeting which Mrs Salma was doing with leaders of the provinces.
While CCM giving an explanation on the use of Salma Kikwete of the government's plane, more information from Mara province about the tour of that mother explained that the mother came from Bunda District after completing his activities in Musoma district.

While in Bunda district he made a meeting of the Union of Women Association of CCM (UWT), and also the schedule made him to go to Mwibara province, on Monday this week, but he was unable to do that due to that area of the presidential candidate of CHADEMA, Doctor Willibrod Slaa.

Those reports indicate that together with voting for the CCM contestants including her husband President Jakaya Kikwete, Salma has been trying to make implementation of groups to break the camp during the process of opinion polls inside CCM.

Issues of corruption used to introduce Doctor Slaa is alleged to have carried out a picture of accepted more to the voters, it has also been given explanations by Salma Kikwete in his tour.

According to the news immediately, Salma has been talking about corruption claiming that the CCM government has done and it continues to do a great job to fight those actions which he claimed that they were affected since the era of Tanaka.
Tanaka is one of the revolutionary party of CCM, having a record of leading the fight to claim freedom.

Therefore, even a house cannot be built in one day and I urge you to break the groups and be involved in opinion polls to ensure that CCM is holding a house to house, to explain the success of the government of President Kikwete so that the citizens should know it has been identified by rice, "he said.

Among the parliamentary candidates that he visited, Salma Kikwete in his tour is together with the parliamentary candidate for Musoma Town constituency for Hafsa Mossi and 13 parliamentary candidates of the county of that constituency, Mathayo asserted and great opposition candidates from the parliamentary candidate of CHADEMA, Vicent TingNyerere.

It was reported that Mathew previously stopped his campaign from what was claimed that the political wind was badly affected after Vicent TingNyerere, to start the campaign meeting so as to wait for the running mate of CCM, Doctor Gharib Bilal in order to launch the launch.

In his tour, the president's wife, Salma has been accompanied by "journalists" who had gathered on a brief statement of CCM that was written in "Kikwete, 2010," it is alleged that journalists in Mara Province although they were given an invitation to participate in the campaigns of that president in the district of that province.

At the time Salma asked her husband to different areas in the country, information from the Kikwete's campaign explains that the CCM candidate has promised that if elected his government will have bought a big farms for land that is not used to make the land to the citizens who need them.
However, President Kikwete has emphasized that the issue will be an agreement between the government and those of those farms and never the government will not tolerate those farms from themselves.
"We will not inform people's farms but we shall talk until when I won four years," President Kikwete said at the beginning of this week when he made a campaign meeting of the general elections in Tanga province.
The needs of the land's needs to eliminate their food production and business was one of the cries by President Kikwete has a lot in many meetings during the campaign tour.
Each other challenges were unblocked by the citizens, President Kikwete has been told that some of the big farms, especially the effects that have been directed and themselves as citizens are continuing to struggle without having land.
Citizens in the area of political tensions, for example, they have given an example of one investor who claims that since he bought the farm in the area of 13 years ago, he has not been seen again.
That CCM presidential candidate today has done a campaign meetings and greeted them to the citizens in the areas of Uhuru, Maranga, EngenderHealth, Matopeni Ward, Donge County, Bumbuli, Bumbuli and Sakali.
In Korogwe, President Kikwete finished to confirm to the citizens about the government's intention of ensuring that citizens get land, insisting that his government knew the problem of shortage of land, and in other areas lack of land, and being elected again to lead Tanzania will take action to reduce that problem.
This issue of children should be to be respected with it, but we will be able to get all farms, but it's our intention to speak with big farms which will not be used and we hope that the results of those talks will be good, "said President Kikwete and added.
"We will take the steps to ensure we give our land citizens and we will make sure that we will give investors because these are very important people for us because they don't inform President Kikwete that an amount of 3,000 residents in the area have no land to grow and that the farm takes place.
In Matemu area where citizens have thanked President Kikwete for being the first President of Tanzania to visit the area, he has also explained the problem of lack of land for the citizens, greeting them.
President Kikwete has also told the citizens in different areas where standing that his government has intended to increase the speed of construction of road construction in the country and in those areas, he has said that the S@-@ fielder-Bumbuli was an artist of political parties.
