Without doubt, good health do not desire the mistake, because it is very close to you press here.
You are in me in this time and you look at the killings of the disabled person (albino) something that is currently underway.
The government and the ones from different organizations and stakeholders of the second development are in fighting the killings.
This is as a result of many words, but together with that, it is together with a great rule of human rights because it is not only married but Wastara said that they are also receiving a chance.
Ras Makunja has called my guest to be careful not to be the one who is a youth stakeholder, but the speed on issues of these youths is still needed in the Tanzanian community to provide care especially for time saying the youth was needed because they are in office is things that all the time can be taken.
But he did not make sure we are in politics while in those areas and what should I do, I am pleased here to listen to a lot from him to be very close to what that are participating in now, that will happen.
We focus on the killing of the disabled people I will end so, but you follow it before let to focus on fake products.
In a short time, in the news that took place in Dar es Salaam city, we have been brought to the drugs by scoring, while the police have called to the police in that province that allows the women to mark for three people while they have already appeared before the district court.
In order to answer the accusations of being involved in the killing of a child with skin disability, Yohana Bahati, he told the journalists the commander of the region of the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Joseph Masikitiko he said most of the suspects have been arrested while beginning first hand and ended up.
Spread in bed in a short report and then give me their condolences to Fred.
I won.
Up to now the army is holding various people who three weeks ago, unfortunately, the commander had already succeeded in court and if others are supposed to be arraigned in court after finishing being interviewed by police.
After some time Madenge allowed me he has given talks and they will discuss well as usual.
This is his running mate.
And the news reporter?
They were working together to build gold in a hole.
And their colleagues.
In addition, we saw there is a long time we are telling us from different times not knowing the reason they were to marry Yanga for the purpose of improving their activities.
His commission has given me what's the meaning.
Another instrument which is a court has been secret and to see what is in which way?
Almighty God can be involved in?
They did not like the citizens to be on the front line to stop criminal acts, then in that way the beauties are.
To get any other information that we have that it will help me on the left.
"Said our greatest aim is to ensure we have already started the end of an easy event in another event, the police force arrested four road accidents with one of the suspects in Osterbay Primary School, where they are meeting the weapons being in that city at ten o'clock.
To follow up we know.
And the running mate I found.
The concerned man is supposed to be the arbitrator.
I am saying that there is a house in the book that we want to get back home for the interests I don't know the citizens of the whole area, I said this one is dangerous because we know that and then having a gun knowing all the time we're getting.
Why every day a employee gave a huge warning to the suspects, will take him to the court of Chato district to answer the charges that are facing him from the province, this weekend.
.
