
The argument of Pinda is heavy, it will be released on May 24, 2012.

The Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, on Thursday of last week, he spoke about what we are in Mwema, we have never believe all the days.
Speaking to leaders of various leaders of the workers in his office in Dar es Salaam, the Prime Minister Pinda gave a challenge to employees of workers to join and be a lot of strength instead of being small and accountability.
By considering that all over the world, employees of workers are respected in the government, and by considering that many government would be happy to see political parties so that they get a lot of work together to make sure that we are coming from leader who are not true to the workers of his country.
Up to now the parties recently - CT (teachers) (Iloha), Institute of Industry and Trade (ACIB), TWU (Agriculture and forests), TWU (Agriculture and forests), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism), TWU (Agriculture and Tourism)
And that is why until today, a cry for the workers' salaries that took place with the current state of life, has not been done by the government and that is why even the speed of the establishment of the internal affairs sector, it is not allowed.
But now there is a big threat in the new year - that of the workers being in danger of losing their employment as a result of the wave of the world economy where it also did Tanzania is not unyielding.
All these things, in general, they should work with one voice for example, they need to have a lot of noise due to huge corruption in the government and in public institutions, they have been informed that corruption have been sent back, economy will continue to drop, and their fate are employees to lose their employment.
We are saying that all this.
It is true that we have a Federation of political parties in Tanzania (TELC), but the federation has changed the strength because of the operation that was made by the influx of political parties where each one is called for instance, even in the issues that we explained their interests.
We do not believe that while Karl Marx has said, "the workers of the world have died, there was no meaning that causes the influx of parties' parties because his call was to join and have a big voice.
And that's why we join the Prime Minister Pinda in the challenge he made to the workers of employees in the country, we insisted that there is no need to have this influx of small parties for workers.
Our call is that, as parties' parties that can join them to fully support him so that we can have a big political parties that will pay the strength of the Federation of Workers of Tanzania Association (TELC) so as to be able to implement its responsibility of being the main voice of all employees in the country.
For sure, that view is also, we have people of political parties in the country Mister Haazu taking a lot of lack of political parties as it is now.
What is needed is for many political parties and with great strength.
It's not said that United do not stand up, if you know if you are like that, then, the message to the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda to workers in Tanzania, is not something to assume.
