Third government, I agree on the way of Judge Warioba.
Petit 14, 2013.

Ambassador Augustine Mahiga who is the representative of the United Nations secretary general (UN) in Somalia has talked about the draft of a new constitution as an effort of creativity to reach the right time of talks concerning the problems of the union.
He says, although the third government have its cost, but politics have its benefits because of the long-term debates concerning the structure of the union, the ambassador was quoted by one of the newspapers that was published here in the country saying that if Tanzania has rectified the coalition nuisances for 50 years in the year, through a way of talks.
In my view, he said Ambassador Mahiga has a lot of great joy which were discussed including wisdom and a lot of money from the Tanzanian and the highly increase in Judge Warioba and his commission in relation to the third government.
Because, the way we have that we used to be careful, there are many problems of the way, it is because the way it was not good, what did the Judge Warioba and his commission is to reduce that way so that other factors can increase.
The new constitution has a meaning of great changes so that I do not see me is the fear of change to some of our leaders and even others are fear resulting from private reasons that are following up and even the opportunity to come in.
It's a habit of a human being and also fear about change, when even at your house, you will go back home, and you found your current worker, then it will be first to fear about those changes and maybe your mind will also be allowed to be used.
This is the third government, in history, we need to land in addition, Judge Warioba to come up with this creativity, because it has been a huge nuisance that was done by the ministry and we cannot continue with that situation in the year till the year.
Because I am no private, I would have been asked in the year 2000 about the structure of the union, then, my first commandment was one of the second government, second and three governments, the third government.
But, 13 years later, and by looking at times, I ask you today a question, but my answer is very open but we should have the third government, but we will contribute to people of these two sides of the union.
And we believe you should not understand the history that in the year 2000, the committee of Judge Robert Mkolla, was able to come up with other recommendations that the third government, I remember the president of that time, Benjamin Mkapa at Diamond Jubilee, while speaking to the elders of Dar es Salaam, showed sure that the government did not like them.
There should also be a debate if the committee can come up with recommendations or not because it was said that Kissima was not the commission and Mkapa changed them and also journalists in wanting the government to accept those recommendations.
Something that was not yet known, the government even one day cannot be connected to journalists if it did not agree with the journalists if it did not agree with it because it was the year 2000, and now the year 2013 has changed.
Well, and we're continuing with the time you are doing and we should have the courage to turn back on my thoughts, and a new constitution can also contribute to us for us to avoid sexual issues and who need to respect their honor as a nation.
By looking at our elections in the past, we have witnessed acts of bribery that were affected and even violence and violence in the funeral of the election, this is a sign of lack of ethics at a high level.
We understand what we believe is that our election system and our current constitution, all were questionable.
Because, you cannot serve the two people at a time and that the minister should not be a member of parliament of a special region, but the public servants of parliament.
