
Session of Saro Wiwa of the general meeting.

It has been written by Karav Dhingra, Shinyanga.

It has been published in September 2016.

The residents of Pinyinyi ward in the District Council of Shinyanga have been forced to select the sitting on the general meeting of wanting to have income and expenditure.

That step was made after the village leadership used to study revenue and expenditure, including a donation of 5,400 desks for every household. They failed to pay for a long time, it was paid 2200 shillings including a fine.
The meeting for the purpose of getting a question was held the day before yesterday and the citizens made that step to claim to be careful, claiming that they do not know the amount of money they had contributed to the desks and also the ones that were made.
The villagers Doctor Gilbert Kadushi, explained that the meeting was for the purpose of putting up with the traditional culture, but they used that step to urge them to be paid revenue and expenditure as a result of the behavior of the leaders not like that.
"There are others who were forced to be fined, but in a spirit you have been seen to pay for a normal contribution without a fine, we had already issued the desks, we have been taken to Dar es Salaam," said the efforts.
Another resident, Chilufya Sata said despite the contribution of desks, they had been charged every 1000 shillings for the purpose of reviewing the bank, on claims that the village should be built on 50 million shillings in every village, which has been promised by President John Magufuli.
He said that and it is not explained, if he said that the relevant area is open and it has a lot of money.
The chairperson of that village, Jackson Mayanja, said that the meeting was writing about him, that is why they tried to study revenue and expenditure.
He also said they have been late to read the income and use, due to the executive director of the village being stopped.
The executive officer of that village, Maasais' Frank Kibiki who is alleged to be suspended from being named in that meeting, gave out various topics that are facing him by explaining that approximately 212,600 households were contributed by 251 rupees which gave a contribution.
He said that village has 255 households and households that were charged a fine is 25 shillings, it was charged a fine of 92,500 shillings, "said desks have not been given to the needs of 25 desks.
