
22 October 2013.

Lawyers Mrs Pinda has protection.
Lawyers in the constitutional case was opened by a station.
The law of human rights (LHRC) in collaboration with the Tanganyika Law Society.
(TLS), against the prime minister, Mister Mizengo Pinda, yesterday continued.
The court, Grace Ndeki.

The case was done.
It is heard in the high court in the region of Dar.
Dar es Salaam, the lawyer of government Sara Abood.
He said the charges against Pinda have no basis for being the statement.
The parliament is disappointed by the law of justice and authority of the parliamentary law.

"He said.
A institution or a person is not allowed to open the charges to court for an issue.
Criminal offenses or claims released inside the parliament.

According to the picture.
The constitution, parliament is the pillar of American dollars which has been given authority to supervise.
To control its activities, under Article 89, it has given the parliament to make sure.
To put its policies for the purpose of running and managing its activities.
Happen inside the parliament.

"The regulations are there.
They have broken the things that will be supervised by the parliament and also say.
It's a person who is able to take words or statement in parliament, "explained Mwaipopo.

However, he said.
He explained the 71 policy (C) explains openly that it is a private person of Tanzania.
It is able to take complaints in parliament, not groups, organization or any institution.
Let us represent other person.

"From the picture.
The existence of the law on rights and authority of the ethics of parliamentarians.
That is being administered in Parliament has the body and I don't see the reason of the court.
To listen to the claims, he said.

.
He requested the court to inform them about the request that had been presented by those institutions as the court will agree that the cases will be opened.
Many.

A lawyer.
The government Alice Net, explained that the court that the complainants won.
Completely they were not supposed to present their applications.
In court, they are continuing to take a case in front of the court so that we can come in the law.
The parliament are saying that parliament has its legal procedures.

He also explained.
That the court recognizes that there is an expert of power those things are not supposed to be.
There being a court.

He claimed that the case is in court so that he didn't know themselves because the contestants are.
They denied their claims by explaining their views instead of explaining.
The foundation of claims.

A lawyer of the side.
The complainants won, Mpale Mpoki, said that he said Mister Pinda in parliament.
Dodoma it depends on human rights, something that is contrary to the immunity in the body.
The existence of members of parliament.

The process was presented.
The high court in front of three judges who are looking for that case is the judge.
The leader went, Augustine Mwarija and Doctor FGM?

Mpoki explained that.
In court that the court has the ability and ability to interview the parliamentary laws.
That led to break the human laws.

He also explained.
That court is like though there is an division of power that those laws do not make it.
Dissolving human laws.

The case was done.
That was opened by LHRC, TLS has spoken a prime minister due to his statement.
He made the parliament to allow security agencies to sign people who are accusing.
The laws offered by those stations.

Far from.
Another one that was joined in that case is the attorney general (AG).
Who is the winner number two.

While in the picture.
During the questions from there, Mister Pinda was responding to a question.
The cause of the Member of Parliament for Kilwa North Constituency, Mangungu as member of parliament (CCM) who wanted to know the stand.
The government about the complaints against state agencies in some of the areas like Mtwara about beating the citizens.

In the answers.
Minister Pinda said that they do the violence that has been told to do soon.
You will be just a meaning, there's no other way we advise that the country is underway.
On the legal basis.

At that same time, a case which is owned by a fee of shillings 1,000.
Phone lines has been postponed until October 31st this year, where it will continue.
To be heard.
