The secretary of the main council of the revolutionary party in my party, ideology and publicity, Nape Nnauye met with journalists in Dar es Salaam city today and spoke about several issues the word to meet the nation right now including the issue of doctors together with the increase of members of parliament where he wants the government to sit on one table with doctors so as to end.
Nape has advised the members of parliament to put aside their political differences and to think about the increase in their allowances if I have interests to the nation as well as the end of the house has a good report.
Now and where the secretary of the national executive council of ideology and publicity, Nape Nnauye meets with journalists at the Mwanza Airport to talk about several issues and they traveled to the country.
For some time now, we have been depending on the big problem of that attack.
In many times especially of houses.
Where every day and what you have shown to have great effects to the poor Tanzanians who are many that seem to produce even their lives and for the truth, the Revolutionary Party is very delicious with the situation.
Nape started this meeting in order to be given a solution to the strike of doctors.
Not you know anything related?
I would like we shouldn't wait until today they were affected.
And maybe it is unacceptable, to address conflicts during our community not to keep in order for our community be able to create a human being in the government now follow up with the specialist doctors.
But what has not explained the nation in the strike of doctors.
It's not true that there is a lot of weaknesses, that is why they are good.
And even if you want to steal things that there are two sides that the government has been, so I don't know so much in his good thing.
I don't know what I think are in the way they would have also used, we will solve the problem because it has said shortages of both sides will be found in the table that will be found in charge.
That secretary of ideology and propagation of CCM will also talk about the issue and increase of allowances for members.
Now the answer to the answer.
.
It's not even without caring about their ideology, we need children and I think of brain?
Which if you go (junk emails), they are complaining of noise and very happy about me, and this goal they will talk.
