The late God revealed that your news is very good news.
I'm in the presence of not so much until I said they will not be dealt with today, Patrick, the initiative has not been done, I will continue to do it.
Hayatou, I'm in home.
Do a little work of the sun, I told me, because you are not praising himself as well-day.
Ras Makunja has come out a day before yesterday to come up and let me follow me, when you follow me, the request for us do your work to be paid taxes like the first is what is doing.
If you are improving.
I am continuing to be in a few hours for another time it has been a little because the defender we saw and insisted that he didn't see it and he has never been living because he didn't have a life.
They lead you 'Imebaki Story.'
I want to thank you and for now I am continuing well to work here and when you look for me a child and now the child is going on well said two years like the past two weeks.
Well, those among them say you came to look at it here, I will look for you a right time and I will also come to see him recently the same day you will be able to see him, then his birthday is not good to do so.
Same, I will come to come with your sister's work, then it is safe and is still a single so I don't know if I don't know if I don't know if I don't know if I don't know if I don't know if I don't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can't know if you can
Let me tell me he has not seen much since we talk with my son, I will told him I told him.
That is the first day I told me now I don't know what?
You are supposed to be NEC.
Others in the same as a penalty, we were you in a little time but I am pleased with a lot of people with two people, that is even one of them.
We pray to you one day in which the first day today is approximately Bradford City today and to use it as the late God rest the wedding.
That day I will cause a place to you and he told them that we believe that people with your ones have been shocked as there are no reason why we cannot let me understand by desire.
