
19th December 2012

The robbers from 150 million - Dar es Salaam, two have been shot, one died and there.

Rehema Ndembeji and Goodluck Charles.

Three people have been confirmed that the robbers were seen to be robbers from the Medan LTD company, that is in the Maasais', Kariakoo, Dar es salam during those commemorations.
150 million shillings which were on the defender.
The event happened yesterday at 4 o'clock in the morning at the company's offices which involves itself with the sale of cars and battery vehicles.

Those robbers who were apprehended in which they used a motorcycle transport to arrive at the company's offices so as to make that theft.

Witnesses from the incident said that two employees of that company were given those funds to take them to the defender and after getting into the vehicle, those robbers were given suddenly.

Those robbers were killed by those people, taking a certificate of money and run away with it, where one of the two who were shot died on a short time while in hospital and sometimes he continues to get treatment at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH).

One youth (not a employee of that company), who was also the scene of the incident, decided to take a stone so as to do a problem with those criminals but he had been forced to have shot dead in head and died on the spot.

Speaking about the incident, the police commander of the special unit of Dar es Salaam, Suleiman Kova, said the incident happened when the company's employees carried out money from the bank without a result of any security from the police force.

"Three criminals have written a small vehicle of Cornell universities which had only two employees of this company who were given these funds to take them to the bank.

"These criminals were in motorcycle and marry off the car to go and leave the area, but he refused due to criminals started attacking him in the vehicle, to take a certificate of money and run away with it," said Commander Kova.

He said that when those criminals are running, the police who were in police came out of gun shots and visited the scene of the incident where those criminals have started competing in the air after the citizens decided to run away.

This incident happened in the 15th minute, we have arrested one suspect called Mwenze Kabula by another name Francis Dande, John Lukuwi (24), accompanied by pistols which could be avoided.

This eardrum has been canceled her number being shot dead, a motorcycle that was used in crime has a number to be self-1 for Miss Tanzania, a mobile phone, which we have arrested, "said Commander Kova.

He mentioned the people who died in that event to be Sadik Juma (38), who is performing well with Ahmed Mohamed Issa (55), who is the accountant of that company.

He said Issa died from the injuries he was shot, therefore not by blood as the owner of the company known by name Yusuf, still continues to get treatment at Muhimbili Hospital where he has been admitted.

Other people who were arrested in relation to the event is together with the defender, Mister Ally Said (42), who at the event coming from a modern gun but he was unable to use by allegations were unable.

After the police came to inspect that gun, she claimed was not a problem so that they decided to take them with any way or another.

Commander Kova said, two other youths Mister Alhaji Mussa who is preparing to vote in him by Mister Salum Telela (shop) gave a police station that were injured by the owner of the shop where those allegations are still going on.
