We agree to be criticized.
28th of 16, 2012

There are many diseases that affect Tanzania.
We have written many times on the diseases, maybe I do not see you for the benefits of the reader of this article, it is possible that we have read our language to our skin disability, not to prevent us or to support fake phones and to allow them to be criticized.
Not accepting to be criticized is a dangerous disease, because she does not accept to be criticized and he cannot learn.
History we have learned from the mistakes, then if you get married, we do not learn and move forward.
Our youth have shown this disease and they thank all their strength and our youth is represented by people with their intentions of looking for leadership by getting tired, make sure, they are not ready to look for the truth on the second side.
Our youth, especially those who concern political parties and get into politics by the aim of getting positions and from life, they don't accept to be criticized.
On different issues is a person that are self-employed and agreed to be criticized and agreed to be criticized because it is like that "there is nothing to surrender," this is a very dangerous position in many countries like Tanzania.
The leaders of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), in the State House discussing with President Jakaya Kikwete on the law to write a new constitution, their message was for men who are unsuccessful.
I have written the article with good intentions and questioned about that incident of a party which include quills, revolution and defense of human rights to give a picture of not considering the gender of their short message. I interviewed it is why CHADEMA is improving the male system.
After that article, I received a short message (bulb) and her abusive language, I could attract the "CHADEMA of my opinion that is seen to get the CHADEMA.
Today I did not kill him, because I believe I did not do any offense that I have given, what I believe in this article is for women who have the ability to build a motion, therefore, we have already announced how the message to go to the State House are unsuccessful.
Previously I have written many articles for praising CHADEMA, I was having every reason to do that, because they were giving positive contribution to them, but my faith is that together with a lot of good things that you made, CHADEMA is going on a mistake.
Therefore, when you take a mistake, we will make sure that we go on and they are not so, and it should listen to him, discuss and defending himself or not to be criticized and not using abusive language.
I believe those who have using abusive message, others from the group, are the members of CHADEMA, and maybe it is the youth, why is I believe that a whole person can write a abusive language as I wrote.
The danger that involves us, and which everyone with a good goal and this nation is a must that someone who decided to give a lot or a person, should be a religious leader or a strong man, a person with a strong man or a strong man, a political leader or a strong man.
The day before yesterday during the 35-year celebrations of the Revolutionary Party, I wrote on social media networks about the ones that brought him to the celebrations.
I understood that CCM is like what I believe in CHADEMA, let me! But the disease is the one of not wanting to be criticized.
I wrote on Facebook, "the 35-year celebrations of CCM talks about two things and the first one is the youth of Green Houses, so there was a great need to pay doctors!
"The second thing that led to the 35-year celebrations of CCM is my friend, Nape said that CCM is the male party, Nape said that CCM is a democratic party, he has been married by CCM because his wife is me?
"The real system is very happy and I was surprised if the activists of human rights and gender of gender will agree with Miss Vicky Kombe who decided that song to continue being mentioned by a song of discrimination and violence.
