They should organize a higher meeting.
28th of 08, 2013.

Education department in Arusha District Council has entered into a scandal of misuse of public funds, after its servants preparing the weather seminar, "five days for teachers of primary schools and drawing more than 17 million shillings in that council.

According to the news published yesterday, Mke Mwema and the documents that were found out and confirmed to the chairperson of the council Simon Semwenda (right).
Those funds were suspended and officers of the department in February 2nd this year.

In addition, already the reports of the parliamentary funds have been presented to state agencies including the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau of Arusha (TAKUKURU) and have been questioning some of the suspects including the education officer of Arusha Rural District, Athuman Deddy.

How the funds are found.
Previously the education officer of that council, who is the one who is accused of coordinating the whole plan of "stealing the money, Athuman Dumu was a letter.
His director asking for money for the purpose of preparing a seminar for the head teachers of primary schools in that district.

In that letter that has memories number MM / ATV / 10 / 40 / 40 / 40, which has been signed by the Education Officer (Athuman DfID, they have bought it more than 1200 million shillings for the purpose of making that seminar.

That letter on February 7th in the year 2011 to be read, "request to approve an amount of 1200 million shillings being money for a seminar for head teachers about the strategic plan of improving education in schools."

In addition to that letter, the education officer is also alleged to plan the names of 105 heads and primary schools to teach them together with the importance of how those funds will be used.

During that appointment, the education officer said that the training officers by Raymond Mapunda (former education officer of Arusha), Emalahleni municipality, and Aclati being paid a total of 300,000 shillings.

Moreover, that analysis shows that all 105 million shillings could be paid 30,000 million shillings whereby each participant will be paid 30,000 shillings per day for a period of five days.
1,339 billion shillings used to be used for food for the participants of the seminar.

The reports indicate that after the process of preparing the documents and taking them to the director, those funds were sponsored by payments took place on February 11, in the year 2011.

It has been revealed that those funds were being paid for payments number 0005892 and was taken to the council's account that is in the NMB Bank by using a check of 338,907 days that day on February 11, 2011.

After those funds were taken from that bank are needed.
Education Dollaso together with his colleagues joined those funds and managed to support 105 students of various primary schools in the list that they prepared them.

He said after the process of taking money to be completed, those involved have caused those funds and later on signing up to 105 teachers in their list, "explained our source from within the office of the council.

More news claimed that it has been normal for officers and heads of departments in that council to uplift the development of development and steal money from the council.

"For example in this event, there was no seminar for head teachers and instead the involved have been taking all the money and such behaviors, this has been taking place every time without the concerned parties being eaten by a step due to the growth of the habit," added our source.

Statements by teachers.
Salvation, it has succeeded to speak with three teachers (in accordance with their names set aside) in different primary schools whose names have been listed like participants of the seminar and all names were listed like participants of that seminar.

I want to say it is clear that in the date of the previous day, there was no seminar that I have been invited, at that time I was in teaching primary schools (doesn't be forced to go to another school, "explained one of the teachers.

Another teacher added that I have been annoyed so much about that issue of seminar, but I have explained to them all the fact that I have never been invited to a seminar that was mentioned to that if there is someone who used my name.

That teacher added that for the whole period he has been followed by some of the officers of the education department who have been all over.
She had not yet explained that the seminar took place but however he refused to agree with them.

"If a person used our back to get money then to inherit the win, teachers are usually used by the officers of this department who are not integrity and have been unable to defend the interests of the teachers," said the teacher.
