
51 years of Uhuru and the words of Mkapa Dec, 13.

To watch the 51 years of our Uhuru Kenyatta, it is the first year for the next 50 years and by 2061, our country will be vying for more than 100 years of Uhuru and we should never tell you, but there is a judgment with our current action, good and bad.

For the leaders of our country, going to and time is together with having the ability to study at times, they have changed and together with our country having a lot of resources, 51 years of Uhuru is still more than the donations from outside.

While our elders in where they claimed Uhuru were very humiliating, "today after 51 years of Uhuru, has come during our generation" say 'it is very humiliating! "

Like the country, we have a section of the sake of getting their money for donations.
This generation is available where it could be a shame to continue depending on the funds of sponsors and to run our things and we should be able to understand that these partners have been pressed by their voters.

In their election campaigns, political parties and other countries have made several promise to their voters, one of them is that if they are given an opportunity to form the government, then they will ensure they control the income and expenditure of the citizens, their votes.

It should be remembered that one of the accusations that are given by the voters of those countries is how their government are run, the ruling party of the countries that are ongoing, with directing corruption, being together with lack of public property and embezzlement of funds for donations.
The donations that are derived from the virtues from Europe and America.

It is in this logic, we are supposed to understand these names of those who follow up and give their views on corruption of billions of shillings in our government and basically we follow up on the cash money they had promised to do so in their elections.

It will be remembered that before releasing the power, the president, a patient, Benjamin Mkapa, explained that he has left the country with a economy that is ready to sit and even so, the plane can remain there and therefore the plane can remain at the field it's start without stopping.

To build a modern economy, it is same as a good environment for aircraft, it's not only to be careful, but to attract other pilots to land and peace in any country with the true intention of going ahead of development, security and peace and the most important things to go forward.

In the environment that allows you to grow bribery, big and small businesses, then, rights and equity for the country do not depend on and without rights and equality, no peace and security.

You can have peace in the country, but if you understand the security because of that, although a country missing from war, but the citizens at a big level do not have sure the safety of life and their properties.

They don't have sure of their daily life, their health, their health and their children, the country can have peace, but it does not have security because the second reason I have explained.

The existence of peace and security in the country have already been discovered in the foundation of rights and equity, the basis of respect the rights and freedom of citizens to give their ideas.
And so that leaders are not knowing, it is a must that they be careful.

You can be said a lot about the Retired President Mkapa, but I remember, "I believe it should be true, than to be true, because the policies, strategies and right is good, and the right to lead them, than to lead the ones who were left to them."

Human beings we have to know that honesty is a good business, it is business with productivity.

We shouldn't understand each other, and if we should not be trusted like private individuals, we should not be trusted and others inside and outside of our boundaries, it is an issue to loss to one person and to the nation.

This is the most important things to tell ourselves this is our country and we are all our country and we must inform each other that we have many love with our country.
As a nation, 51 years of Uhuru is blocking us because of the future of our nation. I conclude.
