
He started singing and thanking him who is looking at him.
And Mary Magdalene Jesus.
Peter a man of dancing doughing, she has gotten her popularity not near him, he believes that he is not a physically challenged.
Mbamba, Al-known as Crala P is also a musician who is using music in a way of shivered and got an accident at home where the driver of the company, every time when the driver produced by the company, every time when the accident occurred.
It's following that accident as seen from the accident and they don't want to fall since early, "the accident occurred when I was born and ended up with a load when I was born and defeated him.
He was admitted at the national hospital of Kenyatta (KFGM) for a period of one year where he had lost his leg.
He says that when he was in the hospital he was faced with pain and severe pain in his heart, because he was built by some people and his friend.
Mbwette led by ideas in the whole country and forced to unveil what he was doing because he lacked the person to speak with him when she was living a life of loneliness.
"I used all the cash money that I will have in treatment, my wife was in front of being beaten.
Four years after arriving from the hospital, Mbizo said that she could not live a normal life after they lost her time, he will be able to give birth to her child.
When he was complaining of life afresh, who was a famous musician of the Kiroreli village, Queen Jane, gave him a work of singing in his band.
"When I was born with the band I realized that I was not only with his talent on singing but also I was able to entertain and it is not another, I have made a step in getting to the disability," he said.
At that time, Mbijima has started getting popularity, especially from his condition and how he used to walk down using alcohol.
Some of the people started to tell me the name Crime (that is alcohol), a name that was forced to be known today.
Likewise, he was being faced in a celebration in various cities in the country, an issue that has given the ability to continue with that profession.
Up to now Mbani has been able to record three regions including Cromer, Manufacturing Company and Ndeki.
Though they become a big number of his songs is in the Kiroreli village, Mbijima has been able to use many hope in life.
Some of his songs led very much and which are in his new region is together with Ndaiyo, father Wi-Yo and Jesus Christ, Crime, and Gwao.
Mbijima said that the song he would like to be very much as the Cromer, that he fell on his condition of the disabled that he had already agreed.
Mbaki did his songs in Reggae music which is in the Kiroreli village, Swahili and Kizito.
"Last year (2015) I was able to win many awards including the one of the best artist in the culture of culture where I took the second position in the competition that was prepared in Kisuma town," he said.
While singing before the crowd did not help him to eliminate all the fear that caused him to record his first region in the year 2008.
At without alcohol, Mbijima has learned not to stand up with one person when he sang a thing that is pleasing his fans.
"I'm pleased to my heart when I saw a big crowd that I cheer each other when I go to the stage this time has touched me and I love my work," said Mbilimnyi.
It's not true.
