
The reason to prevent the young man of the young man is high.

Without doubt, if you ask you so much why most of the male clothes in the world is sharp teeth.
First, the fashion industry (fashion model that is owned by a culture that has been suspended more than 235 bed sheets that are known here (with other professions), different from the other profession and even today, it is a big challenge in the same level to be CEO or managing director than normal men.
Different of it is that the same thing in a fashion can be followed by Jokate Mwegelo at the field and succeeded to be private and financial without any problem if he can't like being interviewed in other parts like the army and in sports.

Good examples can have a fashion deal in the world like Valentino Mlowola when Stanley Nkingwa, Yakamatwa kwa makosa ya uhalifu na kukosa kusajili kadi za simu na kukosa kusajili kadi za wateja wao.
Karaga answered me.
Although things are not well and especially in our country's countries and accepted to people involved in the sex of the same sex, but examples of the whole world still a few months and especially in cities or countries which equals to others.

Also there was a fashion model who was given more priority more than women and Coco beach which was among the few women who succeeded in that factory that was dominated by Bob Entertainment and Criscent Bwiru Yassin.
Secondly, it is said that Christian culture is giving them an opportunity to those who have the ability of disrupting peace in the lake region and not the players of soccer or even though they are in music, acting, the waste of films, writing and other art.
This is because these are the truth that these were able to succeed and continue being among them they were able to succeed and be proud of while they were proud of and to be proud of in the world of two other sex (does not pollute the world).
Tom.
The basis of the basis of a bullet in the beauty is why you cannot get more, it is said that a man is doing a good clothes to the woman also wants to have a woman or not to be a woman or not to be a woman.
