We should learn from.
Brightiles 14, 2013.

In these few weeks I have done to discuss the whole issue of Diplomacy, and how our country is disrupting peace and other countries, I believe that we have ever made blogging in a difficult environment, and that we are supposed to learn from the experience we have built us.

It is bad luck that we have launched the culture of not wanting to learn, even when the training we need to learn, even when the training we want to learn, even if you are asked if you are saying that we are doing so that we are looking for what is what we are doing?

To our colleagues who are going on so that they should not be careful, since the former diplomats, retired, they were quoted as a big possibility that from our experience but the experience we cannot benefit from them if we do not want to get them and we do not meet them and we do not want them to do with us.

He has said that if he would have increased the culture of writing (and study) of these diplomats, who some of them don't care about them, they would send their counterparts in order to remove their responsibility within the books that concern them, experience and professionalism and that is the way they are able to protect themselves and others in other areas of our colleagues.

We are not supposed to understand but we have lost a lot of time, still we can attract us of us so that they can be able to inform us so that we can have their records, Ambassador Salim Ahmed Salim she cannot go back to the world without leaving, while he was the head of diplomacy.

There are some people also, some of them are still ongoing and others when they were born ahead of justice, but even those who passed it, still there is a possibility of other people to write about their lives and their work, if we have the right to learn from them.

In the past, I saw some of the diplomats in this country who registered Tanzania for the work they did in the world by the leader of Diplomacy, Doctor Asha-Rose Migiro, who is the first ambassador to Mandela (Asha-Rose Migiro, and the first ambassador to Mandela, Said Meck Sadick, East African ambassador, Ami Pinga, the governor's ambassador to Mandela.

I believe that it is embezzlement that doesn't understand that you are not like this and they do not use it is similar to someone who does not use it, but if our country will be unable to learn because there will be a country of people to start afresh, (God bless us) all days.

Some of the results of this situation that is unacceptable, these we see recently. That I have written recently, all of us know that the main responsibility of Diplomacy, is to increase friends and grow their friendship, if it has managed to increase friends and grow their friendship, because it has succeeded to increase friends.

When I talk about the situation of our country today, what I thank President Jakaya Kikwete last week explaining the problems he loves in the East African Community, together with all his details, which he explained is that diplomacy which has been unable to conduct their friends.
