
I have taken a draw to the leaders and experience in Zanzibar Nooral, 1st, 2012.

Namo Jumatatu wakuu wa kampuni za us died as 19 years recently before being born Prophet Issa (Yesuu!) and Trumo Stephanie Gwao.

This reggae artist and sadness, wrote me, "hope you cannot say that tomorrow things will be more good," the hope that when the people of Zanzibar today.

It is a must that it is that if you thank the leaders and the ones that have a heavy weapons and those with stones and all its obligations and learn from history.

History of the political history of Zanzibar shows that for a period of more than five years, we do not like to talk since it began its political parties in 1957, the islands has also witnessed many cases of violence, blood poured, as a result of hundreds of people.

There are citizens who benefited from those who agreed to go to or those who gave them even their mental disabilities were affected with them but also their families and the whole community in general.

Those criminal acts were canceled because people were not able to prevent politics as well as usual, they will not be avoided, where people with opinions or political ideology is accelerating in accordance with the democratic law, good governance and for making the country's laws.

The good luck today in Zanzibar about the necessary violence that happened in Unguja, there are still a state of peace and stability of politics and not only that, many of the people of Zanzibar want this situation of peace to continue with all political problems or any action that will start causing disaster.

Their aim is to pray to the islands to continue being the islands of peace and those are the requirements of the citizens and I believe that it is also the requirements of the national union government, it is important but the government will agree with its citizens that all problems will begin by following the laws of the country.

If there are people who are accused of doing things that are not accepted or those who are used in criminal acts, then it must make sure that in Zurich.

The community that are developed especially normal is giving their citizens the rights of basically the human being together with freedom to say, freedom of them to join any community have not been placed by people of Zanzibar, but there are some people who were unable to identify their lives in their country and all his people.

In the current environment of Zanzibar, it is obvious that there is a sustainable peace and it needs to use that kind so that if there is why it is unable to run politics together with political politics and a huge conflict of peace.

These are important for praising the democratic system and here we will get the system that is one of the existence of consent to the country, the union of its people and their stand to support their government's interests.

I hope that this procedure of peace and all of both sides to sit together and exchange ideas is the only solution to all the political problems facing Zanzibar's constitution, although we see the big issue that arise in the community of politics, although they do not make the public to make the public and making it has been successful.

Therefore, it is important that it is growing, wisdom and people to communicate with their children.
This directive is important especially for all political leaders, leaders who must make their decisions in accordance with the real needs of the issue, "and not" issue of strength "that you are the ones that lead the relationship between the people of Zanzibar and between them and their government.

We should not recognize democracy if we should not tell you that "the democratic government" has been responsible for, all the people and we should also understand that the government's government is not supposed to destroy the state agencies or the department of government service because of human rights.

If the government will make sure that you should be able to do then it will prevent human rights and consider the ones that do not benefit from administration benefit.

In a good state that is happening now in Zanzibar, there is an importance for the national United Nations to make sure that all its partners in running the country's activities.
