We have stakeholders and following up that we are playing in this area where it does not exercised where it is at the time of us to stop smoking cigarettes.
In the past, you can't know what we got in two consecutive terms.
I request to say that I started I think I have heard, but like Hasheem Mkenyi was saying that when I got the other, there will be afraid that if I took, Ivan's silence in a case for a lady's case with my colleague in writing news.
Plastic seats is a must that we get in Dar es Salaam, I commend the late?
It started I said.
For now, this is coming?
That name is to hear the name of improving.
To know, he says it's impossible for a time.
That the ones that are there and they are continuing to know more, but a question is that a problem is that many journalist when you look at the same time, but now what is required is to be done in difficult time in Christ, "he says.
Then there is a car.
When we decided to invest in agriculture to use the strength of paying and five thinking, the Bible say what has never been read, says there is a person that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a question that says there is a
Certainly, I told the news agency for you even I'm in here, he has done you to come before you can go before you.
It started Vietnam I think.
The late God, there is a thing that doesn't know more, and even when they were not ready, I was not ready to look for a certain thing, there should be a wonder because we must be similar to the office.
And J is there that there is my friend to pray for me when Comrade has said that if you like to use more words, receiving talking about how to stop claiming that it is why, it has said by touching the English and a language.
There is its meaning that the state to bring sexual violence, the father said if he appears to be a journalist of a Swahili that is there, there will be fights which will be able to cook and soon.
In a pose.
For a mind the Swahili is forced to take him to Wema Sepetu but the second time you want to get married and I don't know because we are different from now.
Like it's like to own because I believe that she is found.
What does it mean to be human beings to get this Swahili language.
To make sure we are expecting to listen to this means you get what you are getting us with our thinking person wherever they could have said we were able to believe in the end, it is now a thing.
He went to a meter from that, there is lack of sustainable development to my person and the environment.
Do you do that things do not make sure that three things are hard together.
He has done a journalist but very best, we are doing so that there is no questions and led to this.
He doesn't know it to live with the pain and we change.
