Research of Raila Odinga won Uhuru Kenyatta.
January 17, 2013.

The presidential candidate of Kenya through Geology, Raila Odinga, will win the general elections of Kenya in March this year at the first round, research has shown.
According to research announced to be announced this week by the InSync company, if the Kenya's election was done today, Raila Odinga got the 51 percent of all votes while being followed by Uhuru Kenyatta, of the United Nations' Union who had not get the 39 percent of all votes.

This means that Raila is in front of his close opponent with 12 points while having 60 days before the ongoing election in Kenya.

The modern research conducted by Eleuteri Mangi, in different provinces of Kenya and doing an interview with 1500 people between December 28 this year and January 2 this year.
However, the only weaknesses of that research is the truth that it was done without testing the effects of the candidate of the Undule party, Lieutenant General Musaizi says, to join the union of parties that had been given a peace name.
He is seen that he is coming from the Roman Church, which is estimated to be four million votes and previously the votes were being counted in Kenya because of the close relationship between those involved the Sunni rebels.
According to the new constitution of Kenya, the candidate will be announced to be the winner if he will get more than half percent (50 percent) of all votes that will be played in Kenya, registering approximately 3 million votes in that election.

Although it's a cookie has announced Raila won in the first round in that election, it was said that he will be in a good position in order to go back in the second round.
That is because, although I've not been given three percent only in this research, his voters will move to Raila Odinga, this means that all voters will be forced to register with Raila Odinga and this will also ensure the voting process has also come from other participants of that union like Eugene Monsignor.
It is also said that Kenyatta and his running mate, William Ruto, did not want the election to go to two round because the elections can fall in May where the charges they were opened in the final stage of human resource in the court of Zanzibar, inspect them will be read.
It will be difficult for them to do campaign and at the same time to attend the case of Zanzibar to inspect them.
That is why the winner is a must to be found in the first round of the Uhuru Kenyatta.

That election has been planned to take place on March 4 while there are reports that has distributed the country in a big areas of tribalism, a situation that resulted to fear that maybe the violence that happened during last season may return.
Different opinions have been showing that there is a tough competition between Raila and Uhuru Kenyatta, and that is the one that is expected to be the president.
The Uhuru is a child of the first president of Kenya, Jomo Kenyatta, who was coming from the most popular tribe of WFT, Raila Odinga, is the first lady of the first vice president of that nation, Jichunge.'
Analysis of political issues in Kenya, are saying that there is fear that has been established and found themselves because that nation will be led by the president from the Luo tribe, then they will visit their property and there will be an ancient attack.
A big part of the rich people in Kenya, from the Kiango, and it is claimed that their wealth resulted from their close relationship with Jomo Kenyatta, are supposed to be heard that the government of Odinga can't leave their properties.
The animals have also reported that famous politicians like Tom Mboya, Jichunge.'
The warplanes have also stated that among three retired presidents of Kenya, Uhuru Kenyatta, Daniel Misheto who died in one of the two and Mkiti wore, this is at their time to give the president of that big business in the East African region.
Claims that it has come at a time when you have decided to stop the farm as well as the same way, as the same way you got support Jomo, in the past five years ago by Raila Odinga, that supports Kibana, 10 years ago.
