
17 December 2012

JK has worked on the policies of Doctor Slaa as they want to reduce taxes of construction equipment, while increasing the council concerning land.

President Jakaya Kikwete, has said that he will look at the possibility of participating in the process of reducing taxes in construction equipment, but it is not true that there is no government that is operated without collecting taxes.
President Kikwete gave the statement yesterday during the launch of the affordable housing project of the National Housing Corporation (NHC), that is in Dar es Salaam city.

"According to the cost of construction equipment, it did not come up because there is no government run without taxes, but I will endeavor to look into the possibility of reducing taxes although it is not for this year, because the budget has already been planned and this will be completed," said President Kikwete.

He said the cost of construction equipment and plots is not only to the NHC, but they are all people. "If we removed taxes, then there will be no government," insisted President Kikwete.

The statement by the president seems to join together with the policies of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) that was given by his presidential candidate in the 2010 elections, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, that if the party will face taxes in construction equipment.

However, the CHADEMA policy was approved by CCM leaders to an extent of causing conflicts in media and social media about the difficulty of its implementation, while Doctor Slaa insisting that the issue is possible.

The step by President Kikwete to give the promise from the request by the director general of NHC, Nehemiah Mchechu where he said taxes in construction equipment contributes to eliminate the whole issue of construction of affordable houses, "said President Kikwete.

He said the main aim of the establishment of the NHC is to give them low-income citizens, thus the construction of those houses will fulfill the aim of the establishment of the NHC.

Apart from giving the promise to look at the way to reduce tax on construction equipment, President Kikwete congratulated politicians including councilors in the council to ensure they are contributing to the citizens following the land such as part of revenue sources.

"The council should leave you to use land like the revenue sources, because it's impossible to buy land for six million and they sell it in 300 million shillings," he said and insisted that, "he did not meet it."

He said it is good for the ministry of land, housing and housing to check the issue and reach a place and to reach the problem it should have the end. "If those will not be completed, there is a big possibility of citizens to fail to own land due to this behavior which the council will make it," he said.

He said the council to do that has not care about the interests of their people, he insisted that those decisions have been encouraged the councilors by passing the resolutions that concern citizens and providing an example one council in the country.

He congratulated the NHC for work and good plans which they have organized and that he believes that the board of directors under the executive director (Mchechu) will be able to reach the goals they invest in the CCM party, "he said.
