Today is Idd el Hajj holiday.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

I was heard of 12 September 2016.

Today is the Idd el Hajj holiday where the Supreme Council of Muslims in the country (BAKWATA), has cautioned citizens in the country to celebrate the holiday by peace, while remember those with problems, be the ease of giving birth and should not be the day of doing evil deeds.

Secretary general of Bakwata, General Suleiman Lolila announced yesterday that today is the Idd El Hajj holiday and added that nationally, the celebrations will be held at Bakwata headquarters in Kinondoni, Dar es Salaam city.
He said the guest of honor at the ceremony is expected to be the prime minister, Kassim Majaliwa where the prayers will start early in the morning by the Idd Council to start at 2-30 at 4 o'clock in the morning.
Idd El Hajj is evident in the pilgrimage service to different believers of the religious leaders at Makanya, Sauda Saudi Arabia which is among the five religious poles that are believed to be implemented immediately to someone who has the financial ability.
In another step, the President of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein will be the guest of honor at the Idd Council, which will take place at the Mkonga school, in Pemba district, while Idd's prayers took place at the main mosque in Dar es Salaam province, according to the report of the bus.
In that report, the Mufti of Zanzibar, General Saleh Kabi will lead Idd's prayers where Idd Council will be attended by various leaders of the party and the government including ministers of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar and the union.
In that council, President Shein is believed to give a speech that is the guide and direction to citizens which engages in different areas including politics and good governance of the country, where the Minister of State, Office of the President, Constitution, law and good governance, Haroun Ali Suleiman said his preparations were complete since yesterday.
Board of directors, management, and employees of the Government's newspaper (NBS), which is the author of the Daily News newspaper, Sunday newspaper, today morning and Spotify Network, are dealing with all good holidays.
