
Tanzania has received a donation of 11600 Tanzanian shillings from Japan.

The government of the United Republic of Tanzania has signed two agreements with the government of Japan that will enable Tanzania to get more than 6 billion shillings which is equivalent to 11600 Tanzanian shillings.

Speaking to journalists just after signing those documents, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Finance and Planning Doctor Servacius Likwelile, said that the first contract will help in completing the government's budget for the year 2016 / 17.

Doctor Likwelile said that the donation aims at putting a friendly environment for business people, to improve the markets and enable the competitive environment in the manufacturing of employment in the country.

The second agreement involves the technical issues that will be used to make corrections on the contract that was signed in October 20, 1966, by considering that many laws have changed, the signing of the agreements with the name Tanzania and put the United Republic of Tanzania so as to include all the two sides of the union in implementing development projects in the country.

In addition, the agreement will help to change some of the previous contract including the section of distribution of drugs so as to meet the current needs of experts from Japan to come and work to volunteer in the country in Tanzania.

The secretary general Doctor Likwelile has thanked the government of Japan and insisted that those funds will be used as planned so as to be productive and bring development to the society.

And the Ambassador of Japan in Tanzania, Mister Masaharu Yoshiba followed the government of Japan has faith that the partnership that is there between these two countries will help grow the development of economy and community development.

Ambassador Ombeni Sefue has said that the Government of Zantel is supporting government efforts that are led by President Doctor John Magufuli in matters of industries and good environment that will attract investors to invest in Tanzania.

According to Ambassador Ombeni Sefue has said that Japan will continue to bring the youths who are studying in the tourism sector, an issue has had been implemented since 1957, where up to now the number of young people have reached more than 1500 students.
