
Nyerere passes from Butiama to Butiama, Mshereheshaji Shebe Machumani.

It is impossible to discuss Tanganyika freedom and even the existence of Tanzania as it was noticed today, without you discuss and leave Julius Kambarage Nyerere on the history of Tanzania up to date it has been high.
This is the only person and the only one who in history of this country has been having political and attractive energy, which has made him in this long time before seeing another person that he was separated by each other.
Julius Kambarage Nyerere, who was born in Butiama, Musoma, on April 13th, 1922, Miss Christina Mugule saying he was one of the many followers of chief Bro Nyerere who was fouled inside the year 1912 and last year 1942.
Julius Kambarage Nyerere said that he appears to go to school due to livestock activities, thus having 12 years joining the Mwisenge grounds, in Musoma town, to start class one.
There was happened to be among the best students and in accordance with his brother chief Edward Wanzagi, who succeeded to go to Tabora, one of the few schools of his type in the country during the time that was receiving the students from the throat cancer.
Many have spoken about him in Tabora Town, but maybe a big one that was seen even its teachers, is that one of him as a leader to run the 'strike of milk. "
Some of the leaders, for their position, they got milk and that milk were provided by only leaders, it is something that he identified himself so much and he gets to remove it about that issue.
When he was interviewed, he explained the way he used to do the discrimination that had started serving in the same time when you see her as a leader without doubt, this was a sign of the early life that has shown the direction and later on the political life of Nyerere.
After Tabora, he went to Makerere University, Uganda where he didn't participate in teaching studies in 1945.
Since 1949, participated in the Tanganyika Union Association (TAA), the party that had a lot of brotherhood to the scholars, that had come to send himself as the real party of a few years later.
He was treasurer of TAA in Tabora town.
He left the country in 1949 to go to Edenvale stadium, Scotland.
He came back in 1952, among those who were very few, under five years old, under five Points when they were allocated to St Francis's secondary school, after going back from BADEA.
In that year, his colleagues arrested the president of TAA, which later in 1954, in 1954, last year 1954 and became a political party - Tanganyika African Union (Tanu).
Many years later, the year 1961, Nyerere led Tanu and who were planned to get freedom from the colonial history of England, him as the prime minister.
It led Tanganyika and then later in 1985 when I've heard to leave, leaving behind a big history of success, but also heavy problems, especially the sick.
Mwalimu died at the St Thomas hospital, London City, England, October 14, 1999, due to the blood disease (DSE), which was buried on October 23rd of this year, Butiama, where its journey to lead Tanzania, and a big part of the world, they started.
Until now he died, a teacher was among they are detected in the big and small tribes to be so much in the world as from African countries, the African Community and the United Nations, Mwalimu had a only position.
He was a great spokesperson and an opponent against discrimination of any kind and shivered because he was one of the founders of the African Union of East African Development (OAU) and until it died, his fellow sportsmen that were still ongoing in the year 2001, another one who is still underway is Kenneth Kaunda of the Zambia.
In the political debate, in debates, and even the village, the name teacher entered the ones for every kind, it is clear that in a big part of the public of Tanzania, Nyerere was a savior in Tanganyika, Tanzania and Africa as a whole.
He gets a great respect to his courage and his ability of not unyielding, with the army's strength and economically, they got into the ruling party and the Boers of South Africa, they carried the murder of the European Union and others.
His contribution in this sector has no fans in Africa and we should come out in the poor country, and it did not have the military ability to be mentioned anywhere, he made Tanzania and is the main stronghold for human rights since the whole world.
Despite the fighters from South Africa, Tanzania passed away from a period of every kind of revolutionaries, from Shishiyu Ward, Tupaegypti. It was easy to get in any restaurant in Dar es Salaam city and was introduced to the representative of Sergeant Samuel Mpenzu of America, and so in Dar es Salaam, he has been called "Makandege of the revolutionary people."
The teacher entered the great efforts in order to try to solve the economic and social problems of its citizens, and in doing that, visited so much in the villages, not to travel but to work together with the same time.
Often when he went to the villages to work on how they are equal to poor farmers, they have been living with them, to sleep at their home and eat with them on the ongoing operation, they are those in Dodoma and Kigoma, but he had a lot of time to work.
A group of Mwalukasa of Julius Nyerere that came up to today, and the ones that has not been seen by the other leaders, it was heard of those whom they were heard, told the poor farmers on how to climb the verses and getting married "or explaining the benefits to them.
She was listening to a vibrant singer, she doesn't read the word "education to the Wote Scheme," do not learn to me, on this is this is a health, "a person's campaign, and he stopped the thoughts of a patient with the thoughts that has been done by a few leaders.
Up to the end of his life, Nyerere was a campaign on many different issues, at home and in the world. He did a campaign against debts that has loosened his country. He did a campaign against environmental destruction. He was the chairperson of the African Commission on environmental destruction, in Rio de Janeiro.
The respect that he has contributed to the peak is why the funeral was attended by many big people in the world, including many heads of African countries, and the daughter of the United States of America, is possible that he has never been buried the African leader as he was buried Mwalimu Nyerere.
Kambarage was the only position in the Tanganyika and Tanzania history, and in the way he had carried out and he will continue to carry the historical weight of the nation, good and bad qualities that were given, therefore, if they are quoted, the effects that were given is bad, the conflict that came up is very difficult, which is reduced because it is reduced.
If the conflict can be clean, but not the guest of honor, but not the guest of honor about the implementation of the political policies of socialism and self-reliance, under the official statement of the stadium in Arusha town, among the things that were informed that in some regions, this was a great operation that was forced to complaints.
It is difficult to believe that Teacher didn't know the evil deeds that they send to citizens in some of the areas that were affected by this campaign, because you don't know the mental checkup.
But there is no salvation, I see that things like those that took place in this afternoon very happy, again the slogan which would have been silent and believe that what is good results used?
But also when he got information about "Maasais' in Shinyanga," those involved with security officials who were accused of killings on the killings of the killing of the killings.
"The witches," why was a knee injury and put it open and I will play several senior officials, including the senior ministers.
Probably, the issue of democracy is also available,.
If it is snared or not, it is possible to prevent you easily, but without doubt, some of the African leaders who led their countries in the first four years of freedom and therefore, we will not accept Nyerere as one of the others who had changed the position of democracy to grow.
But there and then, we will enable you to know what it has changed Nyerere and his colleagues who were in the way to be able to go back to its policies, because he was forced to continue living in his country with the freedom of thinking and said.
He used that opportunity, which many of the colleagues did not see if he saw mistakes of time, or even when he didn't accept to be mistakes of time, he decided that now the situation is very other and it needs great changes.
He told them his colleagues in the ruling party, that they did not see very happy.
"If you see your friend she is married, your name is pregnant."
He did not end there, but he continued to do campaigns for those who were hurt by administration and they have told them to stop stuttering on the idea and became the defending champions those who are just two several times ago he would like them immediately after he warned them.
There is something that has been organized by Mwalimu Nyerere, in addition to the world environment, being taught every day and learn to go and go hand in hand.
He was born with the cause of the same type, different from the other leaders that cause mental disabilities and body at a fast speed.
She struggled to study at all times, and he was ready to discuss what he has read with all the close person who was close to him and who could understand the topics itself.
A big secret of the teacher to be different from the others was to take away it as it has been said at the beginning of this article about the 'strike' strike, "Nyerere asked him to stop bribery, and others should come out in bribery, and there was no doubt even if he knows it.
The opportunities we have said in him are able to continue living in his country and be able to go and say when he got because of all his colleagues in the management of politics and economy, which they have done the leadership should be a project to register their wives and their children.
There is no easy way to inform this person, while he was explained as the most elephants, usually, each one "asking them" due to a place he started of a tree, a wall of the house, known as a slave 'and so on.
Nyerere called me of democracy of many parties, and will take a poster for Benjamin Mkapa to go in the campaign on the top scorer of these campaigns for many years, but he is the one who had banned the political competition under his administration.
Nyerere was tough, and several times he tried to accumulating people, and some of them got injured and they were put in the port, it was proud to fear his competitors in the same logic, because many times he was a person to be allowed.
However, there was living a normal life with a normal person, then it will go through a normal person, when he was able to read their language in the whole world, and he decided to read their language, but they were able to speak another language but for those universities.
Nyerere was a terrorist who was like the fate of pneumonia or Jawaharlal Nehru?
He was like pads and popularly known or as Vladimir Putin to be Joseph Tetteh Zito?
Maybe one day we will know!
In the past, this article was published for the first time in December 2001 in the special edition of the Advice president, it has decided to be sworn in this time when celebrating 10 years of his death in order to give another opportunity to the youths of Tanzania to hear them well in the end of Tanzania.
