
The presidential camp in the lake region continues.
August 8, 2014.

The tour of the deputy minister of communication, science and technology January Makamba in Mwanza town has canceled one of the former prime ministers who had been able to vie for the presidency, to an extent of starting the strategies to control what they used as a bad wind of the camp.
Our source of information from that camp has explained that the tour that he did during Christmas at the invitation of the gospel singer and spoke to other motorcycle riders, the former followers of the former prime minister to plan new strategies.
In his meeting with all pastors, that took place in one hotel in Mwanza town which is the same area, Makamba was quoted by the bible on the bible from the Republican's book which was quoted by the Israel historians and others involved the tournament and its presidential activities in the year 2015.
Speaking to motorbike riders, who together with conducting a plan to one company in Dar es Salaam to cater for more than 1,700 passengers, that pays for more than 100 iron sheets worth more than 700 million shillings per day, January said though others want to pay for young motorcycle riders, its plan started with the intention of helping and not otherwise.
"After the sessions, they have forgotten that their camp can be reduced, especially when considering there is one of their big stronghold, they believe that this is one of their big stronghold, and they believe that this is one of their big stronghold," explained our news source.
At the end of last week, the pastor who claimed to be one of the religious leaders who attended and participated in that sitting for all other things that was requested by Makamba, when asking the legality of the session of that sitting, by involving the results of the deputy minister to vie for the presidency.
Efforts of Raia Mwema should not meet or even communicate with the pastor, it did not give them fruits.
Those who had a dirty system of wanting to protect their camp, you know it reaches a time when the camp (she is born) they believe that they don't have a opponent, the lake region, you know how they don't have any opponent, the pastor asked him to give him a reason because he is used to do things, "explained the source.
Our investigation has revealed that the work of getting the actor so as to meet the legality of the session was supervised by one of the former member of parliament of Mwanza province, who is also a member of the executive council of CCM (NEC) who has been mentioned to be the leader of the former prime minister in Mwanza province.
This is the Lord who had a special work towards the end of last year, and there will be a big session of their camp in the beginning of the new year, now it must ensure that his region is safe, "explained one of the NEC delegates from one of the districts in this province who has also been invited to participate in that meeting.
The efforts of getting that former member of parliament did not succeed after it was only to be the village for a short time and his phone has not been received in.
Bishop Josephat Kilale of the Church of Gajir (Mabatini) in Mwanza town, who also attended the ceremony that was organized by Makamba said she doesn't know the pastor who had come out and caused the accusations of looking for all his colleagues who attended that activity and that he has been looking for a rumor about the existence of that statement.
When he was asked, why if the religious leaders attended the activity that was being faced with politics and if he does not see that it will continue to attend to them in that session there was no any relationship with the issue of vying for the presidency.
We hurt them about posters that we saw in the city of Makamba, we asked me and these are in this tour, they have said she didn't know, we should not know what we should not know, "he added.
He explains that on his part he decided to attend that session after seeing the intentions of the organizers is good.
One of the leaders of the Union of Youth of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Mwanza Province (name is reserved as he wanted) while talking about the tension between them when he said, "do you know how things are doing so much, but this is the champions of the service centers and to get support again in public, but this one (January Makamba) came just immediately but he didn't have a problem."
