President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete left the country the night before today to London and England to participate in the international meeting of leaders to discuss the family planning of the poor country in the world, President Kikwete is among the heads of three countries from Africa who were invited to participate in that one day meeting that was called by the sponsorship of the English government organization of the number of people.
By Bill and International institution, apart from President Kikwete and other African leaders who were invited in that meeting which will also be attended by the international community service to reduce their lives and twenty thousand women in the world, which will need more than one hundred and twenty thousand women in the world that will enable them to reach those services in the whole world.
The president's vice president, Doctor Mohammed Gharib Bilal has said the system of many parties is facing a lot of challenges including some of the political parties to get into his main responsibility of improving the lives of people instead they have gone to the agenda that aim to be playing pool and growing groups in the community.
However, while speaking at the African region meeting about the start of political parties to avoid soaking in terms of law headed by the way, the vice president has mentioned some of the effects that come from rumors to run its responsibilities including the shortage of voters every time you enter.
After that they were waiting for Mary Magdalene.
Therefore, listen to him.
With the local government.
Furthermore the phone.
You're waiting for positions to understand.
Traveling to three schools in large numbers.
But by twenty years the constitution, we will be able to listen to our citizens?
To show there is a human being, is completed more but if you read the son and also in the near actions, we will make sure to serve all those who do not deal with TEMESA to make sure they are in the villages.
And the African director in the international institution of democracy and election issues, Mustafa Panju said that the meeting gives an opportunity to exchange ideas with various stakeholders about the improvement of the political parties system in Africa.
On the case they are living.
Sports.
Music and you shouldn't know what happens, they will follow.
Perhaps the holy Rosary four is the same as we a human being.
The boss.
But it ends here.
Beatrice Singano.
Before the difference.
Do you know Robert Lewandowski.
Luseko says she had been forced to protect the commander of the constitution.
A person or not.
What is certain.
And the work of giving recommendations on how to improve the awards of the community.
And especially so we must have a long time political parties.
The building is able to get a money to perform its work because she had a democratic system and bring development.
From the where we were written, Ricky Rick.
