Later we participated in a food that I was looking at to destroy the world.
Ahenkora has said this seems to be careful on the side of my side.
You are not seen.
And.
Another side in America is bad because?
You're very good as an income as required but a big percentage.
The leaders of Daisy and the big national team because players at the age of players.
Those are very small graduates or we can buy a bridge that can be able to listen to the one person who plays soccer to pay.
If we do not use people like you know, when I get a chance because, the late God, we have been able to give a chance to the team.
Taifa stars have his great family as seen as they agreed to play the ball so that they can get a chance to go above and above.
Now if this is not the only person to look at it and we cannot make sure we will arrive, Tanzanians will not help us.
How have tried to register our leaders?
The soccer club of soccer club Ford, and Alice were now, that is, we will look for Simba Yanga Yanga only.
A daughter.
How are stakeholders going to God?
Different from the past years.
So in us to bless you, and because every team will be faced with a small project that he knows there are two.
Or being beaten or won.
The relatives will return.
In Dodoma, we took the three two players to promote.
A man will be implemented very well even those who know you know that children with great names are annoyed so much the poor do not benefit them.
That is those children.
Few but I am.
That is not those players who only can get the opportunity, it shows open from an average in our nation.
Why are we?
We will wait until the councilors asked me for the children because bribery are his father.
Hayatou, I think it is possible for my two to a topic whose church is in our church and one thing that has been seen as me.
It is that more than the meaning of the death is good, we were good and if we look at each other, the problem that we have made them to do improvements but when I believe it is like I heard the ones who passed away.
Keenly you will get something that takes a group of hip-hop, and-driven and non-communicable diseases.
Laughing out a program, I agree that if we have agreed that you can improve then we go back to the youth soccer which even when we follow up there are vehicles that we have decided to play there, we have decided to play with maybe.
It has shown the going to play in the air the air, we know it and I will put more than twenty players or among these players, we are making sustainable plans but we have celebrated those days but at the end of the day, teachers who are teachers are suppressing the things of do.
They think that if the death comes if it seems to have faith.
Going to Edmund Rutaraka who participated in the areas of Kagera, which they have gone down.
For who international more than ten years.
Last week we're welcome to be in soccer to look at the Copa Coca-Cola tournament that it will be approved by South Africa, taking the championship is.
That is the things we have written to us from there.
I would like to send it only again, we do not have enough matches to start doing so I think I would like to remember it, even Nigeria went to take a great relief and he doesn't sell fruits in the country.
For you usually, it will also help them to say it helps them to say it does not make it better so that we go to the late father, so they can kill them and even if we can participate in that competition, youths we are happy to see if we can participate in that tournament, youths we are happy to see if we are in the tournament.
It does not have a need, I will get in charge of the teachers.
He was asked to ask for a good teacher and he believes that I believe in a good environment, it is not a must for you to be on a three-three months but we will also be able to play for three three months but we will also be able to return to Mbeya City while yet or the party's participation is a month.
One mother we live in a national stadium we used a match.
God knows how I have like this one I don't know where I don't know what I don't know then, we should prepare themselves because we should come out and then we should come because we should come out and to live with them about these players starting from.
We are able to discover someone to know, it's only a player in Russia to bless us to know what we are from Africa to our country so that we can be able to succeed and therefore we are surprised that it has come at time.
What is under the youth team?
You know it will make sure that you will make the last players and hypocrisy when we can reach far from the noise even in participating in the world cup and misuse of Africa.
I love you.
