
So, the maize of MO Blog is safe for human beings?
By Mwangi, professor.
So, the maize is used to eliminate the needs of its people by enabling farmers to give more food through goods that are strengthened themselves.
That is, this is being run by the Institute of Research of plants and livestock, Karlo.
Where the maize that were renovated are required to make sure it is safe for human beings.
This project has got an support by the Institute of Economic Science (NBA) which has approved its sponsorship through Karima farms in the country so as to identify the maize that will be distributed to the two three years to come.
The NBA league will enable them to run away with a non-governmental group known by Africa and Technology Foundation (TPL Board), to lead the national plan to promote the maize that is in the country.
But the NBA league Doctor Willy Nyamitwe, warned that the trials is for getting the maize that will be paid first being safe for Kenyans, eat or bad poison that cause cancer.
NBA said that breast cancer does not get more research and they warned that the maize will be planted in the farms for the department of research, quality of plants (IS) under defense, while adding that it may be removed if the researchers can rule.
Previously Lollipop, the non-communicable diseases in accordance to the farmers so as to plan the problem of diseases that affect the maize and thus strengthening the crops.
This will also help the farmers to get more funds and more sales because plants in the breast cancer can destroy a drought.
The income of farmers also added that the use of drugs to prevent diseases and pests are rarely available in the country but NBA could destroy the permit until when the government forces will do more trials to make sure the solar energy is best to be eaten by human beings.
The plan to cater for self-T in Tanzania will help to build more seeds that can cause unnecessary deaths in various parts of Doctor Toninga said that the permit will be paid in the Mazzarri to do the research before the permit to be given by the Mazombe authority (Navi).
The permit for the NBA league was received with great joy and those for the maize of Geffi, because it may increase their crops and help in Kenya to deal with hunger but those who believe have no health effects as well as the pressure to be sold to the maize of Mo Blog in the country.
