
Chenge, looking at the parliament after being named as the ones that was called to find him at the same time when he went to him, Halima Mdee given evidence to announce his intention.

The Kawe member of parliament, Halima Mdee (CCM), while expecting to confirm his statement of accused the member of parliament for Bariadi West Andrew Chenge, (CCM) on corruption.

Chenge, was forced to ask for the presidential procedure the day before yesterday, after the Kawe member of parliament has mentioned two times when contributing to the debate of the permanent parliamentary reports held the day before yesterday.

The first time, Mdee denied the bad contract of Air Tanzania Company Limited which is causing the government to enter into a loss of more than 90 billion shillings.

Despite he mentioned on the corruption that according to Mdee says, he was the minister of ministry worth 200 million shillings, also he mentioned the being involved in other scandal including an issue of approximately 200 billion shillings in that bank of Tegeta Escrow account in the Central Bank (BoT).

"Members of parliament to enable them to avoid opportunistic infections which are inside and find out," said Mdee and told that for starting, they should start with Chenge, together with Doctor Shukuru Kawambwa (the Minister of Education and Vocational Training), he encouraged him to hold that ministry that is bond.

That statement made DCB Bank to stand up and said, "for all his honor I've not been a lot with Honorable (Mdee) who contributed to this argument that if he has evidence of the issue, he said, our regulations are supposed to present your front.

"I would like you like this parliament to continue having his second respect and I request it so much, the exercise they have said to have the courage to go to protect themselves outside this parliamentary hall, not to keep him in the law's immunity.
"I have a lot to say, but because I've standing on the issue of procedure, he mentioned one to one, I request it to read the table," said Chenge.

The chairman of the parliament agreed that Mdee announced another evidence to the seat, however, Mdee answered that, "there is a procedure of switching off, the instructions I was walking together.

"We are talking here with the bad behavior, poor contracts and theft of public property, Mzee my son (Chenge) is my friend but I have decided to clarify because these are big things."
