Preparations for the census on people and housing in the province of Tabora are complete with the supervisors together with the directors of more than five hundred and two hundred thousand, taking the oath of doing that job according to the procedures and regulations of the country.
I have banned the population and housing census in Tabora province, Daniel Mshana says that those directors will work in six hundred and six areas that were set aside in Tabora province, our writer is to agree from Tabora to have a report.
You will help us even.
This is a stern warning to the supervisors by the census results after completing their training and giving them before the judge denied their duties well.
Resident magistrate of Urambo District, Manyara Province are required to know that he knows all the supervisors and coal is why and its effects are there to anyone who had died in paying this work and who used to identify those procedures.
By doing but the criminal offense that can be forced to score or pay.
The head of Rombo has a lot of issues with the district commissioner from Sikonge district, where God is giving the word to congratulate the supervisors and those councilors I urge you to change, but it is good, discipline and accountability like this one will lead our country to be able to understand that citizens have problems.
They have a different understanding if the commission for all the days they were going on to know that when they got to them, they tell them the citizens in good language but also to ensure that they are doing a very important exercise or for preparations.
Here the political coordinator of Tabora province Danny Sserunkuma.
Almighty God rest.
The province of Tabora.
These days is going on well.
Technical they held at ten and eight stations in the province.
Children.
Officials are supervisors of four hundred and four cases.
A total of all the ones that are in Tabora province arrived and this exercise is seven thousand.
Three hundred thousand.
The support for development can also be taught.
From Tabora Town, I'm with Mwaibale.
