
Ziba, Professor Jumanne Maghembe at May 22, 2012.

During the tour, Professor Jomo, put a surprise of the truth and good governance of his life has gone down, he will not be seen again in the suburbs of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) or court.
It's not again on the debate that a scholar is among the poor vision and his family again it will be in the morning or in the evening or at the high table night.
Houses have been killed, are aiming at getting his body and blood broke down, has died from a pain of injuries that have been killed and killing him before he was sacked from his family at night.
It is not known by his family even if it is normal in order to exchange ideas and bad luck in the whole country at work and elsewhere.
ACT Patriots, scholars, have contributed to the rights and those who like to see the right to see the right to see the public, starting from the University of Dar es Salaam up to the courts' Referral Hospital and the High Court in Dar es Salaam City, had the ability to fight for him so that his death is not only.
Masinga, a spirit of pain and carrots until it was shot dead in his house with peace and stability.
It was shot dead, he bought blood despite living a lot of life with a lot of rights that got lost during the killing of Kimbari, Rwanda Maseru.
That issue is a fact that when they were shot in his body, it's not knowledge or patriotism and her patriotism in his nation they will continue to sit down from universities in the country especially those who have been shot dead and its patriotism.
The aim of those killers has not been unable to target or kill a lot of patriotism and patriotism in the hearts of the scholars, the real citizens and the ordinary citizens who during their lives are forced to fight with them and others to fight for them so that eventually the rights are forced to go inside and outside the borders of his nation of Tanzania.
In the country, there is an army "the patriotic farmers, workers, scholars and big business people who use their opportunities to be able to register their families and at the same time so as to avoid any human rights, but it is no wonder because he had no errors.
It should not accept to say, when he was explained without doubt, his fellow police have removed him by her colleagues that you can't tell him, they have told the patriotic police force now, it must not tolerate.
Professor Mbele, he will reduce the number of civil servants but its knowledge will remain in status and the same position.
By considering patriotism and knowledge, the patriotic army in the country will continue to move forward in the fight to ensure justice has not been done to the ones who are not involved, but it seems to be a dream of all the professionals of the law.
Although they have condemned the Professor for us we are happy, but our patriotic courage and strong, therefore we are pleased because they have already been successful because players participated in our patriotic activities, but on another side, we are pleased by having a lot of knowledge and patriotism he has lived in a difficult life with upcoming professionals and not the professionals.
If you are the love of God, let me be informed, God created a special job to be an example of best patriotic and with great knowledge, he made him to combat his energy to build a lot of patriotism and knowledge to his nation.
God's planning has encouraged the knowledge of dealing with killing him a bullet since he was having a draw of his primary school in Chang'ombe, Tabora province.
The love of God knows the mental disabilities of fighting early before getting a chance to cook his patriotism in the nation of God, he gave his first position to be employed at the University of Dar es Salaam, in the 6th minute so as to provide a good example and permanent registration to his nation.
As a result of all the independent environment, we found that we are putting the era by saying that murderers had gone into his body by shot dead but not the knowledge of knowledge and patriotism.
His death is a huge lesson to the disabled people who have a chance to serve the nation.
The scholars of us should know that after their deaths without caring about it is the deaths of a gun and Upanga, they will continue to live in one month to another because of the life of their nation if they will do their professional job at the level of construction of the concerned nation.
This is a special message for the scholars of all professions so that their bodies can be used by the killing of a gun and Upanga but not the knowledge of knowledge and patriotism they won't leave at a bullet.
Likewise, they will not live in patriotism and knowledge that do not allow him to take it as it is.
As it was on July 21, last year 1952, while the entrance to a child is born, that is how it will make it more than six billion, and those who will not be born later who will follow its course of patriotism and knowledge.
On the 17th July, this year, the desire to be bid farewell and buried in Dar es Salaam.
Those who carried the coffin with his body, who participated in the first round up to the end, they arrested him in his first house (grave), Haazu taking farewell and her patriotism but he stopped his body so that they can be able to continue with knowledge of knowledge and patriotism.
Knowledge and patriotism of Professor Muhongo to live and fall in the end of every police in the stable army in the country and outside the country.
I believe it's not patriotic in the country, they woke up a high table with the same logic, which is not only to make sure that justice has been done but it's not supposed to make sure that justice has been unable to avoid sexual excitement among the students of UDSM.
Without doubt, they have resigned from his body and never the knowledge of her patriotism he woke up with a spirit you will have been touched by the cause of human rights in all corners that have the opportunity to prevent human rights.
Eucharist celebrated, without doubt the whole industry of the law is unacceptable, and when you're self-reliance because of your grave, he wrote the promise to curb the ethics of the law.
While dancing in your body, never not the knowledge of your soul, we have heard of your body, we have heard about your body, we have heard a lot of patriotism and your knowledge not to go down without any other legends of professionalism of law, they will be unable to return.
Bribian is not true, the greetings to our youth, number one, the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.
God bless Tanzania, God bless Africa.
