
Mbowe is vying for the parliamentary seat on May 31, 2012 by Good Citizen.

The conflicts of groups inside the Revolutionary Party (CCM), is expecting to make efforts of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) to implement its plan of increasing the number of members of parliament in the United Republic of Tanzania.
CHADEMA is prepared to strengthen more effort in parliamentary levels due to what is needed by the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania that the party with many members of parliament is the one that makes up the government.
And due to the conditions of the constitution, the president of the United Republic of Tanzania can from another party and what will enable the government, that is with many members of parliament.
The political trend in the country has noted that the energy of that party have increased by the foundation of that increase, is the performance of the party members in parliament and already in some of the regions where that party does not have members of members that show the law.
As a result of that situation, more reports indicate that maybe the chairperson of the party, Freeman Mbowe, entered the race for parliamentary and therefore not going back to the presidential race, as it was in 2005.
Those reports are continuing to be noted that the decision by the party to have its presidential candidate in the general elections this year will depend on the constitution of that party.
The party's constitution gives an opportunity to any party member to vie for the presidential position even so, apart from the possibility of the party to select another presidential candidate instead of Mbowe, another opportunity that was to support the presidential candidate of another opposition party.
In the 2005 general elections, Mbowe vied for the presidency on CHADEMA ticket, after deciding not to defend his parliamentary position Honorable Mbowe was the Hai member of parliament and was among the great parliamentarians in the parliament that was under Speaker Pius Msekwa.
Information reaching us noted that there is a big possibility for groups that are capable of CCM and especially the region levels of parliament to market us from CHADEMA.
Our investigation has noted that approximately four provinces and even in many provinces of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League, CCM is divided into groups like it was in the Tarime Elections Council.
In Tarime region, CCM is divided into two camp that were led by Christopher Gajuma and Loraine Marriot.
As a result of that division, due to the fact that CCM made one candidate from one group, that camp was unable to give a candidate that gave partnership with the CHADEMA candidate.
That condition of Tarime District is the one that is in some of the regions, which include Vunjo, which for now his member of parliament is Aloyce Peter Kimaro.
Our investigation has revealed that the stand of Kimaro in the fight against corruption was the source of emerging as a group that has prepared himself, Kimaro has been on the front line to symbolize the action taken against the retired president, Benjamin Mkapa or he himself (Mkapa) to give an explanation to the public about the accusations that are facing him.
Due to that stand, it was stated that they have emerged some of the members of CCM who are getting in the chest and also they are organized in collaboration with other networks inside CCM to prevent the member of parliament.
Apart from Vunjo, other constituencies which CCM are not safe is together with some of the stations in Mbeya Region, it explained that some of the camp in Mbeya Province have prepared candidates who will contest for CCM members on the party ticket in the opinion polls.
Other constituencies which the current CCM members of CCM have been prepared to opposition from opposition groups within the party including Nzega in Tabora province, where his member of parliament is Victor Moses from Mbeya province, which his member of parliament is Victor Moses Noma, where his member of parliament is Victor Kavati, he gave them out to sign him.
But apart from those groups, some of the constituencies which CHADEMA is expected to provide competition is together with Mbeya villages, where his current member of parliament will be called Mwanjala, he got the 35 percent victory of those who were unable to vote.
More information states that Freeman Mbowe may go to vie for a parliamentary seat in his former Hai constituency which is currently his member of parliament is Figen Yuksekdag.
The director of the Parliamentary Committee of CHADEMA, John Mrema, about the possibility of Mbowe to vie for a member of parliament together with the plans of that party in the next general elections.
"" It is early so much to say that our chairman (Mbowe) will go to vie for a parliamentary seat and he will not vie for the presidency of CHADEMA, it is a party that gives democracy, candidates take the form and to be approved by the general meeting.
But apart from not being open in that issue, Mrema said that operation Sangara that made that party to recognize the position and his energy in the community of banana?
"We are in provinces where we have the assurance of increasing the number of members of parliament for example, Mara Province, we are expecting to take seven constituencies as well as other provinces we want to get members of parliament are together with Dar es Salaam, Mwanza, and some of the regions, the number of members of parliament are required to use due to the response of citizens about the performance of that party.
Another report reaching us noted that recently, one institution in the University of Dar es Salaam are in research in 10 constituencies in the country so as to identify as the current members of parliament can move forward or not.
Some of the regions that were involved in the research of that institution is together with Karatu, where his member of parliament is Doctor Wilfredy (CHADEMA), Kigoma North-Zitto Kabwe (CCM), Simanjiro Region, Saidi Arfi (CHADEMA) and Moshi Town, Philemon Ndesaburo.
According to that research, some of the regions has been revealed that it is difficult to arrest the current members of parliament for votes through free and fair.
The research in those regions is explained to aim to help a certain group in politics because it is clear that they involve the constituencies with members of parliament who are in some of the politicians, especially those who have been touched by various allegations of corruption which was rumored to be reported in recent years.
