
Minister told his colleagues in government being shot.
December 11, 2014.

The Deputy Minister of Transport, Doctor Charles Tizeba has said the Revolutionary Party (CCM) is in danger of the government leaders to be dealt with or being shot as the Ministry of Construction, will not make efforts to make sure that the Sengu and Buchosa road is complete so that they can benefit it in the whole period of the year.
While contributing at a session of the roads board that took place at the Central Bank hall in Mwanza town, on Tuesday this week, Doctor Tizeba who is also the member of parliament of Buchosa County in Sengerema district, said that his region will depend on that road and it has been cooperating with the district headquarters.
"The honorable chairperson was speaking even in the past session, and we requested TANROADS to vote for today, the state of construction and the director of TANROADS but they have not answered that until today, the state of the road is very bad, CCM is lifted itself," said Tizeba.
In showing that he is expecting to avoid the problem of being shot dead and was cleared, he urged the delegates of the Provincial Roads Board, as possible after completing that session that he will make the cost and go to the road so as to stop the way it is in a bad state.
"It is possible the people of Sengerema we want to be seen and we have said so much, other people in the country because they do not see that the road can't be able to understand especially we are looking at this time, I will ask for yourself the situation is bad," said Tizeba.
The deputy minister also asked that session of the road board to form a team of people who will go to see the minister of construction so as to inform the situation because they have managed to answer the letter that they were given last year, it will not have a reason to continue waiting for the answers of that letter.
"My good experience in government shows that to continue waiting for the answers of the letter last year is losing time, the Honorable chairperson of the party (CCM), Anthony Mtaka, who was in the region (the office), your manifesto will not be on just and told the minister the situation is bad," said Tizeba.
In a session of the roads board that took place on March 21, 2013 made the manager of TANROADS in the region to deal with other things, requested the handing over of the project (estimated to run Management and tennis star of roads) that are being done afresh.
Responding to those topics, the Chairperson of the board of that board, Mwanza Provincial Commissioner, Evarist Ndandavala, had agreed with Tizeba and ordered the team of three people on the other side asked the provincial commissioner and the manager of TANROADS to plan the day of going to see the minister of construction about that issue.
In another step, the Chairperson of that sitting, instructed the manager of the Technical Electrical Agency (TEMESA) Mwanza Region, Amon Senate, to be given a letter to explain why he gets the instructions of the road board and not to attend the sessions instead he has been leading to the representative.
The situation led by the directive was issued by the board in his past session with the manager to ensure that all road under his office, they produce education to the passengers on how to evade them by using abusive language as it is at Mwananyamala hospital, and they were participating in that manager to confirm to the delegates that the directive will be implemented.
Previously, the representative of TEMESA Manager, David Moyes has tried to give an explanation that he does not affect the delegates, that is where the district commissioner of Nyamagana, Baraka Konisaga, made a report and explained that the manager has been represented by many sessions, therefore even listening to her representative is losing time.
"As he gets a decision by the road board sitting, he has been given a letter to explain themselves to implement the resolutions of the board, we are in today for this important activity and he has not implemented instructions of the board even one, he ordered the chairman of that sitting, Ndeki.
