
Membe told her to the members of parliamentarians on 11 o'clock.

The strategies against the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Bernard Membe, being attacked by some members of parliament of parliament has been arrested, the minister followed the strategy to be the strategy of a strategy to defend his fellow citizens, it has revealed.
In the previous strategy that involved some members of parliament, Membe was planned to be put in severe attacks, a picture that was built to be built as the cause of a bad state in the Tanzania ambassador's offices which are in various countries in the world.
On his competence, presenting the speech by his ministry the day before yesterday, Membe led the strategy of the attack against him to be the strategy of his defense, after putting off the statistics of cases that are used by parliament which usually have a huge difference of the real amount of money that is provided to his ministry.
In issues that could be used in the attack by one of the Tanzanian ambassador outside the country, delay or not to get money for running its activities together with the ambassador to have debts.
Other issues include the buildings in the areas of residence and ambassadors' offices, a situation that uses Tanzanian organizers as well as affecting the efficiency of the stem cells.
While reading those problems in the report of the committee on foreign affairs, defense, and security, the parliament in Dodoma on Monday this week, the Member of parliament, Betty Mkwasa has complained about the most of the ambassador to lack the important reports that enables the implementation of their primary responsibilities.
"You're delaying taxes for workers and offices and causing conflicts from time to time with houses together and wanted their money to their accounts.
"Lack of money in the sections of the important use and a must if the payment of communication services, school fees, oil and gas," said my friends.
Apart from my family, other members of parliament contributed to the way the state and status of the ambassador that is affecting poor.

Although the members of parliament were fulfilling their duties but open reports they noted that the basis of the foundation was to involve him Membe and those affected by members of parliament, then the strategy was successful in a large extent.
In his answers, Membe led to all members of parliament who caused the bad condition of the ambassador in various countries in the world but he insisted that, the problem is budget which is prepared by the parliament, which essentially has the one that is supposed to ensure the amount of money that was used for instance as planned.
"The budget of budget has caused the ministry and our ambassador to fail to implement the policies of diplomacy.
"Limited budget has taken a huge amount to the ministry to fail to bring back home servants who had completed their term and taking others from the headquarters.
"As I said earlier, the permanent parliamentary committee on foreign affairs, defense, and security (NMARI) by the various ambassador to see for himself the real situation, I believe the delegates of that committee will be good for the problems affecting our ambassador because of a limited budget," he said.
His recommendations are being supported and as seen in all the years, because I would end up, Membe gave recommendations about the way to save that situation, he wanted the members of parliament to support him.

"In ensuring those challenges are reduced, my ministry has planned to have buildings for investment in some of our ambassador to help increase revenue and save money that can be used to pay taxes in those areas.
He said in another step, the ministry is continuing to cooperate with the Ministry of Finance about the possibility of using the house for house loans (EFD)) in our ambassador instead of the current procedure that has a huge cost to the government.
At the same time, my ministry in this year of finance has planned to communicate with the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) in order to help them to make our ambassador to use the procedure of "microcephaly and the way to buy different equipment like the representation and therefore, reducing the cost.
As a result of that decision, some of the members of parliament, John Cheyo the UDP party met the Minister Membe, so as to make sure this year's office is the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe, as he stopped the Minister of Finance to give a statement of accepting every year's budget to give the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, its full budget which is prepared by the parliament.
That step by Zitto was due to the statement made by Minister Membe that, in the last budget, he was given 44 percent of money that he requested for that ministry for this year's budget is equivalent to 42 percent of the needs of the ministry.
In his explanation, Membe said that in the last budget, he was supported not only by parliament, but even the council of ministers but the money that was supposed to be presented against his expectations.
But the call for Zitto was accepted by speaker, Makinda, who said it is contrary to the parliamentary regulations without more explanations and at the same time, explaining to Minister Membe to leave him, a statement quoted by the Minister of Finance, Doctor William Mgimwa.
