
All that were given CCM do not have.
Sep 27, 2012

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) is in the last process of planning its leadership positions for other five years starting from the stem cells to the nation, with the delegates of the party sessions in the country, while the party members of the party meetings have been studying in Dodoma for the purpose of doing the presidential election for various national positions.

Certainly, the general election of CCM of CCM this year, is a very important election in the history of that party from the fact that this is that you will decide the future of the party in dealing with the challenges facing the political changes in our country.

It is an election that is expected to enable many people and especially those who engage in political monitoring of this country, to give direction and direction towards the general elections of 2015.

Therefore, it is the expectations of those people that the executive committee (CC) and those of the National Executive Council (NEC), under the chairperson President Jakaya Kikwete, will be keen to discuss and stop the names of its cadres who are requested to discuss various leadership positions for the party and the three important leaders of the UWT, UVCCM and parents.

It is the hope of all who want a good thing to CCM that candidates who will be defeated in various leadership positions and finally be given the last votes with the delegates of the national assembly and the headquarters of those community councils, they will be able to restore their hope, where he is and hatred and respect the whole time where he is and hatred in the whole country.

It is not good again, there have been a very high speed of most importantly, most of them lose hope in CCM and its leaders at all levels, most of the ones have started to build a lot of love for CCM and its leaders in the country and to see CCM members themselves from outside that party.
In losing hope, love and look at each other among them.

For those who know the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, there is no member or leader who had standing ahead of her colleagues and he sees himself as a better than his fellow party or in his government, still are still there like it was done in CCM.

Those days before any member of CCM to take a form to ask for the leadership inside that party, he was supposed to be true and he does not want him to ask for leadership positions but it protects the reputation of money to arrest the delegates.

It is that for that basis, inside CCM's party, there are members and cadres who know you are better than their colleagues, who are popular than the party, therefore CCM cannot have life and validity of continuing to rule the country.

It is the party members and the cadres of that kind, that are their names that are loved only by legal sittings of the party, it starts the process of building each other.
And preventing the bombs are inside the party.

We have said that CCM has a chance to go back to the line with the aim of returning the hope that were lost among those cadres, by considering the names of its cadres by considering the criteria for reputation, integrity and patriotism.

Our call to all the members whose names will not be brought back, are supposed to accept the results and continue being party members to lead to their party in line with the fact that the available opportunities are few than the number of candidates, but also considering the basis of that one who had been sacked is a member of CCM.
