
He knew that he doesn't have a time of distributing.
By Farouk Jivani.
The outgoing member of parliament for Matuzya, Mister Hassan Mwaniki, wants the residents of the area to listen to the time the government of he had gone to the time the government of he had gone into the farms for farms that were given by President Uhuru Kenyatta last year.
He gave that statement yesterday after the feelings of the suspects who emerged about the failure of the plan of dividing those documents. The main aim of the documents was to end the problem of terrorism in Pwani province.
While giving a speech to the residents of Kunzugu Ward, Mister Musomba said the provision of that title was suspended with good intentions so as to make sure that the real residents are that will benefit.
Moreover, he also pointed out that in that investigation, the names of the owners were not involved with the residents who live in those areas, a situation that brought in political tensions about the possibility of bad luck.
"The decision to stop the supply of those certificates was done by all the parliament members of parliament, he said that this step for the governor's cooperation together with our Senator saying that action is due to when writing the situation that we have to you are, as your leaders," said Mister Pengo.
Mister Musiba, explained that in the session they had to have it and agree on that decision, there is a thoughts that would be able to distribute and half a half a half years which emerged but brought together with great opposition who caused him to be able to collect those certificates at the procedure.
Rumors of living in that member of parliament were condemned and those involved the rumors that the leaders had presented the plan for their interests so that they can be able to carry out the areas of those land against the law.
"You love you very much to hear people talking about or under our interests, that disease is a whole issue and I would like to stand up before you are today and to put it open this issue and to put it open," said the member of parliament.
At that time, he urged leaders who were serving in the former leadership to stop all land that have been getting off against the law.
