The perpetrator wanted the police to work that she has failed.
May 23, 2013.

On August 9, 1996, a child known by Divine Kweka, she was born in Delhi.
But I don't know if he did not go back home, he disappeared from his home environment, he disappeared from a lot of information as police and also in accordance with the media if there is a person with a report of the police that is near him.
Among the phones that were given, it's only one phone that was played with the male youth who was born with the age of 15 that was able to be found by the girl, the young man said that he saw one black car which was neighboring to a swim, a day that doesn't jump.
The youth continued to say a person who was inside that vehicle was like a person who is worried with who was looking at each other with there like someone who wants to do crime.
Later the vehicle that was found was to have a person known by the name-communicable diseases, who plays for 40 years at that time Duste, which is a subsidiary of electricity that doesn't have a special job of rape our children and also the theft of vehicles and selling of drugs.
After the police got information that they went to accumulating wealth, that is in Marcela Kombo, close to France when police arrived in that house but they did not see the symptoms of any child at the end of that house.
Acked, and his wife were taken to police and put aside within two days later, after being questioned for more than two days later, he didn't receive him and agreed to take the police a place where he went with him and agreed to take him with the girl. "
He took the police at that house which police got working for 48 hours without success when he arrived at his home, he took the police up to his place when he took the police up to his house.
Inside that room, he was not found to be afraid but it was also another girl who was in the age of 12 years known as Kicheere.
Their daughters who had been found dead in a very bad state and all of them had already found themselves inside the station, police also found a video of that video that forced him to pay for those two children and two other children who were not registered immediately.
Acked, he didn't end there, he took those police at another house and show the place where he saw the bodies of two female children in Melisa, Haruna so as to mark the two wives, but he also shown the grave of one person known as Bernard Membe.
Acked, confessed to draw their daughters and killing them but denied killing them in accordance with his details, her daughters had lost their lives due to hunger when he was serving a period of four months in prison for the offense of theft of the vehicle.
He confessed to put his colleague, Bernard Membe, a total of 1,500 million American dollars in order to attend to children with food while being a sentence, but the ones that did the work for six weeks then he went to the remaining money.
When he was sentenced in prison, leep when he found Melisa, she has died and she was born in his past few hours while in his lover.
Acked, he told the police that he told the police that he stopped him in the country because he was unable to serve for food to the two whom they lost their lives.
Two witch doctors who were friends were put in their home in August 1995, in the picture with the video along with other documents that were found at home for small businesses and then cut off to people who are involved with sex actions against small businesses and then cut off to people who own their daughters in Europe.
In collecting the evidence that police were able to collect 300 wives of the video that was found with a house that was found with a house which was found with a few person known by the name Martin, doing a sex with the young man who had kidnapped them.
