
07 / 2013.

The scandal of robbery, China is TOC.

Is after its three citizens present.
Now they have collaborated with Tanzania to fight with the destruction.
Hussein.
Makame, details and Peng.
Government of China.
It has said he will partner with Tanzania.
Doing the investigation of accusing her husband that is facing three citizens of that country.
The arrest of 5706 elephants in Dar es Salaam recently.

This was said.
And the Deputy Secretary and the adviser of the political issues of Tanzanian Embassy in Tanzania.
Phares Magesa, when he spoke with the journalists on the embassy of the country.
That, Dar es Salaam City.
Said Ambassador of China.
In the country Doctor Lu Youqing, together with his embassy, they have condemned the action.
The killing of the elephants and smuggling of teeth and that the country is still ready.
To partner with Tanzania.
Dealing with criminals.
He added that the government of China is supporting the government of Tanzania fighting against smuggling of elephants.
And the police force of his country led in collaboration with the police force of Tanzania.
Dealing with criminals.
He clarified that that embassy was shocked.
The news that was reported by some of the media in the country and that.
On the side of China?
Investigation in collaboration with the government of Tanzania so as to get the reality.
When the news was found.
"Yesterday (the day before yesterday) and today (yesterday) we have passed it.
The officers of our embassy, has reduced the first to confirm the introduction of people.
And also we have told the police force that these three people are citizens.
China is their primary rights they separated, "said Xabi.
He added that, "we have decided to do.
The investigation is because we cannot work on the reports of the media.
News, therefore we must change this information and if it is true we will be ready.
To help the government of Tanzania.
To take them to court. "
He clarified that in fighting corruption.
Elephants is a big offence of criminal offenses in China.
And a stern warning was given to someone when being found with that offense.
Including if he will be found with six kilograms of teeth.
This is being jailed for ten years or more.
"If they will be found guilty of the teeth.
The elephants of more than six kilograms can be sentenced to more than ten years.
The real death is that the government of China.
Is leading in the world by giving a stern warning to that offense, "said Xabi.
He urged all citizens of China living in Tanzania.
To follow the laws of China.
Tanzania and.
You should do anything that is going against the law.
Moreover to fight against smuggling of elephants.
