
Many ambassadors who passed were given new laws of security.
The government last week he invited foreign ambassadors for a meeting about the new security law as a way to prevent public conflict if it has been witnessed before the passing of that law.
It has also said that the government made those representatives of foreign countries to have knowledge of talking about those laws.
Despite the step it was seen as a result of switching off the fire after being followed by Aggrey from the United Republic of America to resolve the new law, the Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Doctor KaraKibacha, told the nation on Sunday that the meeting was just part of serving the ambassadors.
"It is our decision to urge them and bring together people from different corners where there have been different opinions related to this law.
The main aim is to ensure that people do not meet the law without having enough information about it, "he said.
We met with that law together with there being a period of people who ask questions and therefore we cannot share experiences on their parliament so as to listen to them, "he added.
On Tuesday, government officials of the government that were involved in ensuring that law met with more than 40 ambassadors in the Inter Milan, Rental Solutions, Nairobi, in seems to be able to defend that new law.
Among those who were invited were representatives of the United States, the United States, Japan, France, Germany, China and other big nations in the world, international organizations with its headquarters in Nairobi together with ambassadors from African countries.
Apart from Doctor Kibondemaji, other government officers who attended the permanent secretary in the ministry of safety, Monbusho Scholarship, and the assistant director of Public Service, Mutta, and head of public service, Joseph Sinde Warioba, while addressing the participated.
Since those laws will be worked on will be discussed at the beginning of this month, there have been a stern warning, especially from the opposition side of Correa scored.
After the law was approved by strength in parliament, that union was in court, and its case is going on.
