
The meeting of technology and culture is expected to take place in Dar, March 29th, 2016.
In helping the availability of a stable foundation in the agricultural sector in the country, there is a need to take the technology meeting with the purpose of making it been given by Bottling Company which is expected to take place in Dar es Salaam city and bring various people from different areas.
Speaking about that meeting of Bey wa Mitego, the co- founder of that meeting, Lilian Madoido, said the objectives of doing that meeting is to be required to improve the environment of technology in the country so as to build a stable platform with the construction of technology.
Miss Madata has said that in that three-day meeting, two days of the beginning which are on March 29th and 30th, the meeting will be held at the National Memorial Hall and they will use their skills to provide solutions within 48 hours through the digital system which they have collaborated with the organization of M and Twaweza.
During the same time, we are expecting to have a three-day meeting and through that meeting we have said we are improving and we are to mobilize in order to help build a stable platform with the purpose of launching it there will be competitions, speech, discussion and to bring people with skills of a computer program, "said Mrs Madnat Hotel.

He has said that the third day meeting is expected to take place at Julius Nyerere International Conference which is expected to be attended by 250 people from government institutions, private and public institutions including participants from various countries including the hosts Tanzania, Kenya and South Africa.
He said that meeting is expected to have discussions with participants who attended the meeting and also there will be a competition that will involve 16 participants who have been selected to participate in the construction of 5 million shillings as well as getting advice from the Institute of Science and Technology (COSTECH).
On the side of Eric Luizio, who is the head of business services of technology from CRDB Bank which is owned by Bey wa Mitego has been able to make that meeting said that the bank has decided to join so that technology can work in their daily lives.

He has said that Tanzanians are still not knowing how technology it can ease the availability of various services and through that meeting, they will get a new thing about the importance of technology.
In the same time, we have participated in showing how technology can lead the life of natural resources and also the Central Bank has ordered all banks to look for what happens so that we can benefit from the bank and through technology it is possible that even if the bank users have more than 17 percent in the year 2011 to 40% in the year 2011 to 40% in the year 2011 to 40% in the year 2011 to 40 percent in the year 2014.
