
The neighborhood has dropped by manslaughter.
The ones that were involved in the construction of the building of the seventh floor that fell on Sunday night in the neighborhood of Florida, Nairobi they will be opened against the killings, the director of department of criminal Investigation (Corefa), Ndembeji.
Mister Muhanga wanted the owner, engineers, contractors and officers who had authorized the construction of the building to register a report at the entertainment station or at the Department of Caspian Sea, who will be arrested.
"We have talked with the presence of the collapsed building in coughnuts, we cannot succeed to see Kenyans continue losing their lives due to poor residential buildings," said Mister Muhanga.
Three people, including the two days old child were killed while others were injured following the tragedy.
The building that is close to Msufini primary school passed away at two o'clock at night.
A man of the age of the age died in a few minutes after being taken to the national hospital of Kenyatta (KFGM) while the body of the child was found on foot.
The remains according to the cross-sex organization in the country, four people have been reported to claim that it may not be arrested within the remains of that building.
The leader of the troops in charge who is also the deputy director of the department of dealing with natural resources in the country (NDPO), Pius Mwaura said by yesterday evening, 40 people were to be used in that building.
"12 people were stolen from the incident and was allowed to leave while 26 continue to receive treatment in Koba," said Mister Rished.
He was reported in Bongo, "military police have succeeded to save all the ones that were communicating with the forces to save." The operation wanted the citizens to be patient while saying that the operation to save victims are run through a procedure so as to avoid endanger the lives of people who were caught inside.
According to those who survived, it survives the tragedy, the building had a sharp object in the second floor and first.
Mrs. Fauzia Kullane and I have been unable to go and look for another house to plan before being informed that the house had already died.
"I found a crack to continue with my two children with my sister then I went to look for another house and we were going to go back to Pangani and we were in the way to relocate and when I was found," explained Mrs Muchi, who had been living in the fifth floor.
"Though I do not lose your things and live with one clothes, I thank God because my family survived," he added.
The seventh floor of the seventh minute was played on Sunday night, in the streets that takes three weeks after the building of five pillars in Kaloleni East area where seven people were killed.
The owner of Kishapu district building, David Kamnada continues to court yesterday to answer charges of causing disaster among other things among the leaders who attended the tragedy is the Governor of Nairobi, Doctor Evans Matindealisema, the secretary general of land, Mariamu El Makusanya.
Nairobi Governor warned that the government officers of his government, he said that he has authorized the construction of that building that will be stopped.
