
Obama does not lie?
Kristen 14, 2014.

President Barack Obama of the United States has asked President Jakaya Kikwete about the money of the IPTL electricity company that were taken from the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), South Korea has told him.
This newspaper has been told that Obama told Kikwete about that issue during the meeting of leaders of the African Continent and America that ended at the end of last week in that country.
America is said that it does not meet with how Tanzania expects to follow up on the issue of IPTL, which has been mentioned to be involved in bribery since getting to the company here in the country approximately 20 years ago.

"Obama told Kikwete about IPTL and that why until today people, those mentioned to be involved in bribery in that issue has been released.
"By good luck, they got the report earlier that maybe Obama or the minister of foreign affairs of America, John Kerry will not maintain the issue and therefore we think Kikwete gave good answers," said one source of this newspaper in America which was following up on that meeting of Obama and the presidents of Africa.

Mke Mwema should not recognize that what Kikwete was given to Obama, because it is claimed that their talks were only two and that the reports have been taken because that issue was spoken by Obama.

Until you're going against them, the efforts of getting the State House in Dar es Salaam city is to confirm this reports were not able to succeed.
An amount of more than 200 billion shillings are believed to have graduated from the Tegeta Escrow account where those funds were destroyed because of the conflict that was there between TANESCO and IPTL.
The Tegeta Escrow account had a total of 250 million American dollars that are stored, and because of being taken by 122 million dollars, now it has improved and 128 million dollars.
TANESCO had claims that IPTL are made acts of breaking the contract and urged their contract to be dealt with, in one of the investment involved in the history of Tanzania.

Since the IPTL project started having allegations of bribery among the government workers in order to allow the project to continue and it is said that's why Obama asked about that issue.
Mwema should understand that the office of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) has begun to investigate that issue of being taken by the Tegeta Escrow account.
Already some of the government leaders together with members of parliament have been questioned by CAG about that issue and is expected that investigation can be completed before September this year.
The issue of bribery is important to the United States because one of the criteria for the country to get support through the non-governmental organization (MCC) is a country not having bribery.

Tanzania followed by the first phase of the MCC project that is getting an amount of 698 million dollars in that phase, last year.
This year, Tanzania has also requested the second phase of MCC, and already the government has set aside a large section of those funds in the rural electrification projects.
Before President Kikwete going to America, encourage people living in that country and those who are close to the legal action of the government, they wrote a document to President Kikwete to tell how the issue of bribery is important to explain well.
The sources of this newspaper from America have explained that the American government would like Tanzania to move ahead in the fight against corruption because since the first phase of MCC, the country has dropped from the criteria of fighting corruption.
"When Tanzania received the donations of MCC in the first phase of Kikwete, the country had lost 80 points in bribery levels, currently Tanzania has reduced up to 50 points, something that is dangerous.
"As usual, any country whose symptoms have already begun to reach a half of the previous level, they put it in the danger of lack of MCC in Tanzania so as to look at much in this," the source said that because of open reasons, we will be able to find him.
According to the schedule, this newspaper has been used from America, the MCC Board is expected to meet in September this year for passing names of the countries that will benefit from the second phase of MCC and that is why the investigation of the CAG didn't know before that time.
