
UVCCM and their elders October 25th, 2012

As it is for their leaders, from the Union of Women (UWT) of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and the others are mentioned to be in the presidential race for leaders of the Union of Youth of the party (UVCCM).
Yesterday, Tuesday, UVCCM had appointed its national leaders with a tough position as the vice chairman of the union which before the results were being organized by Benno Chelele.
Those who were competing in that position with those names have been adopted by the election manifesto of CCM together with Mboni Masimba, Salum Hapi and Paul Makonda.
In the election area as usual for CCM elections that is using the new elections to ask for bribery they were affected by some of the members who were given explanations and some of the contestants, they were given explanations and instead they want to intervene.
News just reaching if we go into that election, the election that was accompanied by complaints from some of the candidates but also explained that they are complaints that his foundation is dangerous to each other and therefore causing some of lack of victory.
The UVCCM election is among the important pillar for the direction of the presidential race in the year 2015.
As it was in the year 1995, later in 2005, Jakaya Kikwete was vying for CCM by CCM to be the presidential candidate that depends on the great strength of the youth from UVCCM that is how the presidential candidates are planning to contest for the presidency for the year 2015.
Those candidates whose candidates are even so that they have not succeeded in public the intention to vie for the great authority in the country including Edward Lowassa who is the member of parliament of Monduli, Frederick Sumaye and Benard Membe, another candidate in that list are discussed among the CCM members and Samuel Sitta, who is the member of parliament of Urambo.
CCM started his internal elections earlier this month at different levels but the attraction in competition was taken over the internal elections that was presented in the message of the executive council of the party at the district level.
In that election, the district level is where different leaders started being defeated by their veteran players but others swell in the new members.
For example, the Hanang district, the former Prime Minister Frederick Sumaye was in the minister, Doctor Mary Nagu, the Minister of Constitution and law Mathias Chikawe, in the CCM race in Nachingwea District.
