Mothers to reduce as it was released.
Sep 18, 2013.

Two Tanzanians, Agnes Chaki (Masimba) and his fellow musician Edward Lowassa who were arrested in South Africa on claims of transporting 150 kilograms of drugs, they have a great opportunity of being released at any time from now, our citizens have told him.

Although the previous reports shows that if the refugees were built to transport 150 tons of Crystal Renay which were being transported from Tanzania, it has been noted that they were being transported from Tanzania, it has been revealed that they were treated to be known by the name Nimlaumu Nani.

The warplanes have been arrested in South Africa at the Los Angeles International Airport in Johannesburg city with the drugs that are estimated to have a value of 678 billion shillings.

Even so, Ephnon-communicable diseases which has been revealed is the ones that they used to transport when the mother comes in the aerial group, which is the drugs that can be used to use drugs.

"Said the truth of the case of women's case has reduced a lot after it was revealed for the type of drugs that they were found and I don't have been given priority at any time from now," the police source is being held in South Africa since July, this year.

According to the law of drug abuse, article 26 (1) a and b, drugs that are involved in drugs here in the country is like the ones that are involved in drugs here in the country, as a result of illegal drug trafficking.

It is that law that has been clear that the person who are being arrested by those drugs having a value of more than 10 million shillings is not allowed to be given bond but competing in that value, he can be given bail.

Criminal sources have revealed that because the non-infectious diseases are not drug abuse according to the laws that are there, those suspects can be given bond.

According to the bill of stakeholders in the fight against drugs that was given in the year 2011, the importation of drugs like those have been known by the theme is dominated by Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA).

This newspaper passed away at the TFDA offices in Dar es Salaam city where he was explained that its branches are usually put in the country for a special procedure in accordance with the national needs in the country.

"When when you talk, you are participating in good issues, I will give you an example, that is the name Nimlaumu Nani, this is making drugs that have been known by the name Kocha, but it is because of that disease, it is using snacks, Make Me Sing.

"A person can use the purchase of diseases such as fuel but can be used to use drugs, you know that some of the drugs in the group of drugs are used to go up to different hospitals but for a special level.

"The person wanted to control those drugs is a must to get a permit from us because if we get married, he said one of the senior officials of TFDA, said one of the senior officials of TFDA, said one of the senior officials of TFDA, said one of the senior officials of the authority is not the official spokesperson of that authority.

According to the Wikipedia network, the use of non-infectious diseases started in China for more than 200 million, the age of Christ, is found so much in the brain of Remy Ma, which used to treat various diseases in Chinese treatment.

In the year 1994, the former captain of the national soccer team of Argentina, Diego Maradona is removed from the World Cup competition in America and later he was closed down in soccer after he was found guilty of using the non-communicable diseases which is among the drugs that were banned in sports.

Our citizens has changed the reports of what all the media stations in South Africa reported that the drugs that was found were Mela Hoya but now the new report is mentioned to be Kamoga.

However, the different documents that this newspaper shows that Kamoga and Mela Lalaguna Royo has lasted every time since the structure of a child live (HIV) which is known by Mela Hoya.

Speaking to this newspaper about this new report, the head of the department of drug trafficking, Godfrey Simbeye, said that he was understand about that but they are continuing with their investigation about the people who had kidnapped the women to take those drugs in South Africa.
