
Superstition that are believed to bring blessings in the match.
By Chris Brown.
Many of the football players have been faced with a unique actions in the field or in the floor of looking for a draw.
These actions have been affected by the whole issue of witchcraft 'due to various faith, players have attached it and some expectations when they get to the field while they get to the pitch to play the football.
He said that players are forced to do this actions or before the match or at the semi-finals going on so that they can produce a bomb attack in any clashes against them.
However, the fans of the English football team, asking for each one of the kind of 'what is in accordance with the players' faith, which has brought together each time when they entertain in different parts.
These ideology of players have been believed to give birth, not the courage of certain kind in-finals.
Those faith can be able to reduce and cut off their opponents for being some of them feel they can be affected by those acts.
It has been trusted by many players that making a sign of the sign of the cross before going into the field they're blocking him and asking for himself against any reporter.
What is the sign of the cross will help us to know more that the player has great strength due to the preparations that he participated and gave them an effort to meet those matches.
Coach Vincent Bossou has told him that if he may be a player holding this faith or he did not expect a goal or he will get a bad injury if he will remain like that.
Though the faith in making a sign of the sign of the cross is facing more than catholic religion, most of the players that do so on the field are not Catholics.
Dan Mpogole, Barcelona's striker, Gor Mahia, is alleged to have shaken his right time every time he went to the pitch.
By doing so, it is believed that his skill of down the stadium will be and they don't have the reputation of scoring a goal in the concerned match.
Otherwise it is very difficult for the player to be unable to leave on the platform of ethics when he left the left leg at the field.
Most of the players believe that eat with soil before getting into the field to listen to the skin, it is an indication that it will be able to give him a lot of rivals' by giving them a good environment that has contributed to a safe upbringing.
By touching the soil, a player will be requesting the 'don't have a lot of love with a prayer because they recover and be a curse from any kind in the contest.
In the history of the fight that we sell the teams of Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards team, it is normal that the referees do not use methods of 'Fulfill Your Goals' so as to introduce the ball on the right side, Gor Mahia, followed by winning the ball on the left side.
In doing so, every club will be able to direct the ball on the side that is owned by his fans and therefore they will give them the strength of their players on the difficulty of the match as well as informing him from the end of the game.
Without this news, it is believed that someone will not accept it is following that level and stability.
The others have already been found and that we are accused of involvement in some certain players.
Some of them is known by calling you just after laughing out pain or even against him, his colleague who engaged to a pass, while completing and contributing to a goal being found.
It is believed that the female fans in Gor Mahia FC are not allowed to get a short message in the field they gave their team.
According to the reception who did not want to be mentioned, they should be said that they are not happy about the sign of a sign that the club will sign his opponent a lot of goals and emerged victorious in-finals.
"Wrote a short message as a sign of 'proud of the goals going on' and also the players are not allowed to sign him because they are illegal and it is believed that the player participated in the pitch and it is believed that the player participated in the pitch," added the reception.
Some of the players are also headed to trust the ideology to an extent that maybe they might not be known as' luck 'by scoring a goal in clashes if they will remain at the past sides.
By looking at a short message, a player in a big way will be removing the goal by the specialist doctor in their opponents, but there is a request that most of the players in his squad need to be held up so as to enable them to run away easily in the field without the ones that are not allowed.
Some of the players believe that from the end of the draw, it is a way to try to believe before the fight.
For the last time, the player usually believe that he will have made his team's' star 'star, and therefore he will avoid themselves because of any kind of kind that is faced with their game.
The desire to city is saying that even some of the players believe by using their box or outside ', you will make their husbands in a special needs or even you believe by eating certain types of food before the match.
Others want to put up the ban on a certain leg or otherwise he was accompanied by bad luck in clashes.
Although most of these actions appears to be done by different players were different from the field, most of the fans should understand the meaning of those ideology that are trusted by players who supports them, most of the players believe that those faith are forced, the strength and motivation of needed in the soccer game.
