
This is the first crown of Yanga mid-fielder MTVS.

The leadership of Young Africans Club has given a report (Nets) of thirty o'clock (30), Head Coach Manuel Pellegrini, about stopping his contract starting yesterday December 22, this year.
Those decisions are close to the bad results of last games of the premier league, friendly matches and the bonanza of Nani Mtani Jembe against Simba SC at the end of the week.
The Young Africans club to stop the services of Bromwich, and it taken as hatred but it is one of the areas to ensure we are improving the technical bench so that we can get good results in the ongoing competitions.
When you look at the ability of one player of Yanga SC and our opponents, we will play in the game at the end of the week, it is clear that the teachers has reached the end and he has no alternative ways.
Young Africans Club has been playing under the level of games of the premier league, a situation that had gone up to get victory because they would have lost points and sometimes the team lost points.
Following the release of 30 days, Bromwich, will decide himself as he will continue to supervise exercises for the team or leave one hour before that time it is not complete.
If Bromwich, will leave earlier the team will continue with exercises as usual in every morning at the best stadium in Kijitonyama to prepare well in the second round of the premier league and international competition under the assistant coach, Fred Felix, Saiwa. "
In order to ensure the team is doing well in the second round of the Vodacom Premier League and the international competition is completing preparations for the camp outside the country and all procedures are completed, we will inform you.
Moreover, the leadership is in the process of getting rid of Bromwich, who will join the team for the preparation of the second round with the champions league of Africa.
At the end, we thank the members, lovers and Yanga fans should not affect the heart following the results of the bonanza at the end of the week, leadership will make sure that the team is strengthened in the technical bench and put joy in the second round of VPL.

Abdallah OthmanMapara.
The chairperson of the competition committee.
Young Africans Sports Club.
