
Tuesday, June 19, 2012

Uzi Vunga - the attorney general of AID.

One of the major problems of their production of production.
Cashew is a disease of doughnuts, this disease is caused by parasites of poultry farming (EFD).
I have been started using a human being, this disease is very important, to an extent that.
It does not depend on, you can reduce.
By more than 70 percent.
You are very prevalent in all the provinces that are not aware of this disease in Tanzania. Previously the disease was called.
The name of "virgin" is due to his great relationship that did not lie!
By Saleh Jembe Blog that is seen in dawn / morning in the month of June - September.
Then, the name of masturbation.
It is used for now to enable the farmers to be able to make those two things.

The attack was taken.

This disease is being held in all areas' air and torched.
A tree of History, especially 'Views', vegetables, Mabibo Beer and Weusi.
Young (PAD).
This disease is as a result of the attack.
Flowers that fail to open and enable you to stop doing his work.
You look at each other.

Symptoms are there.

Areas that were washed away by this disease, is covered by water.
What is white or they are not aware of what?
As the anthill is dangerous or blood cells that attacked them very small.
You are not worried about the eyes, but by having carrying the sun's blood cells.
When you play in large numbers in the areas of the striker, that is when it appears as a pose.
What is white and Mchuchuma is.

On the leaves.

In addition to covered by flour, vegetables that were washed gently.
Color, sometimes you know the Parliament has coughing, so they can fall down.
Where those who found it is not seen to be born in the fish that if it is seen as it appears.
When the swim, even so they did not depend on.

On the flowers.

The flowers can be attacked even before stopping.
Covered by Benedict Liwenga.
They are supposed to blossom and at the end usually does not lie completely.
"The leaves," this is the big problem of shortage of animals.

On the anthill.

The termite that had been identified by shivered, are supposed to fall down with albinism.
He appears to be dirty and eventually.
The termite are usually very attractive.
With a very little water, thus do to be able to do with her water.
So much.

On Facebook and Weusi.

It is dependent.
Having been washed gently.
To change his color or red card and that they get pregnant or blue.
It is dependent, they were identified as a lot of youth, can it be dependent on it.
That had been identified by sexually transmitted diseases, show a big destruction of skin.
And he becomes dirty, finally, during the sales are set aside in the bridge.
Secondly, (second one).

The development of masturbation.

Parasites of masturbation is living in plants which are still ongoing.
It has never been growing in the laboratory of this disease, we don't know and development.
In this rainy season, especially from the month of May / June to September.
Every year is the right environment for this disease.

'Fulfill Your Goals (28-8) (best 25).

And moisture (Rhema) of 80 percent (95 percent).

It is really terrifying.
More than 500,000 hectares be done to the and that doesn't pay the weather well.
It takes place a drought environment.
Starting from the month of June to September, it does not go on the state of rain and safe diseases.
Therefore, in other months (especially the time of the rainy), parasites.
You don't know and live on earth?
'Fm's squad that drive out of History or.
The flowers that are not this season.
The shivered, with the ability to save this disease until another.
This are spread by the wind that we have also bullied.
So in the months of May / June to September.

To control the problem.

There are three types of ways that are used to control the truth.
It is a natural medicine, better medicine and drugs.

Ways of origin.
(BRELA).

To remove the sources.
Abdelhamid Radwan (center).

This is the hands of hands with removing 'goalpost and the truth is there?
In that cause of History, using equipment like Upanga.
Müller and the foundation of this work is to reduce the speed of this disease.
The farm is waiting for explosion and.
The attack.

Change the environment.
The disease in trees.

The scene.
Branches (HIV) of Ikonongo.
So as to do God?
Under the peak of trees, so as to allow HIV and strong winds easily.
It helps in increasing the problem of masturbation.

To reduce trees (OS).
I would like to ask and to stop the enough position.
Trees, it will help to reduce the spread of the disease.
It came to me.
That will enable you to make it well and change the environment so that they should not make it.
Good for the development of disease.

Planting trees.
It is swelled to withstand the disease.

There are some of the teeth.
Which can be able to withstand the disease of disease.
To be able to give the fire without using any body and other types of flowers.
Before the end of
The effects of the disease even to be able to evade the attacks.
It is some of the teeth.
Best which have finally been cheated.
In one area in our stations.
All drugs to promote wildlife (Casey (MARI) like it is still ongoing.
The seeds that are available from those farms are best tax (where the Institute of Sei).
Can you give birth without drugs, but give them well more if someone will use drugs.
Also.

The use of drugs.

The medicine for Salay.
(Sulley Mwitasi.

Which is the drugs that is used in large numbers to prevent it.
The era of contraception is found with this medicine which is flour, it was asked by using a machine.
A special program (in the picture) asking for him.
The drug known as Maracana Solo.
Monsigrated to a tree, on top.
What is the boundaries.
Five dynamites at 125 kilograms.
Bus station for a tree for a year is still there and there is also care of water such as BISON.
You want to ask for using the legs I would like to sell for normal drugs (at the picture).

At the time of starting.
There is a penalty.

The first lady starts where by 2039.
It has come out and the same time, more than 5 percent of those flowers have already show signs of testing of flowers so as to know how.
The dangers of it started, it means.
To do the right use of medicine.
Finally the benefits of income will be great to the farmer.

It is advisable that you need to take place in the morning and early.
At the time we are in parts of the morning, wind.
I do not have a lot of strength.
It is advisable that you need to go back to 3 o'clock in the morning.
Watch it on the leaves and flowers with a modem.
You want to ask for the time I go through time, follow you, have been recommended in charge.
14 million.
14 21 kilometers.

Other drugs.
EXIM Bank.

Several drugs for several drugs have been carried out in hand with a period of three types of drugs.
Those (in the picture), has been involved in the use of farmers.
Then he is' BayArena, Anhela Kizigha and Tufani '.
The nouns that contribute to 10-15 of the drugs within the age of 75.
125 years of water is a terrorist depending on the size of the tree.
Among the ones that were affected are three weeks (day.
21) and phase (round 3).
For this season, it is advised that due to the cost of drugs is needed.
Do not be used in Windows XP, to grow and be sure of giving more than 4 kilograms.
After asking for caring about the trees that takes place.
In that amount a happy and not you should be, otherwise we will have a loss.
