
24 December 2012

CUF, we have condemned the violence, murder of citizens.

By Goodluck Charles.

The Executive Council of the Citizens Party (CUF), has condemned events of violence and killing of civilians in the country to be caused by the police force in the country and wanted the commander of the force, IGP Said Mwema.
It will take action against the police who were involved.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday on behalf of the chairman of the party, the Deputy Secretary General of CUF Mainland, Mister Julius Mtatiro said that council has also condemned misuse of weapons without taking precaution.

"The council was meeting on December 17, between the resolutions which have been met include condemning the killings of a journalist from Channel Ten television station Iringa province, late Daud Mziray," said Mister Mtatiro.

He said that as a result of that situation, CUF wanted the chairmanship to appeal, to take legal action against all the police who were involved in causing the killing instead of protect themselves.

He added that, that party does not support the issue of citizens to take advantage of the law instead it moves to performance on all sides.

"The delegates of the meeting condemned the great strength that was used by the state agencies to protect democracy and to help the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in order to win them," he said.

At the same time, the council has appointed Mister Hamad Masoud as the deputy secretary general of Zanzibar after getting 39 votes of the body and one of their opponents Mister Ismail Jussa said that previously the position of the Secretary General of Zanzibar was being held by Mister Ismail Jussa Ladwa who had asked to work together with the party so that he can serve his citizens in Bunda town, Zanzibar.

He said the party has chased the membership card of the government of Somanga Fungu, Ndevu, Kilwa district, Mister.
Yusuph Amyas Morse, for the bad leadership.

"The membership because of the membership is a bad leadership to its citizens, this is a lesson to other leaders of CUF whose performance is not good because our party is not ready to make a prayer," he said.

The session of the council that was led by the CUF chairperson, Professor Ibrahim Lipumba, announced to discuss five agenda which were represented by the executive committee of that party including the issue of strengthening the party in the year 2013.
