
The mine in danger will be taken on October 5, 2012.

The selling of machines for producing salt in the gold mine of China- Uvinza in Kigoma province has continued to negotiate with this journey, the member of parliament for Kigoma South, David Kafulila, preparing to present a private issue in parliament to ask that the mine broke down.

The reason for that call will be confiscated by that mine being accusations against the investor and put in Manufacturing Company, through its great agreement in Iran, the sales have noted that through the marketing manager of Iran, Bonny Mwaitege.

But David Kafulila who has been making noise in parliament about the selling, Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, who is alleged to have given a letter to the Minister of Finance, Doctor William Mgimwa, he wanted to write a letter to the Minister of Finance, Doctor William Mgimwa, he wanted to ask for advice about the decision that he can destroy the mine.

Our reporter tried to communicate with Minister Muhongo, Minister Mgimwa, Minister of Industry and Trade, Doctor Abdallah Kigoda (who is the deputy minister of industry and trade, Doctor Abdallah Kigoda (who is the deputy minister of industry and trade, Doctor Abdallah Kigoda (who is the one who represented the bible on the left) and the attorney general, Werema, without success, their mobile phones followed without answers.

According to Kafulila, where she went to read the contract at the parliamentary office under security, the investor has violated the agreement which is together with lack of three billion shillings as he promised together with selling the equipment's equipment in Iran.

Claims by David Kafulila, who is a member of parliament for Kigoma South, where the mine has told our writer that, in his tour by the Deputy Minister of Energy and Minerals, Steven Masele, they found the equipment of that mine to be sold in Iran.

He says that the action of selling the equipment's equipment is because it is contrary to the contract between the investor and the government and that action is enough to take stern action against the investor and that he can destroy the mine from him.

"It's not only raised the equipment of the mine in Iran, but he also did not invest more than three billion so as to continue with the mine if she is required by the contract, I've heard a contract although I've heard a contract although I've heard a contract although I've violated the contract," he insisted.

According to Kafulila, if the government through the Minister of Energy and Minerals, will not take a step to control the investor, they will give an important motion to the parliament and wanting that mine to protect themselves.

"I am a member of parliament for the citizens that should be able to benefit from that mine, I do not see the logic of continuing with this investor who has failed to invest and instead of developing the solar technology, it is better to give them these," said Kafulila.

The leadership of this mine speak to our writer, listen to the leadership of the mine after being unable to get the chairperson of the board, Yellow Fm and succeeded to talk to the manager of labor in the gold mine, Bonny Mwaitege.

In talks with our reporter, Mwaipopo admitted that the plant in Iran, but insisting on that, "Haazu being sold at some of the equipment that were sold at some of the machine equipment, that is the same-5 billion as it was explained by politicians."

He said that it was not the right decision to build that machine that is high costs and especially considering that it is done in using heavy oil.

"The ability of the plant in production is to produce 60 tons per year, but for all the six years of running the machine, you shouldn't have a bad decision to build this machine, but also there is a problem of various drugs for the purpose of cleaning the machine," he said.

The machine was also been built by ECC company in Italy, according to the explanation of Mwaipopo, it is difficult to break up the open up and that instead, the investor decided to use an amount of wood and the sun.

We are using solar eclipse but we have a machine to pray for it, it can't know it and to come back again, "he said.

Kafulila said Melele one of the effects of mines (Tansort), are in its inspection in that mine and discovered that it is true that the machine for draining water equipment that was built by refugees, were sent away with its equipment and sold to Iran.
