The tournament of Life is a challenge.
Dec 5, 2013.

The European soccer tournament that involves youth teams under 20 years of age has been completed at the end of the week after beating Yanga FC by 2-0 in the final match that was played at Azam Complex Stadium, outside the city of Dar es Salaam.

That tournament involves 14 teams, the Football Federation of Tanzania (TFF), has chosen the best squad with 40 players of that squad's called Life Cup, Team.
This has been a good step for those players in which they want to show good standards inside that squad 40 players, will be found 20 players who will make the youth team under the age of 20 years.

When I met with some of the soccer fans who were present at the field when that team of Life Cup Finals which was mentioned they said that some of the teams had good players but they did not be taken.

Sihana Nkinga, and I did not agree with them one directly but I decided to respect their thoughts but I also remember that the a saying "by Mwalo is like the way is in the way.
Moreover, there's a terrorist who contested for him that many youths were lost by suddenly, that is not not supposed to go back to the sector of soccer just after the Euro tournament started.

For example, last year, the teams that participated in that cup had good youths with an aim of playing soccer with a high level after the competition is not covered by many until now they are.

TFF, they don't have a way to run these blame but they have been unable to convince the sponsors of the premier league to raise the youth of the small team, apart from putting laws that the national team is playing at home, to play for a small team in the opening match, by playing with any team.

There is a possibility that TFF don't know that those teams are able to come and this is getting more than the regional teams that its income is little and therefore it's difficult to put a team to the camp.

There is a need to start a youth league, that is when the premier league is continuing with them to have their league, the TFF can look for new sponsors or Vodacom customers to sign a lot of sponsorship so as to promote talents.

There is still a chance to build soccer talents, TFF leaders get Ukakasi as they are asked the development of youth soccer. There is no way to succeed in soccer without giving them an opportunity that they have not started having responsibilities.

That decision, if they now help the team that has shown the great ability in the tournament of Life this year, but they don't have the ability to take them to the youth camp.

Mtibwa Sugar, JKT Ruvu, JKT Oljoro and Ashanti United are among the teams that showed the high level but I am sure after the tournament every youth will go back to the competitions for the next year or until their teams will host the premier league matches.
