
The heavy accusations of CHADEMA is accusing Kinana to be involved in the sexual business.

The opposition camp in parliament has given a heavy accusations to the secretary general of CCM, Abdulrahman Kinana claiming that they are involving themselves with internet network in the country.
However, the Minister of Internal Affairs, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi has answered that claims saying it is false with the accused of the camp that it has dropped when it knows the truth about the allegations against Kinana.
While presenting the opposition views about the estimated earnings and the use of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism in the year 2013 / 14, the spokesperson of the opposition camp on natural resources, Pastor Peter Msigwa said acts of crimes have been offering the nation into international communities.
"By bad luck, it is that many concerned parties that mentioned on the evidence are famous leaders and others are senior officials of CCM," said Pastor Msigwa.
We have witnessed other suspects of crimes and in the State House it has dared to give them great opportunity for the leadership of this nation, despite being mentioned in the investigation report about violence. "
He said in the year 2009, the ship of the Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (MARI) that is owned by Kinana had been arrested in China with containers that were kidnapped by the government to transport in Hong Kong City.
"The documents that are in the Office of the Registration and Business Agency (breaking), show that the company of Kinana was registered in October 2003 and given documents of 221 shillings.
"Documents show that Kinana has paid 500 million dollars out of the company that was registered in Dar es Salaam.

Doctor Nchimbi answered Yesuu!
Responding to those accusations, Minister Nchimbi said, "if you see someone is standing and decided to say that there is no happening in the ministry on issues of forests, it is clear that his understanding becomes a huge problem."
He said the topics that were built against Kinana is a whole issue, "I have tried to follow keenly what he said, where he was surprised and he didn't know where he was not happy, he had gone to study," said Doctor Nchimbi.
He said the truth about that issue is that there is a difference between the responsibilities of the company's responsibilities and the activities of parking goods in the port as a big government camp that it knows the truth, but it has decided to misleading the public.
Doctor Nchimbi who was the first lady, said that the agents cannot be the owner of the ship, but he is representing the ship in the small activities that happen when it reached a certain country like to serve the workers of the ship, important needs and doing cleanliness.
", but there are people professionally known as urologists (downloading from the cargo). I would like to inform the Pastor Msigwa that their work is to take them to provide goods to the port," said Doctor Nchimbi and added.
"There is where there is a procedure of introducing himself, in the procedure of getting a person," Boznia was not involved, I don't know what I am saying, but he knew what I'm saying, but he knew that I am happy about the interests of people who are not involved in the nation. "
He said that there have been rumors that had been done because Kinana is involved with the ship involved in transporting those corners.
"This rumor is a rumor, the ship bought a cargo called Delhi, the owner is called Herman Kapama, something to opposition camp in parliament, he knew that but for the interests they are not well in the nation, he knew that they are not aware of your parliament," he said.
He said after the enough investigation, those involved have been opened against the case against the economy number 3 and 4 of the year 2009 at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court, Dar es Salaam.
"These (he is now heard) are those who were taken to court, the investigation will realize that the suspects of this issue, the opposition camp in parliament did not know," he said.
