
The ship of Kinana talk with the parliament.
May 5, 2013.

Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ambassador Hamis Kagasheki, has announced afresh the fight against poachers of the nation and other resources in the country, while being good openly that the plan to do 100,000 players in the next financial year with the aim of dealing with those development enemies.
Minister Chikawe said despite the biggest challenge of managing the resources of the country especially the wildlife, his ministry will improve the management and control by partnering with other media stations together with the citizens.
While presenting the income and use of his ministry in parliament yesterday, Tuesday in Dodoma town, the minister said that the issue of police and control of crimes has become a great challenge and that the government through his ministry will not be unable to be treated.
"The ministry will continue to strengthen the management of the wildlife resources by continuing to do collaborations inside and outside of a strong desire to run, 100,000 days, infrastructure, and services will be improved to the servants in 27 stations in a high level and eight regions of the forces against corruption," said Minister Kigwangala.
He said the business of illegal immigrants in the forest and bees will be controlled by increasing 1,700 workers in dry and water areas as well as controlling the quality standards of forests and bees so as to increase its value and increase the income of the country.
About the improvement of areas to reach the tourists, he said that his ministry through the National Social Security Fund (TANAPA) will build 29 houses in nine centers of Arusha, Katavi, Kilimanjaro, Mikumi, Mkonkole area, Serengeti National Park and UDA-Kivukoni road in the next financial year 2013 / 2014.
"The Ngorongoro Conservation Authority will build a special building for six family members at the reception area of Ndandavala, a special camp to sleep at Simba A together with one house in the ministry of natural resources and tourism has been published in this newspaper.
Presenting the views of the permanent parliamentary committee of land, Mali traditional and environment, chairman of the committee Mister James Lembeli said his committee has resulted from a huge problem of crimes of the elephants that continues to grow instead of reduction.
"At the moment the crimes of elephants has been a high court, it's a plain truth that today it is not only the elephants who have ever been done by the national research institutions, shows that only less than 30 elephants are available every year," said Mister Lembeli.
At the same time, political parties with other signs are playing with political goals have emerged as the parliament by the secretary general of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Abdulrahman Kinana, he was in the middle of those politics, before the Minister of Internal Affairs, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi has decided to stand up and wanted the parliament to avoid being involved with false.
It is like the contest between the members of parliament of CHADEMA led by the deputy minister of natural resources and tourism, Pastor Peter Msigwa and CCM members of parliament led by the minister, Anne Makinda decided to put him for a period of time to stop the attacks against another side and then it was identified by being identified.
In stopping the attacks and answer to his position, the speaker was heard saying, most of the opponents is not true and they are going to be playing the attacks with your colleagues that are against him.
In his motion, Msigwa claimed that he is involved in the illegal drug trafficking following the incident of the year 2009, where most of the ivory comes with 4 tons from Tanzania and Kenya were arrested by defense and security agencies while he mentioned the company to enable the company's agents to forgive him in Co LTD, which is owned by the family of Kinana.
Minister Nchimbi started by explaining the way the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism works in the efforts to fulfill its responsibilities and because the Prime Minister Peter Msigwa claimed that there is no reason that was held, Nchimbi said he believes that one of the way (the type of Msigwa) has its importance of understanding and later explaining the allegations against Kinana.
Nchimbi said the involved were already taken to court and that Msigwa and his opposition leaders know the difference between the company's agents of Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (Wanging'ombe) and the company to bring and bring goods (Cibitoke village and Forte oraine Marriot.
Together with the member of parliament of Singida East (CHADEMA), Tundu Lissu has urged them to ask him, to answer the allegations, speaker Ann Makinda when he stopped and wanted him to continue talking about Kinana and other leaders of CCM who was left out to stop its allegations without integrity. "
Nchimbi mentioned the those who were arrested and opened the case include Ladislaus Mwamanga, Gabriel Pitso, Eric Sambu (who is alleged to be the chairperson of the Revenue Authority in the Dar es Salaam Port Authority, Issa Ahmed, Cosbert Mwindadi.
Nchimbi left the parliament for being a case against those suspects was opened in the Kisitu court, but was suspended for some time so as to get evidence from Vietnam.
Vietnam refused to give evidence that it does not have a contract with Tanzania in partnership against criminal offenses but there has been efforts to get a transition permit for the contract from China so as to get evidence and that case can continue in the Kisitu court.
