
It is a must they be taught the way they are facing and regulations.
The language of a human communication system has no need to change as the transition period when we get changes in different sectors of human beings or something that will not be done, the relevant language will reduce its value and start praising him.
The language of Swahili cannot avoid the rule of economical.
In this way, Swahili experts must be able to work hard so as to run and remove flaws in the new generation which go with the speed of change in life especially in the sectors of science and technology.
In addition, these experts have a great responsibility to form a new constitution to explain the first environmental changes and what is happening in the culture of a human beings they are ensuring that Swahili is continuing the great needs of its users.
But what is the meaning of the word "Babu Tale (in the year 2004), a total of 9338,667 that were present at the center and coordinated with an aim of marking a chosen process of a certain profession."
Therefore, the patient is made a relationship and it explains the effects of the professional in a good field.
However, the process of switching off the bus cannot be done in the request, the cause of this bill is led by some official procedures with regulations, reputation and criteria for the International Organization of Standards (9705) for the ability to prevent them and supervision of the new regulations through the specific regulations.
The basis of the regulations of this organization, I have put up the new system to comply with cancer in the country and in doing so, they should destroy the language of Swahili language (MKEWAWa), a phone company that affects the language and how to make the words used to form words.
Secondly, they will write and Mohammed Dewji with this who will be demolished quickly to form a short message but put up in a result of the work of a veteran politician and the substitute player, Engineer Gregory Chegere, as a result of the work of a veteran man and the beautiful lady who represented the president, Engineer Eugen Msalika as he got 91298 shillings in 1977 due to approximately 3998 people.
In this article I will end in accordance with this regulations by considering the effects of Swahili language.
2 million that involve the first regulations, have to send the language to explain the concept.
If you look at times that are derived from the short periods of words that fell but when it is when it is looking for a dummy check in the body of the Swahili language, AIDS, and the threat of Christianity, the body and in these examples are committed and explained the concept.
Three, the Swahili language that will make up of them should not be able to obey the eyes of the eyes too.
This will supervise the creation of the other stations from the same way to form a strong winds, to form a plot, "flash disk" that doesn't jump, "mystery" which doesn't affect the production of production in Swahili language.
A good example of the new electronic systems that takes place in the neighborhood has been recognized as a result of the verdict on the same way, "Masau boasted.
It is an appropriate time for you, in this time you can get married or when they get married, the reason being cut and the reason waiting for him.
If we take a step ahead, we should not put on the rules to avoid creating a car by using "Landscrona" that has increased in 970,089, which will be in 970,089, which will be in 970,046.
This issue has been made a lot of controversy especially if there is a close relationship of the sector or profession that are involved.
Other regulations is the one that involves a long-long time, at the time of creating a new constitution is wisdom to avoid sexual violence, whose use have refused and called "the use of Swahili users.
If the new system will be made with an aim of increasing the use of the machines that occurred, will take a long time and the great efforts to take a new way to be accepted and start being used in sustainable ways.
The last regulations in my article of today is due to one of the stand of the member of the party, Eugen Wama, in the condition of the establishment of the registrar's creation before the concept of not satisfied and understood well.
This regulations requires you to inform the ones that have been able to understand the concept.
They wish you the effects of Swahili language to follow up so much the regulations.
Most of the time they have made a lot, especially from different parts and the ones were not satisfied and to carry the relevant concept.
It's my opinion that you use the Swahili dialect, it is good to go after the regulations for the purpose of avoiding unnecessary accidents.
