The bad environment of providing education has continued to affect the nation where this time it has been revealed that one of the teachers used to reduce primary schools from nursery school to class seven, he knew that it was at the primary schools in the school to fail to get an understanding of the necessary studies.
If it is bad, there's something sad, that is taking place at the Primary School located in Makalama District, where he has been forced to teach two classrooms at the same time so as to achieve the shortage of desks in that school, to see some of the teachers at the same time so as to achieve the shortage of desks in that school, but as a journalist and also the shortage of desks in the country.
One of two classrooms while one of the cotton industries.
There is living in time.
Six times, and at the same time the Bible say it is very attractive to her sister.
Through your second time to pay one thing.
Even the little is at his differences and later on.
Things have changed the subject where we are doing so again.
Together, what we want to see that you love you.
Desks.
And the office of the teachers.
.
First we should not be touched but.
These are small and love.
However, in dealing with the shortage of desks in that primary school a series of 100 desks worth over seven million shillings being a continuation of its donation in front of the community is and here the councilor of the District Council has maintained the issue to congratulate the bank and other financial institutions to follow its example to help the community.
The cost of desks.
In a school.
So as to be able to study well.
Also to pay a driver up to the home where Manchester City.
It has been giving priority in the community.
The year until year.
I knew that we are happy to listen to the responsibilities so as to help the society, but if you go through Africa.
Also, India Makamba said that it was the truth.
The first time is to help that project they get close to shillings.
For the second time you will help our country one and God?
Since he completed the reason before handing him and his wife is still getting married to coach Jose James, he wants the heart and band, we have how many other stakeholders do not give them better water.
But he has just been recognized as a result of shortage of desks, parents and guardians of children studying in that school and the office of the director of Morogoro Municipality on another side has emerged as the first challenge to increase the number of teachers in the school.
Increasing the houses of classrooms and also building houses for their teachers, the teachers who are in that school were stored during the house, the chairperson of that school committee called Sadiki Senga, while visiting the show.
