
Millions to be used in research.
By Mwangi, professor.
Laboratory equipment for livestock in the country will get sponsorship of 105 million shillings from the European Union (EU).
Those funds will be used to help strengthen the research of dangerous diseases which affects the business of livestock.
That plan is also expected to help in the agricultural sector to improve the distribution of those vaccination to farmers.
Those news were removed yesterday by the director of treatment to livestock in Nyamkazi Primary School, Mister Tsehai said that when he was addressing the breeders conference in the livestock institution, Jomo Kenyatta.
Mister Boers said that the money that had already been released and broke out of 840 million shillings that will bring back equality and eight African countries.
He said that the funds will enable the aim of the government to benefit farmers for the current treatment against livestock that will expand the market of rearing products.
He added that diseases against livestock have been infected with great destruction that had been condemned the country's important markets due to products from here in the country being banned from international markets.
"Diseases have been faced with the speed of our ability to appreciate themselves.
We have also been policies which I have attached with change in this sector, "he said.
He said that situation has caused the farmers to lose approximately 25 percent of revenue due to diseases that are not yet known.
The laboratory director in the country Mister Geoffrey Mutta said that the sponsorship is current considering that the agricultural sector is being addressed more than 50 percent of the income in the agricultural sector.
"The sponsorship will enable us to strengthen our vaccination, to cooperate with experts from other countries and also to do research on new ways of expanding their products of our products," he said.
"The big problem which is in which these diseases are not recognized by farmers," said Mister Mutta.
