
Lots of hostility said that it does not last long in Zanzibar on 29th May.

The United Republic of Tanzania is one of the United Republic of Tanzania, but there is one place of the union where his people don't want to be called Michongo, it is Zanzibar.
One of the issues of the union on April 26, there were one of the Tanganyika Union and the United Republic of Zanzibar, is an issue of citizenship, that starting the union day, people of those two countries will be known as BISON.
But it's not good for the people of Zanzibar and they have continued to look for the people of Zanzibar inside Tanzania, and the Tanganyika counterparts is known as BISON.
However, in Zanzibar, it's no wonder, people of Zanzibar have divided into discrimination, between the natural people of Zanzibar, because of the people of Zanzibar people, and from the fact that the people of Zanzibar with the origin of the mainland.
But there is no doubt among the people of Zanzibar themselves, which is very bad, and that is not only the future of politics in the islands but also it is a source of conflict, wisely, they are also the cause of unity that destroy the country since there were only until now.
The matter that starts in 19fifty years during the freedom process of Zanzibar, it involves the ones who call them as the ones who call them as the whole of July, and later the problem is not in Zanzibar, but the problem is not to grow them but it is the color of someone.
Without doubt, our readers have ever asked yourself why there are big hostility seen, between the Revolutionary Party (CCM) Zanzibar and the Civic United Front (CUF) Zanzibar and not Tanzania Mainland, while those parties and its leaders are in the whole of Tanzania?
It is because of tribalism and historic discrimination between members of the party, it is the whole time for Tanzanian members but it's a person who is able to confirm it or confirm that he is the same as the people of Zanzibar, don't know or to make sure the people of Zanzibar don't know or to make them other people of Zanzibar.
To get the answer to this question, we have no need to check this problem, starting from the beginning of this problem but I am not supposed to change here to give the conclusion of this topic by saying that there is no boundaries, or the people who lost their lives due to the explosion and those who lost their origin.
In Zanzibar, it is a country with 2,322 kilometers, it was made up of two big and two hundred thousand tons in the Coastal region of East Africa, which were built in Unguja, with a size of 1,464 kilometers and Pemba that has 890,536 billion shillings.
Zanzibar has a whole history and a mixture of culture as it has been the business hub in many parts, from business people, from East and Central Africa, it was done more by people from the park.
It is expected to feel that, the first visitors from different from them were Sunnis with a member of parliament (SUMATRA) from Kinyanyiko area, the country that was in the middle of River Kinama and Ekaney (Asmara, and the Jews) who had arrived in Lumuli.
If they were followed by the 606 year of 606 (BC) which they attacked them.
If they do not come to do business alone, but to do the headquarters, and be able to take place easily by the host, they lost their culture and reality, they lost their culture and reality.
The results of this liquefied mixture of marriage between the hosts and visitors is the birth of two games in the islands of Thanized, and let me feel it has been noticed, and that is how it was noticed by the name Nimlaumu Nani.
To forgive him and love me if they think about flatulence.
Before these events, Zanzibar had a field of fishermen, but the procedures were born by the African continent from Tanzania, they were very big areas, where these were not a political unity and a culture that could not be able to withstand the attacks and be presented by visitors who arrived every time.
They mentioned the European business people from Omani because the aim of the business is sent, which already it is spreading in the Indian Ocean, these started the headquarters of the villages that had been noticed by the name "Swahili 'and African traditions.
If they woke up the immigrants from Municipalities in the cities of Mumbai cities in India, the Surat Cutch company in India when they came to the business purpose and not with the aim of living.
Different from the elderly and human beings they did not take place with the hosts (and even today), therefore, their culture was not allowed to help in the whole community of Zanzibar.
Until the year 1830, Zanzibar started to know if the United Arab Emirates has more than African countries due to natural resources being faced by the strength of the culture of forests and Omani.
Who's how to save the phone, stem cells, and maybe be self-employed in the politics of Zanzibar?
It is clear that for instance, 'Siri ya Mtungi' to prevent and identify the African descent to discover themselves with the traditional origin, and therefore bringing up Zanzibar which is the African countries.
They should realize that they remove the word of Arab Emirates, "Kibana," which is the meaning of people who are not same or those under the non-communicable diseases.
There are some who make sure that the origin of iron sheets is to be sent in the mainland, and there are also some who think that they are coming from the Junction area, Coastal Region and Bagamoyo.
The origin of stem cells are expected to be demolished because they don't be infected with mental disabilities, because all of them satisfied the rule of Mtemi Isike.
Palestinians and others on their side are the hosts of Pemba Island, who think about smoking of diseases, to discover ourselves, to discover ourselves, to discover ourselves.
"Achileus of" explained himself that they don't like to live in those three islands.
While the process of Uhuru was coming out of 1950, Zanzibar was divided into four headquarters, Zanzibar was divided into four examinations, between the physically challenged of Africa, although this happening will know more and (local origin), although this happening will know more and (local origin).
At the end, there was a tribe of immigrants from Tanzania mainland, who did not introduce himself from BADEA, except to the religion and a life system, but it defeated the Zanzibar Islands, it is their country.
The Indians I don't know if they were seen as usual, they did not see as people of Zanzibar but continued to have their business activities, one person inside and other outside.
It is because this political parties in Zanzibar have participated in the voice of protecting itself, instead of bringing change, that the only goal was to prevent people from politics from the British (as the president of Zanzibar), they wanted to hand over freedom to the people of Zanzibar.
The purpose of African countries was to prevent Zanzibar to get freedom until when they probably not ready to prepare well, be able to compete with other political parties for human beings and Sunnis with the slogan which was "be from Uhuru."
It should be remembered that the founders of the political activities in Zanzibar were of African immigrants from Tanzania mainland, most of them being civil servants in the world, most of them being civil servants, while in the colonial government, it gave a document was proposed by the government staff to enter the political issues, the activities were affected.
With the party of those activities, "the African Union '(the United Republic of Africa) played for the first time in 1934, like the games club, Herbert Louis, who was a government doctor, was forced to stop politics and his position was taken by the former president, Abeid Amani Karume.
The big problem that has barred the creation of a African political party with power is lack of unity between the Association of Geology (T), Grind.
While African time they felt the importance of African Union to take power to lead Zanzibar, Sunnis with a foolish thing, they did not see reason of marginalizing and the people of the Arab Emirates because they were people of Zanzibar like others being supported by the strength of history.
Although African leaders did an effort to thank the parties of those two camp, "said the African Association" by the Shirley Association 'and' Shirley Association '(MASACA), its success were insufficient.
Sunnis with a lot of people in Unguja and Pemba are complaining a lot about or support or not supporting the Jew of the Quran, and Thabit Kombo, who joined the United Republic of Geology and African countries, that it was important to reduce the strength of another national party that is set up in 1932, "the President of Zanzibar, I believe it is good.
However, the great opposition is clear that the sponsorship of the deceased, the one was surprised by the great strength among them, especially those of Pemba and Tumbatu due to a historical difference between them and African countries from Mainland, different from them are continuing to negotiate in politics of Zanzibar and to the government of the United Republic up to today.
