It is a must for air travel only to be in Mwanza town is among the towns that are in the East African Community who will continue to benefit from the air travel business due to large numbers of government organizations are discussed.
Business in tourism together with poor vision of fish together with passengers are some of the teeth that will continue improving as a result of if he would have died a lot of journey from Mwanza City, an indication that the internet will attend a meeting with journalists from the neighboring organization of Rwanda, from Mwanza until now they had gone to.
He went to one of the countries members of the East African Community which is very close to business cooperation and we will begin on July two this year, while speaking about the journey of the East African Community, while speaking about their various activities that will be easily available in several hours when they go to Dar es Salaam.
We are trying every moment in the East Africa people and all products among them.
Arsenal as Kenya?
Together with Nairobi.
Nairobi we are playing three times a day.
It is supposed to rage like two times in that day.
Way we can't like to unite the East Africa.
And we expect that I have told the cells that come?
We are expected to come in Dar es Salaam and has shivered.
Speaking about that new transport service in that region, I would have a lot of youths in Mwanza town, Mister 'Baby Madaha has said that he was not there in large numbers of companies that provides a chance to passengers to do a long time depending on the service.
What does it help me more.
When you are in a business competition then even these organizations.
.
I ask for that meaning to the ordinary citizens.
They do not have the ability and the idea to travel.
Judge Ramadhan has a ten-fourth station to be released on the language of the first plane, and the plan has got an official opening of Zanzibar center, I would like to launch the film station until now a total of five and twenty thousand in the country to be able to provide services to the African continent.
From we?
The problem is.
