
These resolutions can benefit.
Kenyans were welcoming the new year 2015 on a trap after facing a difficult time in the last year.
Last year.
The joy that have risen up in the air and if they were seen, they did not know tribe, religion or color but were happy to cross the new year.
This is joy that as a nation, we can move forward this year by maintaining unity like the country since last year, Kenyans have taken different types of politics which is dangerous because it can be able to distribute the country.
The challenges of the security that we got in this year are supposed to be a lesson this year so that we can be able to improve our safety this week it will be possible if we will allow the terrorists who could destroy the terrorists.
The national pillar is security of citizens and it is our hope that the government of Diamond succeeded due to events of last year.
It is our expectations that this year, the government will put aside their security Kenyans and their properties, considering human rights, protecting democracy and respect the constitution.
There is no Kenyan who until now she's not unable to grow and this year the implementation of that system will come in the important phase.
The conflicts that we witnessed in last year in some of the streets that they want to end up leaders are able to fight with each other with a way of honor so as to provide a chance to democracy to ease.
The future condition of this country's condition and anyone who is supposed to do and do not expect to be given an opportunity for this year.
It is our hope that our members of parliament will cast away from the last year and directed by patriotism in their soul and constitution to make laws that will be done in the country.
It is impossible that last year, members of parliament joined the country in the foundation of political parties in the important debate of the nation.
This year, we request the Angels of Nuru and congratulate you for every decision that they can benefit from the country and not to enjoy the leaders of their political parties.
