
Slaa's conspiracy has taken place in Mbeya Village on 29th May 2012.

This week secretary general of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Doctor.
Wilison Slaa on the interview with our writer, together with other things, the resignation of the party's presidential candidate, Lukas Sambayamoto, in the small elections of Mbeya villages, following the following that came out in that interview.
When a question is first, citizens would like to understand especially on the view of CHADEMA, what happened in Mbeya villages until your candidate should not get out of this small elections?
Doctor Wilfredy has said that what happened is that our candidate Shangwe who is an independent lawyer, took the form on December 22 after being defeated by the party on 20th December.
He was supposed to go a picture together with other preparations that go with that but by bad luck on the 24, it was the first day for Christmas and 25 on the 26th of 26 as the main day.
Therefore, by knowing that there was no possibility (not to swear in front of the judge), look at the law which he said and that's when he decided to go to the commissioner of the law where other laws allow lawyers to be sworn in.
Therefore, what is what happened. However, section of the election law doesn't state that the ability to be sworn in (in issues of candidates) is the judge who alone.
Therefore, I believe it is a problem that has emerged and be in today or in the coming days, there is a great importance to look at how those sections and the law that can be taught.
Question, Doctor Slaa's question that you're getting to the law here is himself as a time of starting to vie for a parliamentary seat for who?
Doctor Slaa's sister (IAGRI) I am happy to the judge but when I used to be four days within the legal time that is required to be followed when it is four days for the last day.
We did not have a situation like that, this is the first time for the election commission to plan for the last day (not to return forms) within three days of the main day thus it is found in a condition of the way then you do not have any way.
The question Mrs Salma, has said that Shangazi has been released on 20th September and he got two days to be able to take forms and address them but also Shprygin is not the only candidate because some of the candidates were scored and why should we should not look for you because of your part?
Doctor Slaa, I think it is a broad way to be used more than saying that it is why the commission is giving a certain day for the end of the last day because another person could decide to contest, he gave him the form on that day.
Now when you are preparing that day during the main day or at the last day or the last week is denying people their rights and I think this is the basis of looking for them and why is why you want to be done by the instrument they are used to manage to be full of democracy.
A question: Doctor Slaa, the candidate of CHADEMA had a same day with the CCM candidate, Tetemesha Entertainment or CUF and claimed that it's only one who was removed because of your candidate or by the same way they are able to follow up on this issue since the beginning of the beginning.
Doctor Slaa is not the CHADEMA candidate only who has been dismissed but also the Democratic Party's candidate (GEDP). I'll take a picture and it should be remembered that he won Dar es Salaam to contest for Mbeya City and all those who are in Mbeya city, he has emerged to Dar es Salaam, for all the preparations have happened in Dar es Salaam.
That is why he came back to Dar es Salaam, he believes that all preparations were done in Dar es Salaam city therefore, he believed that the law allows to swear in front of the oath of oath.
Question, thank you for your part, CHADEMA is a thing, I have learned from this scandal, until you lack someone to stand on this small elections?
Doctor Slaa, we have learned a lot as it is that even if you know that you have justice, it is a must to take any precaution to have ever done anything that you need.
By bad luck in the current chapter between January and February the main court is taking place and therefore if you want to look for a copy of the law in court we would be able to do that until February 3 this year, it needs to be looked upon since we have done a big research on laws of controversy.
When a question is now why Doctor Slaa knows our court not to be "the same time for now, it seems that there is a time when a citizen can get the rights of the court because the court is in holiday"?
Doctor Slaa's meaning is true because I believe that this issue could make CCM am sure that the judge would have been wanted even during the night time to be sworn in when it happened during the construction of the teachers where the government used to see that there is no same field. "
The question: Mrs Salma, due to this issue, there are people (on social networks and elsewhere) who are questioning the ability of CHADEMA to be keen and even be able to sponsored by the CUF people who have the way it has enabled them?
Are you going right to justice?
Doctor Slaa's right now, I wish you a human rights and I wish you that I have been informed about the objection against our candidate at one hour and to present our form.
That, when they get inside the meetings and on the information that I said, the session happened between the supervisor of the elections, the leaders of CCM, together with other people, we are not aware of it, something that is not normal and don't ask it, it is a special strategy which was made.
And when it comes to that it is an issue of a strategy now and the people continue to put yourself, you can't know that if it started asking, there is true that the Electoral Commission did not know that on 24 people leaving, 25 on the main day and 27th on Saturday.
What causes you to know that? It is why for 40 years it has never done something in that way?
Now when you do the analysis of that kind, this environment I have been mentioned and how I have been done earlier you can see that this is not an accident and if it is a strategy then it is difficult to organize a strategy because it does not depend on people to do a mistake.
A question: Mrs Salma, is followed about the strategy of that kind that makes a finger to a finger to Shprygin is not otherwise he was part of the strategy?
Doctor Slaa is the people that are supposed to understand the procedures of Tanzania laws and they can think that for two days to fill and return forms of vying for parliamentary seat will not be avoided.
First, if the candidate did not take the forms of his party, he is supposed to get more than 20 people who want him to take them from different areas or to avoid getting the form that is supposed to act.
I believe Shangazi used his wisdom to fill well but because it is a strategy that had been planned since the beginning, therefore, it was not easy to see that fox was so much and I would like to kill him in a broad way of way.
Question Mrs Salma, on another side, your plans for the internal elections has reached where after the election was started at the end of last year?
Doctor Slaa's planning officer is going on well and now we were in a half of one month soon, we are continuing with any appeal at the top level and at the end of January we are continuing with election levels in the month of June.
A question, thank you do not get events to be taken to various suspects of corruption, at the end of last year and especially those who thank President Jakaya Kikwete for, especially considering that some of them are you, especially considering that most of the most corrupt people?
Doctor Slaa is the one who was accused of criminal offenses to be arraigned in court I don't see if we were the action of the president. I have a difference, because we agree that it is the action of the president.
I would very great secret that this have taken after the noise from stem cells and after realizing their rights, Chrizostom Thadeo and different media stations have reduced and they have started doing their work, therefore, this is the responsibility of the government agencies.
Therefore, I wouldn't say that President Kikwete is the one that he has shown because according to our law, if you start to reach a place it has said that the president has changed then, then it has a must, therefore they have no domestic freedom.
Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) is required to have the local freedom, TAKUKURU is required to have free education, that are not not involved in any way, I would have made a lesson that we have written about the noise from various involved including the citizens themselves and the media.
Therefore, the media will do his work, we are very happy and even so, we will inform you more that we see all those involved have appeared before the court.
When a question are now because there was no one candidate ready to support the opposition candidate in Mbeya Village so that CCM can leave?
Doctor Slaa's wife, we have been accused of giving our stand about it that we should never support any candidate in the race of Mbeya Village, this is due to the history of parties participating in the election there and especially the act of the day before yesterday and among those who succeeded to put the objection.
Now until it started supporting someone there must be a certain process which now it's not there and therefore we will not be silent in the issue of the Mbeya Rural elections.
Question, miss Tanzania should expect what to you from CHADEMA and the opposition in general heading to the general elections in the year 2010 to only two years since now?
Doctor Slaa's CHADEMA will never have a working plan and all times we have been strategies and we are doing preparations for the local government elections this year and the general elections this year.
So as to go to the elections, a lot of work is to be prepared, our policies and policies are put well and look for candidates with good qualifications, these are we recognized.
When a question is, we do not know your words that the opposition partnership has been officially confirmed?
Doctor Slaa's wife, was removed and said in the past that CHADEMA will partner with parties that are not satisfied with parties that they are open, we consider the constitution and their internal procedures, we will see that all this being difficult to cooperate with someone who will not tolerate.
The question is also said that the partnership between the opponents (CHADEMA) party, CUF and NCCR-NCCR) has died?
Doctor Slaa's cooperation has died since the era of Tarime.
