If you go to Grind.
The heavy rains that continues to rain in various areas in the country have caused huge disasters, including deaths and destruction of property and infrastructure in Dar es Salaam city for two days a problem where passengers have lost their lives due to many people being left without shelter because of their houses being left with water from the northern regions in the country is out of water from the northern regions in the country.
There is no one who had arrived.
I found your water on one side, for us, we have remained the vehicles that come up in front of 66 candies not to pass on the side which there is no eyes, let me read it when I went to him again that I'll get them again and that is why I get married.
We have put aside, for some time it would not be touched by what is saying that someone who is a swimming person wanted to be successful in carrying a taste of us.
Make sure they were apprehended a lot by many as it is complete.
Lets so as to know that it is difficult, we are forced to make sure that there is no reason for someone who are avoided, he has gone to any way of protecting the peace that is not yet known.
We will not think this here in the country to continue to have a helicopter from among the vehicles.
The completion of various leaders among them the president of the United Republic of United Republic of Tanzania Doctor Mohammed Gharib Bilal and the minister of construction John Pombe Magufuli, has given various statements after visiting the destruction of infrastructure that was caused by the floods which is the first leg.
.
Vehicles are going through.
They will sell them yesterday I didn't know.
You shouldn't know the old ways of new so that he can be so much later, they are the reason a report for the day.
Here and where wealth is there.
Apart from the roads, it is a must that you shouldn't recover.
How do I have heard about my age, I have never seen problems of the floods.
This is the first time it gives a big floods this way.
There are other things that the government can be able to prevent the floods we usually do so.
Its our hope for us?
They were present since the morning saying water has started.
The office was putting ten o'clock in the office.
Eucharist celebrated?
That in the past there above the mountains in Uluguru Mountains.
They are there in mountains.
If they increased the water I think from ten o'clock he said they will start doing trials.
In my accident, I will not have a human being?
Truly the situation that he was in these hours is very difficult because.
It happens at the moment is the devil of star who has been in a little because our road importance is three and she used the heart to Kilwa road and Morogoro road, all of them in one way or other African roads.
I urge our brothers to be careful, to know that they are required to help as to work as it is possible to ensure that I will bring communication between our class one city.
As it is required to have a lot of big nations in our nation, we must have different opinions about the floods which have had different opinions about the floods which many have had different opinions on the roads as well as bridges; therefore, religious leaders have been able to insist on the floods and that they have been trying to leave that so that there is a high table.
One to one.
.
One and back.
Such, Salome Mwaipopo.
He is a terrorist?
If they are still there.
Bridge is going to use.
The road has got the infrastructure of Willy China.
Culture is culture.
.
I think I think.
Who are seeing you.
At the same time he will not be floods in Dar es Salaam city caused other disasters by leaders where the Vice President Doctor Mohammed Gharib Bilal and other African leaders have failed to inspect those effects that were affected by the floods, who decided to inspect the effects that were affected by the floods which had already been used so that we can be used so that we can be used so that we can be used.
There are some signs and ask for strength to a certain amount.
Fall down.
I have not have a small need but something surprising thing is that we thank the Almighty God to thank the Almighty God, and we were able to thank the Almighty God, but we were able to know if I get married but it was in the process of knowing that you are in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process of knowing that it is in the process
The current work is when I am in the concerned authority to make efforts to restore communication is in the major bridges and reliable energy in Dar es Salaam and other provinces while the citizens continue to take more precaution on floods so as to avoid the effects that can arise from the streets from Dar es Salaam, I am Dina Moris.
