The veteran players have conflicts about dirty.
Sei, 26, 2013.

After the occurrence of severe pain, directors and government leaders and political parties in Mbeya province are complaining to blame, while every group that could be involved in acts of destruction of the city of Mbeya.
The city of Mbeya for many years has been known by the reputation of the name "Green City," with the meaning a city with the domain name but the current situation did not have the reputation again.
In addition to the effects of climate change to be open including the cost of natural vegetation in many areas of Mbeya City, especially during drought, still have been taken to control the activities of the residents of this city which have continued to rise up on an extent of losing that previous reputation.
The executives in Mbeya City have now thought the blame to politicians and security committee of Mbeya district, that they have been an obstacle to various laws including control of environment, cleanliness, urban planning and the ones that are involved in the market of the city.
It is a normal issue to find business people in the city of Mbeya City, when they visited their road products or passport.
Apart from selling of business in Mbeya town, at the moment of Charo, it has been sold to be sold by removing water from illegal water from the same level, causing a bad behavior in the city of the city.
The mayor of the City of Mbeya, Athanase Kapunga, admits lack of dirty in his town, saying that my city is dirty. "
That Mayor gave the statement in front of the Mbeya Regional Commissioner, Abbas Kandoro, in the special session that brought together the executives and the leadership of the city together with various stakeholders, so as to avoid other things to increase the waste water inside that city.
The estimates of the department of health and environment in Mbeya City shows that that city has paid 250 million tons every day, with its ability to collect 150 tons annually, while its ability are able to collect 150 tons, thus that arise from the moment are so bad and they are left roofless.
Together with confessing, he gave out claims against the directors of Mbeya City saying they have been trying to politicians together with the defense and security committee of Mbeya district, that is the ones who continues to intervene in their work and therefore to stop the efforts of cleaning the city.

However, the District Commissioner of Mbeya, Norman Sigalla has denied the claims by the directors saying that it is giving them used to evade their accountability since the law are open.
But when the situation is a lot between leaders and executives, one of the workers of Mbeya City who did not want his name to be written in the newspaper says "leaders should be careful, they are proud of those youths to Zitto Kabwe (one of Mbeya villages), most of them got married.
However, in the middle of those conflicts, he was a head of Mbeya Region, Kandoro, saying that we will talk about the habit of people to love cleaning, who have succeeded, for example Mwanza, they decided to marry off, it's a shame for the progress of development activities that are also available in cleaning. "
Together with those explanations, already, Kandoro has ordered the executives and the district authorities and the city to stop giving excuses and to implement their responsibilities considering that the law and regulations of managing the issue are open.
Regarding the small business people, Kandoro, says there is no reason to fight with them because it is part of the community, but what is required is to build the areas to run their activities and to stop giving excuses.
However, the step by the directors of that town to follow the blame to politicians and the government leaders being mentioned due to their stand every time, many of the politicians have been mentioned to prevent the citizens being faced with challenges facing them.
But the incident that touched more than the directors, they have reduced, that was done by some of the leaders of the Revolutionary Party against the decision of the Mbeya City Council to remove small business people that are getting information about Mwanjelwa and approximately one week.
At NMB Mwanjelwa is said that the directors led by the former director of Mbeya City, Iddi Juma, succeeded to make those business people after speaking to them and agreed on them and then put in special areas set aside but suddenly in some of the politicians gathered around them and asked the traders to continue with their activities in the previous areas.
