
Kabogo and his member of parliament exchanged words.
The Kiroreli village, William Kabogo and the member of parliament for Mvomero County, Miss Alice Malassy, yesterday traded accusations of words about the bad state of the road in that area.
Many roads in Swansea have been killed, a situation that will increase the vehicles.
Roads which are in the bad state is Kenyatta Prize, that of General Kaguta together with the ones that are heading to the University of Mount Kenya and the Bhebey Ndey company is not allowed.
On Saturday, governor Kabogo said that all roads in Thika road are forced to be taken out by the Road Safety Council (TKU) and the Road Safety Unit (Kenwanja), the councils that are being managed by the main government.
"People have been blaming the government of he claimed that without a special reason because of a bad state in Thika road, this is the responsibility of the member of parliament of this area," Mister Kabona told the citizens that wanted the information from what the government is doing to start in the poor condition of the road in that area.
He said that when the government expects to solve the management and construction of all the roads to the local government, he said that the members of parliament have failed to conserve the road in their parliamentary areas "but Miss Ng'ombeni, Mister Kabogo, by making his responsibility of making the road in his parliamentary area due to political reasons.
"The road in Thika town is like the ones that were not known as Bodaboda, and other towns in the country, why our governor said that our governor will go back home in Kiroreli village and other towns but he gave the remarks a check of 15 million shillings from the resident director of Bhebey Ndey, that was started by the member of parliament.
That member of parliament is holding that the road construction should be resolved saying that education and security is the responsibilities which are supervised by the main government.
Three of that area have risen up to January next year when the road will be held.
The small business party in Thika district also complained about the state of the road because it affects their businesses.
