
This is fear that Judge Warioba depends on 1st, 2012.

Retired prime minister, Judge Joseph Warioba has talked about the reports that he is supposed to be arrested and taken to court on allegations of corruption, he made those reports to be getting married with special goals.
Responding to the issues of existence of information about it means that it happens for a long time now, Judge Warioba in a special interview with Raia Mwema, this week he said that he has received up to a short message that showed that he is supposed to be arrested and charge her.
"The words I have been told to say the truth about me I see you are words from the corruption," says Judge Warioba, who led the commission of the corruption commission in 1996, the commission that until now has been forced to be given to various researchers in the world.
In a state of faith, Judge Warioba said that when he attacked people they believe that he has already been arrested and therefore some people were left with words of that he will be prosecuted.
"As a month of last month, I was impressed by the network that I am together with three other leaders, we have been arrested for a long time and also I was given a lot of phones, some people arrived in the office to make sure I have told them on the phone," said Warioba and added.
"The beginning of this month I went to Ghana during elections, I was there at a lot of times, some people believed I have already been arrested because I had already been arrested," said why he sees those words, the ones that are spread by people with the private agenda, "said Judge Warioba.
"The foundation of this matter is an oil refining company from Mwananchi Gold 'in the year 2006, some of the newspapers reports that it used to be a scandal.
We got the case in court to give him the newspapers and all the preparations of the court, have been completed and the only thing is expected to be heard, "he said.
Judge Warioba said this happening will also be discussed in parliament through the Public Accounts Committee (POC) that was revealed that there was no scandal in that project of clean water and therefore continued to be surprised by the words that are not taken against him concerning that project.
"What happens, the truth is that the clean water project had a great benefits to the nation as it doesn't like the Tanzanian gold if it would have been successful in the country if we would be able to clean the gold from the neighboring country.
But for reasons that I am not happy, it seems openly that people want this project, "he said.
The chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Accounts (POC), Kigoma North member of parliament, Zitto Kabwe, has admitted to be discussed in that issue in his committee and said that the issue has no better problems that does not tolerate the retired Judge Warioba and that he is ready to defend his place anywhere in the retired politician.
"It is true that the issue was praised to our committee and that they want to give him the Judge Warioba so I see I am not right now, I am saying that I will be the first to go to court or wherever he joins Judge Warioba and added that I will be the first to go to the court or wherever he gave the Judge Warioba and said that I will be the first to go to the court or wherever he joins Judge Warioba and said that I will be the first to go to the court or wherever he joins Judge Warioba and said that I will be the first to go to the court or wherever he loves Judge Warioba and added that he will be the first to go to the court or wherever he joins Judge Warioba and added that he will be the first to go to the court or wherever he joins Judge Warioba and added that he will be the first to go to the court or wherever he joins Judge Warioba and added that he will be the first to go to the court or wherever he joins Judge Warioba and added that he will be the first to go to the court or wherever he joins Judge Warioba and added that he will be the first to go to the court or wherever he joins Judge Warioba and added that he will be the first to go to the court or wherever he joins Judge Warioba and added that he will be the
News from the executive committee of POC have explained that, the Mwananchi Gold Committee was issued an explanation by the Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Professor Benno Ndulu, who explained the reasons for stuck for that project which intended to help small miners and also help increase the gold value of Tanzania.
In that session, the Member of Parliament for Arumeru East (CCM), Elisa Mosha, wanted to know about the benefits of BoT in its shares inside the Mwananchi Gold company, after investing 272,000,000 Tanzanian shillings for three years without getting benefits and instead of that company has been run at a loss.
Governor Ndulu said that the first purpose of the government had decided to participate in that company was to buy gold to small miners when they expected to sell their gold at 85 percent of the world market prices so that their benefits come from different times after purification.
"Our board decided to say that BOT will fly its participation in this company, will give it a loan that has made this loan to the Citizen Board, and our expectations is that this is a activities that we will enable them," said Ndulu.
In relation to the law to enable BoT to do business, Governor Ndulu said that they are allowed to enter into any political activity, including mineral gemstone and that it is not the first time and also takes place many countries in the world.
The governor said that the delegates of POC that they expected to resolve the gold that is ongoing with great success due to believe that citizens will sell gold at 85 percent of the world prices.
At the moment the citizen want to help him because I want 99 percent and now if your benefits come from, even if the company is looking at the possibility of getting an entrepreneur who will get inside, but this is not the area where BOT would have been involved, "he said.
Apart from BOT having 35 percent of shares in the Mwananchi Communications Limited company, other companies with shares are Mwananchi Communications Limited which is 30 percent, Chimala Limited (20 percent and 61 percent of 15 percent.
The charges are mentioned to be mentioned against Judge Warioba is explained to have political support with an aim of reducing the speed of corruption "that continues to be played by citizens and the retired politician, especially towards the general elections of the year 2010.
There is no one who is determined to talk about the charges against Judge Warioba together with the managing director of the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (TAKUKURU), Edward Hosea, being given this week.
TAKUKURU is said that the ones being mentioned to investigate the Mwananchi Gold project for a long time now.
On his side, second side, Eliuther Mwageni has said that he could not be found together with his mobile phone that it gets several times without answers and sometimes have been received and eventually being used.
In addition to those directors, the senior officials are not getting, one of the senior officials of TAKUKURU has announced to make sure that several cases are organized to TAKUKURU in the Citizen Gold Mine.
Mke Mwema has never been told that some of the directors of Mwananchi Gold team like Yusuf Mushi have got a plot but it's impossible for the disease and that another director, Vida Maasais' in the recent days has been questioned for two times with that institution.
One of the veteran politician, told Citizen newspaper that for now, he is one of the politicians who were seen to be a rumor of the current politicians as a result of his stand that does not affect and be a only person who doesn't have groups.
"Judge Warioba seems to be a threat to many politicians because he is not unyielding and does not have groups and politicians in all groups and even the opposition, he said that politician who has been doing something to control before the year 2010," said that politician, who has been inside the ruling party for many years.
Reports indicate that the cases that were opened in court and the others that will be opened in court and the others that will be opened due to lack of corruption that are facing politicians and several rich people that are close to the ruling party at the year 2010.
Those cases are required to continue to go up to the year 2010 in order to give a picture that the administration has intended to fight against corruption even if the cases will be one of the suspects, especially those of EPA are continuing with those cases.
Those cases will be going on in court if it has been going on in court if the former ambassador of Tanzania Italy, Professor Costa Maagi, without having the end.
Recently, the recent cases that have reduced the debate are the ones that involve the former President of Mkapa, Daniel Chongolo and Basil Mramba together with former secretary general of the Ministry of Finance, Gray Mgonja, all of them were required to turn back for several days before getting bail.
