After the Citizen and Tanzanian, who will follow it?
October 2nd, 2013.

For another time again, the newspapers law of the year 1976 has been used to cater for opinion polls and availability of information in the country through this law, September 27 this year, the government has announced to ban two newspapers in every day, Citizen on 14 days and the Tanzanian newspaper for a period of 90 days.

We expected to be so because of this newspaper laws and other laws the law are those that have the authority when they decided to use it as outlined in the opinion polls and freedom of the media in the country.

In a short time, some of the sections of these laws are respected in the media, media houses, citizens (who to get information is part of their important needs and it's their basic right as outlined in the declaration of United Nations on human rights, and for the development of democracy.

Because my aim here is not to discuss in details, I will mention these laws that include this newspaper laws of the year 1976 and national security law of 1995, the law to fight against terrorism in the year 2002 and even the law of communication and broadcasting of the year 2003.

For a long period of time now, people and different institutions have been getting their voice about the major renovations or be removed from some of the laws, especially the newspapers laws of the year 1976 and it is something sad, that these kinds have been affected by poor eyesight.

Maybe this voice has not been released because the presence of this law has been beneficial to a few people who are free, it is a great desire to make their issues, and it doesn't affect the interests of many people.

If you go back to the newspaper laws of the year 1976 and one of the police officers in this law is the one that gives the minister a bond of the great authority to be able to ban gender and use of any newspaper which he thinks is against the interests of the public.

What goes to me here is that this law does not give the real list of criteria to be used in order to ban the headlines, except that the minister can be able to ban the newspaper or any basic reason for others, or without any primary reasons (because there is no criteria required to interview that step).

In front of this law, it is not true again to hear this two newspapers, The Citizen and the Tanzanian being closed down, this newspaper is rumored to build information or incitement or those against the interests of the public and it is possible that, July last year, the magazine MwanaHalisi was banned from allegations like this (not has been opened).

In the normal state, by using the newspapers laws, it is easy for a country to be returned back to the past, those who are in power we know which all the media can be given, especially the ones that love you have made this opportunity to prevent drug abuse and their evil deeds.

By checking the media, citizens or media customers have enough opportunities that give information to this step, it will also involve many media houses and any other times in our history, this country is because of participating and knowing what is happening about the process of writing the new constitution.

In the countries that are developed in the way of democracy, the media is the responsibility of controlling it in all national development (government, parliament and the court) and ensure it gives its responsibilities to the public as required.

In the African Continent, for example, it is said that the Ghana country has been a good example in the development of democracy when due to that, in Ghana, the media have been given a special opportunity to promote creativity in the government.
