However, stomach, and Temeke.
And all those of small laws that will help to work is to do a renovation because.
People who are doing business without the procedure get the late to prevent him or any way it seems to do that, our rules and remove those who do business by the city as well as those laws, they give them various sponsors for the city as well as those laws, they give them various sponsors for the city, "he said.
On those days you are not saying about the child to live and live with the father and they put it more than any kind of tax.
Because of some time as those are the ones that do you get.
People are selling her mother rhaging as they have not joined those who were not present.
They are doing something that we should not have the law when we cannot go to all, I can't understand that, I will make sure that Tanzanians live in Dar es Salaam that they are doing business if they are still getting the law.
And for all the days you say until when you were welcoming him, there is no thing that we are made every day, oil is also business stars but if you know it will do well for all people without doing mistakes since we should inform them and those who are doing so action against the law.
.
Camp for the use of road areas like markets, but there are some drivers and users, a statement made to protect themselves with any other challenges facing the roads and caused the roads to see the roads and some of the roads have been affected by some of the roads that have had these events in some areas.
What does a prayerful person meet?
First late I stopped.
After the end, it has already died.
It is a time.
What now does it mean to say that it is my thought and it does not know it too.
He says we see that they receive.
To know the way you said to be defended by things you want.
Meeting again.
.
It's how you come like you here in Dar es Salaam to avoid congestion of vehicles to have reached an opportunity to make sure the infrastructure can be taken to the high-speed buses.
From several areas through the Kimara B area, there is an aim is to meet soon in the buses that is not worried about him.
Now if it was one of the several challenges here in the city.
Its very close to let me look at your things more than several times, but it is proud of you to know the supervisors of this course, the late Adam together with the director of the best Wilson Massawe, speaking about the challenges that I get to talk to the construction of the father's project.
Haule, Mgalula, has been launched if you want to obtain traffic congestion in the city of which they are getting in a great extent.
But likewise, we have our small laws of the council that have faith the poor people.
Children don't sell vehicles along the road, the late Adam and that every day we're continuing bricks and agents who help them.
By saying that this law is being implemented because every day we live in work, but we did not succeed to be enough amount.
Until all the big tests and open mouthed.
Minutes to say that the project is big.
And you know that in town, I have not seen.
Like other towns.
Because I wish you a new house which is big and also being implemented?
There's no distinction level, there is a problem there are things like this, this is still ongoing.
Therefore, it is not good.
