Zitto Kabwe, James Mbatia and Makamba listening to the President 2015.

Also the Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Doctor Hussein Mwinyi and the Minister of Energy and Minerals Sospeter Muhongo.

Dar es Salaam City.
Two years to be done to the general elections in the country, the youth committee.
Peace in Tanzania, has mentioned names of four people with qualifications to vie for.
Presidential candidate in the country, has explained that many years experience is not a solution.
For good leadership.

That committee has said?
To fear people who want it open that they want presidency, while using them.
Political, religious, social, culture, and sports.
Different from the explanation that those people are given a country, they will lead you.
The interests of some group.

That were mentioned in that list is the member of parliament for Kigoma.
In the northern region and the deputy secretary general of parliament, Zitto Kabwe, chairman.
The NCCR-Revolutions Party, James Mbatia, Minister of Health and Social Welfare.
Doctor Hussein Mwinyi and the Deputy Minister of Communication Science and Technology.
January Makamba.

In that list, the committee did not agree.
Leaders that have ever been able to fight for that position.
They have not announced, but it seems to have the intention to vie for the presidency.
The year 2015

Speaking to the press yesterday.
The chairperson of the committee Chief Msuha has said time has come.
The needs of the country's needs for the benefit of the coming days.

In his details, Msuha has mentioned the reputation of.
Leader by the list and that if it comes from people.
Failed to be stopped by their parties to vie for presidency in the year 2006.
That committee will help anyone who will have the qualifications.
And those four people.

The reputation are mentioned.

On the side of Zuniga scored, he has a great ability.
My leadership, and that example is the way she knows in the parliamentary committee.
The public organizations and congratulating them.

On the side of Mbatia, said the leader is.
Mzalendo newspapers in his country has changed and has a great importance of leadership.
That its wisdom has been demonstrated in the way he is leading the station.
Democracy and Tanzania (TCD) as the chairman.

"He has been looking for the quality of education for our children.
And caring about the construction of a better nation and has the ability to work.
Leaders from all political parties.

Mentioning the reputation of Makamba said.
The chairperson of the committee on energy and minerals was not true.
By touching the government led by his party.

Said Makamba when he was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
The assistant President Jakaya Kikwete for five years and explaining that.
It is a important reputation for a leader.

While talking to Doctor Mwinyi, Msepwa.
And that is the reason of leading good ministry of defense and security.
Building the nation.

