
CHADEMA is growing, CCM is abolished, but at small speed!
Fly on 09 / 2012.

Elections in the 29 wards have been completed last week, and the results being known where the Revolutionary Party (CCM) has won 22 wards (758), CHADEMA, 5 wards, while TLP and CUF, they play in one ward (3%).

In an official evaluation, it is easy to reach the conclusion that CCM has won with a landslide victory and to break up their opponents, especially the political rivals, CHADEMA, in addition to these results, leaders, members and lovers of CCM are supposed to fail to be loved together with that their party has planned to make it better in all areas.

These results also can sucks to have some leaders, members and lovers of CHADEMA, that together with all the efforts they have done in the campaign, and the appearance of outside CCM, they have been able to rise up to five wards only!

These results have a dangerous danger to the opposition side, this is because citizens who love change can go back behind and that if the current environment, CCM can win an election on 75 percent of 75 percent, then maybe the party will be able to win.

However, in making an evaluation of the results of this election, it is important to understand the logic of the small elections before starting the conclusion of the small election manifesto, it is an opportunity to defend the victory that he got in the last elections and to test themselves at the election.

Therefore, when you are making an evaluation of results in the small elections, the first issue of looking for is that the local parties have managed to defend their seats that they were previously.

That is why in the elections of this way the parties that were previously continues to die as the way we saw CCM was fighting in Igunga District and Arumeru East Africa, that will see the way CCM will fight against the Sumbawanga region and the CHADEMA will fight against the Arusha town region as a election that will also be held in this region.

Now in the 29 wards, 29 wards are important to see that CCM had won in 26 wards, CHADEMA, two wards and TLP), by Kilimba (TLP), in order to defend their wards that the previously, CHADEMA have also added three other wards in Arusha town, to take their condolences to Tabora and Malangali ward in Ludewa district, Iringa.

Yes, CCM has lost the victory that they got previously by 154 to 4 percent and CHADEMA have added that they got previously by 150 percent!

Another way to look at this important results are the number of votes which all the two parties have got in general, CCM have paid 558 votes compared to CHADEMA, which is a difference of 6710 votes which are very important to win any election in a landslide, and that is an important step in heading to his death.

However, due to the punishment is that CCM have lost four seats against the ones that were previously, and CHADEMA have added three special seats, therefore, on the logic of the victory of three seats is very little compared to the attraction that CHADEMA is currently needed because CCM should not be known as CCM.

Therefore, the conclusion which we got in this councilor's results is that CHADEMA is growing by CCM to shrink, but at very fast speed up to this speed of the growth of CHADEMA and to shrink in CCM can take a long time to suspend CCM from power, "we believe in them.

"We love change" that I know that CCM is an obstacle to our efforts to bring development to our community, political and culture, and especially the nation that involves democracy and local administration, therefore, we don't know even a little, that our nation will continue to be in power.

A lesson that we got in this results are that the attraction and votes is not a must, especially in the environment, the few votes arise from the stations to vote.

The political party goes through the fourth step in reaching the step of winning the elections. The first step is that the legal action was taken by being signed and allowed to do political activities.

The second step is being known to the voters, that there is a political party and has a certain leaders for the efforts of leaders in the country to sell the party in a third step that is needed in talks with other public activities as well as making the party.

The last step is to change some of the followers that make the party, who are the ones that can give the party the victory, especially in a high level of competition.

For now, there is no doubt that CHADEMA have been able to get many followers as it appears in the different environment.

For those who have ever worked with the new vehicle of CHADEMA (M4C) will remember how citizens are encouraged the roads just after the vehicle by showing two drivers' drivers who don't know, but there are some traffic police who refused to show the two times when the vehicle stopped.

CHADEMA's meetings have changed from the era of the women, Mzee Mtei addressing "trees" and now the meeting was very delicious with thousands and thousands of citizens who are studying with the great desire of change.

However, CHADEMA have not received the fourth step, which is very important in ensuring that the victory of this step is that of getting the party, so as to ensure the victory is very important for the political party to be done by the party members.

These are a kind of members who want them to vote at any time without the rains, whether this is a very important group to ensure the victory in the environment that many citizens have not registered their votes, which has begun being normal in our elections.

It is this group that it has remained as a tennis ball in CCM, these are people who will come to know if a group that has enabled CCM to win in the general elections that was completed last week, where in some wards the number of voters came out of 20 percent.

I conclude by saying that we love change, that you will love you and to desire to change, we need to participate in dealing with those changes.
Behavior of some of the love to think that some of the people in a certain party are the responsibility of bringing change will enable you to get in the administration system where we had gone down for a long time.
