
03 December 2013.

There was found in a mosquito of the elephant's downfall.

People are not found.
Two among them the defender of one house in Tanga province, have been used again.
20 years in prison every one after being found guilty of downloading.
To save the teeth of 114 elephants with a value of 4,081 million.
Law, Commissioner Mashaka Mhando, Tanga.

Those accused are Mister Joseph Mwarabu and Mister Richard Abdallah.
That judgment was issued by the resident magistrate of Tanga district.
Amarok Ponde Village.

Judge Mkonde said, the accused were found guilty of the law.
The wildlife conservation, article 86 (5), (TOC) and article 14 in the year.
The presence of 200 economic growth has been operated on in the year 2002.

Reading the judgment, he said those accused participated in a reduction.
Those are from the army vehicle and seek refuge in house which was not their properties.

"Maqbool Saints a billion is one of the owner of that house, Mister Michael.
He has been mentioned that at the time he was not there, therefore the first accused and second.
As an offense of being involved fully in this event, "he said.

On his side, the government lawyer, Verdes Mertesacker played.
His fellow musician Joseline Kamuhanda, requested the court to give a stern warning to the judge.
Because incidents of people were found with those teeth.

"It is good to give a stern warning to be a lesson to others.
Due to the increase of these actions, "he said.

Those accused were required to defending himself, everyone wanted the court to the court.
To get a stern warning since they have a family that are blocking him.

Judge Damiani said in accordance to the wildlife law, it is also care of the wildlife law.
An opportunity to the judge to drop out ten times of value of being arrested.
The accused, but he told that sentence to be a lesson to others.

Those accused are alleged to have committed that offense on the first of January in 2010.
Welcome me, at a house that is owned by Mister Blue has been buried and who were found dead.
83 percent.

The second charge that was facing those accused.
December 31st, 2009, in Chisholm, they failed to give information about the presence of the presence.
They were kidnapped by the government in houses that were doing work.

However, those accused tried and claimed those teeth did not have.
Instead of their boss, Mister Blue has said that in that time he was Lushoto and a family.
Its where they went to eating Christmas holiday and the new year.

It is alleged.
They were taken to that house which is in the neighborhood with Tumaini hospital, the area.
Explore the vehicle for the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF) and officers.
Two December 31st, 2009.
