As he was holding the moment.
You are near the streets they are not in Bariadi that is crossing the products they are depending on.
Now, they are saying if explaining to this one is supposed to go back to them?
Now I don't understand that maybe, P-Square has even salaries he has put him in a big surprise of his activities to register themselves with this issues, to you know that this is not true for five years even if we got a reason for FC to be installed.
Here, I told the first that it is impossible and even a salary then you will not allow me just like I am pleased with my brother to go back to what I believe if he is hard to know if he is hard to know if he is hard to know if he is safe.
Because there's no one who had gone to work for five years, you will know that their song will go back, "we will come to ask him even when the funeral happened, but the mother have talked.
Your password is really terrifying.
I don't know yourself, she knows me in a dream?
Mu here and doing work with his brothers, he is speaking with them in every phone.
That is our relatives, what is the late God bless us here Mister Ongea will go and asking for permission I request to marry off.
But this does not want.
If you are pregnant women on Sunday, we were communicating with him in other parts of Sunday.
You have talked to him to welcome him as they don't know why they are still seen.
If you are still there and juice.
Close back to his brothers even a week, then you should say that he will go to greet each one week and he told me if there is my small ability to kill me.
I told me! I want his ability to I have if I can increase the vehicle that the fare is complete.
When I register your fare I will tell you for now, he is what he gets in the style, I told him that it does not know well, maybe you can't know your stakeholders so that I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot go back here, I cannot
Because I believe it is doing what is getting.
In doing the past five years without going back.
I have the video I am happy to see I have been married here but he added that we cannot end without getting home.
Almighty God even if you do not read my brothers they will arrive here.
You will not say the mother although not the mother Getruda Gervans in Mwanza is in his home and her husband we have been seen and they have seen him are very close to now.
What is taking the child of a person can live with all the years.
And this is a sister if he will also look at me, my brother is not using it.
Almighty God, there's no one who is able to do a work tour in all the years ago to go to the child.
Almighty God will take me then I will feel even and I was not good even.
At the end of what happens, he is in pain.
There was an understanding.
I have been looking for anyone even to the neighborhood, I told me I request that here in our brothers, we are very happy and I know that the number will choose him in a bag because he did not see Simba even one day from what he told me for a long time.
I request that I don't know your car concerning your friends, to receive I told me a solution to the fare.
That's the way you have done my phone number so as to return so that we are communicating with you, you will inform you where how many hours you come up with the fare even though they are coming, but from there.
To see.
So many years.
You should be a mother and he's just on the girl child.
And the salary increase there is a day I met.
In the period of my number me, he told me that the salary pay for ten and five years now look at ten thousand shillings to you, because there is a salary increase in ten and five hours I will stop this week because the whole person is less than five.
Now she is shocked and I think this employee here he lost ten years old.
When a girl is also, I urge you accumulating wealth and there are my children who will help him and be able to do a child care!
Again these days they have not performed well in schools.
Up to those minutes, those are property, one day and all his stove is doing everything inside here, then they have finished each one has lost.
But maybe the mother think they love each other to the same children.
Only, I urge you to help in juice so as to give me this disease, all the mother without a salary.
Before you are saying, there is a period when we talk with the mother and if you want him to get him, a person who lives well then do not see her, a person who lives well then don't see her, her health is not good then you cannot get back.
Now, I'm saying that if this woman lives well in trouble, the late father comes back to her sister, the mother clapping is yours, even without a salary even without a salary.
If you are.
We were not aware because even at home, they said that right now even the fare is not for him to talk for him, "he said that the fare is.
I could be able to go back, I saw I said without being able to fight with this sister to Mwanza where I think these hours I don't know what I don't know what I don't have me.
Ras Makunja has not only eating carbohydrates, to talk about him that he is in a certain vehicle number of the woman, this here we communicate with them, because I think how she gets into the car, we will arrive.
The late God did not go back but you should be silent for women, news from our children go to the parts of our children.
The child who was beaten while looking at her sister was the mayor of Bukoba.
When you agree or not, parents to take their children a point where many people are confirmed to get a child of our parents not knowing if we are not aware if I will not be avoided if I will see how I will see how he did not see how he will do.
It does not tell me that the amount of that amount is same against them being close to the fare at each other.
He can ask people to tell me what he comes with him because of them is close to them.
He can return so much like in front of my sister who was close to my sister who was working in Bariadi City, he was working with his brother when he went to home because it is very close to now.
Almighty God bless you as he will look it it.
I request so much to know it.
Same, but as a sister to me, I request that we thank you for more that we will partner with all those who have made their children and do work hard to know how different development can be able to know for these hours we see the great wave.
Employees of at home arrived because we have not been able to reach all the reports urging them to come and listen or whether this is a lot, because you have your brother's work and you don't know how you are doing so that you do.
Our sister is here.
Now, when I get in, I used to look for his behavior and you want to know what is going on.
Hayatou, and we will partner.
There is a way we can hear a grandfather's friend for now and I have talked to you like I am very close to Manyoni, the Almighty God bless you to start afresh.
They sign me.
When we live in Dar es Salaam city, the same way is obvious that we are pleased with my brothers, but when I think it is good to know if you get my brother, then I think how she didn't know if you're doing, even if you're doing, even if you are marrying them, even if you are sick, even if you are using a officer and so that you can't know if you are using the officer.
These friends feel extremely honored.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we will go through Ilemela.
To start and thank you so much I thank you so much and we do not affect the Bible.
I thank you very much but that is the rights of various workers.
Their social welfare at the same time.
First in a sister.
All of them?
