Close to these hours you pass through this road safety program, we have ever made its main goals to remind and educate each other on the road accidents, but therefore, there are some of our colleagues that we want to do so, everyone will continue to look like each person who will stay, where everyone will continue, he is still underway.
That is why?
This is a difference or bad to her sister, even there is no one who has been successful, has shown the road, therefore, medical camp has decided to do business, we should tell you.
Maybe I was surprised and you know that a special place is still causing things without giving him the road, this is the issue of.
How do I prepare?
Almighty God just like that is the meaning that we have done all over and the world is unacceptable, there is no legal action, we have met.
This prayerful person meet?
Youth.
What are the reader at home?
And his faith that the whole home?
When he comes it, it is looking for a my son according to the ones that are now doing.
Their stars.
Many times it has been the Islamic militants, and they have said that you're doing what you are doing but if it is against the law.
What does it mean?
I know what?
He has identified himself the existence of that road.
It was a very good time we will meet today with a place where I would like to give better service here on the road, I have seen about it, where we look at it.
Those customers are going on the road that he is selling.
And let me tell me when I feel it is still a two way to see my grandfather, an artist that you must have a house to see my grandfather who mingled to the road or not if you have told him or not.
The aim is.
To look at those customers themselves you get every road safety in power, by making it carrying the government.
Therefore,
I will do you to listen to each one and it has been able to get every person to come up because, it is a wife to your father, the Parliament of parliament explained that his father comes back and is currently a strong car.
He has touched me.
The ones that you see that yesterday, it does not cause a lot of painful truth when I feel it has no problem when he did not know what he did not like here, he sees them not to leave here, he loves you.
Now they want to do you forever.
This father is a road area in the world because corruption have seen this word of that road, Mister you will see the father of their vehicles to the road, other groups were unable to go through you when you talk about him, where the father do you talk about.
