The deputy minister of information, youth, culture, and sports, Amos Makalla has said that involving the citizens of the villages of owners of Wami and Wami area in the process of paying for plots is the source of the conflict that is not true.
He said that in a public meeting with the citizens that took place at Wami area, where he has advised the council of Mvomero County to make sure that sitting together with the citizens and to look at how the process, and you know it should come out and sign up things among those who were present in those areas, more information by Monica Mutoni.
The Minister for Information Culture and Sports who is also a member of parliament for Mvomero, before speaking to citizens, he was unable to provide instructions to the District Council's office and how many hours they have failed and later he started giving instructions to the District Council of Mvomero, to meet the citizens in the area of conflict to get a solution to citizens and not.
When there are the ones that we believe in, that we do not have a pier tell you.
We hope that I have not like that, therefore, it will bring him problems.
We should also speak about the problems of citizens to run tax for crops being done by that council or when you talk about it.
Can it mean that if you go down the day before yesterday, and the key to the produce that they come from on the pitch to go.
Including the vehicle.
A citizen who takes her produce when he gets into home even if he is.
A child while some of the residents of the villages who failed in the way it deserves and they explained the challenges that are facing them including grounds and water.
Due to this situation is difficult, but now the ability we have we like and drinking water?
Also, that has the ability to do anything related to insults.
Pipelines followed by water until today since I had already killed that water will do what to do it up until today, we should see the children had six years.
"Said many people are living in one place where we do not have permanent houses.
We do not have water, there is no farms for peace and we do not have areas to help this citizens, we need.
But the?
If you go to Grind.
If it appears in that meeting.
There are people who are allowed to say people with complaints were known and they do not talk about another step, the deputy minister or do not take a form to contest for the house of our council and also through Mvomero County is a great faith in police.
