
Bishops are hundreds of 27 percent.

Tanzania Editors Forum (TCL) has called on the government of President Jakaya Kikwete to give an explanation on some of the various claims that are given by Muslims against Christians, otherwise the government thought that is supporting those allegations of Muslims.
TCLis a platform that led the main institution of the United Nations in the country, which is together with the Christian Tanzanian Community (TEC), the Catholic Episcopal Council of Tanzania (TEC), the Community of churches in Tanzania (PCT) and the church of Ackyshine. (SCA).
The statement was attributed by the resolutions of the session of representatives of those institutions that took place in Dar es Salaam city on December 6 this year, under its chairperson, Bishop Bruno Ngonyani, and his secretary Doctor Leonard Kazoba.
In that statement that has been published by, in this newspaper, TCLwants the government to give clarification on the claims that are given by Muslims all times against Christians, including claims that the government of Tanzania has been led by the system.
Others are claims of the presence of "Memoria, (MONDE) of the year 1992, between churches, and the government because of the killing of churches in the health and entrepreneurship sector together with the occurrence of the killing of robbery in Mbagala and Zanzibar.
According to bishops and other pastors, continuing to be silent for the government about the claims of Muslims, first will contribute to a bad relationship between those two religion, thus endangering unity and solidarity of the nation but also gives a picture to those leaders of the church to know that the government supports all Muslims and Muslims.
That session of TCLhas urged all leaders of churches in the country to read the statement in front of their believers before the end of this year, starting with a new year service of the church in order to meet their stand of the church in the country.

Regarding the claims that the government of Tanzania has been led by the system of Christ, the statement of TCLis saying, "words of the scandal, that the country is being run in the system, do not have any foundation of Christians, the country explains openly that this country did not lead paper.
Maybe I am happy to remind you of all the senior officials of the high level Tanzania, 90 percent are Muslims, how the country will be aired by the system of the country and the commander of the police force, the chief justice, head of the police force (all of us are Muslims).
"The side of Zanzibar (Muslims) is 100 percent and it is not true that Zanzibar don't know the representative of the commission to be written a new constitution, two-thirds of its members are Muslims, and many others just are just some of them.
"The country is being run in a democratic system, and his government does not have religion but its citizens are religious, religion, health centers and public schools together with various schools that are run by corruption, the church has continued to join these services to the community even before freedom without discrimination.
In order to remove the state of the church to continue relying on, hatred and hatred aside, different publications and open religious leaders, headaches, abusive language, poison that concern them, this issue is continuing to be left soon, it continues with great danger of getting involved in the coming days.
In addition, the forum for churches in the country has called on the government to ensure that the status of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere passes away. "This is a leader who has contributed to the national unity, all the issues that are spread for the purpose of private efforts by that leader to ensure we love you so much.
