
TRA is Zanzibar to evade paying taxes.

At the time President John Magufuli swears in tax collection so as to ensure the country's economy becomes successful, statistics show the existence of the business people that use smuggling through illegal ways, in Zanzibar Tanzania is leading in having 422 suspects.

Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, about the trend of revenue collection, the use of electronic machines (EFD), stop at a guiding price with registration of fire equipment, the acting commissioner general of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Alphayo Kidata, said those products have been adopted in Tanga and Mtwara areas they come from Zanzibar.

He said that the situation does not be controlled quickly can cause effects because despite the port of Dar es Salaam to contribute to revenue by controlling it's aim of building taxes in a short period of leadership of President Magufuli, there is still a need to be prepared for good environment that will enable the tax revenue that are using the illegal drugs.

He said that despite the port of Dar es Salaam and affordable machines to contribute to increase in revenue, also the authority has improved on the control of collection of taxes in order to fulfill the importance especially during this period of the leadership of President Magufuli.

"The loopholes of transporting it is many and have to be handed to obey them, as we look once again, Zanzibar there are 422 loopholes that are using smuggling so that Tanzania mainland is 87 percent, so they can be able to end the problem," said Kidata.

While giving thanks on the collection of tax collection, he said that in February the authority has collected 1 trillion shillings in Tanzania Mainland and in the Islands, equivalent to 10118 percent of the government's aim to reach 1 trillion shillings.
He said in January, TRA collected a total of 1 trillion shillings at the 710 trillion shillings to Tanzania Mainland and in the Islands, equivalent to 102 percent with the aim of the government to reach 159 kilometers.

He clarified that for the period of July last year up to February this year the revenue have managed to 890,536 billion shillings equivalent to 99 percent of the internal revenue collection.

According to Kidata, the collection has come as a result of an indication that the authority has put in implementation and making sure it continues to resolve the loopholes of the collection of tax for traders by using various systems.

And the Commissioner of Internal Affairs of TRA, Yusuph Salum, explained the strategies of the authority on March to June this year, that they will continue controlling the loopholes of the evasion of tax payment, dealing with bribery, together with expanding the scope of taxes by registering business people who have not been registered as well as the professionals.

Likewise, he said that TRA will supervise closely the use of EFDs) and provision of data and it will follow up and claim that the payment of tax from big debtors together with developing the tax collection.

"TRA is in the last process to change the system of managing internal revenue, therefore, through the 2017 / 17 budget, they will lead there and a new procedure that will contribute to the growth of revenue," said Salum.

On his part, the Commissioner of Department of Directors, Akoth famously known, added that the use of a guiding fee in the port is against the law of the East African Community, therefore TRA will continue with the implementation of the list according to the law without affecting another area.

"Due to TRA, it will affect the inspection and the real user, every person is supposed to pay the tax and tax according to the value of the involved products," he said.

He clarified that there are vehicles that went to the country to be signed without following the customs procedures and caused them to be taken against the procedures, therefore the owners to change TRA, are supposed to be taxed.
