
Police have reduced the child who died.

It has been written by Halima Kimwana.

It has been published in 15th of September.

The police force in Geita province is continuing to investigate the body of baby Amne Salim (4) so as to prove that it's true he had died from bad poison that are believed to be transported without following security procedures.

That regional police commander Mponjoli Mwabulambo has said that yesterday when he spoke to this newspaper through phone about the claims of people and livestock affected with that poison, a situation that is expected to be transported with motorbikes while in the whole time.
Normally in that province where there is a big companies in the mining of minerals especially the gold, contributes to the rules of security procedures by using great vehicles, it uses a solution.
However, the commander said that the child resident of Kitoro Busanda district and livestock are reported affected by the poison that had qualified, while being transported with a motorcycle way being open in the end of the past.
"The information from God is one of the son who died from claims that affected with this mosquito with several livestock, we are expecting to mark this child.
He said that the army is holding two people who are believed to have benefited from the ones that caused the poison that are not safe and it is claimed that the chemicals had been provided in Geita to be taken to the gold stone for the purpose of selling gold.
According to Commander Mwabulambo has said that in that area of Busanda County, there are small miners of the mining of minerals, therefore, it may be of them using that chemicals to sell the gold.
"We are prepared to ensure we are visiting these areas to provide education and details about the danger of these poison that are required to be transported to security and are not affected," he insisted.
The information officer of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, Zohra Moore (left), said that the ministry for now does not have answers directly from the fact that the investigation is going on, to confirm if the effects which took place in that village, arising from the effects that happened in that village.
"Investigation, when confirming you to speak about more on the issue, but at the moment we have no reason to be one, but truly, this disease has effects, any person or a animal is found," said Msuya.
