
It was the madness of his wife?
Marion Moore (28, 2013.

In his details, the suspect claimed that his brothers were forced to anyone, because they will help him a problem which will arise.
Before implementing those killings, the suspect was given a certificate of bananas which will continue to eat when he's when he has thrown out his former father, Lucas Kiziguto.
When they go back to the village, he was told his parents wanted to bury his late but the relatives of the late they refused.
The accused in his explanation he claimed that, he was arrested by the village chairman and his secretary who had not know about that issue, he claimed that his parents told him when he reached the police to do when he went to him, he decided to register his instructions.
The suspect made up his details by saying, "I am my first explanation and said they will help him today on 10 / 8 / 1984 I have told me the whole truth when I met my wife but due to the advice of my brothers, those are my explanation and I will talk about wherever he is.
The body of the late took place on August 8, last year 1984, after being operated on by the doctor and two weapons that were found at the scene.
Those weapons which are canes and Mundu has been found at the scene of the incident at the time of removing the bomb.
There was also a evidence that was given by the defense officers in the court that two weeks before the accused of implementing the murder he was sent.
He was sent on July 17, 1984. His father, Mzee Peter Kizanga, (the second witness) and his brother Majjid, Anthony (the fifth witness) claimed that he was malaria and spoke to things that are not understood.
They have explained the court that, together with the suspect being found in Chisholm, but he was not found with a mental check because the talks did not be understood, but even so, their explanations do not go hand in hand with the only witness of the suspect accused of a sharp suspect.
This was a doctor of Chanjamjawiri secondary school in that time that it has explained the court that he is him who had gone to home for the suspect accused him, after being called by brothers of the suspect.
He claimed that when he was seen to see the suspect he was chosen as alleged to be the father of the suspect and the accused of the suspect in court, and did not see the suspect in acts of violence.
He took the additional tests in the body of the accused and getting an ancient attack that is worth 38 dollars. He knew the accused by giving the tablets or passport for a three-day loss.
The doctor continued because of the court that on July 20, 1984, he went to visit the suspect and found his human body energy and his health condition has been restored.
The accused when he saw even though he complained to the doctor that he has not yet got a letter said since that time the doctor has never heard any complaints about the suspect.
Another witness was a member of the ten houses, according to his explanation he claimed to be told that the suspect was found, but he didn't hear a mental problem.
He noted that I have never heard that the suspect has been faced with the ailments that brought him mental problems such as malaria that had gone down in head (yellow fever).
Some of the defense made a evidence to prove that the suspect had severe malaria that had gone down in head which he has also brought him a mental problems.
"A patient would not be able to do acts of violence because he was trying to when it reached due to malaria," said the lawyer.
He continued to say that, "the patient's patient is supposed to be given treatment at all times and it is possible that when there is no patient of the type that is able to recover, maybe until when he was the patient.
In his explanation at the court under the oath, he said it is possible for him who had killed the late and he believes it is possible that therefore, because he was told by his parents that he had gone to his wife and he was surprised by his wife and she was still unknown.
He said otherwise, it would have seen what he has done until when he was chased by, where the suspect continued to say even when he was walking, he didn't know anything that he did not want.
According to his explanation, for the period of July 1984, and August 1984, it was a very difficult time to him and he does not remember anything which he has done in that period.
That is the full story of the defense of the defense in that case where it depends on the section of the madness of (HFO).
