Alt my, a lot of things like that, the late God bless me or to me, Diana the late Adam and I don't know me, then I don't know me, then I don't know her, then I don't know it, but the child using the truth.
The Almighty God is in Diana here.
I have written since I ended up since I ended up but I succeeded to arrive here and I want to arrive here and I want to arrive here and I want to reach a certain thing and then I don't see hundreds of even I don't like you.
Speaking to the rapper this money, when I look there is little here in the province.
Very much and then I see a little of you, you will talk to him, to call him there.
Let me tell you know the father here on my birthday while in Nairobi.
However, he has not aware that the action came when I tried to throw words at each other, I tell me what he was infected.
Difficult, let me know or about.
Those are words.
I have seen the late God you know here, it is not speaking about words so that I am speaking.
I also care!
What is it?
See in the field you do not loose the phone and I am understood.
Then I have not seen me, I don't know what I don't say it is like everything that the late does not go back to them if you feel it was a country and I don't go back again, there is no one who did not go back to the stoves that have never been heard again.
And your family will be the truth, the Almighty God bless you say that I come to school, I have talked to a dirty crazy.
I know what you know is what you want.
When it is here, now is the late God about your name and there is no one who does not have my work.
He asked me what you want to inform me when I'm in there, I saw popular as it is a thing of his death, then I want me to leave it because I can't know what I believe in, then we should know how I don't know how we do not like.
Among others tell you in the moment I ask you a question, what you ask ourselves how you came out and how you want these catalysts and the sweetness of us.
When you get that, the Almighty God will contribute to you a gift, then then now I will just stumble.
