
It is proud of JKT, 50 years only.
Jide 11, 2013.

We got our condolences to the commander of the Army of defense and security, President Jakaya Kikwete, head of defense and security, General Davis Mwamunyange has and special greetings to the head of the National Housing Corporation (JKT), Major General Raphael Muhuga.

These are our greetings to ask for that important part for the nation to fulfill 50 years since it was started in July 31, JKT is an important event like the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere on how he got to explain the meaning of the police force.

Yes, in the commemoration of 25 years of JKT, the teacher entered secret saying that "the meaning of JKT is a nation to claim that the youth service and the youth came for the opportunity to go to the nation for any work which is needed.

In another language and by concentrating on the Mwalimu Nyerere Day, JKT is a sign of patriotism in the youth in the country, we thank all those who tried to fight against JKT, the thoughts they were before JKT Ruvu occurred in Israel where they have had a culture to unite their youth nationally in their camp.

As part of the good citizens in the country, are proud to witness this platform with 50 years of its existence.

It is proud of this institution which was started just after Tanganyika got Uhuru, the year 1961, and as we have explained, congratulations to all who carried the idea of starting JKT, including the Tanganyika African Union Association (Tanu) and Tanzania People's Association of Ghana, in 1957, when they were invited to attend the celebrations of Ghana in the year 1957.

The specific congratulations to Mwalimu Nyerere who represented Tanu in Ghana and Human Resource Summit will arrive in the factory by carrying the idea of starting JKT Ruvu.

Yes, although JKT has never seen because some of the leaders, by preventing the use of youth "according to the law, but we believe those who came through it, are at a great extent, they used the answers of the lack of patriotism that comes out of many years behind until now.

We believe that without the presence of groups of people who came through JKT in the streets and in the office, the current youth who in a large part of patriotism is a result of a result of the extent that they have been getting tired even in participating activities in the estates, the nation would have been great problems.

And on that meaning, we are supporting the youth event in accordance with the law so that they should be given the JKT Ruvu training to enable the youths of Tanzania, so as to build discipline, patriotism and teaching their skills, finally contribute to the security of the nation and economic development.
