We have never seen Salva Rweyemamu and State House.
May 16, 2013.

In addition to being the most important writer, but I don't know Salva Rweyemamu, the assistant director of communication in our State House in Dar es Salaam.
Since she spoke to private sector going to government in the State House, there has come out a lot that should be discussed in different times including the improvement of the state house to the public, the lack of professionalism in the decision and the performance of the directors of communication and the symptoms of the Department of National Security.

A teaser that is not enough, the performance of Salva Rweyemamu, has continued to bring talk about some people, each time when he bought his heart or using his own pen.

One of the important things of the father of the nation Mwalimu Nyerere about the State House, is when he said, "the State House is a very big place," he died in the State House more than 23 years and until now he had the courage and told them that if they can see him even if they can see the cause of the White House of the State House.

The sacred state of the State House for the father of the nation started early before it was not so used to sit in that building because he also saw him at the State House is an important area for the unholiness and the founding father of the nation because it was born by the colonialist.
In knowledge of his respect to what is called in the State House, he got a lot of problems to see that someone can live in the field and he knows how to live in the State House, the state of the nation, at the State House, and even discourage them.

It is a surprising thing, a few years after freedom, the father of the nation, started efforts to leave the state house and to live in his private house including Msasani Mall and therefore it's not because she was dain to state house, but he had off itself so that he could not enter into the State House as a house of Black Americans.
He saw at the State House, office and he went to work if we get others, then he went back to sleep, Msasani at the house which he was unable to make it a lot and they were unable to sell it.

Due to the fear accompanied by honor to our State House, the father of the nation saw him at the State House to be a place where welcoming the national visitors, to perform office activities and the important decisions of the nation.
He did not have a meaning that presidents who will not live in the State House like him, but he had organized to show the area to be more than Sh1.

When you look at the office of the father of the nation and our country's state, it is like we have two sides that can be discussed in his place, this issue of reports offered by the directors of communication has left many questions and leave depressed.

Salva Rweyemamu, he was a journalist and an eye for the community to make sure that the great and strong man at the State House is the care of his own pen, told the State House, Benjamin Mkapa and to close to them.
He was able to inform us so that we should not see if I think at the state house, I think you should not be careful with the great shape of the state and its responsibilities together with the great success in the State House if he would have reduced inside.
