
Tuesday, 30th July, 2013.

Best farming for fear.

Their thing of a person gets very fast here in the country of Bagamoyo, Kibaha, Geita, Mwanza, Tanga, Mtwara, Lindi and other areas.

The real situation.
Manufacturing Company is a big branch in Pwani County not to sell 900 meters from the sea, where there is a lot of heavy rainfall but by using irrigation farming, Swahili language is from 31 degrees Celsius, what are there a permit.

Soil.
The soil must have enough medicine and it does not affect the water contrary to the agricultural sector, you can use the sun or diggers so as to increase natural fertility.

This season.
In the northern region with two rains for a tree planting season, it begins just after the first rains started, it is good to rise in a short time so as to protect themselves so as to help get enough rains before the end of the season to end.

A tree.
Use the seedlings of one type and whose age is same as the appropriate care is available and it will also be able to build a program, long distance from each other and to the front line, two hundred and a distance.

For one acre, you can buy 4200 savers and for one hectares, you can buy 4,006,670 shillings so that your muscles makes a small-shirt, then we make it like a small-old man and in each other.

He does not know.
For those who use the industrial sector, it's good to use NPK and the P-Square which will put two months after planting and 12 months after planting after that, I will not have no weeds, but it's better if it will use abusive language.

Pest.
A pests who attacked them is yellow fever, which is removed by asking for drugs like the male and Karaegypti.

The disease of buying seedlings can be filled by using copper and stir up or by preventing seedlings to the herbal medicines (OPD) before planting trees.

.
Most of them are ready to be harvested on the 18th of 24, after planting trees due to the amount of rain and sexually transmitted infections, which takes place using swords and we have been able to make sure the quality of their quality.
