
Lots of hostility said that it does not last year in Zanzibar (May 30th, 2012

In the last article, we saw how it was difficult during the era of Uhuru's activities for Zanzibar to form a good political party of the national union to lead the country.
We saw how tribalism and Mchuchuma is from East African countries, has distributed the whole community in order to prevent Zanzibar as they get Uhuru ', "we are from Uhuru," until now, the people who will plan well be able to compete with other types of contraception?
The fear of Africa was that because Sunnis with a foolish thing is (that I quote) 'is more than Africa, there was a great danger of the administration of the country to fall in the British.
We saw how the first efforts of the African leaders, to convince the leaders of "African Association '(SA) and" Shirley Association' (SA), to unite their parties to form the nation in Pemba, different from now continue to bring a political division in the islands and shook the government of the union.
In general, Sunnis did not have political complaints against human beings especially considering the history of the islands, they felt it was creating a African Union in the islands because it was unable to launch a African Union in Zanzibar when it was the people of Zanzibar.
Contrary, the people of immigrants from the mainland believed that they should be the source of business that will be sent in East Africa, and that there is still a result of that business.
For their plans of creating a Taarab group, "our leaders" and "SA" met in the year 1957, a few months before the first election in that country, in order to form a strong party of African Union, but they did not succeed.
Although the decision was given by Pan African Child in Pemba, they gave two difficult conditions and one is that their candidate will sit and be known by the "African Union 'Association (MAC), because these conditions are not accepted by the" African Union' Association (ASP), because these conditions are not accepted by the "African Union 'Association (ASP).
The surprising thing is that under the Democratic Party (Zigamba) that is set up in 1956 as the national party, because of the national leadership that was not directed by young people from Tanzania mainland.
The leaders of Pemba Island of Pemba, Mohamed Shamte and Ali Shariff town who came to have a new idea of creating a party of "Ambassador of the People's Party (CCM) in 1956, a party that however was not permanent, but it was not satisfied later the establishment of another party of" Zanzibar and Pemba the People's party (Zigamba) in 2005 with its party members.
They should start in Ziwani County, Shamte and Shariff town, they had great strength among the community of Geology and Zanzibar in general, therefore, it's not only that they were able to break their opponents for Zohra Moore (ASP) in two constituencies out of Zanzibar with the promise of Zanzibar to remain under Sultan as the attorney general of Zanzibar.
To the same, the readers do not see what made up causing a difference between those political parties, Zohra Moore (ASP) about the whole issue of freedom and administration of the country?
Which one should have a better service to the people of Zanzibar than other than others?
Previously all of all, it should be remembered that all parties which were the British Government produced in Zanzibar as the sponsor of the nation (to bring information) since 1890, as a special program in the country to reduce the strength of Sultan on the fight against the business.
That was being canceled by the party soon as the British to hand over the government to the people of Zanzibar and Sultan remain like the general election as it was in time of the sponsorship of that party, Zohra Moore (ASP), did not have a conflict with Sultan as the attorney general, but started the government.
Although Zigamba has not been written about color or racism, class, the fear of Zohra Moore (ASP) against that party is among the top leadership being taken by human resource instead of African and antibery.
If you remove local people from Tanzania mainland, a big part of people of Zanzibar are smoking in the way the way we saw there.
Africans and ASP), they saw the Zohra Moore (SUZA), by as to see as it was supposed to lead Zanzibar.
They believe in Zanzibar it is more better, because part of the source of Sunzuki Escudo Timbo Kalugira and Brenda Kharono.
That is where the founders and the defending champions of Tanganyika and Zanzibar (Tanzania) when they get strength until now announced that Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar have a long history of political and cultural cooperation from the month of time like African countries, and don't know that, even if they are people of Zanzibar on the historic state, who are right to rule Zanzibar.
The problem of tribalism and discriminating on Wednesday during the general election on July 23, in Zohra Moore (TSNP) involves itself and defeated the Revolutionary Party (ASP), to form the government under Mohamed Shamte (Zorro) as a way to ensure that the government will not be sold by immigrants from Tanzania.
The problem of the new government of Haruna Shamte, came out to power on December 10, 1995, it was forced to have a decision on how to address complaints from the ones involved in the African Community) against the United Arab Emirates that has been able to take them to the islands.
One offense of the government of Shamte, is when it started a program to bring back the African continent with the origin of the mainland countries in their birthday, and their positions were taken by human beings they are chosen to be keen.
This step raised for Zanzibar's political security and it will not allow the youth in Zanzibar and therefore they are forced to employ themselves quickly to youths who do not have training.
That resulted in a group that has complaints by death in Zanzibar against the new government, with skills in use of weapons and experience in the operation and plans of the police.
Therefore, the Zdravko Logarusic will not return to power, when it was launched by the activists of the roads, January 12, there were only a few months before the general elections of 1963, the list of those revolutionaries shows that the revolution were led to a large section and African countries from Tanzania.
By his resignation and his party (ASP), due to be discriminated during the process of freedom, President Abeid Amani Karume urged them to sell their political parties in Zanzibar for 50 years from January 12th, 2014.
This is saying that if Karume was born up to today, the first elections in Zanzibar after the Revolutionary Party was done in the year 2014, by paying attention to the old government, ASP Masoko in this situation continues until today, 36 years after his death.
It is this racial segregation that is improving the political division in the Islands, to some of the people of Zanzibar seen as a citizen of the second bridge and others that those who need to rule and enjoy the fruits of Uhuru.
It is because the good political reason cannot be given out of CCM Zanzibar and CUF Zanzibar, as it has reached the appropriate time made in Accra, Ghana, between Zigamba and ASP) in 1949, in the basis of the bad luck.
Despite Zohra Moore (Alayhi Salaam) has been made, and ASP Masoko to form CCM in 1997, it is headed to CUF Zanzibar, and the Zigamba has been taken by CUF Zanzibar and to continue producing the veteran racial segregation that has been taken by CUF.
So, Zanzibar is another country in a country called Tanzania?
