More than three million people die every year due to diseases caused by lack of clean and safe water, the water problem is bigger than five hundred and five people living without a girl with clean and safe water.
Our article today gets the problem of availability of water services in the rural areas and our journey is to come up to Maganga village in Pangani District, the aim is to follow the efforts of the residents of this areas to find a solution to them.
For water schools now last year, the late God bless you, opposing my joy to be the same.
That he was going on Friday at two o'clock at the past eight o'clock at my eight hours.
The report of the water sector that was released by that ministry during the commemoration of the primary and safe water project, shows citizens who receive the clean and safe water is five and six percent in the capital city of the other provinces.
Say.
It's not the same way it means that the source of buying water in many areas in the country is water that are under the same month in May the ten thousand and three hundred percent of wells or one of nine wells that were abducted.
Said, what we got is this issue of water problems.
Or the problem of tribalism.
You can baptize?
Therefore, most of the citizens or we all the citizens now get water due to a lot of relief from your home, I don't know what I will go in schools I have received.
And you are in your home to you for that situation the problem of water is wrong?
In Igunga village is in Pangani District, boys together with I have not seen to be in the area of Pwani region still its residents survived, every availability of clean and safe water.
Pangani District is famous for you to be a person of Pangani who allows them to carry water into the Indian Ocean by removing water claimed to students in the air to go into the sea, therefore the issue of availability of clean and safe water is a riddle.
For that years I arrived here, it was a problem or I was again but there will be the boreholes that has not been found.
There was said that six times I was using yesterday he was able to pass yesterday due to the end of that period I was rains and that he has.
In the year 2005 and two, he called the mother of Zekiem themselves with a problem.
This is from fire until I've heard a drought.
The late does not have a special stand but for this recent years if there are ten years ago until now, there is a water problem directly.
There are women getting problems, we request you to have faith.
There should be a child, you can't know how he gave him, he wants them to ask for medicine, I have lived with Sherman, due to a problem of water.
Only one well is depending on the sky in which we are doing.
In prison's water project is among the many projects that were started by the citizens and increase the strength and various stakeholders in the water sector, this project will involve water catchment areas so as to make sure that water have been found to buy products without a short time, to ensure the citizens had a lot of water.
Two villages, citizens had a huge problem of water to pass.
Therefore, after being seen that there was something like that was caused the committee that allows for issues to look for every way so that he has not been found, I was called by a clean water committee.
Better the committee.
They put aside small contributions.
Later he is going back.
The late God rest his views with the parliament that every village that we get ten years in every corner, take advantage of water projects and the World Bank to be elected as the ten ones that makes them get the effects you know.
We have done to work.
I think the committee will get training Mister to get training, I was waiting for now!
Later, the contributions are going on.
The Mayor.
To be elected in those ten villages and in ten seats it is not disaster.
At the moment the water service will bring more challenges in the women group which usually have found themselves using a lot of time looking for a lot of water and safe water at a long time due to lack of water and safe water so as to start a water project before the water we were getting.
Where we were we liable to the private water?
And it is going on but there is no distance of those with them in the period of eternal peace, we want to even until there is one period there is a winner.
Yes, we are going to get water.
And when you look for.
This argument that you can go to the morning until the eight hours you get.
There are there.
Let me start because I get not here and we have got water into the machine for our project then I have also been like we women also care for.
.
Our family.
This will, the contributions for the implementation of the water project being received on a big level and stakeholders in the water sector have agreed to support the efforts of the residents of Pwani province saying the whole government will not be put in the process of the World Bank's plan to help ten villages in every district.
Water.
I hope.
What is where to.
I will come to come a lot and great success here.
You end up in water that are currently underway and in their cities.
For now, do not get the effects.
