
The international expert of economy has started, it will be careful.

While Tanzania's economy is taking place in ministers and governors of the Central Bank of African countries together with other international leaders, including the Executive Director of the University of Dar es Salaam, Doctor Haji Semboja, has said that Tanzania has already affected early as it was expected.
The statement by Doctor Semboja comes at that two day meeting that were held yesterday (March 10), to discuss on how to maintain the African continent and the effects of a great importance of the economy, we will agree with many countries including those who are sponsors of the government's budget.
According to the growth of the economy, the economic effects against Tanzania have started coming out open in the fields of investment, employment, business and even in politics and more, those effects are signs of continuing to protect the community ethics.
In his explanation, that will be posted in the next week's edition of this newspaper, Doctor Semboja wants some effects of early this newspaper, Doctor Semboja wants some effects of early this newspaper, Doctor Semboja wants some of the effects early in Tanzania as well as reducing workers, salaries for workers that remain and even reduce the cost of production.
He says that open effects have started to come out in the beginning of this year that takes of loss of employment and reduction in terms.
Apart from that situation, he says that due to the great shape of the economy in the world, the informal sector in the country will continue to be dealt with especially considering that many people were able to invest capital in the informal sector, as the body or the way to improve economically and to grow them in this conflicts.
According to Doctor Semboja, although there are symptoms of the growth of the informal sector in many areas of urban and rural areas, the sector that every time are retired, women and youths are, who registered themselves in the sector, most of them don't have skills and experience in the sector and eventually they recover.
On the side of political effects, the expert says that the great importance of the economy in the world has started to show the effects, that can destroy the peace and security of the citizens and the nation.
Inside the issue of a great secret of the economy, Doctor Semboja believes that there are several things that can attract the society to prevent it from more effects.
"The allegations of corruption, the killings of the albino community, the increase of people being employed, poverty and each other signs are challenges of political leaders, education, water, energy and abusive culture, drinking and personal interests among the leaders.
He warned Doctor Mgwatu, "situation can be used as basically the democratic reason wanting change of political administration in the process of voting for the local government elections and the general elections of Tanzania next year."
According to Doctor Semboja, other effects shall be secret of continuing being affected by ethics in the community including so as to attract more in crime, crime and bad behavior of drinking alcohol and modern culture.
He is also said that the increase in democracy, information, information, knowledge, and ICT development (technology and communication) has changed the poor, traditional and cultural practices of the community that concern their rights including it and their freedom.
However, Doctor Semboja says by bad luck there are many who don't know the borders and their responsibilities, thus making a habit of values.
"For example, it has been a difference between the elderly and youth in the sex issues of alcohol, drinking alcohol, a result of wanting to get quick wealth through the legal procedures.
But he is saying that during the social and political side, the situation is like that, the effects on the side of a private sector in the country like agriculture, tourism and minerals have continued to be big different from it was expected by the specialists of the economy at the end of last year.
In agriculture, the reports show that the price of coffee is stable and it has reduced by 24 percent, it has dropped by 24 percent while it has reduced up to 27 percent, between July last year up to the beginning of this year.
"It is claimed that the important products in the business sector will participate in the period of the year 2009 to drop the price of these important products to make the dangers of getting the income of foreign businesses," says Doctor Semboja.
He says that due to the drop in prices and production of production of agricultural products in the country, it is clear that the government's income, the National Identification Authority (GDP), a reduction in employment and the increase in poverty is things that will be taught in Tanzania.
He says in his research on that research of being in the first half of this year, the great importance of the economy has reduced the speed of the needs of the countries that are developed to plan the journey and tourism in Tanzania.
Here, Doctor Semboja says Airtel is good to recognize that in addition to that Tanzania has a lot of tourist attractions like Mount Kilimanjaro, most of the animals in the southern region of Zanzibar and Pemba, our tourism is under little compared to countries like Kenya and South Africa.
"The biggest reason for poor tourism here in the country is together with having infrastructure to tackle them, huge taxes, services and bad prices for the tourists.
Therefore, the great joy of the economy will be able to have great effects in areas where tourists thinks or got their money not to get better services that they need, "says in the minerals sector, the situation is not different from the agricultural and tourism sector.
The drop in the prices of minerals and growing up with needs have affected the mining activities, business and investment in the mining sector.
Here in the country, already some of the gold mining companies have started to reduce activities and employment as strategies to reduce operating costs.
It is said that the situation is so bad, the United States, Europe, China and India can stop investment in the country for fear of its capital and getting losses especially considering that Tanzania does not increase the sustainable production of business and business.
He says the greatest danger of the next budget of the government is that the donations from the government can be reduced and that things are going on the poor, the ones with good intentions will have a little income of giving such a donation.
He says Doctor Semboja should be easy for countries that are developed to get their governments use by reducing the donations that are ongoing.
"There are many effects of many types, there are those who want to help in providing donations and loans without conditions and great interest, those who are ready to provide loans for economic, political and social responsibility is the one that's ready to provide loans for economic, political and social welfare, a situation that is swelled to and especially due to the warning was issued to business banks in the country.
He said the banks in foreign business in the country have started to be keen in providing small loans for the purpose of activities of small businesses here in Tanzania.
He said that previously they were not able to provide a lot of loans for the purpose of private sectors that are run by patriotic, different from now, this will contribute to stop the patriotic investment for their development.
