23 October 2013.

Malinzi giving his strategies today.

.
Our reporter.
Having only four days before the happen.
The general elections of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), the candidate for the position.
Presidential candidate, Jamal Malinzi, today is expected to meet with journalists.
Officially launching his campaign, while giving a sustainable plan to promote football.
In the country inside his period.

Speaking to the writer.
This news Dar es Salaam.
Yesterday, Malinzi said he has decided to officially launch his campaigns so as to prevent it?
What he is expecting to do, if he is elected to lead the agency.

My to me is an important thing.
More than we expect to know my policies and you know what I will do if I will do if I will do.
Power of leading TFF.

"You can be Ukawa.
How do we benefit many as you like soccer, but it has taken back again.
Soccer did not love their lives and there is a place we are supposed to clear that that is what?
I want to put publicly.

"This is not the time.
Make noise, we must look at all we want to take advantage of this action.
Respect, I don't want to put everything in public, it is good tomorrow (today) we shouldn't wait.
And you know everything about me.
"I believe?
I will be understood by what we are starting with voters in the TFF, tomorrow (today).
But you are supposed to wait and know what I will give you, "he said.

Malinzi, a candidate trying to be a big position.
That seat was as a result of his great ability to the leadership inside the parties and club.
Games in the country, said together with all that, he believes there will be no game.
The dirty election in the election.
"We feel.
A person who is the lead to the instrument, my what I want is to be right.
The lack of any dirty game, "he said.
Election.
The TFF commissioner is expected to take place next Sunday, where it is being waited for.
The big number of soccer fans here in the country to know who will take the seat from the seat.
Leodegar Tenga, Tenga.
Malinzi has been asked.
He succeeded to win in contesting for that position, after the great deal.
It was previously his name entertaining before the International Federation of International.
The Football Federation (FIFA) has urged the elections to be stopped so as to listen to complaints.
Different candidates.
Guidelines.
FIFA is the one that is assisting in a huge amount to Malinzi to return to vie for the position.
Presidency inside TFF.
