The family war of CCM, CHADEMA.
Deodatha Makani, 2013.

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) has launched its councilor's campaign in the small elections of Nyansalwa Primary School, Sengerema District, Mwanza, for calling their opponents that it is the aides that their main job is supporting him from the wedding.

While launching those campaigns at the Sengerema primary school grounds, the secretary of NEC (ideology and propagation), Nape Nnauye, said since the year 2010 with other opposition parties, they have been an illustration of the citizens of that ward, while giving a promise to the citizens of that ward, the opponents will also be careful.

"It is not you know the work of an actor, is wrong to cancel the crows of the late mother and even if it is impossible if an actor has a good suit than the wedding," says Nape campaigning for the CCM candidate, Charles F. Mlingwa, and added.
"When a ten o'clock at night, they want to move forward and wanted to get into a room, they will be told they want to sell their wedding on the past, even these brothers, it's no boundaries."
Analysis of things have put it open that due to the high level that is in the country between CCM and CHADEMA, together with the one of the parties which were left open by councilors who were left open by councilors who were left vacant by councilors who were left vacant by councilors.

CHADEMA candidate in the ward, Emmanuel Mnadani who is backed by the former councilor of that ward, Khamis Kikula, who released the position after moving to CHADEMA. Moreover, the member of parliament for Nyamagana, Hebert Mwinuka, is expected to lead the CCM campaigns in that ward.

Smiles is explained to decide to release the level in that position and then joined CHADEMA from what he claimed was that the state of issues was being run in that council after the government failed to take action in time, some of the workers of that council were mentioned to be involved with embezzlement of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG).

Luiz appears to destruction.
That CCM campaign meeting that was addressed by CCM Chairman of Geita Province, Joseph Omog, who together with seeing the candidate of his party, he refused to blame the government of CCM that it did not exercised in dealing with suspects who use public funds in various councils in the country.

"We started holding the sponsors of the council, me and Khamis Khamis, who defected to CHADEMA), but the guest of honor, this government did not exercised since there was no reason why the ones that come up to now were able to be paid for money for those who were given," says Msukuma and added.
"We should stop fanaticism like Khamis Khamis asking for CHADEMA who would have been able to come up while seeing our candidate."
Msukuma, who also served as the chairman of the District Council of Geita before his resignation, said the citizens have been forced to continue to listen to his promise, and wanted the residents of that county not to see the councilor because that work will be availed with them but he didn't meet with the problems of the citizens of that ward.

Responding to talk about Msukuma, Nape said there is no servant for the council who had bought public funds, he will be safe for him to be a member of parliament of CCM or any other party in any party.

"It is true we are told to court that there is a legal way you did not be followed, but I urge the member of parliament and the chairperson of the council, that they look at a very long time, I advise the court to start in special court for the purpose of theft of public funds so that they can be taken for a long time," said Nape.

Picture is a sharp teeth.
In Mwananyamala hospital which is in the Buchosa County, the former councilor of the county from the year 2010, Adrian Tizeba (CCM) who later moved to CHADEMA in 2012, where this journey is requesting the position of the party through his new party.

Tizeba who is the blood brother and the member of parliament of Buchosa Constituency and the Deputy Minister for Transport, Charles Tizeba has promised to attend the stage during the launch of CCM's campaign in that ward at the end of last week and asked the citizens to decide to pick his child because they are full of discipline and he has taken up his mother's duties.
