
The ways of drinking water is witchcraft or theft, Morogor 22, 2012.

I have continued to discuss how we are looking for and allowing the ignorance of the extent that we do not learn from our ignorance, and how we feel you are ready for us to make us learn in our ignorance of us.
I have given several examples of foolish things we are doing, together with statements about time to the heads of the society, two nights ago without considering the issues that are being taxed.
Our parliament has been an important center in the improvement of the ignorance of the ignorance, on how it continues to protect themselves and the aim of getting political points instead of looking for ways to serve the citizens who are members of parliament.
I have already explained the truth that is accompanied by the parliamentary commissioner where all the member of parliament confessed to say that the president is wrong, especially if a member of parliament of the ruling party is not allowed to make sure that his president are not aware of his president.
I have explained himself about another head that she has written as a result of another member of parliament to discuss the conditions of our judges, something that is known even to a small child.
The first department to be blamed for bribery and laziness (in all internal and outside the country) is the court's department, and any person that deals with this matter which has no problems to it.
Your statements that concern from the Parliament that are being taxed are enough to look for him in the speech of our heads and other leaders are proud to say that the procedure to ask the prime minister comes back and there is no prime minister for reasons which he did has broken.
Without doubt that the member of parliament was expecting to make the prime minister to think that he is good for the parliament, but he said it is successful to make the questions asked, that he has failed to answer questions that he has decided to see that he is proud to see that he was writing the prime minister.
Examples like this are many so much, and wants to make it up closely, he can even write a book. During this week's article, I would like to agree on our action and we do not accept all the truth and if we do not want them to stop the answer.
I'm talking to Olympic games that ended recently in London City, I look at the participation of Tanzania.
One young man said earlier before our team, it has not come back to London that if Tanzania could not come out and one medal, even though the timber, he would say that he knows all his certificates.
If we are doing what we are doing here in other issues, issues concerning sports we have been doing a long time to an extent that right now it is like we have shown the best in competition in games but we are participating in taking participation.
Surprising thing is that every time we go to another team to go to the international competitions, we are expecting to learn by saying that a team will give a medals.
Every time we have been unsuccessful, but we have refused to learn, and instead, we have continued to remove the ignorance of continued.
Everyone who wants to know how he knew this is to build a stable foundation of sports development we have no need to invest in games in school, from primary schools, secondary schools, colleges and industries.
This is a job that needs a long-term view, for a short time, every range of success will be taken against them.
If we want to know that those who put medals in the international games that is how it appears, but because we do not want to know what we are doing.
He wants to win a Olympic medals without investing in school, it is equivalent to look for treatment to "get one cup" or shivered because of his foundation is witchcraft or faith in which they are theft.
I have heard many times the people talking about sports problems in our country, many claimed that they are involved coaches from outside, which is its meaning are whites.
This is not supposed to believe in the community that is back believe that even the good heart of a woman must be taught even if they have been redeemed by the bodies of India.
We have written the mind and we believe that without an increase, we cannot do any other problems.
But if we look at one second one history, we will see that this is a great importance for all the time we are doing well in football, for example, our coaches were here in the year 1974, the coach while Paul West has launched Simba SC the semi-finals of the African Cup (1993), coach while Abdallah Kibadeni, and so on.
Now the gospel has been the importance of foreign coach to come from?
Haazu taking us to every corner of our cities, there are several hazards.
"From Nigeria," those who give treatment to all the problems in the world, do not win the exams, to remove bad luck, planting, at work, to be rich and another person.
It is clear that our people like the lent way to look for human ways is ignorance, that comes from not knowing our mind and not wanting to work hard and knowledge in a permanent system.
Investment in knowledge of the school needs good thoughts and plans to move forward and that will follow up for all the time.
Children who start working in working and different sports training should be emphasized that the primary school until they complete the university, and every phase of the development of them followed up closely.
The teachers and their coaches will be required to arrive at the games grounds, they will be able to take place at affordable houses so that the very high school can be able to make sure the children have been forced to be approved, so as to build their bodies as part of the school between school and so on.
More than our mind and "lost" our time to do this time, it is supposed to destroy the youth from the camp for three months, then let's go to Brazil for the next 100 years we will be here here.
Fanaticism do not help a lot of people in this, but if the fanaticism will deal with the plans that was organized with great keenness.
I will come back in history for another time in our life as a nation, we have been identified himself as lovers (fans) of sports, in the second phase and the fourth phase.
The first phase of the third phase of our presidents did not introduce himself as sports fans but in all the fourth phase, it is the first phase that had great success in sports.
Its under this phase (first one) they were found, the sports star in all the field of games of games, Mbwana Abdiwawa, and Mujengi Gwao.
We ask ourselves what is the success of all these sportsmen, and the others who did not mention them, it is determined by a person who does not introduce himself as a fan of sports and he did not tell sportsmen that he would defend his fellow coach.
The answer is what there is a procedure they used in systems.
