
We want to contest for the national protests.

Friday last week, some of the believers of the Islam religion who participated in the streets of Dar es Salaam to oppose the killing of Palestinians and say that they are required to be done by people who will arise in the Gaza region.
The peak of that protests was a meeting that was addressed by renowned activists of human rights in the country including Professor Ninatubu Othman, and Professor Issa Shivji.
I commend the believers for the step that is following that they took from the fact that until that day the demonstrations are done there is no other country in Africa that it has Bluetooth or gave a statement of condemning those killings.
It's not only Africa, but even in the United Nations, it's not a lot to be open about the restrictions of the African countries coming from line, until Monday this week they still advised the government to say or do when people go down.
It is something sad, that what is the only thing, we are going to do other citizens of this world is to pray to them and rebuke foolish things and do not have this great success against a human being.
But it's an important thing that we are silent and to fail to do even this which is in our ability, because of preventing people who suffer from 60 years now, you need to use several years to understand.
To say it's just that, that conflict is going on, it started last week when Hamas Group had killing four people and killing four citizens and breaking up of doubt the time that was coordinated by Egypt.

These attacks have caused Israel to decide to revenge using the plane that could cause bombs in Gaza and caused deaths of Palestinians and say that apart from causing huge destruction of infrastructure and buildings of the area.
It is possible that Israel has the right to take stern measures against that amount, every person has an amount of money that could be patient equivalent to every nation is as a measure of the pain of his citizens.
There is a nation where the 19 children can be fed a fire in day time due to carelessness, but the news changed without someone being responsible, but the accident was enough from power to the prime minister, do not see the minister of the ministry and its officers in other countries.
Just recently, we have witnessed a big problem that is owned by the Greek citizens after the country's police force killing him a bullet in one student of that school, an indication that he gets to power in the whole government of that country.
Today, these are these players who doesn't have lost the journey of more than 800 kilometers from Tel Aviv up to the airport of Uganda to save his citizens who had been abducted.

He is Israel and also his intelligence organization, Mosene Nyambabe, is among the best organizations in the world in that profession, which among other things, its work is to ensure the safety of its citizens inside and outside the country.
But the rights they have decided to protect its citizens, it did not have the right to kill other citizens of the world on the excuse of knowing how to protect its citizens.

Certainly, it did not expect the truth that in this 19th century, the world have been trying and insisted that it is one village, one country can get out of another country and killing 500 people in a period of three days and there is no one who continues to resolve it.
While heading to this big number of deaths and it did not get away from Israel, when he was pressed by the author of CNN and Israel, they believe that that is the only way to ensure that Hamas has left their attacks against Israel areas.
While these are going on, the leaders of other countries in the world have continued to get married without saying anything, maybe if you fear being infected with "great brother, who is the one who entered the chest and the another he got behind.
According to "great brother" that is where we are supposed to do something in search of this conflict, because where the elected President of America Barack Obama visited Israel in July last year and gave him a statement in one way or another it can have contributed a situation that is ongoing in Gaza.
While he visited the small town of, there are some people that are in the Israel region and the area of the Gaza region and the time after time it has reduced the bombs from Hamas group, Obama was quoted saying.
"If a person gets a bombs in my house, two wives have already been tested at night, I will make sure that I take any action on my ability to ensure that I commend the people at least doing what the nation has failed to prepare themselves against violence against human beings.
Hitler did not know the possibility of the presence of African countries which were waiting to see Tanzania will do what is because his president is the chairman of the African Union (AU).
When we thank you, I think that these demonstrations are faced with a lot of voice such as usual and I think that they have prepared those demonstrations, they would have been able to move ahead and prepare a lot of demonstrations which he would like to involve all political parties.
In this period in which many countries have gone into a sexually transmitted disease due to anyone who will start doing that spread, it is clear that the main voice from Tanzania would be heard apart from the voice from one area in a big community of banana?
So, we believe that believers of other religious leaders in this country who are not affected or giving any statement about this issue, are not involved in violence against a human being that is going on in Gaza?
It is true that the conflict between Palestine and Israel in a large extent involves religious issues and that is why the Islamic countries were the first to inspect the killings that are going in Gaza.
I believe that it is good to listen or support international issues in our country's stand instead of fulfilling our faith as a nation, we are supposed to protest against sexual violence "without caring about the faith that is being done to the violence.
The national demonstrations against violence in a human being has benefits that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, they did not meet a group of people that is believed to have party members of God and therefore, and they want to inspect the attempt to protest the Hamas Group.
We need that we are also being 10 or the next 15 years if you get the ability to own great weapons like they do not fund, who will enable you to use ARVs against human beings they can avoid violence against human beings.
