The city of Arusha were stuck on it.
Kristen 14, 2014.

The City Council of Arusha has been unable to announce the names of it between the financial year 2014-2015 for more than two months now due to what is claimed to be self-driven by a veteran politician, the committee of evaluation and evaluation (CAG).
That conflict of interests has also been explained by the councilors, some of the government leaders and the directors of the council who every part have tried to fight for the companies with their interests.
As usual the process of getting an agreement by collecting revenue from the City Council begins in April for the tender to be announced to the media so as to give time to companies and private individuals to send an application.
After the process of various steps it will be completed, it's no qualifications to start on July first which is the day of starting the financial year of government.
However, the situation has been different from the city of Arusha and up to today (Wednesday, August 13th, 2014), names of companies and people who attended various tenders for the financial year 2014 / 15 that have not been completed, while the city was unable to give a notice to save the public about that issue.
The reports indicate that as a result of that situation, maybe the city council seems to have a big part of its revenue due to the foundation that it was forced to collect income of two months instead of 12 months if the law has revealed.
According to those reports, the contract of the city was more on May 29 this year, a day that was also the last day to submit the request for people and companies that gave those agreements.
Among the tender that were placed is together with the ones for the tax tax, tax for posters, the tax for small and small buses (buses) and the modern stations.
Other collection is tax for markets as the central market of Arusha, the Kilombero market, the main market of Chengula, and the Marketing Manager of Santa, Yanda together with taxes in the toilets that are owned by the city.
According to the estimates of Arusha City Council for the financial year 2014 / 15, it is expected to collect tax revenue that is believed to reach 9 billion shillings from various local sources.
The budget of the City Council for the financial year 2014 / 15 is estimated to reach 53 billion as the salaries for workers and development in the education sector, health and water.
More information from the council of the city explains that the five companies from within and outside of Arusha were requested for the tender which is paid for a year in the collection of more than 700 million shillings.
Those companies and the amount of money present in brackets is together with Junction (46 million), it continues to collect revenue after winning last year where it takes 44 million shillings per month.
Other companies are Almushefrei (T) LTD companies (46,500 shillings), Yono Auction Mart (57,43,000,00 shillings), Ngapa. Limited (467,888 trillion).
On the side of tax for posters that were asked by Jehovah's Investment, Kitila Kakingo, Bina Granovskaia, Robert Kachumu, a series of dairy products, NAS and Trading Company Limited.
The conflict of interests and corruption.
The news from inside the city say that the conflict between him is involved with corruption that started after the evaluation committee that it is led by free experts who are involved in the procurement of public funds to give out his suggestions to the board of tenders for it to go to the committee of finance.
Reports are indicating that the evaluation of evaluation led names of three companies (names are reserved) among the five companies and giving a win (pass) by percent so as to make work to the board of tenders for the company's reputation than another company.
"After receiving the recommendations that were done by the executive committee of the tender that made those recommendations and requested Tanzania to convince them to ensure the renovations that took place," explained our source.
Our report giver has added that even so, that committee of the contract of the city that is led by the communications officer of Multichoice, Musa Musa Zungu for the second time to the evaluation, while the time of announcing the tender is not allowed.
"The aim of delays, was to try to give an opportunity to one company that wanted the tender to collect tax for further, to give it more effort after being left behind by another company," added our report.
