
The governor, a nominated member of parliament running a ceremony.
By Mwangi, professor.
The political war between the Governor of Kirombero School, Joseph Ndeki, and the Member of Parliament of the Central Bank, Mister Gambalagi, ended up to disrupt the Republic of United at the Old Trafford stadium.
Those two have been asked for political and time to time, their war have been getting into a liquefied mixture of political stakeholders in that he said that, including the servants of God and councilors.
The difference of those two are believed to be approved by the picture that Mister Gusmao and the picture that Mister Gusmao and the first election in the year 2017 and that's why he has been launching a phase after other accusations against Mister Ndeki.
In those celebrations, two opposition groups gave quills, mix up with feelings of those who were supporting them.
He had the governor's commissioner Mister Joseph Kengele posing for a donation of an additional police officers from the neighboring country so as to control the problem in the field while fear of fighting and heading to the purchase of war.
That fear broke down during defecation due to lack of young people from several areas of he claimed that there was a rumor that those youths were unable to bring about flatulence.
The problem happened when several councilors who have been supporting Mister Ndandavala, they condemned the governor to be the head of that governor, therefore we will increase the development of the governor.
They told Mister Gmwaijonga has said that, he will be able to implement its development projects using his development program (CDF) and gave them immediately to intervene in the projects of Mister Ndeki.
However, Mister Gmwaijonga has said that he went to talk, where he had given you a lot of councilors, I will now mention them as 97 households that do not have a vision of working with transparency in that village.
When he made a red carpet, Mister Ndembeji, talked about the accusations of Mister Gogo who led the attack that he invented the development of development and also to implement discrimination against those who are suspected to be the followers of Mister Gwao.
