
Politics has survived, a scandal of natural gas will not turn the Parliament of Same ajaj.

The scandal of the mining of minerals that will not return home in Mariana Village, Same District, Kilimanjaro Province have started on a political chapter, after the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) has urged the government to take legal action against the executives who inherited the project without getting legal permits.
The cadres of CHADEMA at the Kilimanjaro Region and the district of Same at the end of the week they held a public meetings in Chanjamjawiri secondary school, Unguja, Makanya and Ndungu.
In those meetings, together with other things, the leaders were asked to speak to the mining of minerals that had been done by Divine Kweka, Arusha.
That meeting also worked with the councilor of the party, Vital Voices Global Partnership in Moshi Municipality, Hawa Mushi.
However, the project was banned by the government as a result of the announcement made in parliament, June this year getting a decision by the government to prevent the mining conducted at the quarry until the verification of the environment that was completed.
While giving that announcement, the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda said he was quoted saying "the government has stopped all the mining of minerals and will not return to eNEWZ of Mount Shengena, through 10 / 10 / 05 / 2016 from 10 / 08 / 2016 from 10 / 19 / 09 / 2015.
But at the time the government has given that announcement and at different times, that issue comes with conflicts, in their public meeting that took place in Gajaj village, yesterday, the secretary of CHADEMA Kilimanjaro Region, claimed that it is true the company that had mining minerals was not having legal contracts to run the project.
"The act that he did the investor from Willy M Enterprises, is not worried about it, it is a violation of the law of the country, we will call to the government together with him to make sure that they do the process to investigate that issue very more," said Chuwa, while using all those by the citizens that attended that meeting.
He urged the company to be responsible so as to resolve the huge destruction of the environment that he used in the quarry at the peak of Uluguru Mountains.
"After the cause of the killing of several holes, therefore, this company is supposed to be responsible so as to remove those holes and later planting trees so that the natural vegetation can be used to return to his normal state," he said.
He claimed that the evidence of the presence of environmental effects arising from the mining of minerals is open in all villages in Chanjamjawiri ward, and for now the villages have no water after reduction of water sources.
"You know the citizens are witnesses so that when you see how you get water to irrigate your farms, there are no water, people are forced to prevent water from a long distance so as to irrigate vegetables and other crops," he claimed and added that.
"Even though the policy of our country is enjoying investment, but we want investment that will help in accidents and the lives of people in general and not like this, we have witnessed the effects here, which has brought the effects already."
Chuwa, asked the members of parliament of Same East Constituency (Anne Kilango) and Same West (David Mathew), claiming they have not made enough efforts to give a solution to the issue like their citizens had advised citizens who were listening to him that they should not vie again to the members of parliament in the general elections of the year 2015.
And the party member of the party, Crala Mbaki claimed that the investment that took place in the area was the "couples" because it intended to reduce the small group of people, especially some of the district and district leaders.
"The project did not have benefits to the moment because the investor did not help anything more to build his own road so as to pass the vehicles that sell the minerals," he claimed.
He continued to claim that, the roads that enter the road from those villages is bad and they are not available easily and that for all the time the mining of electricity will not be done, some of the villages were getting a share of money from the investor for their private benefit.
"The community of people who are in the villages that surrounds the area of the project have a lot of primary problems and if the project had good goals, therefore those involved have been unable to help citizens by increasing social services and therefore they have been unable to build a plot in this market area which we are needed for a meeting," he claimed.
And the coordinator of opposing the extraction, Allen Kuzilwa, told the author of this newspaper that for now they are thanking the government because of the steps taken to prevent the mining of minerals.
"We thank the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda and the minister of state, the office of the Vice President-environment, Doctor Theresia Saso, for the decision they made but he made it is that, we request this project to be very close to the security of the citizens of Chance," said the contractor.
He said that their stand is still there about that project which are supposed to affect their lives and of generations to come because it can destroy the natural system of the environment of that area.
Responding to the claims during his phone conversation with the author of this newspaper, the director of Willy Enterprises LTD, Willy Mgonja, said that they don't have any truth because his company has used a lot of money to help the citizens to implement several development projects.
While giving an example of that projects, Mgonja said that his company has given five million shillings in Mariupol City, for the construction of the village offices and 30 million shillings to build a water canal together with the machine for preventing water so as to get to the citizens.
He said that in that village, they have given 45 million shillings to build a water dam and 98 million shillings to build the road that unites them rural areas.
"We have also donated 200 iron sheets and five million shillings for the construction of VASHARI, and also 200 iron sheets, maize flour and Bexhill," said Mgonja.
He continued to defend his company saying that my company has built two classrooms and gave 200 iron sheets for the construction of Same Secondary School and we have also given a lot of money for 60 million shillings per month to the government and more than 400 people have been sacked from that project.
"In general, we have done a lot of things that it is not easy to remember here but records and reports of all social projects that the company involved in, is in the office of the District Commissioner of Same and we were done in a short," he said.
Mgonja also denied that the project did not have permits or legal documents so as to address them, he claimed that it is not for lack of permits and documents but it is small mistakes that they are expecting to work at this time, which are realizing the government's order to stop the mining of Tanzania.
