
Embezzlement of money did not care.

A non-governmental organization has been revealed to be the main goal of developing public funds and corruption.
This is as a result of legal reports after the investigation took place in those organizations this year.
National Housing and Environmental Coalition (NRF), is one of the ones that was mentioned to be involved in embezzlement of millions of money.
It has been noted that the workers in that organization have been receiving services of non-fair opportunities when the government says it was able to reduce the cost of salaries and payment of fees.
Those news were shocked as a result of information that was written by the organization and the Executive Director Geoffrey Noma in the beginning of this month and warned that he would make all the ways that they collided with illegal immigrants.
Among the ways that the workers were given money for Bwiru, is to prepare meetings and be paid for food shortages in the afternoon even after being given money to participate in the meeting.
He also said that in that meeting, employees were to make many more than what is required and to make sure that the number is reduced up to ten years in every meeting.
Others were alleged not to be responsible for being the acting director even in a short time to hold their big leaders.
The big leaders in that organization had employers to be paid every day without any procedure in order to deal with that committee, the workers will be employed by the committee which will be supervised by the assistant director general of staff issues.
The big leaders in that organization had employers to be paid every day without any procedure in order to deal with that committee, the workers will be employed by the committee which will be supervised by the assistant director general of staff issues.
Some of them were working for a short time contrary to the way it is available and therefore they will be getting four hours from work, the report explained.
Our officers also have also used for bribery so as to provide license to the operation of organizations and private people in investment that involve the environment.
It's not the only thing, this system has been mentioned to be normal in many non-governmental organizations that have been using a lot of money that has been reported to these organizations.
Earlier this year the chairperson of the board of the organization of dealing with misuse of Mihande secondary school, Mister John Mutasingwa John, said there was a huge embezzlement of money in that organization.
He also said the supervisors of that organization were involved in corruption.
As a result of the investigation that was done last year, it was noted that among them being beaten by 30,000 dollars in Nairobi, it is 24 years which had had given a license to the organization.
It was revealed that the organization lost 1 million shillings from 2 million as a result of certificate of payments for the selling of alcohol from the Blacks, Nairobi.
