Lazy officers.

It has been written by Frank Leonard.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

The government has announced to unite with the executive officers that receive the salaries of every month while political parties and loans (Saccos) in their areas are going on.

Speaking to groups of women entrepreneurs and youth from Mufindi district, Iringa province the day before yesterday, Minister of State, Office of the Prime Minister, Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labor, Youth, Employment and Children, Jenista Mhagama, urged the directors of the council not to follow the eyes of those officers so that they get their balances.
He said through Saccos with different problems being unable to benefit from loans offered by various institutions with the aim of increasing capital because of failing to get support from the district officers.
"For example here at Mafinga town, I know you have Saccos of youth but because of its problems it is not present at the right time with those loans and therefore for now, the members who want to bring themselves development," he said.
While encouraging different groups of the community to join entrepreneurship groups, Mhagama warned those who depend on the allowances of politicians to run their lives, saying the fifth term government has started removing that page.
"There are those who have the strength of working but you don't listen to him because like the ones who have had a culture of running their lives by receiving free things, some of them surprised them on the morning until evening," he said.
As it's aiming to remove those people on the village, Mhagama said the government wants to see there is groups of entrepreneurs with the commitment of bringing development because the plans to reach them and enable them to give them loans.
He advised the council to ensure that they are building the areas that will be used by the youth because of business or other development activities.
Previously, the Member of Parliament of Mafinga town in the city, Renatus Nyanda, said the start of developing entrepreneurship groups will help reduce the whole issue of development in Mufindi District with three constituencies.
Up to now, the council of Mafinga town, there are 28 groups of entrepreneurs with a total of 2391 members, capital of more than 221 billion shillings and more than 244 shillings and for more than 844 shillings.
Some of the officers from the Post Bank and the People Economic Empowerment Council (NEEC) who were accompanied by Mhagama they sent the groups to use those institutions to increase their capital.
