Raila Odinga went to you, otherwise he will be a penalty.
APR, 03 / 2013.

The election season in Kenya that ended officially in the afternoon of last Saturday, few minutes before it started ten o'clock and one.
There is the chief justice, Doctor, Willy Mutta, when he removed the world the decision of the High Court concerning the legality of the Electoral Commission to announce that Uhuru Kenyatta and his running mate, William Ruto, is the winners of the presidential election that was done on March 4th, 2013.
Mutta said that the panel of six judges of the High Court met "with one statement" that the presidential election was done on free and fair.
That decision made up the complaints that were taken before the court of wanting to prevent Uhuru who will not enter the State House and it was a big blow after Raila Odinga was the attorney general in the court.
Raila Odinga, the leader of Orange Democratic Movement (OD) and the United Republic of COMING, is the former great opponent of Uhuru in the semi-finals of vying for presidency.
Another person known against the commission of elections and Uhuru as well as SACCOS, was organized by civil servants of COMING, (center of African Administration).
There are two things we need to ask for keenly the first time so that we should not hesitate to make great changes in the legal system and the court in Kenya.
Secondly, I believe you should not forget that all the courts in Kenya are led by Mutta as the Chief Justice and this is a big friend of Raila Odinga, he was a great friend of Raila Odinga, he was a great friend of Raila Odinga with his fellow musician who were cooperating with him in the day of fighting for a new constitution and changes in the country.
The friendship between Raila and Mutabunga caused some of the Uhuru followers who before the case they defeated Mutabunga to give him into that case.
Until now Mutabunga has no problem if he has no doubt although there is no problem although there is a problem that does not have capital on his left wing.
Mutunga is praised, and we will have its integrity and his heart to defend his rights and it is important then that we should not forget yourself that he is him who had announced the decision by Raila Odinga with Beauts COMING, for every time the decision enables Uhuru Kenyatta to be four president of the United Republic of Kenya.
Certainly, I will not be dealt with if I will hear that Raila Odinga had gone up after his lawyers and AfriPhones company to give their motion.
I am saying this because it was clear that about their competence, those lawyers did not give any more evidence that prove that the votes were stolen or that they were stolen, an extent of taking that election to have errors or which is a big secret of taking people to cause incitement.
They could make those lawyers is to show that the elections commission was defeated here and there to implement this and that.
They showed that there was very difficult mistakes and of the machines but it's not that well done a sharp object in the machines but it's not that to close a habit of stealing the votes or voting for votes.
The decision by the High Court like I won 74 matches because it is a ban for Raila Odinga, it's a blow because he also wanted it to move forward, therefore it is good for the third time to vie for the presidency of Kenya.
His father, the Jibwage na Kaluwa, who was the vice president of the first president in Kenya, also tried his wedding and was unable to be the White House.
Those who were looking at Karimjee in the presidential elections and to be played since Raila will go to vote and many people do not want to believe this disease and it was not told them to check if you are.
The truth is that when Raila Odinga and Uhuru are saying that they are near the elections Raila Odinga, claimed that they are needed because of the mistakes that he was doing that on the way.
The mistakes were able to help Uhuru and Ruto, be able to appreciate the election procedures if I have explained in the last article that I have explained in this previous article in this newspaper of Raia Mwema, an error in the victory of Junction.
One offense that he did Raila Odinga is depending on the western countries that they had given the victory in that election. I don't know where those countries are not seen in Kenya's elections.
