
The fishermen were tested at the prices of fish about 20 percent.

While the regional economy of the Lake Region is supposed to be shaken, due to the drop in the cotton price in the world market, a new blow has gone to Mwanza province where fishermen and agents have refused to sell industries due to the price of more than a half.

The fishermen and those agents are forced to learn from the price of fish, the type Sangara that contributes to them to the fish by 5,500 shillings up to 47 million shillings per liter, claimed that the new price will not enable them to run fishing activities.

In addition to the strike, fishermen and agents are forced to speak about the habit of living in fish, when they want the price if they want in while the government is silent without taking action when that business is the presence of the economy of Mwanza Province and the lake region as a whole.

Clatchy Marimo and the agents that are running its activities in the Java Island, Kagera province, says the fishermen in one voice have agreed to take a decision of removing the fish by selling them to the industries until the price will be taken to re-branding.

"In our meeting, we have been asked for several resolutions, one being them to stop fishing, we know that we will not be affected, them (with the fish industries) and even the government will be affected because they do not get tax," he said.

Other resolutions were taken as a result of stopping the identity cards in industries because of buying those fish, and requested them to meet with industries as part of the government leaders who are involved in the fishing sector so that the truth is known.

Bakari Ramadhani, who is an agent of the fish, says that he was called a phone at the beginning of this month while on the way from the islands he went to buy fish and will only be sold at the fish price while already he has bought fish at a high price than that has been announced in the factory.

"I had been made to bring the fish that I had bought at 3,800 shillings per liter, wanted to give me a price of 3,000 shillings per liter after huge conflicts and agreed to take them by 3500 shillings in every one," he said.

He also added that he decided to sell at the price of losses because he had not been a way that they could make it because the fish, where 74 matches were not able to take them anywhere.

He said later the officer for the phone, the Minister of Natural Resources and Fisheries, Doctor Mathayo Suleiman Kova has explained the situation and wanted to know if the government has those reports and what will be their fate in the issue, but the minister told them that she has no information with the increase in prices.

Ramadhani says it is a dirty crime against some of the fishermen who have industries have been able to sell in groups to an extent that they do not cooperate in what they are given because the prices are offered to groups.
He claims that some of the agents are paid high prices more than others, their prices start from 2500 shillings of 4000 shillings depending on the type of agents.

"We will leave the poor, because our some of us will not be careful, to claim that they are the ones who are paid in high prices than others in terms of those fish," he complained.

The leader of the Who Lives Forever, has pointed a finger to a finger saying that it has changed the fishing sector and to make sure it does not have himself very well and stop issues that do not affect the fishermen.

"The government has not been looking at this fishing sector, it has not only released the fishing sector, it has not just come to themselves if they are not present, its results with industries are left to decide everything in order.
Why in the cotton the government is working so much to fight for the price but we are not praising?
This strike of fishermen and agents has come at the time the sector is evident due to the reduction of speed by fish, the type CAN in Lake Victoria, with the fish industries being paid 30 percent of its ability to resolve it and it was in the year 2005-2008.
Approximately one million people in Mwanza Province alone it depends on Lake Victoria to run their lives on fishing, selling fish and processing.

This sector has also contributes up to seven percent of the regional income, from seven factories of fish that are in Mwanza province that were able to get 2800 employees shillings for the year 2010 / 2011 to 208 tons of fish, were sold outside and paid 212,150 billion shillings.

Speaking about that situation, the industries are saying the reduction of prices comes from the price of fish, the type CAN in the European market, especially in Spain and Italy which were affected by a great importance of the economy in those countries to buy some of the products.

"Here which comes from the ordinary business regulations, it has dropped from our market, we did not want to go and market prices, we did not decide to reduce the price because of reducing, even us will decide to reduce the price because of reducing, even us should not be careful," said Versi.

He added that this is something to give a great answer to the economy that are facing the European countries where there are their big customers.
"My factory is in open up to now those who will be invited are also preventing people to bring fish, but also we will not be forced to live, therefore, this is business and it is important to follow the market regulations," he insisted.

One of the employees of Tanti, has told Bongo Five that the price that is being offered by police have better than that is provided in Kenya and Uganda where they are also industries for fish and sell it in that European market.
"These prices they have been given here they have a lot of relief, Uganda and Kenya, the situation is so bad, the price is very high, therefore, these they will affect the Tanzanian market because Kenya and Uganda will continue to produce and transporting fish.

He cautioned that each other to be used well by the neighboring countries to buy the Tanzanian market at the fish market because the time those fish, they will not be able to show that opportunity to be announced and that can be affordable to their competitors.

"You know that competition is currently in the market is very big because my fear is very few so that we can be able to sit without taking fish, at the danger of losing the market to our competitors in the world like today people do not accept these times when they get opportunities," said the employee.
While the fishermen are there in order to know their fate on the fish, their brothers the cotton farmers are at the fact that due to what is explained is a drop in their prices in the world market.

At the price of starting from one acre of cotton it was 1000 shillings during this year's season and it will end 1000 shillings for this season, both buyers want to be 1000 shillings per liter while farmers want to be 1000 shillings per liter while farmers want to pay shillings or 700 shillings per liter, a situation that celebrating the tension about the beginning of the cotton season.

This condition of the drop in the cotton price and now under the fish market may cause a great secret of economically in the regions of the Lake Region, cotton and fish are among the crops on its economy.

Mwanza Provincial Commissioner, Evarist Ndikilo says his office has got complaints from fishermen and they involve yourself but he warned that it is an issue that his answers is not fast until when they meet the owners of industries and fishermen in order to see how to end the conflict by partnering with the concerned ministry.
