George Bush who commanded?
Jide 24, 2013.

Today, together with other things, Bush who denied the causes of Karoli LTD, saying he was talking to protect the requirements of the law.
In his letter told the governor, George Bush, Karaaha, Karawaki together to reduce the level of bad behavior which I did, because the truth is a big offence and I am responsible for what happened, I know it's justice and law requires my life for people who are not guilty, I explained their lives at night.
"If the punishment is death is the only way and the last one that will fulfill the claims and restore the rights, I agree with it and I will not be responsible in any way the law wants.
"I was advised by the lawyers who were unable to ask for those charges, and I have been able to believe these experts of the law, they know that I have arrested Jerry and Dealah year.
"I commend the fire about my involvement in those killings, because I am not guilty, I was not guilty of that offense.

I have ever blamed my mother because he is the one who was my guardian and I'm looking for example, and that is the one that made them to improve this upbringing at all times.
When I was on the age of 14 years, he told me that he took it to the areas that were men and asked them to be careful. I wanted to complete my mother and I wanted him to know her mother, I wanted him to answer him but he told him.
"There is something in my heart that it does not say what I did is not right, I don't want to relocate the blame to mother or the community, or given out drug abuse, on the one of the killing of two people who are not guilty.
I am happy that I decided to have drug abuse, if I didn't use those drugs, but I believe that two people had been successful today. I believe that two people had been successful today.
"Siwema who is going to go to that house the night before yesterday, went to arrest any person, but that is not the reason for the truth is that, we went to that house, and we will not overlap with two people who are not guilty.
"We leave where for approximately one month, we tell ourselves about the killing that it was in October, three months since I went to receive me in my heart and I went to receive Jesus in my heart.
"I started the right for the first time after many years of not doing so I also decided to send money to one of the children's children, I told me that I will not see me if I will not get money from my sister, I told me that she will not get money from me because I didn't see her pain and I didn't know her.
"14 years ago I was part of the problem and I have been part of the solution and I decided to do good acts for 14 years not because I am not supposed to do such actions and I believe that I am not aware why I am not supposed to consider my changes so that I believe it is not good for me.
"I don't know that if you are seen during the judgment of death, but I would like to assure you that if you will put my punishment and be a sentence of life, I will continue in my life and be good in their lives.
"I thank you people here in prison when I was born with others here in prison and there are still others in citizenship, who are still continuing with actions against others and I assure you that we will reach these girls and accumulating other people.
"I request you to change my punishment and be a sentence of life so that I can get the community by helping others. I can be allowed to save another person that got lost but what I will be able to return," Karaga emphasized his letter.
