Kilwa road continuing to end the illegal business.
Brightiles 22, 2012

While the villages of Kilwa district have started benefiting from the government's plan for the management of geothermal energy (OPD) which enabled them to be given several forest products, a new problem due to illegal immigrants of illegal immigrants.

Several officers of the Kilwa district council were telling us to the members of the association of environmental journalists in Tanzania (JET) when they visited the district recently, that timber and drinking water from the forests of that district are taken to Comoros by Zanzibar.

Leaders of several villages have been set aside by the local government, that delegation of JET said they visited them, even so, the problem is in the forest that is under the management of the main government or one of the councils and not in the forest that has been built in those villages.

"We know our senses be tough and it's not easy to anyone including a villager from going into our forest and receiving bribes without a permit, it is clear that the problem is more in the forest that is under the management.
The government or the ones that are under the council and it's not this week that we have been set aside and we do not see us, "said the acting chairman of Nonga village, Maulid Abdallah. The village is 93 kilometers from Kilwa town.

Following the existence of that problem, the director of that district council, Adoh Mapunda said that the district is striving to deal with that problem despite the size of the district itself. "Kilwa is a big district where it has a long period of coast with a lot of forests, and therefore it is hard work."

We are using a lot of ways to deal with this problem, but the big way we are in, we have improved our colleagues recently, we have improved our hospitals.
Procedures that were reached, we managed to get eight million shillings, "said Mapunda.

He explained that the other timber which were apprehended in the field were divided among one secondary schools in that district for the purpose of making 90 beds, students and others provided to the technical school so as to be used in technical training.

Speaking about that issue, the Deputy Minister of Natural Resources of that district, Abijan, Mbwana confessed that the problem of illegal immigrants of the forest that deals with the sale of illegal immigrants and drinking water is more on the forest that is owned by the Central Government and the one that is under the Local Government and the ones that were sponsored by the villages.

"The truth is that every state of the government or the council should be allowed to have its manager, but it did not come because of the problem of resources, money and working tools, and therefore there is a lot of challenges that are not legal inside the forest," said Mbwana.

Mbwana said that in that situation, a way that can be able to deal with that problem, for now, is to strengthen security, and also to control the issue of provision of forest permits.
