
The chairperson of Korogwe, Kitanzini ward, Dec 27, 2012

Scandal of corruption have continued to unite with the chairman of Korogwe District Council, Tanga Province, Sadick Yusuf Kalaghe because this journey is expected to give the funds of the council against the procedure.
In that new scandal that has been unblocked recently, it is claimed that Kalaghe has been looking for his allowances even a period that he was not present in the office.
Chairman of that time who is also the councilor for Dahi Ward is accused of being involved in possession of trees in Makonte bridge area in that district against the law.
Allegations of buying trees contrary to the procedures that are accused by Kalaghe who is also the chairman of TFF of Tanga province, the secretary of finance, economy and planning of the Revolutionary Party in Korogwe district, they have ever raised the commission and government which however, his report did not be done on implementation.
In the current allegations, that chairman together with his vice president, Lamu Logan says they are alleged to have given more than 15 million shillings in the period of July, this year.
In the same time of July, it is alleged that Kalaghe did not attend in the office from what is claimed to have a car accident in Same District while on the way to Mwanza to attend the nation's meeting.
The information that was found out of councils are indicating that after that accident Kalaghe was admitted for a period at KCMC Referral Hospital that is in Kilimanjaro Province and for the whole month of July we did not attend even one time in the council offices.
In that period, the vice president is the one who attended the various activities of the council, therefore he is the one who was supposed to be paid the allowances of the month that is paid in accordance with the law.
According to the law and regulations of the council, chairman should be able to be paid 20,000 shillings per day and he is supposed to be in the office and he is supposed to be in his office for a week to listen and solve the problems of citizens.
According to the documents that Raia Mwema have succeeded to receive that for three years this year, chairman Kalaghe wrote two different letter to the director of the council of that district asking for allowances of 620,000 shillings.
In the first letter which even so, it does not tolerate Kalaghe asked to be the executive director of that shilling being part of the month of July and also the allowances of 100,000 shillings as those allowances.
That letter has been made by the news reporter in the month of July 2012 Tanzanian shillings 529,500 shillings will be easily read, "I request that allowances for the month of July if I have requested the news reporter" in the second letter which wrote that day even before the end of that month even before the end of the month.
Moreover, other accusations are the step of being paid the allowances for the journey to go to Mwanza town at the TFF meeting between June 25, but at that time the chairperson announced the claims of the allowances for the council's work between June 28 / 29, two days did not be in the office being paid those allowances.
Moreover, October first this year, the Deputy Chairperson of the council Lamu Logan says he wrote a letter to ask for votes for the month of July when the chairman of the council did not attend in the office.
More documents used to inform our citizens have shown that the council paid those funds whereby Kalaghe reminded that the council paid those funds including Kalaghe because of the payment documents number Pindani Nyalile that took place on October 17 this year, an amount of 1,038 million shillings being the allowances for two months.
The certificate of payments it shows that it has been sponsored by the director of the council Anna Mwaura and is organized by the Public Service Officer of Juma.
However, the reports indicate that Director Mwaura who is with numerous accusations of corruption have already been sacked by the government following a long-term complaints about misuse of money together with facing a embezzlement case in the resident magistrate of Kilimanjaro Province.
His Deputy Chairperson who is being paid a sum of 20,000 shillings being part of the month of July because of getting an opportunity to be the chairman of the council on the payment of payment number Pindani Nyalile.
"Therefore, you will discover that during the period of July, the council paid two people with one work, and that step is against the procedure of financial expenditure of the council," explained our source.
Our news reporter added that the payments of that kind have been done every time for the involved not to be paid those allowances for the work that they did not want to be paid those allowances for the council to be "the" farm. "
Almighty God communicate with Kalaghe about the allegations that were directed to him and in his answers he refused to give an explanation on claims that "there are people who had decided to see him, so as to be removed from his position.
"There are people who have been given power they have been able to work they were given and instead they have decided to deal with other people and those people have been using your newspaper about me," insisted Kalaghe.
That chairman also added, "those who give you information about my corruption are Wasafi Records and that they do not get married but you will do the journalists just because you know it."
"If there is someone who think that I have used the money for the council then they will take the responsibility of taking it to the state agencies like police and TAKUKURU, and they will give them a case in court and the court will decide if I am a pursuer," he added.
On his part, the Deputy Chairperson of that council, Lamu Logan says he confessed to be paid those allowances and added that it was his primary right because he started the council in July as the chairman (Kalaghe) not in the office.
"If there is an additional issue, I urge you to communicate with the director of the council on my part I believe that I am not involved with a matter which is against the use of the council's money," said Kadilana.
The director of that council, Lukas Sambayamoto, said that they have not know anything about those payments because she's moved to the district last month.
"It is an issue if there is up until when I will make investigations and through the payment documents because I am a visitor here and I have a period of one month here," said the director.
However, the reports were not confirmed from another source inside that council is alleged that the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (TAKUKURU) in that district has started investigations into the use of those funds.
More reports are indicating that in the years of 1980, Kalaghe claimed to be shot in prison for the accusations of changing the economy, at the time the country led by Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.
However, when he was asked about to have been arrested inside criminal offenses, Kalaghe did not ready to give an explanation and promised to give information on how he will meet our reporter.
In another step, after this newspaper reports on time to time about the controversy of integrity, on the side of the former director of Korogwe district, the director, Anna Mwaura, has been removed from that council.
