
A new evidence will open up the case of Marie Antoinette.
The case of El Nino in a situation led to government losing billions of money against small business people with heads in government followed by the government of Switzerland to give Kenya the evidence that will enable the concerned parties to be sentenced in afresh.
That evidence was brought by the attorney general of Switzerland where the money raised by the heads of government and business people who received a contract to achieve the construction of modern laboratory at the investigation headquarters.
Suspects who received that contract will also be required to buy equipment for making modern practices that will help improve the security in the country.
The chief justice of Kenya, Professor Norman Sigalla has handed over all evidence from Switzerland, to bid farewell to the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), we are doing so as to do more investigation with an aim of attacking him to participate in that scandal.
After receiving us so that the ten commandments of Resurrection and Leiria in the country, Mister we are organizing itself by the commission of fighting corruption in the country (EPOC) that will be investigated further and were kidnapped before the permits being given out in court.
According to investigators and leaders of stern legal action, on how to continue with us, there are no enough evidence to open those accusations.
It has thrown that a group of officers at the DPP document was not there and we are ready to read me, so that those affected from Switzerland have reduced, there are several reasons for several reasons in the evidence that was presented.
Already the officers have done three times a time when they are proud of them to do so.
The legal reports from the DPP document and EPOS is that 10 suspects were recommended by corruption, using the authority's authority badly and non-compliance with the law in giving of tenders.
"We have read it and we don't know you so from the end of the bar and we got that we need more evidence from EAGI, because these cases are in place there are part of more evidence.
The claims by the politicians do not see more evidence, "one officer of those who studied in us so that those who also pointed out, the officer requested for his name to put it.
Media houses have managed to get an opportunity to recognize the names of suspects who are EPOC is targeting.
This scandal of Civil Society, Lewinsky being in the 20 years ago.
By Richard Mwaikenda.
