He had a very close position today with my eyes on my advice.
First I thank you so much because it destroys!
It is clear that the symptoms of the rains are very disturbing so that these children are based on the same time, we thank the government and I thank the government and I thank the government and we are able to participate in the training for many teachers but also us to be given more education so that we can ask ourselves more this game in different areas in the country.
Thank you we continue with all why you continue to give their views to the minister contributing to the topic.
First.
I would like to thank the government where he saw.
You don't know.
Apart from these people for the purpose of attacking him.
The reason is something that they have done?
And are supposed to see the residents that have done for things that we have got?
I will ensure that.
We're going to do if it was directed and if possible even so that those children are now leaving, a situation that had them have for a long time, but now I say what should happen?
The act of the whole commission is before you, I would like to send it.
Now they need to go?
That is where many children have a eyes problem.
Let us be forced to be given because of those people, so that you can't reach the others that they do not want to see if we go to our country to see our children feel not in in the world with the concept of things, we see that we're going well in the world.
For that contribution we continue with the teachers who do not have that opportunity and the goal one to one.
Ras Kiduku is saying that before I am not seen, what should be done in this festive game.
Maybe I say?
First, the game which is a game which is given a great relief for us people are very few people for a very long time, we have never been a game that is expected to take place directly, that this is a few people we were, where we are enjoying sports.
And it is not wrong to be true and even the community is now during the meeting that we cannot do anything but for this game now I believe the community can be rains and see that the community can't see them and they can do something in the community.
The late?
I have been read to what should be done in that game.
Am talking here below?
The first game had already succeeded in a long time.
But by bad luck, it was unknown and I have started to play this game since ninety minutes and six.
But it was not unknown.
It is unknown because we did not be given a promotion in the government or be announced to the media or be announced to any community because we are playing for any community, but if we live it, there is another normal person it was difficult for now?
.
And many more in three areas.
First.
The community has a great importance that, this year.
The community is with children with disabilities.
When the community is living with us, we will be told that it is not like that.
Being given priority.
Only, I have not seen in the environment when we can do a lot so much in that game.
The government has a great opportunity for the government to make sure that it is not the first game through an agreement with the disabled children here in the school with the disabled children, today we see this here not all the members who come from schools with the disabled children, but even at the private centers, we go to the whole community in general but the media stations in general.
He is the news that had been beaten in large numbers in big two games, but it played at least a short time to a priority and my congratulations to the Sahara Desert.
To set aside a period of one hour.
He knew the game that is unknown is an issue of being keen.
