Kim was awarded 16 days from the United Nations.

.
Mwasabite said.
The coach.
The head of Taifa Stars, Kim Poulsen has banned the 32 players squad for the purpose of 32 players.
The international friendly match against Kenya.
(Fundraising) that will be played on Tuesday, November 19, this year, at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam.

That squad is expected to play the international friendly match.
The coming match against Kenya.
Taifa Stars' at the National Stadium, Dar.
Dar es Salaam.

After that friendly match, the players of Zanzibar.
He will also go to join the Zanzibar squad, while the players of Tanzania are.
The mainland will also go to camp in Arusha for the purpose of preparing to fight for the tournament.
Manchali is expected to start on November 27th this year in Kenya.
Speaking to the press in Dar es Salaam city.
Yesterday, information officer of Tanzania Football Federation (TFF).
Boniface Wambura said the squad uses 16 players who are called '.
Stars that is sponsored by Kilimanjaro Premium Larger.
He said other 16 players are given.
Taifa Stars was previously the Muhimbili National Hospital that started on November 9 this year.
His hand yesterday morning had 30 players.
Wambura has mentioned those who are called four goalkeepers.
Aishi Manula (Azam), Ally Mustafa (Yanga), Deogratias H. (Yanga) and he.
Mapunda (Gor Mahia, Kenya) and defenders are Aggrey Mtambo (Azam), Ismail Gambo.
(Azam), Kelvin Yaida (Yanga), Michael Pius (Ruvu Shooting), Nadir Haroub.
(Yanga) and Said Gadi, (Azam).
He said others who are outdated.
Erasto Nyoni, (Azam), Yussuf Himid (Azam), Shomari B( AC Milan, France).
Vincent Kompany who plays for Mtibwa Sugar of Morogoro.
Wambura mentioned the others to be human beings.
Kiemba (Simba), Athuman Idd (Yanga), Frank Domayo (Yanga), Haruna Chanongo.
(Simba), Hassan Mshinda (Ruvu Shooting), Jonas Mkude, Simba), Ramadhan.
(Simba), Salum Abubakar (Azam) and William Lucia Gola (Simba).
Others are the attackers.
Farha Musa (Azam), Joseph Kimwaga (Azam), Mrisho Ngassa (Yanga), Mwinyi.
Jokate Mwegelo (Markhiya, Qatar) and Simon Msuva (Yanga).

He mentioned the attackers as Elias Maguli (Ruvu Shooting).
Lihamile by Mtibwa Sugar, Mbwana Samatta (TP Mazembe, DRC) and Thomas Ulimwengu (TP).
Mazembe, DRC).
