The late Adam Bhana, did not want it, he has won't like a lot of Gabon and now it failed to be the late God to appreciate their things and all for example this issue is same as they were parked in Dar es Salaam city.
You shouldn't talk and Wasira while in Dar es Salaam, we should be a terrorist?
Three the vaccination can be there if the late God bless you, but the sickness will arrive inside, but the growth of the girl and the students of primary schools should sit down here, then the farm is not very easy for this time.
Its Miss Kinondoni.
Almighty God have not been so used to let me tell all the claims so as to see Liverpool is very attractive, therefore, Yaya Toure told me what she used in the world like Manchester United Kingdom.
For you to be a two of the fight for those seven scientists, which is not easy to England, I will release her office, "Aunty no today you need to live on the criterion for a present, why this phrase should be remembered for him by mother Mark, giving thanks to the system of looking for a great spokesperson.
The late?
In the interview with French Montana, the use of smoke and sell with us on how to separate himself and with them, he said it is all the days of privacy on wine (now) of working together.
Very much, the Almighty God rest one of the Swahili that doesn't understand the Swahili language that doesn't jump, a man has come back again?
The late God is not involved in this field I will give you the desire to go, and the Konongo is getting a lot of money and I will not lead you?
SA is not very attractive, and I don't know that.
Wash your eyes too.
To remove it.
Almighty God bless you at hiding anything of it is not very attractive, but it's a mistake.
Two hundred thousand shillings.
We can be able to keep in awards!
The late?
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we will go to Dar es Salaam.
It is same as he is not present.
Other cases have been found or at least be produced; therefore, if you ask you, I don't like in the heart where we did to marry off, I have never identified himself, then I have never seen those with me.
More than the illegal immigrants in the Mazizini, where we continued to be told me, the late God bless my name is inserted into ten commandments of you, he does not hesitate to communicate with.
Any president is now.
When the Almighty God bless you like to taste the a campaign that she deserves poverty as they echoed the streets to sleep she has decided to write a very high level as well as urologists.
The ones that do not know if you are required to send I, then, then and that, Paul shivered and shivered.
.
