If you're the right to give you a third commandment.
Say.
If you use the purchase of a very big value for those funds, but also in the purchase of patients who are to reach you directly and the lives of Tanzanians because the drugs can be done, he said that there is good to make sure that there is good we get needs from the hospitals.
And we will get the needs from the hospital which only are.
Which have been confirmed by the health sector but not to the government through an example of the marketing officer.
There are those drugs.
Other positions are of public organizations.
And all other things that need drugs that we can have.
Now these depends on their needs so that we can arrest us.
Medical equipment, let your impatient, but when he gives the needs a must to have money that led by the purchase of those needs, every time there is money from the Ministry of Health.
Those funds are coming from those equipment, by showing every hospital the health center but the clinic has been given money to now, we should take them to our offices in the regions of the region which are required to communicate with customers but also here at the headquarters are there in those reports on the internet.
The computer to the name is called on who this network has connected all the regions as he is making those information at the headquarters.
Even the Almighty God are in the regional offices.
See the ones that we have made in the internet but all of this, after living, you don't have seen some of us we have and be involved in the program.
That situation does not have a plan to buy for a whole year, so that they are supposed to be.
Training the hospital.
Health centers.
And any one that is required to do the work to buy drugs for the medical equipment and protocols as BISON.
New law will need to reach January up to all the needs of they have been reached.
And after that, we have received this needs good for the plan.
By identifying these things that do not be directed together so as to avoid different questions, we can enjoy a lot of things or each one of the medical equipment from drugs, in the country, would have put aside an agreement which is very fast, but we want these drugs to be available in the country.
That may have emerged the quality of 67 percent of those products have been touched and I would have received as we will help us in the country for a month to get bail and I believe that we will put him but it does not depend on or even the young man.
It is believed that six months for that, there is a long period or do you have.
And the time of making it usually use the use of twenty percent or two years it is able to help them to protect yourself in the region, I would like giving thanks for the services we will put aside time because if the institution is, there is a system that will continue to increase the products that are being received because they were given to them.
When it was made, it was expected to be there and then.
Therefore, in the provision of a computer system that is needed.
Line.
Himself makes you given to use you.
A long time I have been called for forgiveness for Facebook, there is not true then the first time to end the use of the first time.
That and our service is a must for you and there is no one that will tell Mister to take those drugs, this step here in today, and it is very important to know that here and it is very important to know.
