How should they do a loss after a very long time?
Maximilian Arnold, 2012

If there are issues that the fourth term government of President Jakaya Kikwete has an expert in order to postpone the big problems of the countries that are emerging instead of fulfilling them, can say that this government has been involved in putting off the waste under the aircraft.
See me, for example, the issue of claims by doctors wanting the government to make it better services in the hospitals in the country as well as to give birth certificates, this is an issue that the government has discussed with doctors for a long time.
Anyone who is looking for this long-term tension between the government and doctors will agree with me that since the beginning, the government did not have a good intention of increasing doctors at the level they wanted to do, another step of the improvement of the hospitals in the country.
It is clear that the government was using methods of developing discussions for a long time (as a coat) saying that their claims would have died the death of the origin or that maybe the doctors would have gotten tired and agreed to be a small government offer of salaries for salaries.
By bad luck (the government) it did not come from the doctors when they decided to abandon that way by the government they stopped the strike that is not affected by the end, and that's when the government was forced to carry out medical licenses.
It's not just that, because there are those who believe that they used another Mafia and Mafia way to see him "the leader of those doctors's activities, Doctor Ulbrahim and it is believed that here was encouraging to the doctors to return to work.
Despite Doctor Ulbrahim and being beaten by being locked up by being transported to go back, the doctors did not inform you, if you remove the few who decided to return to work.
If the announcement of doctors is the one that made the government to marry off their licenses, some of them have succeeded to get employment outside the country, but many of them live in a long time, while they see that there is no non-finals.
Such as a result of this issue, the government is the "that was not known" more than those doctors who came out, I am saying that because the issue of evil deeds that Doctor Ulbrahim and it was not involved, has continued to address the CCM government of the fourth phase within and outside the country.
Even so, it is true that this issue of evil deeds that Doctor Ulbrahim and a bag of doctors) has gotten a little, especially after the government moved to court to resolve the case of the case, but we've not seen it at the end of this issue.
We don't have not seen the end of this issue because the reason the government does the government is to look for pain and humbling before it, and not to look for the right time between him and the doctors.
But at the time the problem of doctors has been played as an artist and the waste has been reached under a penalty, another strike that in the past was not known as the government and severe pain when it has started afresh, it means the teachers' strike has started this week.
