
Chelsea won the EPL-year now that it has decided to get ten best.
Leave the same time this season, Leicester City club was to be sent into the premier league matches, while the defending champions Chelsea was on top.
Similarly, those who passed up to finally succeeded to get victory in eight matches out of nine and return the hopes of being among the big opposition teams.
But now the club under coach Jose Mourinho said a picture / a contract of Ruud Van Noma, by scoring a goal in 11 consecutive matches.
Riders at Stamford Bridge but he was chased away from his position as given Mourinho.
That coach who is aged 63 years who plays for Gothernburg, Glasgow, Pales and Roma.
The England national team where he played several matches without allowing the goal to get into his goal.
Cech has played a total of 352 matches with Chelsea and Arsenal.
James only played 572 matches with Liverpool, Aston Villa, West Ham United, Manchester City and Mo Sembe, having 220 matches of Cech.
For a period of 11 years, while getting married, he helped to win three awards of the premier league without allowing the goal to get into his goal at their disposal.
Among the things that have reduced this season, it is an act of Manchester United to register the French, Athletico Bilbao that brought the soccer record in England.
Apart from the strength of the energy, Raheem Sterling and Yacine Brahimi who came to prevent him from Manchester City, while Pedro announced to join Manchester United on the last minute and decided to take any time to Chelsea.
That army took that decision at 11 o'clock before being beaten in registration activities.
In the scandal of Mtemvu, the coach of Liverpool at that time, Brendan Rodgers tried several times to convince him but he refuses and denied him to be signed by Manchester City.
On the other side, Sigano Mallya was called by Tottenham Hotspurs that was called by Tottenham Hotspurs in the last minute, but the plans came out and we had gone to West Brom.
Elsewhere, a goalkeeper David De Gea, found himself back to join Real Madrid in the last minute after being given the restrictions on his club of Manchester United and he had gone to continue controlling it (picture) of AFP in the Old Trafford stadium.
Chelsea missed the work of Jose Mourinho and gave him the bags of us Hiddink.
Since he came to the club, the players have managed to decide whether to finish on the best four.
He has urged them to return the cost of last season where they were fighting against the championship of the league early.
In his first phase, Chelsea lost only one match after being left behind by Tottenham Hotspurs away.
It is the same year where the club won the FA Cup championship, but they were killed outside the champions league and Barcelona following a goal of Andengeye.
They finished in the best three league in the season, while Manchester United won the championship.
Liverpool has decided to remove Brendan Rodgers following poor results and gave him that responsibility to Jurgen Klopp.
Since those changes are being done, the fans of the Anfield club have started getting the authority of that team to return to his former team.
Liverpool fans have been unable to see a cup for many years without success.
Apart from getting the fans, coach Klopp as he has been a great desire to the media in England.
By the era of these were written, the former coach of Borussia Dortmund had lost three matches after a surprising thing by getting victory at the Etihad Stadium and Stamford Bridge.
Those results and many others have shown that he can do better in that club this season that will end in May.
He is a coach who has added that especially players outside the field.
