BoT have been able to do, others do?
October 5, 2012

In this newspaper of Mke Mwema, 12 and 13, the edition number 262, we have witnessed the interview between our writer and the governor of the Central Bank (BoT), Professor Benno Ndullu.

That interview together with other things, it involves the trend of that financial institution in the country and the leadership of Professor Shumbusho, who was appointed to be the Governor of BoT in the year 2008.

In that interview, Professor Baregu said that for the first time, the Central Bank of Tanzania has given a share to the government of 173 million American dollars (more than 270 billion shillings).

According to the explanation of Professor Shumbusho said that for now, instead of BoT depending on a grant from the government so that the institution can be able to run, it has been contrary to the government and we believe there is no better way for the availability of better leadership in that institution.

We thank the governor and other directors of BoT who are the source of those achievements, although we also recognize that there is other important challenges about the economy of the country, as an issue of controlling the inflation rate.

However, wherever he did not have a lot of errors and wherever they are hard working, they don't like lazy or bad luck.

We ask all the heart to fulfill their responsibilities in BoT for the interests of the country, but we also request other advisers to abandon their duties well.

They should know that they are supposed to fulfill their responsibilities fully in the BoT on behalf of how to reach 40 million shillings, and not for the benefits of a friend or their families only.

All the workers from BoT should know that, the economy of all citizens in the country without caring is the poor or the rich, depends on the efforts and knowledge in the BoT.

Our call is that they are hard working to continue working for more efforts and they are unable to inspect them or resignation from their positions and if they are not ready to elect the first position, then they have decided to inspect their movements.

Congratulations Governor Benno Ndullu said that it has provided a lesson to directors of organizations and other public institutions to get out and run away from government and instead of them, they should give priority to the government.
