
Simba, Yanga has been unable to cross the borders.
On 28th of 28th, 2014.

As a result of a unique system in the world, the World Football Federation (FIFA) has said that every country has a premier league of soccer that enables some of the clubs in the concerned country.
In addition, every league did not play long-old rivals who in one way or another that pour her to the league an extent that fans usually do not want to follow up closely because of the opposition situation in soccer.
South African Champions League, there are Kikio Team and Orlando America, Spain, Barcelona and Real Madrid in Italy, there is AS Roma and AC Milan so that this situation is also in the France and England league.
While our fellow clubs playing with showing the level of soccer in and out of their countries, here in Tanzania, the situation is different as usual for Simba and Yanga to give them great reputation that will fly the small club in the home league.
For example, for now Yanga Club is supposed to shine after winning a lot of matches in the league, as it is not enough for the past few weeks, they have launched the European Champions League with a total of 12-2 goals.
As it is not enough on February 22nd this year at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam city, they won the Ruvu Shooting club by 7-0 goals against Yanga, it has been the first club to break up 1-0 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on February 2nd this year, in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League.
Apart from leading the league with a total of 38 points while having eight matches, Yanga is the defending champions of that league.
Three seasons ago, Simba had ever been called for 67 elders, due to distributing a loss of every club, that met and won two consecutive matches, a situation that will increase the honor by winning the championship with many points.
In the season of 2011 / 2012, Simba played approximately 10 games without losing even one, every team that emerged with a draw or a draw of any kind, that Simba defeated the champions of the season under Coach Moses Sethole, Uganda.
The reason to bring those information is to show a big team how to be given major names each are well, but there are teams coming from the provinces which need to be highly commended so as to get the loopholes to do well.
All sports' newspapers should be there by Simba or Yanga news, there is no one that will destroy the red or yellow fever, in the front of the previous years of sports' newspapers or normal, where many buyers are believed to buy.
But there is one thing, many times the reputation they get in Simba or Yanga are estimated to know that when they get the loopholes to play international matches they don't know well.
In the whole month now, Yanga have been able to look for drugs to stop the existence of Al Ahly clubs of Egypt in that competition of Al Ahly clubs of Egypt in that competition of European Champions League as Yanga would have been a need to struggle to find alternative means to win that match.
Therefore, it is good for our club to stop following the reputation of the newspapers there, there is need for these teams of Simba and Yanga to have the plans to participate in the internal league up to international matches.
