
I don't know JK is a courtesy organization, not the presidency!
May 23, 2012

In the first months after getting into the State House, President Jakaya Kikwete mentioned many saying that he will end the world that she does not understand what Tanzania is poor.
That Ukawa is the beginning of a row to give a special statements that have left some of us to be doubt and his leadership ability.
For sure, the decision of that it does not understand what Tanzania is poor country, has raised big debate, on social media, within and outside the country, while some have requested them to remove the country from poverty if he himself does not know why the country is poor.
Others went aside more and when I agree to contest for presidency, even the reasons for our poverty is not otherwise, the coach can be given work to coach the team if even the weaknesses of the team is not aware?
That was the past five years ago, if you want to listen to the promise that Jakaya Kikwete is making sure that when they go to the provinces in his campaigns, you can be faced with shock like the one that met some of us, that we don't know why we are not there.
Let me see President whose government was unable to destroy the economy in the past five years of his administration, how can I support you, it will build a new railway from Dar es Salaam to provinces of the Lake Region that will be used by modern train that are going fast?
As it is not enough to stop stuttering, Kikwete added again that the project of building a new railway, which will be used by the modern train, will complete within five years in its final phase of leadership!
But the big project and which is a must of billions of dollars is only only that Kikwete has promised to be complete within five years of leadership if he will be elected again as the president on 31.
There is a great speed like building the Dar es Salaam road (Fly 540 Tabora) to buy a big and modern ship in Bagamoyo, Tanga and Nyasa to build a big and modern port in Bagamoyo, Tanga, (RTO) and Mtwara, and also building a big airport in Kigoma town.
But it is also that the influx of other promises like to build their long road accidents in the country, building the University of Shinyanga, and so far, they still continues to give another promise in his campaigns in the provinces.
Now, I don't state that it's impossible for all the projects to be completed in the five years (although I don't know the German's only years some of the foreign affairs in Dar es Salaam region.
But I think I ask me, and I think about it is about where all billions of money will be found in a period of five years just after his administration, if he will win the elections on October 31st.
I asked himself and therefore, I agree on that even the budget for CCM's budget is normal to have a deficit in the year 2009 / 2010 was forced to borrow the business of business - Standard Charts in the country.
I asked himself therefore, I am happy about that even the economy itself of the country did not come into the speed that we had promised in the year 2005 and do not see the fact that our country is still a country that has the citizens to get food every day because of poverty.
I asked me that I am happy about that in the year the government will get another great cost of running the 21 district which its government has reduced, and that they will start working on July next year.
It is where so, where Jakaya Kikwete, suddenly, has had a wall that will enable many projects like that of billions of money in a short period of five years only?
It is important to ask that question, because if he does not make those promises to "play Famy," then without doubt, it is obvious that our president has not yet answered, then, our president has not yet answered, then, our president has not yet known, then, our president is still not aware of us.
Before I'm saying that, I would like to explain to my assessment, I would like to tell you in five years of his administration, for me, this is a good president who believes in the concept of donations such as a way from trouble.
I don't know the origin of his habit, but I think it is something that is at his head (or who decides) all the days to this one is the president who is being asked to fish by a citizen that lives in the outskirts of Lake Region, he will give the citizen to support him but he will go to another neighbor to marry each other.
This is a president who is happy about the problems of water and children living in the area where water is in the ground, that is apart from Water table), he will not understand the way they can be able to stop the well, but he promised the government to build a well.
In a period of five years of his administration, we have seen its habit of love to be requested by the citizens that doesn't want to help them even in things they have the ability to help them even if he sees it, he sees it only.
The habit of going on when donations came out again, recently in Makete District (Iringa) where Kikwete told me for citizens who were given a call by the American ambassador to America, Alonso minute when he went to New York, America, that he will continue, "said Tanzania.
For a president, a lecturer of the concept of being independent, something that would not be proud to be in front of the citizens that will lead, but not Kikwete, he saw that, it is a great reputation and "a political".
But also we have not noticed that, another statement of looking at a campaign meeting that he is going to America once again, and that when he comes back, and that when they return them, "Masau boasted.
That statement has repeated again at the end of last week in Tabora province, and claimed that if it is not his journey of time to time to go outside, where we could have died from hunger!
My brothers, the president we need not to be the one who is difficult to move forward and in this world, while some of the beggars were seen but it's one who will put the basis of being independent as a nation.
For example, instead of President Kikwete going to every time outside the country to ask for food (as he claimed), will be going to the villages, time to time, urging agriculture in the way Nyerere and Sokoine.
That is a lasting solution to end the problem of food shortage in the country, and not every time to come to America to ask for food and not they are saying in stopping the donations they buy.
I request for now to change my statement, that our President Kikwete does not know your habit, and they have not yet talked about it about their donations.
I love the statement and explained his statement in Makete District, he has been called a phone with the American ambassador and promised a donation by Obama.
When I think that it is supposed to know well in the past, I means that she is Kikwete believes that from the fact, they have the true intention of developing countries in Africa and African countries.
He is not supposed to understand that if from Zito who help Africa, it is because it is forced, and not because they love Africa that amount.
Take it, for example, America's example is like America being given her donations to Tanzania (non-HIV virus!), it is because of its interests according to the program (SMS), and not because it was a lot of Kikwete or Tanzania.
And as the interests of the United States in Tanzania, for now, it is an issue of terrorism which is involving more security of the United States, the United States believe that Tanzania has been one of the Al Shabab militants, especially in Arusha town where only two were arrested for people who participated in the conspiracy in the terror attack that took place in Kampala, Uganda during the World Cup finals.
In that environment, it is a must for America to ensure that they do a friendship with the president who loves Tanzania (to be Kikwete or another one) so that it can follow up well as the killing of Al Nahdha of Somalia.
In that basis, President Obama ordered President Kikwete to be the first President of Africa to visit the American State House after being sworn in.
It is in that foundation also, Ambassador Lilenga, told him that President Obama has promised to continue helping Tanzania in his UN speech.
I had to ask him in Tanzania in his speech to ask Kikwete because (Obama) made a great speech at the UN meeting of discussing the Millennium Challenge Corporation (IG). In the speech he made on September 22, Obama had warned poor countries that need easily and depending on the donations to protect themselves.
While announcing the new guide of the United States for giving donations that is called New Africa Development, Obama said that currently, "Beautiful Maua Association '(MASATF),' Siri ya Mtungi ', (HIV) system and not using their future.
There is no leader being keen in this room, he does not want to ask for donations.
The donations alone cannot bring development.
I don't have sure that our President Kikwete did not read the speech of Obama's speech but also emphasized that here that Obama had not arrived there, but he continued to say that under the new policy of New York Post Bank, America will help only one of the countries with the true intention of promoting himself, and not those that need not only to receive donations.
I am sure that the great speech of Obama used in many poor countries that depend on the American dollars like Tanzania and I think it's why I had to see Tanzania in his speech. Obama did so because of protecting the interests of the United States in Tanzania that, as I said, it is war against terrorism.
Different from Kikwete, the president would like to see the texts of the news, it is that the American donations will be able to change when it will make sure that President Obama had already decided to become the promise of President Obama's promise to be proud of especially with his voters.
Listen to you, despite we believe that President Barack Obama of Kikwete, there are every sign that the donations will open so much because Obama has now is faced with a large extent of economic problems in its country.
In that state, it can't have a lot of joy by forward, in Tanzania, even if the national grid will be in danger of, we will be given mosquito nets, HIV virus, and construction of two or three roads.
I have talked about America, but the situation is that in England, France and even African countries where citizens have started to question it because their taxes can continue to help the country like Tanzania for a half of the date, although it has been unable to grow themselves from poverty!
I will repeat again and insisted that the leader will be able to depend on the Indian Ocean through the country and I was surprised and Kikwete only did not know it.
However, Retired President Mkapa and the president of Ethiopia Zenji, Ethiopia put it open at the economic international meeting of World Forum (Forum) that took place in Dar es Salaam on May 5-7, 2010, they woke up with the fact of the truth in accordance to Africa.
Even President Kagame when he was speaking to the press in the beginning of last month, he said that currently, I do not do any person to make us get out of poverty because they want us to avoid poverty because they want us to avoid poverty because they want us to avoid poverty because they want us to have a different view.
This answer is that the concept of depending on the donations he has been, mentally and working, since he was a small youth, you can't read the suddenly!
Such as a person with the habit, it cannot be a good leader because a good leader is that one who believe in how to use well the lot of resources that God has given them to speak about our problems and to bring development.
The loved ones, I know there are those who will say (here Honorable Nyerere) when he was asking for and receiving a lot of donations from the Chinese. It is very true, but he is not happy with a lot of pain when he sees it is okay, and that is the presidency!
That is the reason why I ask you today is the work of President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, I would like to answer you so that he is leadership in any international organization for a courtesy walk (International Charity Center).
Basically, the greatest job of these international institutions that are not paid is to produce or show ways of solving the problems but it's going to the world to ask for donations to the rich and then they sell the donations to the rich and then they think that it is a job that goes for more than Kikwete, and not the presidency.
It depends on.
