The conflict of CHADEMA, CCM can be decided!
Jide 17, 2013.

During the 14th of July 2013, comes with historical books from the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) after winning in a landslide victory of the councilor's seat for four wards in Arusha City, the Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TLP), has shown an important part in leading the council of Arusha City.
TLP is holding the responsibility due to the fact that any decision by its members were only two in the council of councilors of Arusha City Council, in the competition of competition between CCM and CHADEMA and the ones that will decide to win against him against the other.
The division of the delegates.

By winning those four wards, that party has been increasing the number of nine councilors to be elected while urging their opponents the political party with seven counties of councilors to be elected.

The city of Arusha is made up of 19 wards and on the election results of Sunday, now it has councilors to be elected nine candidates who are coming down, Ngarama, Ngarama, Auctioneer Mwesa, Mekete, Eliona.

On their part, CCM members have councilors in six wards of Moshono locations, Oliver Wema, Zekiage, Barwan, Zekiaga, Oliver Wema, a resident of China, Oliver Wema (CCM) to resign from his position last year and moving to CHADEMA.
According to CHADEMA's position, CHADEMA will have 15 members of the council of councilors, because of having 9 council members of being elected, three special seats and three members.
CCM will have 13 members in the council due to seven councilors of being elected, three special seats and three members of parliament, while TLP has two members.

However, he said that the presence of many resolutions of the council will need the council members of TLP and therefore the party held in Karume on an important part of the decision.
At the time going on, the victory of CHADEMA is still continuing to be historic because of all the candidates of CHADEMA led the votes while their opponents CCM and CUF appeared in a few votes.

Even in that ward if part of CCM has a lot of resources like the headquarters of Arusha Province, at the Sheikh Amri Abeid grounds, the business exhibition going round in the province's office and Kaloleni East region were unable.

The candidates of CHADEMA who joined their wards in brackets is Rayson Ngowi (MARI), Emmanuel Kessy (Newala), Jeremia Mpinga (Eliona).

The work of counting the votes were planned for a short time after the casting of votes will be completed at 4 o'clock in the afternoon by the supervisors of the election scoring all stations.

The symptoms of CHADEMA won to be seen early in the same time for a period of one hour, already all results were completed and the results were completed and the results started to be given to the supervisors at all stations.

Fans and members of that party were seen in several estates of the city celebrating and giving words of flowers that is aimed at CCM, like "we have defeated 4-0," we have scored 4-0 "and others.

The situation of counting the completion of the completion due to the small number of people who came out to vote, statistics show that 1218 votes are the ones that used their democratic rights to elect their leaders.

According to the supervisor of that election, who is the director of Arusha City, Zinsou has told journalists that the number of voters who have been registered in those four wards are 6092.

CHADEMA is a secret of victory.

The coordinator of that election on the side of that party, Godbless Lema, written the name of the victory "in an interview with Raia Mwema, he is faith of the citizens of Arusha to that party.

"The citizens of Arusha have faith in our party, we have explained to them with fluency of policies and our political goals, they have an understanding and they have decided to raise them for them, they have given a great honor," explained Lema.

Lema who is also the member of parliament for Arusha town, said they have won that election as a result of solidarity among the leaders, members and the fans of that party in the whole period of the campaign and after completing the campaign.

We were in a very difficult time, first one day before elections we were identified by a bomb, and after that, the election was postponed and we were unable to continue with any campaign meetings while our colleagues in CCM are continuing with a house to house, "claimed Lema.
