We look at December the economy about the economy.
It is not true.
The environment that the male commission is that economy has risen up.
How do we miss this day?
In addition, the economy is going on maybe his parliament has risen up and discussing that the economy has risen up and discussing that the wind has risen up though it's the economy has risen up but maybe it is a project.
The truth of his condition is still eating foods.
.
Why should it be?
Otherwise, this is not available.
You missed in the environment about maybe.
Maybe the education is still there.
Our themselves as it is said that the schools that are understood and to speak about the ones that are there in people who are maize flour and digital diseases which are understood, but the hospitals in our country again again.
We shouldn't know it, because if the economy has risen up in this environment, we can't know the success even a very important thing, because of publications which have benefited from you, that's economy is growing up.
The needs of a human being but the life of there is so far, we are saying if the economy has not allowed me.
Because, the employee bought a salary set aside.
When you welcome him to see that you are not from the morning until evening.
And we are happy about more than twenty percent.
Now, they are twenty thousand shillings when you get what?
And then wake up in which only is a youth if we have been good, I think I think because the state of life is very high.
According to his talent that desires for the ordinary citizens the environment of our life we have been very difficult.
And the difficulty of love will love for every income of money.
You can do a whole work even to get when you have children.
When the children are coming to school and give food to school and every child decided to study, there was very difficult for you to go to school because you do not like each child and you do not like each child and you are doing so that you find the child that you want.
Now if a lot of money is very small and the one that Mgalula, when you're blocking the artist to fulfill your life, you can make sure that your child is possible because there is a normal state which will be taken as a whole of people with albinism and all of them.
Today.
And there is still his environment, it is difficult, those are different as a foolish thing.
Life is a condition of health faith to the farm.
That is because it is bad.
I have been told that the way you will utilize it again when he gets here.
And why is it?
You know what does it mean?
However, that is the problem themselves as time in order to make sure that we are.
And the poor state are getting better diseases and.
It reaches a leading that it is a meaning that gets a treatment which is available on the second in good communication, why can it be a school only.
But it is not this as it is the same?
But we have been, we have not know our died?
This government has been urged to make a support in the commission not to be donated to the hospital, we should make the help be able to identify its costs.
There is where I will be given these days I will also go for free until a place because even you have gone down but the new person has no merit and that there isn't any development that depends on us.
Because I request the government to reduce things.
You don't know that the state of life is difficult but if the government cannot build an education environment as it was free even again, we had been thrown out of food.
If there is no doubt that it continues to teach them more so that the child can make sure that if you get money since there was a lot of money even if you are getting money in life, if we have been able to learn from home because there are no lot of money they do not have any money every day in the morning.
Big government in the government, continuing to look at the high level we know the poor state in every day they are supposed to capture the court's court so that their state can be taken to prison without a very high level and we need to participate in a premier league.
News of the youth too.
