Few will it be said it is a place.
News of Masiku.
My brothers.
First, let us greet each other.
Thank you so much.
I love me, he has spoken to him.
I believe that Tanzanians follow up with me I was in parliament.
Let me ask you to tell these words.
Baby can it be God?
And they are not wisdom for that president.
Today, I am happy that if you go to have a country called?
People who think that their religious leaders are saying that it is not the body and if they were forced to fight if it is not God and if you go to our president, today I would like it should be followed up on the first market.
Before we have started the process of the constitution.
There are political parties that we started saying that there is no constitution and maybe when I began to go again, there are people who will expire.
President of the government listening to what he said because of the wife and the orphans of the demonstrations, he said now we start the process of the constitution.
When he announced the Heay after listening to that announcement.
The ones where on how they were using the agenda for the women, it has a new thing to pass here, they don't understand what they did not want again for someone to tell me what he says.
Since we started we started to make laws of change in the constitution.
They agree on the constitution that will be released at events saying they've appointed him.
And we came to his fellow politicians since he has never talked about Tanzanians, they know that his lawyer they ask ourselves that the commission had eating Chris Brown said that you are waiting for me for religion we are able to fall down.
Those who had no first again and also you have said that you are still going to do, there will be there.
I will go to the second step we had gone to a special parliament and he said that the leaders shouldn't come out saying they denied the citizens of the province to pay for them, "all of them is the same.
I have refused that they had gone to them that politicians instead of bringing so much like the politicians like the president and he told them that is the first one but I have told politicians that we have no longer.
We were going on to the rules starting from the first day so as to use it, they should use him to do when they get to them, but to achieve their goal and to create.
First issue will start fighting for votes.
To present a report, they have said that we are supposed to be careful not to be dealt with because there is a problem saying that fans should not be accountable because we want to be availed.
They can be able to present two sides of a few people.
We have said that most of the ones that most of them are clarified on five minutes, you know that many of the ten years have said that most of us have come out.
We agreed to leave that, so they can get fifty more that most of them get the ten commandments of explaining how Tanzanians received it, there is need to solve the reason not getting children.
We will be able to leave that without giving birth to someone and regulations he will be allowed to select the delegates that he will decide whether you get looking for them, just after receiving the chairperson saying it's not something here, we want to get aroused.
It's not knowing that you want to arrive inside this day, there are many things how many nations are doing so that you want to bring back, and if you want to register it, and if you want to register it, then you can make sure that we know that, then you should know that, then you should know that, then you should know that.
