
He uses VAT on disaster.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
The mobile phone company, Kenya Breweries Limited (KBL) yesterday said that the increase in the price of the type of Kenwanja, has caused many people with a low income of illegal immigrants.
The Executive Director of KL Company, Joe Muguma said that since the government to start paying for that amount, last year, the sales have already reduced.
Therefore, it means that Khajida Kopa, most of them depend on and instead of the illegal drugs that will not be aired on paper, by considering the cleaning standards and the quality that was set, "Mister Mugula and told the journalists in Nairobi.
Mister Mugenda said the main aim of starting that program in the year 2004 was to meet the needs of the Kenyans who are low income by giving them alcohol at an affordable price.
Previously, the alcohol of the Adult Education has been sold at 21 shillings before an increase in price last year up to 30 shillings after the government started to impose tax payment.
This is happening as more than 100 people have been reported to many people were admitted to the hospital after taking alcohol with dangerous poison that are believed to have been affected by illegal drug trafficking.
However, Mister Muguma said that KL is ready to discuss with the government so as to make a share that will be sold at affordable prices to the low level people.
"KBL wants to cooperate with the government in order to produce a high quality with high quality that will be sold at 25 shillings so as to reduce the problem of drinking alcohol inside the country.
That service will also increase the opportunity to work to the youth, "he said.
That director also said that his company has already started a plan of fighting corruption that are forced to sell counterfeit drugs while using the company's logo.
Recently, we will start a campaign to inform the Kenyans on how to be taxed, already we have made training like the security officers, "he said while added that the company has launched another unique show," he said while added that the company has launched another unique show, "he said while added that the company has launched another unique show.
Businessman in the city.
