If you know, if you know you will be heading to home when the late Catholving in this time I cannot go back home because money has been rarely.
If you miss in business it has been a problem?
Money has been a little problem for now I don't see if I can do if I would do.
And you will be able to get a chance when the same time goes.
The late God rest when I get the opportunity of chemicals we can go but I don't have a lot of the country, I'm why I get to me.
And the exercise is going right time they are not there.
Almighty God, I was in the end of recently, I have left alone still.
Maybe a teaser remember.
The late my child told me he told me.
Your mother is safe, when you go down there but there is no problem that has been a very big star and that river has been depending on at home and for Maxwell, the farm is lucky to get a problem with water does not have problems.
The water is in the same day, it has been a lot of accidents.
Completely, the Lord does not lie without a lot of livestock and people it depends on what this hour I have never been looking for food to buy from the market from the market, Almighty God, maybe the food is in the market.
But to use.
The late God is your responsibility and there's a little problem of money for food.
The reason for that reason?
But people will not be this drought because we're with a person but it's there, I think it will help them for payments for the use of that home is true that we will help the Almighty God to help the Almighty God to help them to bring him the rains.
Your business I'm in your business when I'm in this time very bad, but I'm in a little problem because of these times you have taken place at the same time when the Mafia district had a lot of money, the money has had a problem even if we have been.
Even if you say it has been a lot of money and it has been very little, I have been not like that we are doing a little money for you.
Look at the blood we are doing so I will do a long time to welcome him and see there that Tanzania has opened a lot so much, we have heard that every time I have heard in you, I would have a good job now, I give him a good work.
