
He noted that they have been condemned to provide poor health services.
The religious leaders from Lamu Island have been condemned the government of he said that he was unable to provide better medical services in the Junction.
Being led by Mister Sheila Akwara, the leaders have cautioned the government to resolve the government of Lamu Island to fail to deal with poor health status.
"We have been implementing the bringing up strategies for medical equipment so that the health status is controlled but there isn't been made, we had a lot of expectations in health services but there is no doubt," said Mister Shela.
Mister Nguji who was quiet at the parliamentary seat in Llongero region in 2013 through the Nation Development Party and not yet to be used for several years since the village was forced to have a renovation after the fire tragedy in 2009.
Another resident, Mister Oberlin Mohamed said that the pregnant women who were forced to give birth have been looking at a difficult state because they must make them put up by a car to be taken to King Fauzia Kullane, a situation that affects their lives together with their children.
"We thank our government of our country that he has talked about this issue because of taking great strategies to end the issue of bringing in the whole area of Lamu Island," said Mister Mohamed.
However, the Deputy Governor of Lamu county, Eric Mwachibuzi, made a statement by the leaders claiming that he has failed to make sure that health condition has been observed in the East African residents.
"We want to be given a challenge like these but those who do not want to consider the leadership of Lamu Island, it must ensure that we consider the condition that we are doing, but today many issues we have decided to do and not in the FGM hospital," said Mister Pengo said.
Mister Lugo Ftold the nation on Sunday through the phone that they agree that it has put aside 50 million shillings between the 200,000,000 shillings that President Uhuru Kenyatta said that it will be able to be the club by maintaining health status.
