The speaker of parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, Ann Kilango, urged the delegates of the parliamentary commission and those of various parliamentary committees to know and to understand their responsibilities in order to recognize the boundaries for doing their work.
Speaker Makinda has said that when he was opening a two-day official seminar for those delegates which he has emphasized that the parliamentary committee is the chief adviser of all the parliamentary activities to use the parliamentary inspection as a main mid-fielder for administration and the sugar industry.
At eight o'clock in the morning, the speaker of parliament, Anne Makinda was arriving at this meeting hall with the aim of talking to members of the parliamentary commission and those of various parliamentary committees in order to ensure the performance of the parliamentary activities are taking place.
Cuba explained that before this public, it is the performance of those two media stations.
The two day work is, the commission for parliamentary service and as a committee for leadership.
It is a very important thing in the leadership of our institution of parliament.
For other words, a clarification of the parliamentary institution depends on so much the performance of this media is what?
Outside the meeting with journalists wanted to know what this work seminar is done at this time.
These are two big stations which they help.
He is looking for four years since he has said that the leadership committee who is his responsibility is the chairpersons of the permanent parliamentary committees in their parliament and they have a form as he is proud of.
Our secretary are responsible for matters of running the parliamentary activities.
They can start on the committee but it goes up until inside.
Then start the service commission to their parliament and they are concerned with issues of management.
And some of the delegates of attending that seminar they explained the expectations.
Fry onions, as to finish his first, we know that we would like to know because she knows how to be on his responsibilities but so that other things will not be left, but the other things will not be left because other things will not be left and think about the committee's leadership committee and think about them.
It is to look for Richard only.
Kassim Majaliwa those bricks will follow.
Asking for Ted Cruz?
The Ambassador of Same West has come from a very difficult time in order to eat it and improve.
When you agree to say I believe the chairpersons and commissioners have that it will have a chance to do.
That two day seminar is expected to end there.
