We will not support the weaknesses of parties.
Marion Moore (28, 2013.

In continuing the efforts to improve the scope of democracy in the country, on our part, our salvation, we will not be able to support the weaknesses that will be able to come out in the party or political parties.
This weaknesses includes not allowed or ignored, the basis of running the party or the concerned parties is the foundation of requirements of the party or the political parties.
For Democracy and rights, it is important things to deal with the weaknesses that would have done inside any political party, otherwise, there is no other way to deal with the weaknesses, maybe the strength and strong winds.
Yes, contrary to the importance of democracy and rights inside any political party, it is dangerous to you, or any other actions that confirm the shortage of wisdom, wisdom and vision (electronic), in general.
Therefore, we believe that all political parties is not only in the country but anywhere in Africa and the world in general, to be strengthen more on the requirements of democracy and rights, within the parties.
The Democracy and Human Rights Commission (remember that there is a way to run democracy without rights, it is an important source in the construction of a strong and reliable party, but is very important in removing the system of implementation of the party or the concerned parties.
Yes, there is a lot of life, a condition that is very important to kill the party or political parties because they are able to supervise those two criteria, a way that remain is the concerned party to start afresh the journey of controlling the democracy and justice.
At other occasions, the results of the implementation of the requirements of democracy and the rights can be satisfied by the results of the implementation of the requirements of getting married and bad luck.
For example, people can be expelled from the party on the criterion of democracy and rights as well as a criterion of politics and life, but any way among these two are giving a result of being sacked.
However, together with the results that follow up, the decision that consider democracy and justice has a great opportunity to build a sustainable institution, than the decision made in a criterion of marriage.
Therefore, our advice is that political parties to be strengthen more through the criteria of democracy and rights, within and outside the party or the concerned parties.
We don't like looking at and or we do not support actions of removing political parties in the country, especially during this time the system of many parties in the country, especially during this period of the system of many parties, but also we don't like staying and support of politics and obey democracy and rights.
