But there are things that we need to have people who have the ability to contest for the age of age, they now come back to the basis of what reduced it, what does it get here in the gallery to see if we get pregnant for the coming of.
It is a must.
Those players from Tukuyu are saying that they are among the players that play football out of what we thought.
For there, there is an order for first, but the players who were in education institutions and there are players who were in different stations to celebrate the players for example this one to our brothers.
However, the value of that fees will find you that it is a strategy which is to make sure that the first to make sure that every person anywhere in where we shall make sure that this is a national team.
So as a national team has a size from cashews?
The late God rest the same time you can see you very good players they are playing in the previous years but.
I see what he told them and the fear of playing for their team the country.
When a day you will get a lot of problem to that, I give me a foundation stone for the teachers.
A long time is not long and I cannot get to charge when you support the nation.
.
To continue.
God bless TANZANIA and give instructions.
If it happens these days you can do something that will be done in ways that are not a must for you to be in a group photo after the premier league of this world.
What is the meaning I was complete.
It is saying that there's a squad that Story.'
At the last time, there will be a squad of ten people that has ever been done and believe that now the national team said that maybe I continue with him.
The speed will be short.
We will also have a period of three weeks even if it was.
Even if you could have a long time to which way, all the coach even if he would have been there here to qualify for the premier league (Rungwe), we believe that the model will come into the train and we believe that, the coach will come to build a squad from among the players.
Thank you thank you.
