
CAG, you are unable to give him huge success due to the charges of the charges he got in the same time he is free.

The resident magistrate of Dodoma Town, yesterday warned the new member of parliament for Mbeya Town, Joseph Mbilinyi (41), popularly known as Sugu who was brought in court for an offense of using abusive language against the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda after documents of charges against the charges.

As a result of that decision by the court has condemned the charges of stealing the documents and given them again the defendant to be brought in court to have an explanation of the prime minister and he will be ready to stand for the court to confirm that he is ready to confirm that.

That case was heard by the resident magistrate, Eastleigh neighborhood.

Previously, when I read to the charges, Director of the government, in the government,, in the year 24, this year, Mbilinyi in Dodoma had sent a message of abusive language using Facebook network to the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda.


The defendant forced that issue and even so, the lawyer of Mshanga, Lissu asked to give a motion and said the documents of charges are bad and requested the court to identify themselves because it has a mistake.

"Abusive language is not mentioned, the language of abusive language and documents of charges is silent, the defendant will make sure that he will organize a union because they can be put on Facebook," claimed Lissu.


Responding to the motion, the government's lawyer said that the case is still at the investigation and wanted the defendant to continue with his charges until approved confirmed.


As a result of that statement by the government lawyer, Lissu has decided to insist on the charges of charges not to have enough information and is supposed to meet the requirements of the law.

"The documents of the charges brought to be legal contrary to section KIA 132 / criminal acts and it will be a mistake if the court accepted the documents," he said.


He gave a decision by the court, resident magistrate, he said he didn't agree with information on the lawyer and Lissu that the certificate has weaknesses.

He said the court is independent, the defendant with the prosecution's side to report again the accused if it will see the importance of doing so.

Speaking outside the court, Lissu said the documents of charges against Mbilinyi has made abusive language to Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, has not explained what he is alleged to say Mbilinyi.


He said the court has failed to understand the documents that was used to use abusive language that is used, "resident magistrate has said that Sugu has no mistake, but the charges they prepare to make new documents," he said.
