
And we are making the constitution of us because that of the Wanene Nyambabe.
Jide 31, 2014.

To the minister of forest and shivered.
They will face street children.
Tanzanian shillings
Now his lover.
It will not be avoided, and the strategies and your activities you are good or you should not tell me!
I see it is five years since you go and it's more years until when the boss, she saw it is my right to get a half and go home.
But, especially I want to take care during this time, Hidaya has started his new things and I have a lot of joy to listen to you and to hear your thoughts, because I know you had given my thoughts, and that would be more better, and not this period of half time to meet.
Yes, you don't tell people why you have written the rumors, I think that we will follow up in public, but after seeing the problems we get to our colleagues, we have continued to strengthen our union and when we succeed, they will be forced to strengthen our union.
It's not one that I told us that we the local employees, we are trying to plan our time so that we can go to the market for the same time so that we can have a small opportunity to exchange ideas and help others.
We have started even the VICOBA group that is true that her sister was surprised by the boss while he was not seen by the boss while he has not sent the news that he has gone back home and he doesn't know how he gets back home and he doesn't know how he is free after languishing in the whole year.
Then in strengthening our VICOBA, we have seen that it is not supposed to take this money, although it is important and I think our others we will start small businesses soon.
But we have been trying and think about me, we have seen, Wanene Nyambabe, and even Wanene Nyambabe, even if we are not a human being, even if we are not less than 30 years, that is why we cannot be defended by this old legends of human rights.
That's why you are even the lawyers who know all the laws and if you quote this law but there are still a mistake, but there is still a fine of a month which is under the value of a month which is under the value of their differences.
ORC, I know there are others who are seeing a little but for many, it's like their headlines, they have come out on a prey in the ground.
That is why you ask you of noise about this rights or one, but in their homes it is very different from what we are doing well because our girls can read it well because we see their children and you want to study little, not insults.
However, after all the years, I have been planned and MB) and even to be expelled from the idea, I need to bring back and me there is his boss at home and use all the books every day so that he can be defending champions of human rights before the journey.
This and political parties are where there are someone who told me that we are supposed to be under the party, it's called 'if we have never seen this party in any place or at each other, maybe it was very delicious.
And the government is why there are no inspection who come to ensure that we are not supposed to ensure that we are not supposed to know why the government officials are in the ward levels and they do not understand what in the streets they are known, and it is clear that our bodies are being taken?
However, the youth parties does not know the union of youths of different parties which you see us because they are able to give their news to the star, maybe and they will be presented in one day and agreed that they can also happen, they can also happen there.
These are the things we consider if we meet in the market and have not been able to do so that there is a tailor, we need to perform well so that we can do our meetings without being seen.
Every sister has his story of pain until we are doing well together, and even the sister's sister also did, but he saw him, after he started her home, he had the boss, she will see that after three years of doing it, it's good to give him what he did here.
But we want you to talk about our pain, it is that there is no private liberation, very few people are insufficient.
And because you're very bad luck, if the influx of every girl will be able to evade or fight alone, at the end, its at the end of its end, or without being given his right to work.
It is a must to fully support me in order to protect yourself through our human rights, otherwise we are our young people we will continue to think what we are not easy and even our part, but our benefit is that we are in every house.
If you be able to build a good network, most importantly, they will be forced to end up and we will also look for these few rights who make our rights easily so that they can support them and to get advice.
And you know who is the former lover with your boxer, Hidaya Kapera. It is very disturbing, and there is a bad work, I started having a bad luck, I started having a lot of life that we need to be defended but it's the same.
That's why I request for your advice your lover. And when you go back to the next journey, we will have to wait, listen to our group and stop your fellow musicians.
I think it will end there by today, her boyfriend should not continue making noise about two or three, as if we continue attending to them, we are making the constitution of us because the of the Wanene Nyambabe.
Your lover, all your colleague, the chairperson you want.
Hidaya.
