
Pressure to Chelsea.
Leaders of the England Premier League are expecting to destroy the league as they meet Stoke City today at five o'clock at night.
Those youths will need to redeem themselves against Manchester City which has reached out with 39 points after getting Crystal Palace on Saturday.
Manchester United it was unable to continue the series of victory to be seven matches after addressing a draw of 1-1 against Aston Villa of Villa Park.
Manchester United coach, Louis Van Gaal has told two points that could affect the number three points Manchester United to win the championship.
A goal scored by Radamel Falcao from Manchester United was removed from Christian Benteke.
Manchester United will now be seven points behind the defending champions Manchester City, "we have lost two points when we won this match, but we usually have a lot of attackers, but we don't have a lot of attackers, but we missed him because this was a match where it deserves," said Van Gaal.
After being beaten 3-0 goals, the City coach Manuel Pellegrini has believes that Manchester City are headed to UK 31 from 32 countries like champions although they are faced with injuries on the attack.
City wedded between them and Chelsea was scored for a few hours before the youth of Jose Mourinho met with Stoke today night.
David Fani from City scored two goals and Yaya Toure was the third position to register their eight consecutive win in all competitions.
"I am happy that this squad continues to show why we won the premier league last season," said Pellegrini.
Southampton won the West Ham defender, Newcastle, Swansea and the PR and PPR, Stoke City Hull City, Leicester and collaboration with Villa before the hit by Manchester City on November 30th.
"We had faith in football, a few weeks ago, but the drugs are to play earlier this season," Kochanke said by Romelu Lukaku, Grind, and Maasai clothes were awarded after their goals against Everton.
Mourinho has emphasized that Chelsea will not have blood although there are a victory against Stoke City, she gave himself the City's hope that they can be able to take leadership during Christmas season.
"It's a task because we have three matches away from Tottenham, Southampton and Stoke City which are difficult, we have already been beaten by 2-2 with Stoke City last season and will target to prevent the mistakes that they participated in.
Who will be dangerous to the goalkeeper Tetemesha Entertainment which is owned by striker Peter Crouch who is known to a head penalty following his length.
However, Chelsea is also a fire with Jose he is expected to lent his engines, Diego Costa, Cesc Fabregas and Eden Hazard.
