
Why should Zitto Kabwe being elected as president 2015 / 13, 2012

I believe that this article will make great opposition in some people who don't want to hear someone saying that Kigoma North member of parliament (CHADEMA), Zitto Kabwe, is supposed to be the president.

By bad luck, most of them don't know well or the reports they have arose from those who are self-employed.

It is important for our nation to have a special debate about people who want to vie for a big and good position here in the country as the president cannot be elected for because he has come from a certain party, a certain religion, has a good view or tribe.

When the president was elected as a result of the agenda which he has brought to President Barack Obama, he was sent by change of change (change) and will be sentenced to it because our candidates will come to and how to table it?

Why should Zitto Kabwe?

In one of his condolences, a politician and the author of the former Russia, Leon Tenenbum and said that the good leader is the one with the ability to write his ideas.

That it is very dangerous to the nation to have a leader whose leader cannot explain more on the third page, his thoughts about different issues.

If we be a good writer and maybe a good journalist and maybe I wrote this so that he can make it more alternative for Vladimir Putin to be shaken.

However, if you look at different examples, you will see the truth about these thoughts, "Julius Nyerere has written how many times about different issues are Thomas Jeffery Webb are among the biggest presidents of the United States.

Look at the former president of Senegal, I became a good reader of the article, "Mbeyela Secondary School, in the Democratic Party's newspaper when he was the president of South Africa.

And up to now, we are very happy to read the articles of Yoweri Museveni every time he wrote on books or newspapers and even if you agree with a leader in certain issues, it helps you like what to know what to feel.

Among the people that were mentioned to vie for the presidency of Tanzania, is Zitto Kabwe, who is writing the first time in the newspapers and various networks.

Most of the many articles have economic direction but you cannot be cursed because the professional is an economist and even so, he has also wrote issues about his political view.

I give a challenge to my colleagues to tell me, I have seen the articles of who those mentioned to vie for presidency from the newspapers or internet in the recent days.

Obama had not been attractive, but people told him for his work in parliament and of writing when she was a student in Harvard University.
He was among the journalists of the university magazine.

You don't know if a person who cannot go down and think about anything and to give his contribution about an issue that he knew what is the professional problem.

Zitto Kabwe, maybe that he is a politician who can leave on a lot of community environment than many of the politicians in the country.

I have seen him in the meeting or a scholar from the universities where he was received well and I have seen him in the public institutions where he followed it well (before going into the political party).

I have seen him in their villages in Kigoma province and I would like to see the same way with those citizens, I have seen the president that supports the Simba club or the national team as another fan.

I have seen him close to the people who are known as the film and film and when he saw it has been received well, to an extent of singing with the song 'Sajuki, who was sent in.

He has also congratulated the artists of his province and gave a song to encourage the development of that province that is called Listen Mwezi Song.

In this, Zitto has touched me that, philosopher Plotemy of humor, who told him that a leader is a must to be close to the community and they are unable to compete.

In this world of a village, you need good president who know the thoughts and feelings of various community groups, need to also president whose groups as soon as possible they can be involved in its activities.

Recently, in this newspaper, Zitto has written this article on how Lindi province can be the Lanham act of Tanzania who could write about Kigoma but he wrote on the resources of Lindi province that is not her.

This was seen how he thinks as a Tanzanian and not like.

We should not understand you, that Zitto has accepted more in a scholar, a lesson on minerals and energy and I believe that there should we need religious leaders in those issues.

I am also among those who are known as usual in politics and that Zitto Kabwe is a child of the farmer that is not involved with the other family of "flash disk" that are starting to start doing here in the country.

The first child of the retired president who wants the presidency for the wife of the minister who is a member of parliament for special seats, is still among them who love for the medical camp for themselves.

In his age, Zitto has made friendship with acquainted with the people who other politicians even if they don't know how many times, Zitto Kabwe met with people like Maasais' Mohamed, one politician who joined Malaysia from poor countries to rich.

We have seen me when I met with Benedict Liwenga, I understand that he has a close communication with Raila Odinga, Zitto Kabwe is believed to be close to all the heads of security agencies in the country.
I understand that there are high leaders and who put up to Zitto Kabwe here in the country, whom they don't know each other and the famous religious leaders of Tanzania and they joined them through this politician.

Many people do not know but Zitto Kabwe is a member of parliament of Africa (Pan African Community).
In the past it was among the important reputation of a person being a leader that you have not allowed me, together with other things, it gives a black person to know what black person got from.

To me, this is a good reputation for the leader of African countries, we love Nyerere and Nkingwa, because they were good we are good and agreed to talk with the whites and explained their stand without enmity.

If you have a president, my mind, a person who doesn't have a heartless person, what does it mean from him to me for me, you do you make her a good leader.

More than half years of stem cells are under the age of 30 years. Italy is very happy if someone who has a vision, education, the age of Zitto Kabwe was the national leader in that way instead of having 20 percent of the age of age.

Let us learn to Zitto Kabwe at the time he is where he is. But if he will vie for presidency in the year 2015, and if Allah protect us, in any party or as a private candidate, he has sure of my votes.
I has opened a debate.
