Political camp is picking up CCM.
May 16, 2013.

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Mwanza town is rumored to get into a tension between its leaders in Ilemela District and the regional level as a result of various reasons, including the decision to transferred the leaders alleged to be lazy.

In the middle of those steps with the direction of strengthening the party, that comes up with a political competition in Mwanza town, the strategies to vie for the leadership towards the 2015 general elections between the party was expected to take place.

Among the politicians, the ones being mentioned to be separated by misunderstanding between him is said to be the CCM Secretary for Ilemela District, Daniel Ole Poroshenko.

Kili Challenge is for a long time now has been a member of parliament for political camp in CCM which is mentioned to help the prime minister, Edward Lowassa to plan for his term so that he can vie for presidency in the year 2015.

It is alleged that rainy season was allocated to transfer by the political committee of Mwanza Province going to Magu district, a transfer that others want to deal with the political requirements of the party's chairperson in Mwanza town, Anthony Mavude.

However, as a result of being involved Mousa Diallo, some of the members of CCM who did not want to know their names mentioned in the newspaper, they said Poroshenko.

One of the examples they used to prove that what is claimed to be carelessness of that secretary, is to use a lot of time to do political activities which have the interests of one person with Lowassa, while the party's activities are being unable to be supported.

This year 2005 Poroshenko we do not want to remain here, Ilemela has been giving a shame to the national leadership as he was sent here by vice chairperson, Philip Mangula, he wanted to meet with ambassadors of the party in the internal meeting but Poroshenko. He was unable to prepare that session.

"His colleagues in Nyamagana wanted the decision to take place in their ambassadors' session, he has failed to prepare even a internal meeting."

"It is why now a person who does not be looked from here in Ilemela, that is why they should be emphasized because of the interests of the political group inside the party, it's impossible because we want leaders to serve the party and not to serve someone with no interests," says that politician in the party.

It is alleged that after the completion of the party elections in Mwanza province, two camps that were able to attract and vie for the provincial leadership and to plan the terms of their supporters in the district have been increasing the tension.

Those two camp in the CCM election that took place last year is the one that was led by the former chairman of the party before that election, Clement Mabina and another one was killed by Anthony Martial.

The source of sure from the political committee of Ilemela district is needed for the plan of moving them out of this province, that secretary said the plan that even so was reduced due to the transfer of transfer to the party and the decision is mentioned to be done to be implemented in Misungwi District, Mwanza Province.

There was a result of information that despite the preparation of the camp planning to vie for presidency, also look for him due to the intention of vying for the parliamentary seat in Ilemela region in the next general elections and finally win against the opposition parties which will come out to contest for that position.

However, in his talks with Raia Mwema, the chairman of CCM in Mwanza Province, Athletico Bilbao claimed not to have reports of the existence of the conferences that between anyone and that the party does not have a conflict or tension in Ilemela district.

Speaking about the appeal that the political committee of Ilemela district has opened a CCM headquarters against the leadership of the political committee of the province to give a transfer to the secretary of the district for the explanation that they were being handed over to private interests saying they have got the report of that transfer?

"The decision by those sessions are not satisfied by us that we have not given their information, but even if it is an appeal at the level it was done," said Mousa Diallo who doesn't jump and this is the executive secretary of the region for being the executive director and those of service issues.

When required to explain if the plan to destroy the secretary is there, the secretary of CCM Mwanza, Joyce Masunga said that those are words from the streets and there is no plan.

"There is no problem in Ilemela, there is no complaints and those reports of transfer are words from the streets," he said in short.
