
Ilala member of parliament opposing the project.
May 31, 2013.

His Excellency the Mayor of the Municipal Council of Ilala, Jerry Silaa, yesterday Tuesday, said his council will not stop the contract with 37 residents of Mchikichini in Dar es Salaam who have a big housing project.
He told the journalists that, "the council is looking for approximately 500 million shillings which will be used to relocate 360 people who are now in Busega area, those costs will be taxed.
"The council is continuing with the talks with its customers and syphilis, I have sponsored Malaysia Airplane with an agreement of investment that have the interests of the council, residents of Mchikichini and Ilala and the nation as a whole."
That decision by his Excellency Jerry Silaa has come just a few days after the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) to strengthen the Municipal Council of Ilala, explained that it's the one that will be responsible if the National Housing Sector Investments Platform, Dar es Salaam.
The information from NSSF is saying that the council of Ilala has been preparing to complete the procedures of relocating the ownership of the area so that the construction can begin by recently, the council announced that it has stopped several contracts including a project of Mchikichini.
Several weeks ago the council of Ilala announced to cancel the contracts that it was taking that action by claims that the contracts was not beneficial to the council.
Last week, the acting director of the council of Ilala, Mwendaharaka Maganga, confirmed the contracts that since February 2013 when we saw the contracts since February 2013, when we saw the contracts since February 2013, when we saw the agreement since February 2013, we don't think it is not a place anywhere.
But this week the report from NSSF were saying that the organization was aired by the agency that was aired by the law, as a report of the dismissal of the contracts is true, the decision to break the contract with TID they had affected by a big amount of Mchikichini and sanitation project.
Mke Mwema should be informed that NSSF was surprised by the acting director of Ilala Municipal Council about his action of breaking the contract with the 37 that had already left in their areas to pave way for the project and who have been unable to return after the big house project is completed.
More news from NSSF is saying that the issues that's delaying the project is together not to be transferred to land ownership from the Municipal Council to surf the Tanzania Limited which is the one that will implement that project not to be given a permit for drawings that took place at the Municipal Council of Ilala since May 6th, 2010, and the area of the project not ready to be handed over to investors for the purpose of developing countries.
