
RC, who is the immigration officer, bless you for journalists in Malawi, Zambia, preparations to end.

Rashid Mkonga.

The Provincial Commissioner of Mbeya, Abbas Kandoro, while speaking with the immigration officer of the province Asukile has urged the journalists of Mbeya Region who are preparing to have the journey from Malawi and Zambia to be representatives and good ambassadors in market in Mbeya and Tanzania as a whole.

Kandoro and Achileus of those journalists at different times today morning when they visited their office with an aim of explaining the intention of their journey in Malawi and Zambia at the middle of August.

That journalists' tour has been organized by some of the journalists of Mbeya province that is engaged in various social media including research issues about the relationship between the community and neighboring countries.

Speaking to the journalists after being given information on that journey, the head of the province, Kandoro said that the issue of relationship between the country and the country is an issue that is supposed to be priority especially in the patient which was reported in Tanzania and Malawi.

He said by using the opportunity of the journalists' tour in that country, it will help to eliminate the thoughts that are there between the two countries and that apart from that tour, the journalists are required to go up more so as to get a lot that will continue to market Tanzania and neighboring countries of Malawi.

"We have seen your tour, to learn through other things that have great benefits to market Tanzania," Baamar, "this will help even the neighboring countries and Malawi to know what is in Tanzania and attract them," he said.

He also urged the journalists to use that opportunity to announce the opportunity and the attractions available in the country with an aim to attract visitors from those countries to visit our country including strengthening the relationship between those countries in the transition period of the conflict that was told about the border of those countries.

On his part, the immigration officer of the province, Achileus said that the opportunity for the journalists to visit the neighboring countries of Malawi and Zambia will organize afresh the relationship between those countries and that by using the skills of journalists in all the two countries.

"The most thing that was reported are bad, in your tour and your host, we will get good information, we will make sure that opportunity to explain the real situation of relations between our country, our country does not have a great war with Malawi," said Achileus.

Previously, while speaking at the office of the head of the province, the chairman of the journey of those journalists was unable to build relationship between those countries through the journalists of Tanzania and Malawi being together with announcing opportunities and attraction sites in the country.

Approximately 25 journalists are expected to start their long journey towards Malawi and happened to Zambia and return to the country in the middle of August.
