Researchers, Mbeya have discovered the vaccine of AIDS.
January 17, 2013.

The users of the HIV virus (HIV) that are continuing with the research at the Research Institute for Human Diseases, Mbeya (NIMR Mbeya) under the second step this month, while considering that the vaccine deal with VVU is not found.
"This research on the second step will not be able to discover if a person will be able to marry off the HIV infection but it will expand the scope of knowledge of the researchers and therefore preparing a probability of more research," says the director of the Research Institute for Human Diseases, Mbeya, Doctor Leonard Maboko.
However, the researchers have had great hopes, when they start a new research on this second step of the HIV virus, the hope that were built more in their invention and ability of the vaccination to be used to eradicate the disease, today that has shaken the world by more than two weeks.
Today's today's disease will continue being executed at 1700 years and scored by officers up to the year 1960.
The use of the Catholic Episcopal Council has been suspended from the 1990s after being confirmed that the disease has been burnt down in the world.
Research for the vaccination service, today's research stopped the record of taking many years in the history of research of human diseases until now, while AIDS is a disease that was done research on the whole world than other diseases.
Doctor Maboko who is also the senior research officer of Mbeya branch, says in dealing with us today they used the "Landscrona" which now just got so as to be used to help climate change (results) with the aim of getting the vaccination that will be able to eradicate VVU.
"Our big challenge is time for permanent vaccination in the body, it is supposed to have a long time, this one can give them those hope, because those who missed the vaccine are still the body," says the officer.
However, when he was asked about the possibility of people with the vaccination exercise, you will benefit from the infection of VVU, the officer said they don't understand that, and that they are giving loans to the trials, they did not give their views.
Doctor Marco Mfugale said that he is a researcher in the Mbeya center, that he described the research saying that the only way of the HIV virus has emerged the invention of various types of VVU, where the foundation of genes (CMSA) in together have been directed to give different types of VVU, C, C and E.
The genes (PFMRP) has been produced by Karaissance Dam, from Stockholm, while the vaccination service has been improved from the motorcycle riders because it has been used for security and success to eradicate terrorism disease all over the world.
According to the research officer of Mbeya branch, Doctor Maboko said the researchers of Yamoto Band and I were involved in motorcycle riders, and that all the vaccinations have been used in the previous research of (Iloha) in the country and Mozambique.
The new research on the second round of the HIV virus will be known as "Gigabyte" where apart from Mbeya, the research is taking place in Dar es Salaam city, it was a mixture of genes (were conducted by motorcycle riders).
The Director of the Research Institute of Human Diseases, Mbeya, Doctor Maboko says the vaccinations have already been built through security and are in the research on the research of Mount Meru Hotel, held in Dar es Salaam, Mbeya and the neighborhood of Mozambique.
That previous research, (IAGRI), helped the government to assess the level that is not fit and ways of removing genes (which are conducted) where together with other parts of the world.
80 participants are expected to participate in the research at the Mbeya branch, which has been invented to verify safety of vaccination and recognizing the type of users in the immunity in the body.
In addition to Mbeya, there are also 80 participants at the University of Health and Science, Muhimbili in Dar es Salaam and 38 others will participate in the aviation industry in Mozambique.
In the previous research (IMR), 120 people who participated in the country on 24 people in Mozambique were given a mixture of vaccination and strong winds that the vaccination is expected to be completed well.
Mbeya Region is still among the provinces that were affected by the HIV infection since it was known to be in the country for the years of 1980, together with the existence of information that explains the reduction in the second report of the infection of AIDS in the country.
The coordinator for AIDS, the department of health, Doctor Julius Sethi, says that the reports concerning AIDS in the country are given every year after five years and that the first one is the one of the year 2003 / 08, which in Mbeya Region infection were 95 percent while the nation was seven percent.
The second report which is being used for now was given in the year 2007 / 08, it shows Mbeya province with a total of 92 percent compared to the national income by 52 percent.
However, together with the efforts that are ongoing to eradicate infection of HIV in the country, health experts have complained to the situation that is currently ongoing in the country to give priority to faith that are emerged about the treatment of AIDS, including the popular cup for the Loliondo land.
"These faith affect so much of the collection of data, but the most importantly, if it happened to the Loliondo land cup, it is the patients to stop medical treatment, therefore many died," said one doctor in that province.
The research center for human diseases in Mbeya is among the eight stations that are under the Institute for Research for National Development (NIMR), being run in partnership with the office of the chief physician of Mbeya Region, and the Mbeya Referral Hospital.
Other participants of that center are together with the department of infections of infection, the University of Munich (LSE's) and the project of research for HIV of the American army (TPBC).
Together with AIDS, that center is making various diseases among them being the University of HIV, science and primary schools, which is in the immunity and social sciences in the system of health of the health.
