The revolutionary party has a great job.
To supervise the implementation of the revolutionary party manifesto.
These issues are not want to make us read when you are.
The aim of removing poverty and thus bringing development to strengthen education and health to provide water services.
Let me say two.
Even when they are doing.
You are all the ones that comes a bad luck, he's not aware of the aim and serving the Tanzanians.
We will be availed with education that will be implemented in the health sector, we will complete the water sector in infrastructure and so on the members of we give the views on issues that are no meaning to the Tanzanians who do not know it.
If you know that I have collecting the bible on the general secretary of not in order to fulfill the goal I want to thank you.
The late God bless you in the fight against I being given an aim and dealing with my aim, I am my colleagues in the revolutionary party under the leadership of the commander in the general elections and our party's chairperson, Doctor Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete is in implementing the election manifesto.
Our wealth for Tanzanians have a contract with Tanzanians through the sixth order.
It is implementing the election manifesto.
Those other matches are going on.
In the army we called Mary's small businesses to meet with the main aim in order to deal with these three days in front, I want to tell you that you are small traders with the ways of dealing with these teachings to the women, Honorable Nape will be dealt with.
Others continue with the main agenda of addressing the election manifesto.
Two hundred and ten thousand Tanzanians know how to interview him about water about a good health is not true and if you get a number of classrooms and hospitals and the availability of medicine is not true, then they give them a lot of medicine.
Or not to get rid of this work we are still very happy and if it comes here I would go down here and we do not have problems and we do not continue to work hard.
Brethren, I want to tell you the Tanzanians I urge you to continue using the party.
A clean pan, did not know.
The commission said that many things are going on well under the leadership of President Kikwete, I request for himself early to my work because he is the minister Magufuli in all the third phase of this country has built seven-five kilometers.
In the first phase of President Kikwete without campaigning for him for one barrel without seeing him, that are not allowed to reach two hundred and five thousand, he will know the ten-kilometer race.
That is the President Jakaya Kikwete.
