Judge Warioba leads Doctor Mvungi.
Brightiles 14, 2013.

The commissioner of the Constitutional Review Commission, Doctor Sengu Mvungi (61), has died as the chairman of the commission, Judge Joseph Warioba saying it is a big blow after the commission and the country in general.

Doctor Mvungi who died on Tuesday this week in South Africa, had been attacked when getting in his home at 4 o'clock in the night on November 2nd this year, in Kibamba area, Magoza village, Pwani province, for the first day and the next day was taken to Muhimbili, in the Bigwa Location and MOI.

After his condition continued to be bad, Doctor Mvungi who was taken to South Africa until his sudden death was even so, since the day of being attacked by death in the body and especially on the head and lost consciousness and Doctor Mvungi who have forgotten the shop.

During his lifetime, Doctor Mvungi has been the news reporter of Uhuru and Mzalendo newspapers in the year 1976 before joining the building of the University of Dar es Salaam after completing his studies being employed by the University of Dar es Salaam, after completing his studies being employed at the University of Dar es Salaam.

Political, Doctor Mvungi was the member of the executive committee of NCCR-Revolution, and also once the presidential candidate of the party in the year 2005.

The death of Doctor Mvungi, has put major guidance on how to prevent it as it was for the death of the man, the wife of the law, Professor Jellah Mgumia who was shot dead by people who are accused of robbers, July 14th, 2010.

Professor Jilima has been attacked by those people with weapons while getting in his home, Mbezi Beach, Dar es Salaam and was shot and died on the spot.
Judge Mark Bomani.
Speaking about the death of Doctor Mvungi the chairman of the commission of constitutional change Judge Warioba said it is a blow after his commission and the country in general.

He said Mvungi was not known as the commission of commission not only to contribute to his ideas and even to do research.

"It is a very big blow for us (commission) and the country as a whole, she had a foolish thing, he was saying what he wanted to continue with our work, even though the commission will enable you to continue with our work after this funeral, but we will also have a difficult environment for some time without our colleague, Doctor Mvungi," said Judge Warioba.
