
The health of drivers are the source of accidents.
It is looking for a time to go to hospital to test their health.
Julius Mtatiro, the Citizen on behalf of Plasmodium falciparum.
Dar es Salaam.
Explaining the challenges that are for those drivers to attend the hospital for service, the adviser of the Health Institute of Immigration Department (TANAPA), Ency Mwalyanzi said many are proud of the symptoms of the disease that came up especially they are not in place.
He said the driver makes a lot of time going to the hospital thus they are forced to use drugs due to the understanding of symptoms which he writes.
While handing over a donation of medical equipment and drugs to the institution that gives the services to drivers in Dar es Salaam city, Mangaka- Democratic Party, at the end of last week, Engees Okoye is malaria which is dangerous to the health of the driver and the safety of the cargo that surrounds them. "
He said that the government is partnering with the stakeholders who use the drivers they are by knowing how they get time to go to hospital and they have no longer.
The statistics produced by Luseko area shows June 2014 up to June 2015, there were 227 accidents, lorry accidents run between Tanzania and Zambia which cause 32 deaths.
Explaining the services they have given to drivers, the coordinator of Restoration Bible Church, Mariam Mini said that his institution is in the areas with a lot of symptoms that are avoided or offloading cargo.
That institution that deals with providing free tests and blood pressure diseases, diabetes, and malaria, has its branches at the port, Iringa province and up to Zambia and Tanzania that is in Tunduma, areas where drivers use on one day to complete their journey.
By recognizing the difficulty and weight to the responsibilities of those drivers, Mariamu said, "we are giving tests, advice and treatment to other diseases which have been given priority are skin and sexually transmitted infections especially AIDS."
Explaining the challenges of one treatment of those drivers, Jonathan Batuli said he has ever happened after his assistant suffering from suddenly on the way, but he didn't get an accident.
We were when we are taking their cargo in South Sudan, my place, I was affected by suddenly in the first service I gave him.
"We went to that so up to it, we reached where it was found.
He was admitted for two days, "said Jonathan.
