
Ongoing with Kilwa road for health insurance produce 15 years.

The past three years, Elder Fumbuki Lumbasa (78) had been living in great fear as a result of his health that causes the deterioration of the origin of the fear that it is low income to be little, to the extent of failing to pay for treatment at each time.

At the moment, Mzee Gunar did not live again with the fear of thanks for a forest of 8 hectares, which has been set aside by the government under the management of management (security) of forests - Maelezo.

Mzee Gunar is one of the 22 elders of that village which is in 93 kilometers from Kilwa district, who have launched health insurance and the government of the village because of money arising from the use of that forest.

But the success of the village that resulted from that forest that resulted from a forest that had been set aside, has not been pleased to give birth to the elderly because of those income, the village is also managing to build a food service in their primary school.

While speaking to the delegation of the association of environmental journalists in Tanzania (JET) when he visited that village recently, the residents of that village affect the joy that the village of PFM has changed their environment.

We thank the government we thank the government, we thanked the National Housing and Kilwa Development (MCST) and we thank all the partners to help us change our life, "said the acting chairman of that village, Yasin Abdallah.

The government has been partnering with a former Ghanian project in the district which is funded by the countries of Norway and Finland that the project, has brought a great contribution to the villages of that district in the whole issue continuing to be sustainable.

According to the acting chairman of the village, last year 2011 / 2012, the village of village got 13 million shillings due to the use of that forest with 50 percent (50 percent) and Kilwa district council (5 percent) and Kilwa district council (5 percent).

"Money that are set aside for the committee in the village of natural resources are for the purpose of living in the forest, equipment, and sometimes the funds that are set aside for the government of the village is for the purpose of improving community services including other activities like that, they will give the health insurance," he said.

But the success of the success that has been done all in the list of the villages of Kilwa district have been built on the reserve area, is one of the wild village which is currently in the country, between now and December 2012, it is expected to pay a total of 100 million shillings.

"It is true that the success of this village depends on," the chief executive officer of Mpumalanga county, Jumber Makalla, explained that the message of JET and added that "have a small forest of 61000 shillings but they have still been able to get great success in other villages which have big forests."

As a result of those revenue, that village is to enable to use 15 million shillings to buy motorcycle riders because of strengthening water and health services and also to buy equipment's services like what is dangerous and also to buy security equipment.

"This village does not depend on," A "has a great dream of building his primary school due to the ones that I don't have.

In the estimates of Mister Makalla, Iloha village, "A" can be given a lot of income of 297 million shillings in a period of five years due to sales of masturbation.

In that period, the village is expected to have given a lot of 288 million shillings from the sales of a tree for Msamy, 122 million to the InSync company, 157 million shillings to illegal immigrants.

"According to his analysis, if the village will get good customers in all the next five years, its income in the next five years is more than one billion shillings," said the chief executive officer of Mpumalanga county and Development Goals (MCST) of Kilwa.

Makalla warned that the delegation of JET that his organization of MCST, involved with success in that village, and especially considering that it was a good customer for timber and buying of a tree with a tree.

"We are some that we will inform the customer of Arusha who is a company called Ikwililo, Kilifair Company, at the price of a non-governmental organization, 000 shillings, but the customer has been forced to pay that amount to shillings.
250,000, "said Makalla.

Tanzania started collaborating with Kilwa district council to urge the district councils to complete the process of depending on the conservancy in the year 2004, "we started in the year 2004 to two villages, but now the number of villages has reached 10," said Makalla.

According to Makalla, a situation is not only that it is helping the villages to complete the process of depending on the forests by the government, but also you will help the way to prevent it and that can be sustainable.

He also taught the leaders of the villages on the way to look for revenue books and expenditure, financial issues and administration and how to involve all the people in the issues of forests and income and expenditure.

"It's not only that we will help to inspect their health books so as to ensure your things are available, but also they are attending to their village meetings so as to ensure that everything goes on the forest has been put up openly," said Makalla.

According to his details, between those ten villages, five villages have already started getting success due to the sustainable forests that were set aside under that plan of the government of defense and security of forests.

It is because of the achievements that had already been seen up to now the other villages in that district have agreed to be presented officially of the forest.

Under the construction of Kilwa district in Kilwa district, 2281949 are of the forest that is 41890 shillings is for the forest reserve and 53,000 shillings is a forest with the District Council.

It is because of recognizing the achievements they have made as a result of the forest, the villages have no fear and people feared to avoid fire or participating in the smuggling of forests.

And that is a close reason in all villages that JET was visiting during that tour, an issue that will be given priority on time when in our village, other villages have set aside money for buying several motorbikes.

"The issue of police in our country's our village is not of humor, even a little.
When it comes to you, there is no one of a woman or a man, all of us are participating, "said the chairperson of the village, Mahamed Hamad.

Participation of women in a village of village that was confirmed to have one of those times, "I know all of us we are studying with this forests, and that is why I don't see the problem to participate in, and even our husbands believe that the message of JET.

But the women's participation is not happy about the issue of police inside the forest that small villages have been set aside, but also it appears in the implementation of leadership and close to all villages that JET was visited during that tour, being the number of women in the important committee of resources that are big.

That village of managing is to supervise and build a house for a servant in the village clinic (Mama Mkuzo) and also a water well "earlier this services we got through the council, but now we are giving the services to us because of the amount of 4996494.

Another thing of encouraging the heart is that close to all villages, therefore there are small laws that have contributed in the purpose of protecting their forest.

However, together with great success in Kilwa district, it is getting into the implementation of the plan of the government of defense and security of forests (PFM), there are challenges or several problems like the presence of border conflicts between the villages and reading the forest.

Those are problems or challenges that the council is in collaboration with a business person and it is striving to protect themselves but it is clear that there are important things that are very high.

One of those drugs are an attack of many livestock in the districts of the district, Mbarali District, Igunga District (Tabora). It is not a secret that livestock and pastoralists that are inspiring.

The Director of Kilwa district council, Adoh Mapunda, showing the existence of that problem by explaining that more than 1608 students have been put in his district from western and Igunga district.

"The number is very big in our district, and therefore we have taken a step to ban other farmers of livestock in our district.

But another problem which currently is not seen, but it is very dangerous to you that a tree planting trees in the forests are very little, and the one that takes itself through a traditional way is very few.

Close to all trees that have a good price in all forests, that delegation of JET was visiting that tour which resulted to big trees with a big age (100 and more) and it had been planted in the legs.

It is not true that in this current speed of forests, a long time for many areas may have many big trees that have been harvested for the meaning that it has been planted, a situation that has been planted or evaded the legs.

For sure, Kilwa district is the only district in the country which is still in the forest that you can see breast cancer screening in the country, but there is no any efforts to climb new phones and do not have any efforts to sell itself through natural ways.

Maybe this is a challenge or a big problem which is ongoing in collaboration with Kilwa district council and Nuzulack Dausen as Bodaboda, should direct their energy to be done, otherwise, the current benefit is only a few years only.

But another big problem involved in some of the villages in that district is to depend on a lot of everything in one village which JET, visited and met with those guests of JET, expected to meet with an envelope with their allowances for the session from MCDC.

Unfortunately, the institution's officer who deals with that delegation of JET did not have those allowances for the villagers because he didn't see the logic of paying those delegates by participating in a short period of time.

It was clear in JET that issue of money is given priority to the leaders more than the concept of volunteering in the activities that concern their development themselves.

Why is baptism necessary for instance, and if I am a veteran in the country, the money may be from foreign sponsors, therefore, the villages will be in a situation where many foreign sponsors are not given assistance from Nida who is in the country?

This issue of the villages is depending on the money for sponsors in protecting and protecting the forest that the reserve was confirmed by the executive director of MCST, Mister.
Makalla said that many villages will not be affected if they are not allowed to bless you.

"If a person leaving, not only some of the villages that will not be paid but also the council even if it has paid priority on the issue of forests thus it is because the council is facing a huge problem of shortage of resources and working tools," said Makalla.

All stakeholders who were asked about that issue during the tour of Kilwa they had agreed in one big issue, that in order for the villages it is not unyielding, it will make better revenue that you get now because of the forests, it will use the capacity of being independent in later by 100 percent.

Maybe this is the biggest challenge and a very important challenge to all the villages among the 10 villages of Kilwa district which has already benefited from sexual abuse, under the government's plan of the management of forests in the country.

In the next edition of Kilwa road fighting with illegal immigrants of timber and drinking water of forests.

To the writer of this article, is the chairperson of the association of environmental journalists in Tanzania (JET).
