
These teachings of the United Nations of Same East depends on 1st, 2012.

In a period of 28 years of my opinion, I have also been appointed as the secretary general of the Tanzania Sports Writers Association (JET) for six years and also the executive secretary of Tanzania branch of African Community (CPK) for eight years, I have never been the guest of honor in any community event even immediately.
It's not that I did not have been asked to be the guest of honor in any community event, but I have been forced to request the request of the way to believe that they are not involved in my journalism profession.
The foundation of refusing to my request is that I am a journalist and is not the source of news (news), because my responsibility is to report on events, including those of various topics, and not to sit on the high table as the guest of honor.
It is that the basis of the foundation will not be very much during my recent years heading to Same East, while the youths were following it and asked me to be the guest of honor at the opening of the building of their hall and also running the fundraising.
I didn't know if I have asked the others that had asked me.
I stopped him while I decided to tell him that they live on a high table as the guest of honor is in opposition to my profession of writing news.
I hope that they have understood, but the second day they come back to me and the request that the one was walking, and finally I refused to loose the request, where your life of life here in the world started (left) and where I will end (buried).
But also, I explained that I had to understand those youths due to them not being faced with the objectives of youths and especially in terms to build that hall which will expire.
They started as a group of few youths who were waiting for money to help each other during problems like the funeral of disease, but they serve it quickly and register it as the main aim of improving the community service in the village.
And now it is not only the number of members has increased and reached shillings 176 million but also those who use the modern hall in that village. It is not easy to see that hall in the villages of Same East Constituency.
That conference is not normal in the rural areas, but also the youth union of Ndungu (the villages which were able to become the normal union in Kilimanjaro province.
It is not the normal union because he mentioned a union of youths (anywhere in the country) about the thoughts that were tested at the union of youths of CCM (UVCCM) but those affected the union that involves youths from all political parties in the country, from all religious parties and even all the ones that are found in Same East.
For sure, together with all the 28 years of writing news, I have never met a union of youths anywhere in the country where the chairperson is CCM and the Secretary General is CHADEMA, and we are still continuing to resolve it well but that is how it is in the village areas of Same District.
It is a union that has managed to put aside political issues, religion, religion and tribalism and deal with only one agenda, the agenda of their development, (that is why you have been signed as Mo) and also the development of their village of Ndungu.
I'm saying that the one that made the youths to stop blocking the member of parliament of Same East, Ann Kilango, close to that building or the head of Same District or even the director of Same District, and instead they decided to look for a journalist close to them.
When I met with me because they know that a news reporter is not supposed to be careful.
Certainly, these colleges of Mount Kilimanjaro have every reason to support politicians. They have every reason to sit together with politicians, because they get to building that building, they were legal by following all the procedures that are used in the village to sell plots.
In the talks I have made early to the regional leaders of Mount Meru, I explained that politicians who tried to do in that union so that they can get use later in the campaign issues but they stuck on they started fighting the union being together with those efforts to contribute to that union.
"The launch of our building which it has enabled, is the conclusion of a long-term fight that we used for.
It was clear that for me that the big threat that deals with the union which will continue being maintained together are politicians.
And it's because my speech I wanted to sit together with politicians of Tanzania, because all of us know that many of them are people who like to get them not.
I saw us that this year 2010 is the year 2010, and the youth's strength in the elections are available all over the country and therefore they are supposed to be careful and to accompany the candidates or their aides to their union.
I warned that they agreed to ask ourselves that he did not be afraid that we are not involved in the campaign, to know that this is first of dealing with the historic union of Kilimanjaro, who is not CCM, CHADEMA and CUF.
Another thing that I requested them to my speech is to use that union and the new hall as the center of building a culture of defending human rights in the village and elsewhere, but I had gone to stop yourself when their primary rights are given.
And in that, I insisted that Tanzanians are continuing to build a habit of discussing things and not to agree easily easily in the income and use of various development projects that are being criticized by the government officials of the village or district council of the district.
And so that they can talk well that I had come to form the culture of studying and doing enough research for the issues that they want to partner with my colleagues in Dar es Salaam, filling different books that benefit them so as to increase their knowledge on issues.
On my view, if at the end the accident will be set aside by completion, the youth union of Ndungu (UDOM) to prove that for another time, that the era of waiting for the main government or the district councils managed to bring development to the villages, three.
I am saying those areas of Mount will have confirmed to another time that the issue of their development has been taken in their hands, because the first confirmation that they used by building that big meeting and of its kind in the village.
Recently, they could have risen to the High Court in Dar es Salaam city or the District Council of Same (Same), that took place at the village's hall, they could have gone up until when it is now, the youths of Ndungu could not qualify for their village or sponsor of abroad, they could have failed until when they do.
It is a solution that they did not want to wait, they decided to register themselves from their daughters, they decided to look for money, they will start a land projects to look for money for that construction, and at the end of that construction, and at the end of all, the building of that hall was standing.
For the youths who came through that, it was a joy that was found on the night of December 20, 2009 when they played her happy and read it immediately after their building is officially opened.
It was a great joy that is for all the residents of Ndungu which for many years you missed the services of the modern hall so as to prove out of which amount of Ndungu.
And even the popular artist of comedy in the country, Bony speaking with his fellow artists from Dar es Salaam to Ndungu. While entertaining at the hall during the vigil of launching a new year!
I conclude by saying that I met at that hall on December 20, 2009, after the official launching, I have not allowed my previous decision to accept to be the guest of honor at the event, although it is against the journalism profession.
I left back in that hall when I was very delicious with that at least I have contributed a little in the fundraising and to bring a little joy in the life of my colleagues in the village (British), they are saying that a red card will go to the Democratic Republic of Jesus!
