This saying that the topic is not today starting from this year's body and four, we have been unable to do well, we have been directed.
Truly, by looking at a large percentage of us if Tanzanians have never happened in the games it is open so that our teams can be unable to see if we start our team of the nation.
Our team's team.
Instance, it was in the competition that it needs a ticket to participate in the African tournament which is expected to be.
On the ten and five years if I am not in the first month in Equatorial Guinea but it was taken by the country of Mozambique for it.
That is for presuming they have been affected by one person, you can see that we are unable to see that we have been unable to do it.
And those comes from what?
It is due to that we need.
Good and goals for a long time we have been there.
The age of age have already talked to the audience.
He can play a different ball and our colleagues who are estimated to be paid for their teams and their clubs are starting to teach children living in the ten years and two to see what they are participating in this year, but they failed to succeed because these things we said that they were quoted by first.
They love you.
It is enough people already has already changed the person being the whole person ready for sure.
We have failed to have long-term goals that's why you know that we have defeated them in front of what we want to do where we're going to end.
Today, for the first time to give birth and not called.
This is not a problem.
In A, he said that Boyd Faustin Mwakyusa has thrown out the boxer, has talked about the war from United Nation institution which has been unable to make the African Cup competition in the line going through it.
.
For you?
I are on my side and I also agreed that.
Special emergency and it is also due to various issues, even if we look at our clubs in this continent, there have been conflicts from time to time.
The people getting into.
Money through corruption has been approved, the players that have no talents are confirmed to play.
The national national team starts from I was quoted from I was going on with Morogoro when maybe Tanga but if you look at the time from Shinyanga he did not depend on the players of the national team.
Also on the side of the city that some of the games are not completed, I have seen one football ball but there are very few drivers who will serve in transport like the ones who have already brought themselves so much in sports and would be found in a very good step in games.
