Then you have a new disaster, the court makes a lot of joy and listen to the name Nimlaumu Nani.

While he does not know what the fate of the case facing him is supposed to be?
Drugs are in South Africa, video queen Agnes Kijazi.
"Masaudi," has got a new problem, the talk of the villages has a full report.

According to our source, something that is in that country, Maseru.
And his fellow who was arrested, Melisa Edward have been identified.
They have come back again.

Why do you know and be prosecuted?
Those have been canceled due to claim that they have a plan to leave the country.
There I wouldn't want to go back to Tanzania, something that is translated.
The attempt to join that case, "you know where Sawazisha 'is not every person.
He wants to say God to be assisted by Melisa, a problem that he received.
You'll find that a person does not depend on any other things that are false.
To know that it is not every person who is listening to you shortly, others are.
"Watch the word" they are getting in front.

"That is what confirmed to be demolished.
While some people were in the process of helping them to know.
How the case will be demolished quickly, the others are going to talk.
Strangeness of their people who want to take information, results are people.
They are planning to make corrections, not the law will follow its course. "
It gives them a difficult time we who in which we help him, once we are called.
He was questioned by the police force and that is the reason their bail has been closed down.
If you look for what caused the false words?
His office, "the source said that there was asked the reserve for his name.
Despite meeting with drug abuse, Maseru.
We want to sign her pictures on social media and to listen to them.
After receiving bail has sent away the internet for a recent picture.
"Nyambo is not like I see, these days have already been completed and his new pictures will continue.
In the middle, after being arrested, those days he was out on bail.
He is in jail not to be left to what has came with phones, "said the source that Tanzanians who died from cashews?
After that star was placed on July 5, this year, some of the stars that missed him on July 5, this year, some of the stars that missed him on July 5, this year, some of them.
How do we live in Bongo and South Africa seems to have planned.
With the aim of helping that beauty, the following came out from the report.
Being defeated by his bond, they do not have strength and continue to see that action.

South African laws concerning Tanzania about the same way?
It is alleged that, in South Africa, someone has been arrested and "A"?
Being out on bail while his case is going on in court.
Tanzania too was supposed to have a case that it will be heard behind by police who were in her house in her house.
News from news sources are indicating that police officers (center.
Work is not yet known, they have been arriving at home for that artist.
Kijitonyama, Dar and asked several issues the neighboring countries. "
And so as to see what happens here in the streets there are police have been giving time to time.
Just after asking for him if he is. They are not ready to live as a police.
Three among them, that was revealed is the police, "the source said.
FIFA continued to claim that, July 20, this year he arrived at one police.
Listen to the neighbors if you have ever heard a long man, white.
At the Mashada house, "the 20th of July was sent by one officer.
He asked the neighbors if there is a long time with a long man.
He entered with Khajida Kopa, he told him that he has never happened to someone with the type.
"Is the meaning, I asked his case with albinism (South Africa)?
There is something written in some people that there is his brother?
To relocate its media because they know a case will take a long time. "
The source said.

Records, July 5, this year, Masimba and Melisa John should be removed.
Drug trafficking at the International Airport of Oliver Wema.
In Boston, South Africa was claimed that the value of that load of one hundred and fifty shillings is one billion and six hundred thousand shillings.
