
When it comes up, "the word" our "is called (IMF on May 31, 2012

In this article of August 27 of our citizens, I wrote them to our government to take legal action to deal with the effects of the world economy which was on the way.
I wrote on that article that the government is supposed to take quick action of putting a special strategy which will enable them to reduce the effects of Tanzania's economy, and that leaders are also to urge citizens about that danger, that is on the way so that they can control them early.
But as the current government of our government, there is no any steps that were taken and for sure, it took the first six months to inform the citizens that there is a great economy of the world economy and that they will benefit us.
That was in the speech by President Jakaya Kikwete that he made, last year, in Tanga City, October 14 during the celebration of switching off the torch and commemoration of 9 years of the death of Mwalimu Nyerere.
However, in his speech in Tanga town where for the first time, he mentioned the Tanzanian public about falling, in the world's economy, President Kikwete did not mention any strategies that was organized by his government to deal with that situation!
However, when he was talking about that issue, the second time in his speech to the nation of October 31st, 2008, the president still did not announce any strategies to deal with that situation, despite saying that we will be affected because the sale from outside business will rise in line with the reduction of foreign investment.
However, in his speech to the nation of the new year of 2009, President Kikwete did not speak about the existence of any government strategy to deal with that situation.
The truth, even so, it is true that the situation is so bad, more than eight months ago, and that if our government does not have a strategy to deal with that situation, then it will be a cry and grind using the whole country.

And already the cries of food shortage has already been heard from some of the districts in the country!
However, President Barack Obama who was sworn in recently to be the president of America, he spoke about the main economy of the world's economy by saying that things are very bad than the way it was seen in the past, and that they will be taken against the required actions.
This language is required to be taken against the normal steps to be taken out of that situation, is the one that met right now in England, Japan and elsewhere in the first world.
Or a person does not need to have a degree in economy or business to see that it is true (Real).
Or when it comes to the country like England, which for sure it is our reporter, it is thinking of borrowing, then you should know the water have gone down.
Due to misuse of money, the National Identification Authority in England has dropped by 15 percent, a deficit in the budget is high to an acceptable level, the government's debt had reached 1 trillion shillings, a number of 100 million shillings has reached 1 million pounds, a total of 100 million shillings has reached 1 trillion shillings.
In America, the situation is that despite the government (during the era of George Wopler), wants to pay more than 800 billion dollars to save the banks of that country, things have not been restored and now Obama has decided to save those institutions and revive the economy.
He also said that the situation of our reporter - Japan is the economy of that country and it goes against the extent that industries have been supported by the number of employment and employment has increased up to 27 million people.
Now, if the situation is that, the situation for our reporter, will take place to ask the government of Kikwete a question that I had no longer two months ago, I did not just care for what to do?
But I get it ends there, I ask you to also call the second question and it is this of a language spoken at this, and our reporter is one of the common steps to deal with what we are in Tanzania, we are not supposed to inform us to take action that are not common to deal with that situation?
I ask that because up to now, I have not heard that the government is making any legal action to deal with that situation as they don't have our colleagues so that if you do a step by the government to stop the purchase of luxurious vehicles (EFD), and put aside seminar and workshop, things are business.
In addition to not there were any big step of the government to be remembered, its symptoms are even so, they show that things are not well.
Although the governor of the Central Bank, Professor Ndulu explaining fear that it is normal, but those who see them know that which is a first sign of things not being safe since Zimbabwe started that, by being a new thing and the citizens were told that it is normal!
I hope that you want to explain that for you to look for today's edition, it is why we are waiting to discuss our government's strategy to deal with albinism is the biggest economy of the world.

Still we are waiting to be taken against legal measures to deal with this normal problem.
It is not enough to take a step to stop the purchase of a lot of money or to reduce the seminar and workshop of the ministry, on my view, we need to have a whole country to be common that will be taken to deal with this normal problem.
And there are many cases that can be taken by example, why Kikwete was able to bring change in his government by making sure that this is the current leadership of ministers, directors, directors, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads,
Currently we need to have embassy offices in all the countries in the world?
Why do we learn from other things and others can reduce the workers?
Currently the trips for government officials can be reduced by the money that will be directed to the journey of urging development to the villages?
I give these recommendations that, I know that for a long time the government will start the process of preparing that budget for the year 2009 / 2010. The production of that budget for sure will be a difficult time since it is not a budget that can have a deficit of the world economy.
However, even if it will be found, a few days to help us in this difficult time, I believe that they will give me little more than it was in the past, and that this journey will be very difficult, even at the past, and their conditions will be very difficult for them, it cannot be a business.
Sifuna Mchome, (for example), those people wanted the use of a government to be investigated further and they will not be surprised if they will not accept if they will not tolerate any government expenditure as such as outside the country, and even those of other big interests.
Now, if this is how you will make sure, we should not start themselves by taking action that are not normal to deal with that situation instead of waiting for them to do so, and even if it is a must to carry the money for paying the tax or even us are up to the white.
Any way, as' if you see her as a way you have prepared them to borrow the IMF and know your water on the neck, therefore, we should expect it to get if he used in the past.
It depends on.
