
A new song that affects we lives.
If public institutions from Australia have discovered that it is supposed to continue the same life with the world.
According to the reports that was published in the Mgongolwa Valley, the same way is going on in the areas that are believed to have a gas pipeline, I don't have a water problem.
"The same way is going round in the area that is called Watoto Wetu region.
This area is believed to have water and gas that continues with life like not, "said one of the researchers, Doctor Duncan, right of New York University in Wales.
The discovery of Australia scientists has increased in the list of the population that are believed to continue life.
The past five months, the Institute of Civil Aviation Authority in America (NASA), answered by the new world "which was known as 21-0 (Khajida Kopa).
News about the discovery of Eleuteri Mangi - 438,667 that were shocked all over the world with hope that maybe a human being got other places to live different from here in the world.
News about the discovery of that new world, made one internet shop in China to start selling tickets to its customers who want to relocate to the world 20 to 0.
The central shop is a goal being down one ticket for 30 shillings (Yuan is 2) for those who want to move to the new world where they would have been required to travel for a period of 30 million years before it reaches it.
NASA said that the year 2 is the biggest than the world that we live in the world, the new world has poor eyesight and this world like stones, in the sea and the stars affected by it.
NASA said that the distance were is the star's stars that allow his creation to live.
It has been discovered that Australia scientists are believed to be close compared to a 2 world that has been found by NASA.
Three months in the picture are the scientists of NASA, have managed to get in some of the months that is in the Zekiem Grounds (NIMR) by using a plant in Madukani area.
Those pictures were given officially by NASA on Tuesday, have shown a few months known as Dollaso together with Benedict Liwenga.
In the month of Dombeni with a total of 1,215 kilometers, while having a size of 396 kilometers.
In Zigamba has a total of 120,536 kilometers compared to the world which is 12,343 kilometers.
Therefore, it means that the world comes inside Zinga, at 750 and coldness, a machinery that brought in those pictures on May 27, while there is one million shillings from Zouk Rumba, which was sent in the world of 1997 and arrive near to Ziba village in the year 2004 and arrive close to Ziba village in the year 2004.
The project, the project is owned by Pan African Research Institute (esa) and the Department of Pan African Research (Isa) and it cost a total of 2800 billion shillings.
In January 2005, the machine was killed in the month of Tipi which took their own eyes.
That plan does not break the record for being the first to land in the month of Thai, a machine that Cassin Isikizya area still continues to move ahead of Zekij and many months covered by it.
According to the scientists from NASA company, Paraa Mwanga Company will continue to move forward up to September 2017, whereby it will not be able to appreciate your password.
Scientists are worried that there is a probability that the machine get spoilt when you were directed to that state.
That has been collected by Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
