I have ever done the scandal of the organizers of Diamond.
May 29, 2014.

That was spoken by member of parliament James Mbatia, parliament last week about the fight between the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo and the chairman of the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), Reginald Mengi, has made me remember an event of approximately five years ago.
As a result of that incident, I remember that I had read the way I got to read in one of the supervisors, Business Registration and Industry, Peter Yvonne Cole, on April 3, year 2012, he wrote on the biography of a rich person in the world, Bill Nas.
Yvonne Cole when he released his message to the news reporter, "Business Manager of Bill Nas, who are from Miss World's College of Business Agency," a broad range of business in the course of Bill gates, 'Siri ya Mtungi' and famous businessman.
In general, by concentrating on all the reputation on the church, Bill Nas, popularly known when she has told him for a briefing that he is a rich person with personality (yellow card), maybe more than all the business people.
He answered, "the book which will write every one to be read is the name" the way to get wealth without a way to go to heaven, "the author can be Bill gates.
That is a major impetus in an official way but with his one who is not known as' Neonatal Sepsis', "DRIVE SAVE LIVES."
Therefore, the statement issued to Parliament that it is reminding the two things, first, on the first on Sunday, May 3, in the year 2009, where the Member of Parliament for Igunga, the head of Igunga, the head of Igunga, the head of Igunga, the head of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the mayor of Igunga, the head
The registrar gave those accusations after Mengi, on April 23, this year in 2009, and told the list of the corrupt people, including the head of Aziz Abood.
Although all days I have not met with some of the movements of the head of Aziz Abood, for his position as a businessman and politician (different from Bill Nas), but if all days I have been keen to think about information from people from the neighborhood, especially the ones that are involved with issues that do not start in the national exams.
And on that logic, I have been keen to think about the message from other people who follow up and that I have been following what is mentioned to be a conflict between the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, on one side and Reginald Mengi (through a cap) on another side.
But maybe before continuing with this debate I heard the accusations of the organizers of Azam FC, he won by May 3, in 2009.
The accusations of the reception.

The head teacher who still believe it is not good to be trusted by 100 percent in several things, on his accusations, he told him, in a different context, and that is between Yekonia Bieldt.
He has told him saying, "history of Mengi has shown that it is a person who likes to start a conflict in issues concerning his personal interests, but it's looking for fire and see that it is bad, you're looking for asylum and wanting to change the whole nation."

After those explanations, who listed several allegations but here I will start a fight with the owners of DTV and CLA, in the year 1994 to fear that they will be competitors in ITV television station and will enable it is a decrease in the whole country, claiming that it is capable of killing them.
Secondly, he started a fight with the former prime minister of good administration, Wilson Masinga, after being unable to break the entry fee in the Kilimanjaro Hotel, he wanted to hold a fight against the whole country.
Third, when he started a fight with the former deputy minister of trade and industry, Shamin Khan, after being required to look for information on drinking water produced by his company that it was enough for forgiveness when they were not so, he wanted to hold a fight for the whole country.
Four when he started a fight with the former Minister of Finance, Basil Mramba, after getting off the tax in the running of his business, unfortunately, it was forced to hold a fight for the whole country.
Five, when he started a fight with the Information Company Limited (mobile phone company) that was led by General Ulimwengu, after releasing the news of the way "he invented the NBC Bank, he wants to hold a conflict in the whole country.
The head of the organizers who praised the killing of corruption, on his accusations made the way they were involved in the NBC Bank, which later changed the price is good.
In his accusations, the head teacher claimed that Mengi was using his company, Aniva band Limited (wearing L) took the loan in the beginning of 80 years of billions of shillings which he refused to cut off and forcing a issue to be arraigned in court.
