
The division is not for parliamentarians, even the council of ministers on May 31, 2012

A meeting between the members of parliament of CCM and the chosen committee headed by the retired President, Ali Hassan Mwinyi, in Dodoma town, recently, the decision made up close to the thoughts of the son of gospel singers in Germany, Albert Sanga.

Eliamin Tenga, once said, "Any has said that they can be able to pass through Hunter, and More Tugara.

That is a fox which can grow more things, sign a lot of controversy and even causing many violence to an albino star in line with the courage and that's why they can change the direction.

A big question after that meeting is, he is a lot of wisdom and brave at considering the logic of Albert Sanga's logic?

On the other side, the meeting made him to leave the statement of former President of America, Abraham Malcom Company, that President ever said, "Masau boasted.

That, it is good for you to remain silent, when you continue being thought, he does not have a fox that is there that maybe you are a fool.

On that logic, Lindiwe Ntshalintshali has said that meeting will help us to remove our fear about the ability of some leaders.

Now we have been able to prove that some leaders do not speak about people and not issues concerning their thoughts divided in discussing people, instead of issues.

Leaders (adults) have defended people without going back or compared to the requirements of their party.

It is a lot of thoughts, maybe and the small experience in the national debate by a leader to build an issue that involve someone (right) without putting the ratio of those issues and the requirements for the establishment of the party.

If you're talking to him, when you want to talk about someone to be with the defense or otherwise, it is good to test your motion by depending on the basis of the establishment of the party.

For example, you cannot defend "a penalty" when you know the foundation is not knowing "the theft said, you can't defend those savers when you know the foundation is not paying off.

There are two major things I have praised, on the first, is Edward Lowassa losing a prime minister, he is the speaker of parliament, Samuel Sitta to continue being the speaker of parliament.

Recently, Lowassa has come out as it was officially known by the hopes of a certain group of members of CCM, and even some of the journalists and part of the other professionals is obvious that Lowassa was the head of that group.

But he was also defeated by Lowassa with the group of giving a picture that Speaker Sitta was the source, although basically President Kikwete was the one who decided to resign.

At meeting, there are some who wanted their colleagues to be expelled, but others told him as a foundation of the problem.

But the big question is, Mrs Sitta is a problem to CCM or it's a problem to this group?
, Sitta is a problem in front of messengers or it is a problem in this group?

In order to answer these questions, looking for a threat to the member of parliament of CCM, at the NEC meeting of CCM last week Doctor Lekei made the threat to the public and international institutions.

There was a result of the question, I urge you that, Sitta like the speaker is not a problem with CCM or passport for you, but Sitta is a problem to this group.

Minister of State, office of the president, good administration, Sophia Simba, is among those who spoke together with the deputy minister of labor, employment and development of the youth, Makongoro Choir.

The Deputy Minister Mahanga was the prime minister for Lowassa being given a prime minister maybe it is clear that it was received in a different way with some of the politicians (believe in the network), maybe Doctor Mahanga.

It is possible, they were proud that he had not allowed me again to release that position and if he went to the State House.

It is possible that the problem which is faith in some of that President Kikwete invented the prime minister for Lowassa, even if his joy is self-communicable diseases which caused the nation then he was supposed to be careful with the president and even the parliament.

These will never be hostile and laziness is the source of Lowassa to resign as she has promised to fulfill these statements that the problem was a prime minister.

Mahanga is saying the report of fake phones in the country, a fake word has been signed by the real picture of this group.

President used that report to listen to Lowassa's resignation and appointed the new Prime Minister and other directors were taken against them.

Part of the recommendations of those reports were not working even by specialists from the Rex Energy company and the Rex Energy company.

After that report, Lowassa, Karaitakapotoka and a teacher failed to ban the parliament and they were responsible.

That report was used by government institutions as the registrar of the company in the country (BRELA) to reach the Richmond Development in the list of the company in the country.

The act of Mahanga said that the fake reports are open is saying that who has worked for the report including the president who made a speech to the cabinet of ministers is 49,243, who do not have the ability to test the reality of issues.
When a question is a big report because Lowassa has lost a prime minister because Lowassa has lost a prime minister but if he didn't know if the government's leader did not see the president?

Why Mahanga was one of the reports are fake but they did not want to the government and parliament while the report was prepared by the parliament?

How come to front of the war to defend his group (Lowassa), Mahanga will have a different view by the one of President Kikwete who agreed without refusing to resign from Lowassa's resignation from the source which is a big report (fake).

Why do you pass the fake reports while we expect that it was prepared by the parliament but there is still a question that is not present at the same time when Lowassa had lost a prime minister?

We have heard that Jakaya Kikwete has advised President Lungu to appeal for that report which already made a fake judgment.

This advice is dangerous to the president and why is first, the advice they have already sent the judgment.
Secondly, the type of judgment is a special message to the president that he does not have the ability to test on iTunes.

Third, including the president they have been used a message by Mahanga and the group that is in the past that, because (President) has worked on a fake report and he decided to resign from the government with his wife then the president is not good.

I think, in front of the president, it is obvious that Mahanga has lost the qualifications to remain as the deputy minister. He has assured the government and he has no faith with the president because that President has worked on fake reports.

Is a wisdom to the deputy minister announcing reports that was accepted by the president and parliament as the pillar of a fake nation?

So, he was supposed to give the judgment that those reports are fake and then give advice to the president, for free commission but what should one who are fake here, should be his advice from that judgment or it is a report of the chosen committee?

Minister Sophia Simba is the minister of state, office of Raqqa, good governance and this one did not say fake reports, but he urged the police with a special statement.

I don't have a problem with this minister as a mother of a family or wife in the whole marriage or against him, the problem is starting when I was a minister.

He has appealed to the defense, following some of the decision by the president. It should be remembered, President Kikwete decided to resign from Andrew Chenge, as the minister of infrastructure, due to the scandal of preventing themselves in the village.

There were two things about Mjengwablog, first of May, as the era of cement, there was found with the purchase of fees in the second period as well as corruption, he urged the citizens the form of the statement of property of the public leaders.

It is impossible to have been done in England but here in the country, we don't know if he left the secretary of ethics or standing on the village and what she did at their disposal.

When a big question is, if today has appointed us we will also be sure that the ministry will give information that are not aware about it, depending on the statement of property?

Another milestone is the fact that this Prime Minister has accepted officially that and his part, some of them and doing other factors that he has failed to stand between.

He has defended one of the side and shook with the other side and he was unable to learn from his fellow ministers who by recognizing their positions they sat for, for example is Doctor Mary Nagu.

Therefore, his action was as a minister for a good ministry to speak by touching the information of him in his office so as to make sure you put the reputation.

He has defended Lowassa showing any offense, whoever they believe that President Magufuli decided to resign from his resignation and accepted his resignation from someone that is not seen in the presence of a problem and not injustice.

When we see the minister with the thoughts facing him and his boss as it is Doctor Mahanga.

His action is expected to make words that you don't have any donation because we shall reach and especially this time, which one group in CCM is aiming to destroy another group.

In that view, the division is not only for the members of parliament but also the ministers of ministers.
Advice from Dodoma meeting, it has helped to know the ability to ask for leaders, the president take appropriate measures.

God bless Africa, God bless Tanzania.
