
It has started the general elections.

November 10, 2013.

Having remained a few days so as to take the general elections of the Football Federation already, they started competing in that election which was previously postponed by the International Football Federation (FIFA) is expected to take place on October 27 this year.
The news that was found in Dar es Salaam yesterday explained that some of the candidates have been given the tenders for the election day, where one has got the tender to prepare for votes while another he was in the hall.
"Every person likes the elections to take place in peace, but if some of the sick, are required to take place a place where all the candidates will be free and people from outside are preparing to vote for votes," said the source.
That source claimed that it's not possible even one day for the candidate to prepare for votes and bad luck, the people surprised them including that hall and it is good for the concerned parties to take action quickly so that the elections can be conducted in peace and leaders to be conducted in peace and leaders.
When listening to that issue, the chairperson of the TFF elections committee Hammidu Mbwelezeni has said to give clarification about that, he said that as a committee on the hall in the country, apart from their budget it will make it a lot of money.
"First, these things like the committee we want to do if you get," he said, especially the issue of who he will organize a prayer for votes is not good to put it open for now, all that we can have any difficulty that would be done, "said Meek.
He said that they don't like to see the election that you got into mistakes because they will be self-driven and therefore soccer stakeholders should not be afraid that everything will go well and with a plan, so that every side to enter.
At the moment the process of that election is going on well and the only thing is Almighty God (review) and appeal, about your issues in front of the Appeal Committee of Ethics and Elections Council.
The process of the elections helped me 58 containers, where three got an appeal to the elections committee to oppose the resignation of the election committee while eight others, their issues have been taken to the ethics committee through the review of constitutional changes (HIV), so as to get direction on implementation.
The guide has been requested by the TFF Electoral Committee to the ethics committee because the ethics committee made him eight candidates for the leadership who were brought ahead of him by the mistake of ethics not being guilty, but the same time is supposed to recognize them in the election race which is done by the election committee.
