It is nothing.
It doesn't know how to tell me what I know is, the late God bless you, I don't know where I was going to do when I was going to do when I was going to do when I was going to do when I was going to do so, I'll go to.
If you go to the late God, when you go to Dar es Salaam, then you will make sure you finish the school.
We will finish his girlfriend a person you got when you put it.
Everyone is in place where the late God bless you but is in the same school, we're doing where you reached the school, when you finish the school, God is not in line with you, then you can have a working tool.
You want to go to school to read more, he cannot say it is Msasu.
I have gotten tired with a lot of studies but why do I register myself if you can't see me, maybe I was good to see me, but I am very happy, then I don't know what I was doing so, then you want to tell me.
The late God bless you, I know the name of a man, I was in the first of and let us come at a shot, then me do not see me.
What does it mean to be feared, I will go to you, he will leave the same time.
It's no longer.
It is a must to allow me for this short time, we request that they have lost all books, but we have forgotten that they have already lost their book.
How many times it happened on the date.
When the late God commanded what to me I don't know how I don't know more.
And eight days of the area I was five, and all the days you will remain or leave it through it will let me ask you, then let me ask you, then it was a bad luck and it was a bad luck.
If you get a lot, you will make sure that I will make me go with me, then you get pregnant when you get pregnant when you get pregnant while you are going to buy.
And then it will be found that this days you love the project?
It depends on, I did not see this, I don't see this but you know even if you know you, even tell me since the year they should follow me.
When two of God seem not to see since that is?
It's not true, the Almighty God have never seen that if I have died, I saw like I have died this year and I don't know what I don't know but I am not seen but I have not seen where I am not seen there.
I have found to see the case.
The late God rest.
Me, the late God bless me, she told me what I think about me.
The late God bless you for you and it's not later, he does not tell me that she didn't know her the car and he told me that he cannot get her a lot of her a lot and let me know her.
That is the way he told me for you, it is a must to go to you, but the failure to get bribes he had to play for him.
Ras Makunja, even your mother is not a patient and all the artist becomes the late.
One of the exercise is therefore, when a mother say it is not a result of the areas where he knows you and when they get your views in addition, he is not supposed to go back to you, I don't know where I had not seen him, I don't know where I had not lie!
I ask you like he said I went for there and asked for the growth in the growth there.
When you are still making a teaser?
.
If Sunday is Sunday, I have given the way and wait until now I'm in the country not to lead it.
Almighty God rest his soul?
I don't know where we are in search for booking tickets, I'll give you shortly when I was shocked when you missed him, then it gives me you to be like that I'm shocked.
Why is why you are not left there?
When you come to the late God bless TANZANIA, but Teacher Ras Kiduku was not seen there is sim card and then your people have a lot of needs but the late God bless you.
