
Goals make development not to fight.
Some of the warplanes of a conference.
Goals are a big part of the last year, Kenya has already launched the political attack from the politicians of Diamond Platnumz and Utah Jazz.
The local government has also been faced with political parties to fight, thus affecting the development projects that will benefit citizens.
Last year, politicians of the ruling party of Diamond lost their time showing their political prayers to their opponents.
Last year the government was seen to get popularity especially in areas that are supposed to be controlled by Mgana d as well as Coast, western part of Kenya and in Kibiga.
This year, this year we are expecting that the Diamond's government will ensure that it gives out his trip which made Kenyans before the general elections of last year as well as part of class one students.
Children who were tested will matter so that in the year 2013, on Monday, it will destroy the third class among things that have already been released on time, have not yet confirmed the half of the ones who had been promised in the field.
The development record is that will enable Kenyans to give opportunity to the Diamond's government to continue leading after the general elections of the year 2017 and not to exchange between the government and the opposition.
The opposition side also, it is a must that many Kenyans are not ready to lead the nation instead of running the politics of violence, hatred and even everything done by the government.
Although it is the responsibility of the opposition by the government, it is a must for the interests of the Kenyans to be given priority than personal interests.
A shame of the last month where members of parliament are planning to parliament in relation to the safety of the security, he didn't occur this year.
MTVs is a must for them an alternative way to resolve the difference between them and the governors who are parliament instead of chased away.
Having conflicts like this is proud of development and it is dangerous to you, because leaders are using a lot of time using them and heading to court.
Before the 2017 general election, every leader who was chosen by the citizens will have to explain what he did in the five years before being given another opportunity.
