
The equal share of money should be discussed.
Farouk Jivani have been fined.
He said that the local government are expected to get a equal share of money after a period of 20 years if new recommendations will be approved by the Senate's parliament.
This is according to the chairman of the supply commission of entrepreneur, property, and Revenue, Ciara and Luwi.
While addressing hundreds of the banks in the meeting that took place at the Say Bay Hotel, he from one of the ones, Mister Charo, said that if those recommendations will be accepted, he said that all from them will have the ability.
In addition, he also pointed out that in order to achieve that, there is a need for the attempt to work together without stopping.
"The commission is supporting development steps among the governors who have made so as to make development projects but it is very important for them to cooperate and make it fully," said Mister China.
That chairman explained that those recommendations will be presented to the Senate's parliament next week between Monday and Tuesday.
He added that the distribution being used for now was prepared by the ten parliament and it is expected to end this month and therefore it is a must they have the ratio.
"It is my hope that in this session we will have a good debate that will enable you to agree about the same we need," said the chairperson.
Moreover, the chairman of the financial committee of the central council, Ahmed Abdillah Jihad Hassan, wanted the commission to contest for that issue.
Conflicts Mister Abdillah Jihad said that if the local government that he will get enough money, there are no different meanings that will be emerged.
"All the days issues of money makes a lot of feelings but I would like to be remembered that before it is not the solution, it is good to improve the development," said Abdillah Jihad Hassan.
At the same time, the Deputy Chairperson of the Supreme Council, Salim Mwachibuzi, said that through the increase of finances, the local government of Iran will be able to make development projects.
Mister a rumor that he was not happy that the local government they were facing challenges in the whole country like the improvement of the health departments due to lack of enough money.
"It is a must that there will be an appropriate way to increase the revenue from this commission because the challenges that are facing it is not little," said Mister Rished.
He wanted the Senate to agree with those recommendations immediately what should be presented before it.
