President Kikwete swears in a very high level with the contractor of Kigamboni and Kilombero.
We congratulate you.
If you visit many universities in Dodoma University, it is still in the manifesto of his gift today has more than twenty thousand students until the next year they will be thousand shillings.
Today we see students when they fear the schools of schools that were injured being injured.
This is great success.
The late I am doing so much and then here they are suffering more than ten kilometers.
There is a lot of more than one hundred and ninety minutes I ask questions and many citizens, I would like many villages in the continent and infrastructure has been built.
You can do?
This is going on well the laboratories are being built for teachers being built every year.
Seven years ago to know that we were produced for teachers.
More than five hundred thousand today are in the year we have teachers or twenty thousand teachers, getting divided in all over a hundred and fifty years.
That is praising those who went up when I asked their fellow chairperson, she has told them a two hundred thousand two hundred thousand.
Tanzanians hope.
The work of doing work of the revolutionary party.
The work of saying wealth is a procedure for you to know the allegations of knowing more to the citizens to build a hatred of their opponents because it is not true that is their work.
They don't know that we are blocking us on their homes, thus the documents of water.
They will talk to hatred and identify the leaders will fund the membership and so all the meetings are his work, I would like to inform them from two hundred and five thousand, I'll give them more than two hundred and five thousand shillings.
Who don't know anything when in parliament it is good last year we will reduce more so as to go more to the parliament more than God or Mister.
I have been able in a lot of constituencies, I have found those delegates not to score, P-Fi to get a good title and say today people's wife, I will come to come a good work.
The late God is the same?
When the government is doing well, I commend the bad behavior that involves itself more, although it has never been a good work in their constituencies but I believe that I would like to see him, I would like to take him in their studies.
We have gave more than a hundred million shillings for development activities in citizens, in a very big work, do not be availed to members of parliament, not to kill a citizen of having people with fear.
It is not right.
I want to take this opportunity to give the President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete.
He is doing a good work.
He is leading with integrity and good plans and every time I will go to a lot of votes up to two, the first promise he will have living a car, but I did not have a place where I will have promised a bridge, I will have promised to have talks with the state of the president.
We thank our president for the good work he is doing.
Brethren, many leaders and executives are doing work hard and with integrity, I have found the directors of the district council to work hard, keenly, there are executives who do not have integrity and procedures.
In search of, inside the revolutionary party and the citizens we will help the shoes that it is not true, that party is led by a human being, it is not true that there is no problem of corruption, there is not true that the problem of buying any time is true and we will involve yourself and we will help me.
Government in the government.
