
And livestock will not turn up, it is still a problem of Sei 7, 2012.

The government has announced again to stop the mining activities that will not turn up to the mountains areas of Shengena, Same and Kilimanjaro, due to the previous reports on a blockade and ignored, our citizens should be informed.
The very few reports have been found, it has said that the new argument has been released from the office of the prime minister wanted the mining to be stopped for that activities.
"Flash disk" at the Milulu of Shengena.
In what seems to say it's a new look for that scandal every day, the government through the secretary general, the office of the Prime Minister Mizengo PLyimo, has been given a letter to insisted on the instructions of the government wanting to Willy M Enterprises, that had qualified to return to the mountains in order to stop immediately.
According to the reports, the new argument was at the end of last month and has been prepared by the secretary general of the vice president, Solo Salula and the Environmental Council (EU) is under him.
According to those reports, the instructions of the Secretary General Lyimo explained that the government changed the mining activities due to the existence of "bad shape" which involved the project with a huge destruction of Uluguru MEMKWA centers.

"If it is understood that due to the huge destruction of the environment and violation of laws and guidelines in the mining of minerals in this area the government changed the mining activities.
In addition, as a result of great shape that was involved in this project led by my chairmanship in parliament has made a small committee under my chairmanship to advise the government about the fate of extraction, he will not accept to be informed.
According to our news reporter, the Secretary General Lyimo explained open that the decision made by empowering the company to continue with the mining at the time already there is a nuisance to the prime minister Mizengo Pinda that was going against the government because the committee that was formed by the government presented the work that was given.

"Up to now, my committee is waiting for information on law experts together with the inspection of the environment so that it can complete his work thus the decision to implement its committee was set up immediately so that my committee can be given," says our news reporter.
In addition, the more information that was found from the government explained that the decision made by TPA was going against the process of performance in the government and maybe some of the institutions including the director Bonaventure Baya said they are taken against them by considering the instructions of the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda.

"On how the situation is going, where some of the executives who will be accountable for what seems to be unable to oppose the instructions of the government and already there are leaders who have been called to explain and put up on the fire," explained our source from the government.

"A decision to implement it is like it involves the prime minister who will move to the public through the parliament that the activities of extraction and transportation of electricity will not be accepted and later continue to communicate with the office of the Prime Minister to allow the mining to continue, this issue is unacceptable," he added.

Our news reporter added that the weaknesses in the verdict would you come out in the letter that they wrote on 11 terms, an investor who is supposed to fulfill its activities as he continues with its activities.

"It is impossible for the institution to be given priority to manage the environment, after realizing that mistakes and mistakes in the company's activities provides conditions instead of taking legal action, that is why citizens have faith in the government due to poor performance such as usual. He added.

Speaking about the instructions of the government, Minister of Mahalangu in the office of the Vice President Dakar, Theresia Huvisa said that his phone has no information on the government's instructions since he was outside the office for more than two weeks.

"I request your password then I was not there in the office for more than two weeks, first I was in the Kilombero Village, all farmers who had gone to the area and later I got a funeral at Songea and later I got back yesterday," said Doctor Huvisa.

Speaking about the instructions of the government, the Secretary General of the Prime Minister Pancras Lyimo has refused to confirm or to advise that the government has given new instructions about that issue.

"I request I communicate with other people to respect and those of the office of the Vice President and the concerned leaders in that issue, we do not say but when the time comes you will be explained," he said.

However, until Monday night they are alleged that they had already contributed to the directive by the government and the company of Willy Enterprises, which had a letter to stopping their mining activities.

The information that was found from Mariana village say that until Monday, the vehicles of the company still found a working job to unite with those minerals that will not be transported from outside the country.

"There is still a series of vehicles that have a capacity to carry 150 tons between 20-30 where it gets to the village roads that fell into the Mwembe village which is in a small area where the company has been set aside from the neighborhood before being transported outside the country," explained our news reporter.

The reports indicate that since it was opened and started approximately three weeks ago the company has been doing the activities of the extraction for the high speed of extraction and transportation which will be done for 24 hours without stopping.

"It is true that transporting the soil will not accept it, it has added that it has reduced, in a period of three weeks since the fast rate began by the speed and it is unable to withstand the weight of those big vehicles," added our source.
In a situation that were filled with controversy, it started to read a letter from Willy Enterprises, August 2 this year to allow them to continue with the extraction, while the company being given 11 conditions that they were supposed to identify and do not involve the office of the Prime Minister.
Previously the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda is the one who has contributed the announcement inside the Parliament that the mining of minerals has been accepted immediately after the complaints by citizens of Mariamu Island and other neighboring villages that affect the natural environment of Shangani areas as the East African market.

The letter with records number 267 of 366 / 1 / 2016, 10 / 45 years was signed by the Director of NICOL, Bonaventure Baya and it was the head of information that is to be easily read, by the command of the extraction of minerals of Tanzania will not turn back to the area of Shishiyu Ward, Same District. "

Among the 11 conditions that have been affected in that letter is together with the company was required to complete the process of inspection of the environment of an estimated cost) and presented a report on the inspection of the environment (estimated to be paid) to the council and finally be given an agreement on the environment by October 31st this year.

That action of honor was forced to complaints by citizens of Mariupol City and other stakeholders who are opposing the project on claims that it had gone to the implementation of the government which were made by the prime minister in the parliamentary sitting on June 27 this year.
In addition, in another step, the big conflict has emerged in Mariupol City, about the use of irrigation water which are usually canceled by the purchase and the machine that was given by the company of Willy M Tuva.

The reports indicate that the committee that deals with that project has refused to increase the water some of the citizens who are opposing the project of mining and will not transfer them on claims of being given instructions by the sponsor of the investor who bought the machine to prevent water.

"The citizens who we saw this project are still going on in the availability of water and therefore, we have been quoted by the press claiming that the citizens have no water problem again after the investor has given an explanation that we should not have water," said one of the activities that are opposing the project, Allen Kuzenza.

"The first who is trying to do water is wrong, therefore the investor does not have good intentions and residents of Mariana, how come, it gives the instructions of this kind as the source of water that is used to the public," he asked.

Speaking about that conflict of water, the chairperson of the water committee of that village Patrick Sufiani said that they are forced to buy the water by bias against those who tried to support the investor and added that he has never received instructions from the investor about the availability of water.

"Water is supervised by the committee and we are going on according to the needs, the farmer and we have never played the project but the problem that is in the village is that the village leaders have been unable to put a good procedure of distributing water and the investor has never directed them in any way," said Saiwa.

Speaking about the new complaints against his company, the director of that company, Willy Mgonja, told Citizen on phone that he has not been given a letter to be stopped but he has organized himself to fight and those who want to stop his project.
"First, the issue that I am looking for irrigation in the village is false and a wonder, I have given a donation of drinking water to the citizens but I have never done its process in any way," he said.

About the step of stopping for secondary schools, he explained that they will look for his rights through other media services (that court) because any decision to suspend him will be careful.

"Say you thank you so much but I would like to assure you who will arise without me work," said Mgonja and his ward.

Previously that company was banned from the mining of the mining after it was revealed that several procedures of switching off the soil are together with lack of an evaluation of the environment (TIN).

That company also claimed to have agreements with controversy which was not arranged by citizens of that village as laws and regulations of the mining sector and the citizens claim that the contracts that he got in with leaders who did not follow the procedures of the village meetings.
