Professor Muhongo, the young man can't know what?
Sei 12, 2013.

The decision by the government through the Ministry of Energy and Minerals led by a scholar, the Ministry of Energy and Minerals led by the secretary general of the ministry, Eliakim Maswi was unable to stop the mining licenses in some of the owners who do not go through to be supported by the real government in the country.
On our part, the newspaper of Raia Mwema, we are supporting that decision that is controlling the bad use of economic opportunities that are used by some of the country, to remove those resources even if they know they have no ability to continue improving.
We are supporting them because most of the first primary reasons, the action of some of the agents to prevent it from the same time when they do not have the ability to develop them because they don't inform other miners that do not have areas of the quarry.
For a long time, there have been complaints about small-scale miners in the country, including lack of enough areas to run their activities, because of the accident, we believe it is hard to arrest the others, including the small miners who have the government immediately after time it has been asked to help them despite the implementation of the promise.
But secondly, we are supporting that decision because it takes a speed or a series of misunderstanding between some of the scientists, we need investors and not caring about the criminal incidences of Tanzania.
And in this scandal, we believe that it is hypocrisy when you know the patriotism of someone who depend on the patriotism of the country without caring about that kind of misunderstanding that are derived from the whole issue, do not look for low-scale farmers especially those who are born by the Almighty God.

It is not easy to hear or witness these pieces of land grabbing, where they were presenting to the agenda of patriotism and growing up so that their condition is the first foundations of patriotism and that is not true, especially in the growth of the country's resources.
We know that we know we know that we are in a high level competition in business, but we advise that in that competition, we advise that in that competition, we advise that in the competition you want to pass, again with the level of those that we want to continue building.
For us, if it is an issue to choose who is correct between the women, Minister Muhongo and the patriotic contractors have reduced, so as to support the government's decision, although there is no need to help many others instead of producing a lot of goods into land conflicts in Tanzania.
It is our record, in this newspaper of climate change to fight for the interests of the country, we have done so by supporting the efforts to eradicate corruption that had gone through the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO), corruption that were studying in a high level of electricity.
And by concentrating on our record, we are supporting this decision of taking the mining of minerals that does not lie in the country for the purpose of doing the crisis, while hundreds of small miners have been forced to lack areas to run their activities.
