
How have we been able to do Honorable let us lose?
Jide 25, 2012

Since last Friday, England has been in the celebrations to commemorate 60 years of queen's administration, Elizabeth Michael.
Those five days celebrations can be able to help so much to show how the leader of the honor of this nation becomes the British, despite their differences in here and there.
Many times to our colleagues in the western countries every issue that happened to people from different regions, they should strive to look for information what is expected to end about the source of the incident and how it continues to be connected before the journey.
If you look at the United States for example, just after the terror attack on September 11, 2001, different institutions were in search for the cause of those attacks and how the country will enable you to prevent the possibility of the attacks such and return.
I believe that we follow the international politics that will remember the work that was done by the Zanzibar Commission on September 11 which will be a big part in the area to ensure it gets accurate information about the terror attack and the security of that country in general.
If you want to conclude that in the United States we will handle the virgin "of those attacks has helped in a great extent not only by the number one suspect, Osama Njekela said, but also it has helped to avoid other attacks.
In the city of England, events of violence in August last year which began at Tottenham Hotspur, in London City, and spread several areas that cause the institutions and different people to go and look for the source of those events, the exercise that until now continues.
And as a result of the importance of the city of London and England in general, the violence carried out feelings until outside the borders of this country, the reports about those violence was arrested in the news headlines from Zimbabwe to South Africa, and elsewhere.
But personally I heard more with the explanation of the left wing, the left wing of Bertrand Bailly that was set aside, about those violence (I am understood).
"The Ambassador of the country, especially Miss Leah Kihimbi followed by the Ambassador of Zanzibar, Doctor Seif Sharif Hamad, (a high table) to meet the requirements of some of the countries like this newspaper and therefore there is no reason to meet the expectations of some of the society and politicians have continued to witness the expectation of some of the citizens who were unable to witness the expectations and needs of the citizens.
One of the administration institutions that have been getting married which has been carried out as a parliament, we are believed to be the Holy Quran not in recent days, our parliament has been sent every effort to dispose with the great faith that the citizens of that institution.
Basically, our parliament has changed more than an incident. But the bad thing, the institution to make law has reduced, where people used to build a big burden on their interests, which for ordinary citizens are not supposed to do the institution to be at the lictions of their interests.
But when we go back, the parliament "was badly since in the past, and we are saying that there was a continuation of the destruction and when you check the parliament of one party in order to rule, and any other ideas which were made by the government of the party, but at that time they were also a fact in how it was said.
Finally, I got a lot of political parties under Speaker Pius Msekwa as basically, this parliament continued to have succeeded in order for the process of a new party system because the few members of parliament were not given any opportunity to give the government's challenges and parliament was continuing to be a great opportunity for the members of parliament of the ruling party.
But if the previous results were bad, then followed by a bad state, the parliament that was under the speaker of parliament, Samuel Sitta did not want to get married, but what I wouldn't want to get married, but what I wouldn't want to get married, but I would be able to say it is very easy to prove that it is very easy to confirm that he joins you.
But if you know the Parliament of Sitta "that was so that, and if there is a big incident (allegations of witchcraft in parliament), then why should we know," there is one issue of politics that is claimed that there is one thing of politics that is claimed to be important.
That there is one of the two types of type of people and against people.
Ditopile, is that of the second kind (against people) because it is for the interests of the few people, but in order for people you can be important, especially when the interests of many led to it is not fit.
Speaker Makinda has been the God of someone "of our parliament, using every kind of work against members of parliament of the opposition parties, it has dropped out of parliament according to the parliament as he comes with people like Mwigulu Nchemba in that institution to be in order for the training center of arguing, mix up and sometimes.
But the problem is not Makinda, but even the seat for the deputy speaker, what is expected to conclude that the seat is like "it is okay and if the British intend to be completed and if the British failed," at least it is important at least in accordance with international procedures especially in accordance with international procedures in accordance with international procedures in accordance with international procedures in accordance with international procedures in accordance with international procedures.
Before I have not prepared this article I heard a news in one newspaper that led the minister of housing, Professor Anna Tibaijuka, giving a call on how to pray for leaders of all levels including the members of parliament so that they can get wisdom and wisdom from God.
Although the idea of Minister Tibaijuka has a foolish thing I don't think about the interests of the leaders as members of parliament are ready to pray for themselves so that we can be able to pray for these people, though some of them have a lot of pain so that we can be able to listen to them because they should be able to listen to them.
How do I start to finish this article by posting a Berlusconi's album known as' Honorable "we have not aware of the law and procedures why the citizens do not know the importance of looking for them but by bad luck, to do that is contrary to the existence of more peace that happened here in England last year.
I conclude by giving a call that there is a great importance for our constitution to look for the possibility of the voters to find members of parliament "who do not have honor" due to their statements or / and to make an environment to control the speaker and / or seat of parliament.
