
Honorable "bring down the status of Kenya in the world.
By Bashir Yakub.
The reputation of Kenya on the eyes of the world dropped to a large extent in Thursday due to the behavior that led to members of parliament during the passing of road safety on Thursday.
A shameful matter to the country and the members of parliament were openly seen in the news headlines in many parts of the world where they will face the main news.
There is fear that those attacks on Thursday may be able to raise more in the tourism sector that have been destroyed due to lack of security.
Close to all the international media stations which were completed in those two-inch width, the newspaper of New York Times magazine, said that the session that were shocked by the ancient attack.
These news also are the ones that were given priority on the whole day at the media agencies like CNN, BBC and Al-Jazeera who had been arrested in America, the social media agency in the internet and urged many people in the world to follow up on what is going on.
"The violence in Kenya's parliament" said that the film organization, Henet Ward, which is among the news agencies with a huge influence in Australia.
The "member of parliament of Kenya being out with the security guards when they appear" said the BBC organization.
Zambia's Daily Mail Newspaper said, "the members of parliament from Kenya is about an issue and" it is coming from Kenya's parliament about the process of dealing with terrorism, "said television station of XXL, which is among the leading countries in America.
Photos of the posters that were apprehended in his website.
"Masimba has been stolen during the handover in Kenya's parliament," security has written the Bambini Journal known as Texas County, America.
"The clashes were watched by all over the world and may reduce those affected in the tourism sector, which is continuing to assure them if they started those agreements, he wrote on the article that he wrote on the internet," said Junction.
That song was sponsored by the law yesterday.
