
Two weeks that consider the government of partnership in Zanzibar on October 26th, 2012.

On November 5, Zanzibar will celebrate two years since the creation of national United Nations. Before yesterday, the people of Zanzibar were divided into many days and there is no great effects that took place in the recent history of their country.
Certainly, the effects that were not last year or the day before yesterday or the day before yesterday, they started that takes place in 1957 when politics were found to join the colonial government of English when they started a political system of many parties.
Restaurants which are involved in political tensions continued and caused the revolution of the year 1995, after that revolution did not take a long time Zanzibar could have lost his full authority when they joined the Tanganyika on April this year.
At the same time the revolution was a fire but it was still high and doesn't be heard about the age of one day, that is why there are people who came into an opportunity to strengthen themselves and to be able to fulfill their long-term problems, economically and the community that were facing people of Zanzibar.
One of the most important things in the recent history of Zanzibar is that the revolution of that country is that in his previous days they were announcing regulations for example of wanting to bring equality and development to the people of Zanzibar, they were released officially and when they go down.
The government of the United Republic of Tanzania on its part, opposed the eyes of the party and those who defected from his leaders at the time the government of Tanzania did not take any action and it did not show any signs of injustice to the state of injustice to the state of injustice to the state of injustice to the bad administration.
Its results are that revolution went to Kombo and they were lost because this is the reason why until today, in a period of approximately half of the century, the revolution goal of bringing equality and development did not be used in the country.
It is clear that the people of Zanzibar have got a huge loss due to the division of their conflicts, lack of argument and stability of politics continued for a very long time, and if I was very independent in Zanzibar, it is very difficult to make Zanzibar be like this is today.
Currently, it has been a country with a high level economy because the economy was thrown out for three and a lot without being dealt with as required and without being dealt with as well as required by bringing the economy.
When we look at the old situation where we can be able to see especially the value of the national government's income in the country that has put more witches in Zanzibar.
Such a situation that is in the islands of Zanzibar has not yet taken your place before the establishment of the national union.
Whoever doesn't have forgotten that such as the government before the establishment of the government in partnership, because of many parties to get to them in Zanzibar Islands, approximately half of Zanzibar residents are believed to be self-driven by the government or they are proud to be the name of the nation "who must be trusted and obey them.
The situation of this issues today in Zanzibar is very different from it was in the past, today in Zanzibar, it has the government that made them to all universities in that country, that is the Revolutionary Party (CUF) and its results are being found among the people of Zanzibar and also stability of political state.
All the two things are a good things and it is supposed to be discussed, follow up and be stopped so that the people of Zanzibar can be able to fulfill their goals.
There is one thing that is important to see for him, it is that this government of the national union have never been able to be made without stopping the consent of the political parties in the islands of Zanzibar according to the whole of Zanzibar Islands there is no special reputation in the recent history of Zanzibar.
These intention was not a result of 65 percent of the people that seem to have in the opinion polls but inside the CCM they get, they don't have faith, "if he is held this day, the chairperson of President Jakaya Kikwete.
Without doubt the consent will not be accountable, the political tensions that was to be sold at a short time like this, then we are expecting that to be based in a short period like this time then we will be careful.
Many of them who don't want to stop the end of peace and harmony, they don't accept to marry each other or being faced with separation, the citizens should have separation and there is a total of separation and there is a total of peace.
The people of Zanzibar explained the importance of ensuring that peace and calmness in order to achieve their efforts to fight for it is the new system of partnership between Zanzibar and Tanganyika during the current process of controlling the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.
You want you to advise that company without having one people who are standing together with those who believe in their country and agreed to fight for their country's duties and that is important to win in any political party or any political party.
Regarding this issue, the people of Zanzibar are saying that if a state of peace will be approved, the state of the country will not be safe and stable that the situation will start controlling the peace and stability.
Therefore, in commemorating the second year of the creation of the national union government, it is important for the people of Zanzibar with different political ideology to make sure that they have pledged to identify girls together with their unity union.
Those are the two pillar that will enable them to fulfill their goal of having a union of new and Tanganyika.
This is also how the people of Zanzibar are very happy and it's no one who will fly him inside and outside the country with an intention of serving the nation but this issue is important to win all other issues that have no benefits to the development and efficiency of Zanzibar.
This is not his right time but I have for sure that those days do not slap at each other than their colleagues or they will understand it themselves with their conspiracy.
It will come a public day that will be dealt with hanjo, with the aim of the plane, it has been able to kill him in line to fight for the new partnership with Tanganyika.
There are two factors that will bring back to those phones, the first one is that they have succeeded in CCM / Zanzibar town, since the beginning, they came out to address those consent.
The second phase is that those who are trying to resolve the national government's government without considering he was not aware that they are also in the country because they have already benefited from CCM.
They do these are encouraging our youth who do not know much but they do not have faith in politics.
Some of the acts of those youths who witnessed last week during the three days of violence in Unguja. This is dangerous acts of being demolished because they are dangerous for people who have contested for peace and harmony in Zanzibar.
Up to now the symptoms show that the people of Zanzibar have been sent away from their union together with their national government, this is something to sign him to the people of Zanzibar together with the general responsibility of controlling the peace and stability of political tensions until the purpose of getting their project.
