
We are looking for the constitution of public or leaders?
Dec 13, 2012

The commission of Judge Warioba has been given great authority to collect the views of citizens and to write or respect the constitution, it did not prepare well.

He is the electoral commission that was made up by many delegates that have ever completed their positions of administration in the country.

In any country in the world with rights, the constitution is written by the citizens themselves, not the authorities of the first constitution have been written by the leaders, we did not give our opinions and we have seen their opinions and we have not seen him here, we should have the authority to coordinate the new constitution?

The commission of Judge Warioba says that we are divided into two big groups, the first group that studied (10%) and another is the biggest group of more than 90 percent.

The views that were done by the commission of Judge Warioba is not small because the commission collecting views by using the old system that we want to change.

The system of asking a citizen wants the constitution how to go or the constitution of how to or give your opinion about the new constitution, it's difficult questions to many.

These questions can be easy for the lawyers of the constitution issues.
What happens, difficult questions like this was asked a person who does not know the constitution what does it mean?

The results of those questions are of the views that are found from the citizens.
For example, it will be heard of the others to end saying the new constitution should be good, the new constitution gives a short message to the women to allow women to wear when you're getting in school and in the office.

Others are giving their views saying that the new constitution will enable youths to marry off his trousers using a new constitution to reduce the price of sugar, the new constitution to reduce free chicken for the new constitution to bring back the villages and the new constitution will benefit from the fishermen of sardines.

Others are saying that the new constitution has banned the goats that sell the goats in the estates, to stop the murder of livestock when they are inspiring.

This and others are the problems of the citizens but not the views we want to write a new constitution, this is a nuisance which may be caused by a clear leadership of some of the commission that have ever been in power.

It is against the expectations to see the commission that is faced with the value of the tax revenue collecting debts from citizens instead of the views of the constitution, again the nuisance which is unsatisfactory performance, is why I say the commission is not preparing to collect opinions.

Recently, I've witnessed in Shinyanga province during giving opinions, one resident when he knows the power of the president and the national security, then immediately he will be satisfied by the importance of giving opinions, who wanted them to ask about the importance of writing.

We ask ourselves, because the commission wanted to inspect the opinion polls of the commission and not to choose views but to collect the views on the trend, this process is dangerous for the possibility of getting a constitution with the interests of many.

Because the constitution is a public service, then it is important to citizens to contribute to their views and the leaders to stop following those opinions.

According to this commission, it's a must that the shortage that is in the current constitution, and therefore, they were supposed to go to the villages and other areas led to citizens having an important agenda, this would have been affordable the citizens fully in the new constitution.

The important agenda which are supposed to be in the hands of the commission is going to citizens as well as the president, the importance of work of the national security unit of the United Republic of Zanzibar and Zanzibar through the court of parliament, and procedures of access to various public leaders in the country.

The commission would go to the villages which has already been done by citizens to give opinions.
If it would have been like that, the commission would have used a short time with a few resources, and maybe within one year we could not get the new constitution.

In this system that is being used by the commission of Judge Warioba in collecting opinions, the way they got is that the commission has planned the kind of opinion, which requires you, if it is so, then, it is possible for the commission to have been given, the importance of the constitution or not!

In the case, the case by the commission in collecting the opinion will put the commission in a difficult time.

This procedure is same as the teachers who are used to teach more than 30 years including the class and asked the students they could be able to fight us in the science subject then how can it do?

Together with the importance of the constitution in the community, I believe that every citizen is supposed to contribute or involved in the Quran, why is the member of parliament for all the citizens of his constituency, all of us cannot go to parliament and because of that, all of us cannot go to parliament.

The South African Constitution which is one of the good constitution in the world, was written by two people, one hundred and one hundred thousand, one of each other than one of Rhema Trust, for a period of three months.

Why to our part, more than 30 members are using four years to write a constitution or a constitution can be written by few except after being written to many, so as to clear mistakes.

The current constitution (the constitution of Nyerere) has caused a lot of shortage, for example, big power, to the extent of the president. In my opinion, that authority has been reduced by twenty-five percent.

One of the important things in reducing the president's use is to control the use of President Doctor Magufuli is using a lot of money for paying tax without a basis and every year the Chief Justice of the National Parks.

How can it be the president is using public funds without their calculations by the Teacher Julius Nyerere, a few questioned him because the president was not using money?

The state house is taking their brothers to the president in their village or the president is expecting her family members or children of the president or family, relatives, and friends they get phones from State House in different parts of the world for their benefit, and not paying taxes without a question, this is not a good procedure.

For example, the wife of President Barack Obama of the United States, gave him its own friend (by using the State House) Americans not to give their bills anywhere, when his talks on phone did not have the benefits of Americans.

The wife of Obama has ever played a State House and defeated 11 women to Italy (enjoying in people), Americans affected all the costs, because the State House is not part of the analysts.

In America, it is a very rich country in the world in everything, and Tanzania is the poor country, how come the Black Americans, the importance of blocking the use but touchable things to see so?

It is a must that paying the tax of Tanzania to listen to very close to the use of their president as well as his national security unit, it is possible for a lot of money to pay taxes, are being used on the excuse of security of all the nation that have the benefits to the nation?

A new constitution must also discuss the president to give him the way they use every taxpayer service, for every journey that will be done by the parliament, it will end the same journey has no benefit, contrary to him, "he said.
