
I'm in a teacher from NBC legal on October 30th, 2014.

The debate to be sold at the NBC Bank at a price of away it has not died and it's not easy to die until the real truth is a way to the public, a fact that is only part of the nation to grow and learn the mistakes that took place.
In my opinion and my speech in the political meetings, professional and even parliament have been saying that it is spreading in the issue that our country has not been working on it so as to go back to the mistake.
When I was the chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Accounts (POAC), we heard in the year 2009 to be the Controller and Auditor General of the government (CAG) to do a special investigation about this exercise.
The information that I explained is that CAG has done this work to 10 organizations that were sold by information that he has brought to the PAC committee even so he gets into the NBC Bank but it was not part of the investigation.
The PAC Committee, which I am its chairperson, that is going on with sessions in Dar es Salaam city this week met the executive officers of the Office of the registrar of treasury who is the owner of all government property in public organizations or private companies.
One of the issue that contributed to the debate is the possibility of the government to lose its 30% shares in the NBC Bank, this is due to the directive by the Central Bank of wanting the capital of the bank at the government, it will not have paid the loan until the month of March 2015, a total of 225 billion shillings per year and the government will not have paid the loan until March 2015.
First.
It is important to see that NBC was sold at a total of 15 billion shillings according to the sales contract of Minusma, the session of the former commission of improving the public organizations (PSRC) on 20th of July 2013 show that despite the government to be paid 15 billion (American dollars), then they will have paid the foreign funds (VAT), then it will be paid in BSA.
The benefits happened since 1000 shillings just after the sales, also the government gave bond (33) worth 28 billion shillings as capital to that bank.
Further, the money that Aqsa in the government resulted from the funds of former NBC in the division of the financial reserve between him and the Makoroboi bank (NMB).
Basically, since the beginning of, ABissau, they were given free for free and they were given a contract to run the bank and also signing a technical agreement with every year 2000, a total of seven million American dollars are going on in South Africa.
This issue, despite it is said so much, it has not been enough analysis, because it is an issue that needs an investigation on it and even the punishment for all the ones that were involved in the selling of public property at a level of this way.
Let it be known that opposing violence not to oppose economic changes, every time I get an opportunity, "it is not the same as" Landscrona ", but the first time given is the ability to run, we did not depend on the EAC?
Now in the year 2005 and 2008, NBC started giving loans of vehicles to the transportation sector of the loans which resulted to a loss of more than 167 billion shillings to the bank and on behalf of the bank they were not shown to be a loss (not less) through the bank.
If it came to be put up in Dar es Salaam National Park (reserve) of the bank is born with a total of 50 billion shillings, the Central Bank has reached out and gave an order to increase the capital, this is the cause of the current situation that everyone has been forced to pay the capital and the government to take a loan to pay the capital.
In the primary issues of asking, what is the operator of Tuwalinde Watoto Wetu bank is why other partners have been seen and the bad performance of one partner but this year's contract does not have a punishment to our partner.
Criminal Investigation has made investigation about this vehicle loans?
These are issues that have no answers even though the company that gives the loans is known as heads of banks who were involved in the project, they are known and they were given a cry for us and go back to South Africa.

The PAC Committee has ordered the review of new sales of the bank and an agreement of technical support even so as in the situation there is a lot inside the NBC we don't know and we are supposed to know how the professional research about the sold to the NBC Bank.
As such, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere had a reason to have written about this issue and he knew that they should not know how they know.
