Controversy of the College of Health, Arusha.
May 5, 2013.

The legal action has emerged about the step by the leadership of the Arusha Technical College to win that university for some time due to violence that emerged last week where students arrested the head of Arusha, Magesa Mulongo.
The university was closed from April 24 for the announcement that was presented by the Acting Head of the University of Kasese district following huge violence that emerged as to the college after students came out to the head of Arusha province on claims that he had shivered.
Mulongo arrived at the college after being received by the member of parliament of Arusha Town, Godbless Lema (CHADEMA) about the step of the students wanting to demonstrate to his office, but he also accused Lema being the cause of the violence that were headed to him.
However, Lema was arrested on the night of April 26th to sit down until Monday when she was brought to court accused of incitement before being released on bail.
The students of that college managed to demonstrate to the office of that provincial commissioner after their colleague Elly Njau-killed by being beaten by unknown people in an incident that occurred last night on April 23.
Following those accusations, the police force even heading to the violence that were accompanied by the provincial commissioner gave a bomb attacks from those students and later the management of the university have been closed down soon.
That announcement is to be dealt with by all students at a certificate, diploma and vocational training.
"By the authority that it was given by the university number 1 of the year 1990, section 9 (2) (3), was closing a university for some time until the university's council will decide otherwise.

That announcement completed that all students are required to leave the area of April 24 at 12 o'clock in the evening.
However, that decision by the university is owned by some of the teachers of the college and students on claims that the section used is very attractive to be the acting head of the university has no legal authority to break the university without the establishment of the university's board.
Reports are required to be the acting head of the University, Magesa Mulongo and did not involve the university board to achieve the decision and intended to meet the political needs of the provincial commissioner.
Regarding the existence of legal action, one of the teachers, one of the teachers released the acting head of the 9 college (2) (3), and does not meet the issue of closing the university and the fact.
While explaining more to the teachers explained that the 9 section explained that the 9th section explains that the prime minister had appointed someone who believes that he is supposed to be the head of the university according to the necessary reputation and not talking about closing of the university in any way.
According to the teachers, section 9 (2) and (3), explained the responsibilities of the college's responsibilities, that he will supervise all administration activities and profession in the university and also the university head's work when they will not be allowed to vote and make decisions in a good session.
He added that the university can be supported if the students can cause violence in three days a series of violence without getting into the class and that the efforts to solve the conflict have been completed, the board wants the university's head to take action against them.
"On that meaning the law that was used to wed for the university is clear, and also in this issue, students had a great funeral, therefore there was still a importance of looking for them on their claims and discuss them," he added.
One of the students said that decision has cost them a lot of students especially the most of the poor families and they did not have money to go back to their homes, and others were preparing for the examinations.
"Many of us have prepared himself for the exams and if you know where we go to the budget for cash, we are looking for parents, sponsors and the Loans Board for that decision it has affected us," said the student.
Efforts to get the acting head of the University of Kasibu, did not be able to succeed but the head of that college, Johannes Monyo and Good Citizen that there is no legal action against them.
Addition, who was out of a work tour at the time of violence, made a decision by his acting chairman and said there was the need of closing the university due to the security situation that was caused because students were spoiling the university's property.
