Simba asked the audience.
January 17, 2014.

The auction of Simba agreed to score a 1-0 victory against KCC of Uganda in the Amaan Stadium in Zanzibar Islands, many have emerged inside the club, while the situation showed up that there is a big possibility of emerging with a conflict that had been done for a long time.

For those who follow various soccer issues, they will remember how the club which has been in dispute which has been caused by leaders in power and members of the club.

That had asked the conflict is the one that got Simba 3-1 against their old rivals, Yanga in the match of Nani Mtani Jembe which was played on December 21 last year at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam.

In the day before yesterday, the national finals of the Revolutionary Cup, Simba played a low level, a situation that gave birth to some of the lovers, Simba fans and even the others that were waiting for Simba to play for that cup so as to ban Simba and believe that there is a certain kind of strike under the team.

In that tournament, Simba had a good record of not being supported by any team in its five matches which they played before the final match.

"The ball has a result of any results, I did not mean that the level that was shown by our players are not normal, it shows that there is a certain kind of players to do an indication," said one of the fans of Simba who came from Dar es Salaam to Zanzibar to witness the match.

There is a report that few hours before the final match of the final match, Ismail Aden Rage, visited the players and gave them the promise to pay their debt for two months for those players.

According to our news source, it is said that players did not enjoy the action of that chairman to visit the last minutes claimed that since they started those competitions they had not seen the coming from or even sending a message of encouraging heart.

Some of the players of Simba who talked with this newspaper, they refused to accept one directly that they have played under a huge level, but they have said that they did not see a need for him to go to Zanzibar at that time.

"What happens when I'm in our chairperson, who every day he was the cause of conflicts inside Simba is wanting the reputation, therefore he was forced today to know that Simba has won the championship and then he started praising him, now the things have refused and I don't know what?

"Then you cannot believe that this new coach doesn't know that, that is why when he came to you the coach they asked," who is you, "that is the first," said Simba player who did not want to mention his name.

In addition, there are some of the members of Simba who have continued to insisted that the chairperson did not know a certain place so that he would not accept to release power than to sit in a place where she should not be careful, while asking him a letter to him.

However, there is a famous young man for Simba, known by name withheld, who is the host of Dar es Salaam, was arrested in Zanzibar after giving words with a dirty language before Rage, during the final match the day before yesterday.

At the time of conflicts going on, the assistant coach of Simba, Selemani Matola has said that the World Cup competition has helped them to live well for the second round of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League that are expected to start on January 25 this year.

He said that they are looking for a cup but it's how their team has been able to show a high level in those competitions by saying that both teams were not easy for what he said that all teams had organized himself well.

That statement's statement goes hand in hand with the team's goalkeeper, Ivo Mapunda who said that the tournament has given enough money and therefore they are expecting to show better football in the premier league.

In its first five matches before the finals, Simba was able to stand firm by protecting its own kind being filled with even immediately, a situation where the team's goalkeeper led to the team's goalkeeper led to the final match against KCC in Uganda.
