
If the film board does not lie?
October 12th, 2012

The film law of the year 1976 and 4 gives the authority of the film board of films and sports that he decided to inspect and provide bridges that are produced in Tanzania, but currently there is a misunderstanding with the institution with the authority to inspect those films which is legal.

I don't want to get inside this law because it is open and those with responsibility to provide the education to an agent and the ones who are not involved, but maybe there are some of the producers and big artists who don't have names, and not big business people as it is now.

In the previous days, that board has ever stopped the film film because it was wanting to get in the market before buying an issue that was contrary to the law that emerged in the law and inspect them and make changes as well as the name and some of the popularity as a name of my friend.

The wealth of the film who is Al Fury Company, after getting advice that he decided to take her other work for the purpose of buying out of those five films, it was very disturbing, Yy'walu (Race).

These films were banned after the Board of Directors of film and sports of acting, to see the problems of ethics in women and expanding the film industry that concern them, it was a child of the mother maybe that film of the same film has not completed.

For that exercise, everyone will see that, the board intends to protect the ethics and ensure that the film coming is better and the work has started and it has begun to see the importance of following the law.

Up to today the big victims are Al Suwy Company, we have said that since this he was put in public but others are not aware if there are some of the films that are provided by artists with names as they are the ones that are able to reach the community easily.

Those star we have said that they will reach the community easily because distributors are given out their film by using those films by using any way so that both buyers can be able to buy those jobs without using the newspapers, television and social media networks by a big percentage in the country.

A good example is a film that was released recently, Ndaichako said that it has been written or put on a new bridge that was built by the board right now, but also there is a problem about the bridge that was built by the board recently, but also there is a problem concerning the bridge since film being written by 18 percent.

To our colleagues who those who separated, if the film has been put on a red card, is a very high level it is a film that can be dealt with by children who are in care of nursery school or a mother who is using the film to enjoy a short period in this bridge has no effects.

If the film has been discriminated, then it is a shame for the ones who wanted and give that bridge, this will continue to give up that the film industry in Tanzania that it was lost or not knowing the correct use of the international televisions that I don't have sure if it is a sign that was done by the Board of Directors of film and sports.

The point is very humiliating, as I said earlier on the Kigambini bridge that is funded in foreign films, below the age of 18, while the age of 18 to Tanzania appears to be a big person about the points, they know the film issues.

But in memory we do not know if these films we are calling artists such as they are inspected and reach you more, for example a film of Nditi wore, I don't know how to talk about.

The same film, before getting into the market was suspended and brought about conflicts in the local films, it is possible that there is not important events in the estates, but there are events such as usual and not a great problem because it is a film that was given by a big company and star artists.

The ethics depends on in the film industry in the country, research shows that the new film comes from big customers, "flash disk" who use those films without caring about the age of viewers in the country, by putting up 18 points that will be able to prevent the children of "microcephaly" which is part of their contribution to those stalls?

That situation to control some of the producers will last with when they do?

When visiting many shops up to today, it's only one film which has participated in the market with the sign of the board of directors and sports of acting which is the only film that was postponed for this year?

In that state, you have forgotten the bad faith and executives and seen as people who think about some of the strength of the strength in the film industry in the country, today the company known as Al Rioba was getting a picture about the law of protecting that problem?

In another logic, the board does work with those who know the importance of the law but because they benefit from their friends, the board cannot work by waiting for artists and film stakeholders who believe that the one with it will be added because they used the law to do business without their interests while community think about the existence of ethics.

Owners are complaining about the government claimed that there is no great issue because there is no guidance on the legal action of the film, but every of their distributor, Steps Entertainment, has been estimated to give a film in two types in time, that is 2000 / 1000 / 1000 in the same time.

It is good for the law to work without looking for a person, because it is clear that the habit going on whether you can be easy; therefore, many films that are leading with advertisements will be noted so that the same thing is completely eradicated.

It is possible for the member of parliament of Kinondoni Constituency, Dar es Salaam, Idd Azzan was correct when contributing to the parliamentary budget in the ministry of information, culture, and sports by saying that the film board has a difficult time to be a woman because it shows that those who face their friends are needed to be the law.
