
The public on the blog.
Mose 21, 2013.

I have been able to write this, that we consider our people on a way, when darkness falls into a way with mud.
In one of the new poems of Dojo Janja of Mozambique, he says that the "Musical Mission '," because of we have a must to climb the maize or boiling it doesn't talk about revolutionary thoughts, but to put revolutionary thoughts in our country and to go to another situation that is more better.
The rumor of the spider plant that is happening in the community is the concept of getting annoyed if it was to the Catholic church in the Loliondo land, it started in the newspaper reports and finally changed to be one of the national disasters.
Today we pray to you, that together with the announcement of a lot, Babu Tale, when he contributed to the deaths and affliction of most of us, what we are who were in the patients' lice ', of directing superstitious faith.
And the current rumor of the current Agnieszka Radnedge, the other factors that we be discussed include human rights, including the community should not be noted that the members of the union of Freetown city is the rich people who had joined the Freetown city and that who had joined the Fiorentina.
That Freetown city is also involved with darkness, including the sexual faith, he made this misleading reports they know that the Lord's international community is not to be open because the members of those communities are getting enough wealth by participating in "he feels it.
Today, here in Tanzania, there are youths who live on the way to join the Four Seasons Hotel instead of working hard and get successful because, today, he has also bought a new motorcycle that will be called "Matatizo."
It is now a time for the government to give a statement on this matter of the rumors of Freetown city, place it open that this issue is needed because there is a big possibility that is being left to continue, you can cause big effects there.
We know that today they have benefited from people who have managed to help others to join that network and they have also helped other customers to join that network and to help them being conned their money and their properties as it is true that the government's responsibility continues to save its people.
Yes, our people are at darkness, there is a responsibility of their government to help them in light weight and there is a difference of ignorance, and foolishness of the late Mzee Jichunge.' "
Every human being has ignorance about one thing or a hundred and one hundred thousand, it's not a mistake, even if Professor can make sure the way to prevent wood as they saw Professor.
But the fact is that a human being of a human being does not less than not required while having an understanding of how to do not present, that is why a human being called 'Mjinga Mpe Cheo' is not true and is not aware of this issue.
And a human being, what does it do when you woke up and found a world living in marriage, it has decided to learn a question, "he told me, that he would start to learn a swimming matter because I would have decided to learn a pose.
Human beings will be born with each other so that we find thinking and thinking is one of the fact that when I think about what happens, the person who are oppressed, don't understand.
