
If the consent are in the ward, why?
Deodatha Makani, 2012

It is not true that the international boxing game in the country is not in good condition and that is not in the good state and that is not only the game is not only that the game is not only because it has risen up but is in the circulation of medical services (ICU).
This will explain the situation that the national coach and two boxers including one who had qualified to play last season that took place in China was arrested and leading in prison, he explain the condition of the former leader of that game in the country being arrested and put behind bars?
That is the real situation that happened after the coach of the national team, Nassoro Michael and musician, Petro Mtibua and Emerick Patrick who had qualified to play the Olympic Stadium and facing the allegations of being found with drugs.
The accusations of being involved in drugs are the ones that touched me in Dar es Salaam city, who was the chairperson of the boxing Federation of Tanzania (BFT), Shaaban Mwaruka.
The fate of their cases is not known until now, but those two events were enough to make the International Football Federation of Rsm Company (on the right), they want the leadership that is in the country and when he resigned and given his membership cards until the steps they cut it to get new leaders.
The former vice chairperson of BFT, Chris Mutta did a prayerful person to agree with the bill and to release one level even though some of his fellow leaders in the leadership were unable to take that decision and to try to sign him.
But it is true that, one fish is destroying all the other, the scandal of drugs brought down their reputation as leaders and even the honor of the country was lost.
Now the National Sports Council (BMT) has launched a new BFT) and plans to take place on Saturday this week, but the election has gotten with a technical hitch in the issues that have the logic.
Koba was a delegate in the previous leadership that was forced to be forced after coming out to contest for the leadership because it is open, is among those who had been unable to sit down.
Another petition is to oppose the elections to involve four provinces of Tanzania and 20 boxing clubs in Dar es Salaam Province.
The general elections that brought him in power and his colleagues also involves a few provinces of Tanzania Mainland and various boxing clubs in Dar es Salaam. BMT ended the process on an explanation that it gets to save the game due to the fact that the parties in the provinces are, but the truth is the truth.
There are no other information that you want to take place now are carelessness, but let us ask ourselves, this is now due to what the answer is easy, due to a decision to unite people who were not keen with the game themselves.
The management of the air force together with other things to promote the boxing, it was a must you ensure that it endangers the boxing in the provinces because of the parties that are in the country.
But it was heading to that issue it did not happen, the leaders had "Nisubiri" and other issues but not the issue of developing the boxing in the provinces where the issue of getting Rukwa, Kigoma or Arusha shows that it was not priority.
The situation of the game was not so in 1970 and 1980, the hard game was in high branches due to being a strong party of the nation (contract) and political parties in all provinces of Tanzania.
It is as a result of that reason, that is why the nation was lucky to get stars from the provinces and Dar es Salaam, that he did a first medal in Tanzania to get from big international games that are being brought by the boxer Titus Simba who is currently strong.
Simba went up to Dar es Salaam at the national championship competition from Iringa province, the boxer who was also a natural resources after winning the national championship, the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF) have taken a sign of the police.
He is married that because of the games of the African Community that was held in Edu, Scotland, 1970, where there was a way to reach the finals where he was sent away with difficulty and the English language of Africa, John Lukuwi.
Therefore, Simba went back to the country with a lot of money, being the first to be brought by the best player in the big international games.
After winning gold medals, Conchesta Ngaiza joined the boxing title.
He decided to leave a difficult time he received from Simba in his final game of the African Community.
Therefore, he released a letter from Simba, asking him to go to England to be his friend of giving them a lot of exercises which he believed to be the coach of Simba to play against the ship of the past, the things that came in the world of the world.

That was a great opportunity for Simba to get officially from the European Champions League since he was playing, they could not accept to retire from Constituent and stop himself.
But the request of Conservancy from Simba finished by Simba that he has been accepted by the employer of JWTZ to go to England because that time, a Tanzanian was not allowed to fight for money but the end of his country.
If you leave Simba, another boxer, another actor, put the national reputation through the consent of the consent, before yesterday, he did not have the natural resources like Simba.
He was a famous style to carry out a match to beat Makonde ward "which is why it is a good coach until today, a big percentage of the boxers who live in the country from the consent to be paid in his hands.
Before yesterday won a bronze medal in the games of the free African countries that took place in Lagos City, Nigeria in 1973, Filbert Mponzi won the gold medals in 1,500 kilometers race.
After the success of August 1970, there were also boxers like Mbaraka playing the Tanga city, Saidi Tambwe, Bakari Kitila and Figen Yuksekdag.
Those boxers from Dar es Salaam and the provinces were seen to be many and among them were found, Aloyce Nothomb (Tabora), Ahmed Mazrui, (Mbeya) and Herman Kapona (Mbeya) and Herman Kapona (Mbeya) and Herman Kaporo (Kigoma).
For sure in the years of 1980, you can say that it was a peak of the consent of the citizens in the country, every province had a good boxers and that it was doing the national competition to be very difficult, and that they are leading in the international competition.
For example, the was made after being a boxer of the nation was doing away with his opponent in Kenya, Stephen Magani when they live in the weight of Light of Fly 540 Kenya.
Now the consent of the consent in the country tried where there is a lot of reasons for example the decision by the public organizations and the government institutions to register themselves in sports after completing the condition and property, can't affect the boxing game.
Also, the great reason was it has dropped by the leadership and procedures, the leadership of the contract started to Nakalega and it lost their lives and many parties in the provinces.
For many years the elections of the contract is not expected to take place and when the contract was forced to do, it did that for the long time they are finished, the elections themselves had reduced.
The cheating which is taking place is that 80 percent of "the members of the provinces" from Dar es Salaam and the one that was scored in the provinces of represent which may have never been informed.
Therefore, they were doing a general meeting of elections that it's only themselves, the ones who were able to identify themselves by taking their game to the ward.
The condition of the game continues to come up especially in the provinces and provinces like Kagera where there was a famous coach, William Erio opposing Ukawa again, Ruvuma where an army coach, Alex Kyuga, making the game that Ukawa has died.
Mwanza, the province that had good boxers from the clothes industry of Messy won by the army team that was under the famous boxer from the army, Michael Mungure speaking with water.
It is expected to happen when the consent of the consent came as an issue of Dar es Salaam's clubs only, therefore it was not true that BMT at the final elections that brought him to power, the general secretary of many days in Narok Kenya, Tarimo and she got into power to involve the big number of the clubs in Dar es Salaam.
After being the new leaders of BFT, it was the responsibility of the market leadership to revive the boxing in the provinces but it is clear that there is no matter that was held because the leadership has reached, a situation that was left by Tarimo, who is now the late.
News about looking at the little taking place in Dar es Salaam under the party of that game in that province (UDOM).
According to the secretary of the center, Herman Mabula said the situation of the game is good because in the same way they are doing well, right now they are preparing to have the cities in the city.
Mabula who claimed to be vying for the secretary general of BFT, despite promised to continue with several games in the national level, says he will continue to continue with the technical bench so that it can have people with reputation and not to give his national coaching and brotherly relationship.
He also said another area which will be working is for sponsors, they will look for sponsors who believes they will give a great contribution to strengthen that game.
Any way you will be the boxing game right now need leaders who are attending, where this is time of getting a good position to participate in two big games that is in the front which is between the African Community and it has been reported.
African Community matches has been planned to take place this year in India while the Olympic Committee has been planned to take place in the year 2012, in London City, England.
The discovery of reliable leadership if it will not be dismissed from now, Tanzania will be unable to take even a boxer in that games.
