
Researchers have started an operation of nine percent.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
One month after the effects of the researchers and discovered that she was not known.
From the spread of the departments, scientists from Kuala Lumpur to America (NASA).
Together with their colleagues in France, they have started the activity of looking for that opportunity to the sky.
The scientists from NASA company is using a machine of Cassin Mwashiku Ward, which has been looking for more than 10 years, look for more than 10 years so as to look for that opportunity because it may be out of nine.
It is believed that the size of the phone called 'the ninth name' is 10 times compared to the world, according to the researchers and technology institutions, California Institute of Technology (Corefa) who passed through the laboratory of the laboratory.
Those scientists have also said that the problem that can take close to 20,000 years to move on the sun.
The NASA institution earlier this week said that it has given its plant in Cassin order to look for that opportunity.
At the same time, French scientists led by Jacques Lambert, of the research department of France, said that they have started to look for that opportunity in some of the areas where they believe that they can get.
We can't look for that opportunity every time, that is why we've set aside areas where we will not give priority, "said Lufunyo Nkinda.
France scientists have started to look for that team after they sell Mathematics subject that shows the existence of nine percent.
During the time of announcing the discovery of the phone last month, scientists of Chudasama, who were led by a microwave from Batshuayi and Mike Brown confessed that they were not able to see that one directly in the high level.
The process of "Bexhill, made it clear that the situation after paying for several trials in using computers," said Batuli, the size of the ninth position is one of the size of the criminal offenses, according to the researchers and those scientists are saying the weight in that new system may not affect the swim.
Brown was among the Jehovah's name to be back and instead of the problem that they started, "said Mboma 'and his colleagues had found the same time, where the researchers and the International Civil Aviation Organization (Iloha), in the year 2006, it was prepared to have been found before the previous things have been found in the sky.
The article of Erena and the wild animals were unable to fulfill those criteria and do not get into the ninth list, why do those scientists are saying that maybe the ninth commandment may not be careful.
