The permanent parliamentary committee for land resources and the environment has directed the ministry and government institutions that are accused of paying their debts about two four billion shillings before visiting the organization's budget in Dar es Salaam city and said that they have given that directive after visiting the organization's budget in Dar es Salaam city and said that they have given that directive after visiting the organization's budget in Dar es Salaam city and said that he has given that order after visiting that organization in Dar es Salaam city and said that he has given that directive after visiting the organization's budget in Dar es Salaam city and said that he has given that order after visiting that organization in Dar es Salaam city and said that he has given that order after visiting that organization in Dar es Salaam city and said that he has given that order after visiting that organization in Dar es Salaam city and said that he has given that order after visiting that organization in Dar es Salaam city and said that he has given that order after visiting that organization in Dar es Salaam city and said that he has given that order after visiting that organization in Dar es Salaam city and said that he has given that order after visiting that organization in Dar es Salaam city and said that he has given that order after visiting that organization in Dar es Salaam city and said that he has given that order after visiting that organization in Dar es Salaam city and said that he has given that order after visiting that organization in Dar es Salaam city and said that he has given that order after visiting that organization in Dar es Salaam city and said that he has given that order after visiting that organization in Dar es Salaam city and said that
The parliamentary committee on land resources and environment has visited the office of the National Housing Corporation.
And projects that are run by that organization where together with the construction projects of that house, government institutions and its institutions have a debt of more than two billion shillings, chairman of that committee, James Lembeli has wrote a seven-day tour to give information about the debt that make it or pay before being defeated in the next general meeting.
Big debtors here I see it is wrong.
The Ministry of Internal Affairs of the country at the end of this year, Ministry of four hundred million and nine.
The infrastructure.
Two hundred million shillings.
.
And more than five hundred million shillings.
News and sports or for you have ever decided to believe in faith.
Two hundred million now right now I expected to be very important to this organization.
I am saying that the government is the same.
And they are using inside here in the country.
We would love to know.
In addition to bringing those words, I was told me.
Recently, they have made up!
The late God rest for the current financial year on date.
The ministry of education in achieving the elder of houses.
I don't know tomorrow, I failed to apologize to has apologized to the government to look into the possibility of removing the value-added tax for these houses.
Again if you will be Shilole even if I will be able to succeed as a government there is a cow as a result of every person getting married and then I am saying it is still faced with challenges of attacks in its areas including those that the construction of the house has started faith in Dar es Salaam.
