
Spread of CCM, CHADEMA is impressed by Mwanza Dec 20, 2012.

The political tensions between the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) in Ilemela district, now is an obstacle to the development of that council.

Investigators in matters of politics have explained that situation as an illustration of the ones that involve some politicians to appreciate more than the interests of their parties instead of citizens.

After the election that was explained to be distributed in the port with the councilor of Kitanzini ward, Henry Matata, being elected to be the mayor of that municipality and the number of councilors has continued to be done in that election, the state of issues has continued to be volatile, after the mayor assured three councilors of CHADEMA and they decided to appeal to defend their rights.

One of the councilors that were sacked, Dahi Ward of Kirumba, has said that what is happening in that council is bad and the authorities of the council showed that the surprising thing on events of the implementation of the rights going on, a situation that can cause violence in peace if citizens should not be patient.

He has said he has received a letter of breaking the councilor signed by the Mayor, December 11, this year when he explained that he has been transferred to the councilor's position because of those who lost three sessions in time according to his information, the council has done two sessions.

"The first session is that which took place on November 9th when I was in prison, in a case that has been political, therefore, I was not true that the second session is that took place on November 14, to elect the chairpersons of the committee after there's another session that took place on December 4, but it was not done," he said.

That day, December 4, all the councilors of CHADEMA went to the director of the council, Zitto Zuberi to ask for what the session did not be done in that day according to the schedule, he advised the community service committee not to take his report so that the session will not take place, and they received the director.

He explains more that basically the council has not done an official sittings to the three, instead it has been in two sessions, but he has added that during the opening of sessions or not present, he also added that when that Mayor has decided to kill three councilors only, and that is why he was evidence of political councilors which are taking place against his party.

"The first session of elections that I was in prison, all the councilors of CHADEMA was done in that election, but even what is expected to lead that sitting, but even what is going on, its results are the letter of contesting the councilor seat," she has explained.

He says that those are political conspiracy that are supervised by their competitors in order to resolve the council for the benefit of CCM while the authorities concerned with the procedures of running the council were silent without being taken even if there was a violation of open laws of the country.

Kahwili, says that there will be a session of reaching the decision to destroy the councilors which was not done and that the decision was reached by the only Mayor because his private reasons again without following the procedures.

Other councilors who were sacked are together with Mariana Solo, Ilemela, and Abubakemikali ward, explains that they will not accept the rights of citizens who are not satisfied with that level.

However, Mayor Matata has talked about those complaints against him saying that council has been in six sessions, including those committees which were putting the investigation and if the councilor left the sessions he was quoted.

According to the local government law number 8 of the year 1982, section 25 of article 5 (a) says that the councilor will be removed from that position as they will be unable to attend three meetings without any primary reasons or information.

Article 97 (1) (5) of the permanent policies of Mwanza City Council has said that the councilor's seat will be open but without any difficulty of the chairperson, a delegate has failed to attend three normal meetings, the council's meetings or committee which he is a delegate. "

Responding to the allegations that he is using that position as a way of hinder CHADEMA members for the benefit of the ruling party, Mayor Matata says that he is doing is to fulfill the legal responsibility and to follow the regulations.

"These people (CHADEMA) don't know that they are involved with the lawyer, I am a lawyer I have running my things according to the law and procedures, they don't know that even when I have been selected we have been selected and have been arrested for six sessions," he explained.

When required to explain more about the number of the sessions that we sat like, two or six and it is also the secretary of the sessions of the Council of Ilemela, Zitto Kabwe, who is also the secretary of the sessions of the council of councilors, answered anything that "I think the mayor will answer you well."

One servant in that council who did not want to be mentioned in the newspaper, he told the newspaper that those political parties contribute to reduce the speed of implementation of development issues.

"In this matter, there is no wonder things that are done, those sessions are done, there are no even one thing that made him to talk about people's development, instead, the loopholes can be used by servants that do not be used by servants who are not aware because they know there is no keen supervisor," he explains.

"While inside, and inside you, you will know how many political parties, many issues are being taken to the interests of private people and their parties, I want this day to know these politicians know why things are going on here is not a shame," he said.

In that tension, it has been mentioned by CCM as one of the factors to follow up to CHADEMA in Mwanza City, which in the last general elections held two constituencies in Ilemela and Nyamagana and lead the council of Mwanza City before the day before yesterday to give birth to Ilemela Municipality.

That situation has been facing a result of the fact that Mayor Matata together with being the councilor on CHADEMA ticket was elected as the mayor and councilors of CCM and CUF, while CHADEMA lead in that election because of their two councilors to be jailed for a case they made political parties.

The leaders of CCM were not ready to speak about that, although one leader of the party in Ilemela district said that if the party don't get involved in anything with the conflict, because CHADEMA are forced to forgive him themselves and therefore they did not lose hope in that.

We cannot intervene, that is our benefit, we will not have a lot of strength or even the honor of the party to deal with this issue because if we do, we have seen that leader who did not want this name to be, because we are not a spokesperson of the party.
