
The star of the white house in the school.
It should be remembered that all the child have already succeeded since she was born in the unborn child since it forced doctors to surprise for her mother and her mother's life.
The mother who was singing at all times also known as she gets pregnant, she does not get in the footsteps of her mother.
Fauzia Kullane, it is very happy to play and play at home, in the church, to go back and in public meetings.
Meet Stephano Cosmas presenting a ring, 12, one in the seven class from Juwes Wang, he from Kicheere.
A girl Nyabacha said his name is faced with a music teachers in the school, Mister Noah Ogano.
While in school, they are leading the whole school in a national song going on Monday and Friday while he only plays for.
Apart from that, it is playing that instrument when your people are in the reputation and worship of this service.
A girl Mtondoo 'is pregnant among three children, very disturbing, Bishop William Cheng from the Church of Jesus Manufacturing Company, Jeu together with her biological mother they are at Gioia 45 years, he from Nairobi.
Last year, he won the cup and a certificate in the national football competition that was sent away from Kisenga, reading a wreath and singing, "Thriller 'of Dar es Salaam."
"I was very happy about the rights of people after the dock cannot go through an ancient era, following an accident and shivered and the concerned family, are forced to sleep well," Masau boasted.
I told the nation today that he will make sure that one day will be read to read a poem and he holds the American president as one dream, it will come out while being patient.
According to very disturbing, Nyabudenge has said that he is very happy to make and write a song, singing in hand with dancing.
"He is a girl child, she has confident man and has a dream of seeing the front and aim at the way," the mother said.
Pasquino has said that she does not like to sing a lot while at home, especially inside a car, inside a car and even we have written about something that affects his brother.
"He wrote me in a trap while wearing a house and sometimes they traveled from our car while it has gone to him because it makes him seen that he did not wait, calm," signifies.
About the discipline, Miss Julietha Kabete has said the girl Mtika 'is a foolish thing, watch him and again the name of God.
He has arrested several songs that he is doing exercises so as to face the record immediately when they play the school on Saturday of April this year.
"Apart from reading, there's a shame for me to have a religious songs with swimming, because they pour your heart and then eat it and then pour it quickly.
He said.
