Two-thirds have the statements of leaders.
May 16, 2013.

Recently, the Minister for Security and Defense, two-thirds have made a statement of wisdom and a lot of wisdom about the importance of leaders to take their statements.
The captain was invited to the gathering of religious leaders that was prepared by the head of Dar es Salaam province, to discuss and other things, about the situation that is happening now in our community.
The prime minister said that the preventing and religious leaders are not pleased when you put it just because it will not be interpreted as or even so, there are some of the leaders, who through their statements, or not knowing politics.
All days, history is a good teachers so that we can attract them to understand what happens now and we understand that which will happen tomorrow, we have a must to look and understand what happened yesterday.
In this statement, here in Tanzania, there is an incident that the general elections of the president and the members of parliament of the year 1985, Mzee John Malecela, in the year 1985, he was the only minister in the cabinet of ministers that is believed to go back to parliament.
According to the eyes of the scholars, relatives, Mister Frank Mvungi and Amos Makalla (SCA), John Chikomo, who was the former member of parliament who was born in Dodoma Town constituency, Samuel Malecela, who was also a member of parliament who was born in Dodoma Town constituency, Malassy, who was defeated by the Engineer who doesn't have political experience.
However, in this issue of relationship with people, the researchers and those in their condolences to the book called Miss Tanzania, from being stolen, on my view, I have failed to be noted that another reason that contributed to a relationship between John Masele during that time and his voters.
And here it involves John Okello's statement while being the Minister for Communication and Transport, in the middle is a cry for bad services from the central railway organization (TRC) about the bad service of the central railway Organization (TRC) about the bad service of the central railway Organization (TRC) about the bad service of the central railway network of 1980, this one was quoted saying that there was no problem of bad services, and that those thinking can't see the problem, they can go down.
In the art of communication, we believe that very long distances to a politician, can lead you or leave the political system, one radio station and three newspapers are still being able to get their accusations by giving them about his statement.
And what happened in the previous general elections of the year 1985, it was to voters in Dodoma Town, when they toured Dodoma Town, they did not meet on behalf of our leaders, and especially the central railway users, thus he could not get a member of parliament and therefore he could not be a minister.
And for sure, Malecela explained, and even when he returned again to the political party, John Malecela, even today, he has been very happy to choose the words that he meets with the public.
I commend him, because we are going to now, that his sudden death by our elder John Malecela, more than 20 years ago, may be coming to some of our current politicians, and others are ministers with bail.
We need to meet some of the members of parliament, who are in parliament, their statements are not keen, they should not understand that there are many who want to listen.
Why do the voters' votes are with more understanding than the ones in 1985, the voters' votes are not only remember and follow up on the actions of their members, and especially the promises they were made, but they remember, and they will continue to remember, some of the voters from some members of parliament and ministers.
And many times there is a big offence if most of the political situation, and especially heading to the general elections, most of the researchers are unable to resolve the movements of candidates and their campaigns, but these researchers have forgotten the movements of the candidates and those campaigns, but these researchers have forgotten about the movements of candidates and those campaigns, but these researchers have forgotten about the movements of candidates and those campaigns.
One of the voter habit, is to try to keep in mind the previous statements of those candidates, as he noted that Minister Vuai two-thirds have that there is a great importance for leaders to be careful in their statements! I conclude.
