The secret of the Minister Mwakyembe not to buy an airplane.
May 22, 2013.

Any plane that will begin by the Ministry of Transport led by the member of parliament for Kyela, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, is disrupting peace in accordance with the contracts that was organized by the corruption network and their agents, within and out of the country, South Sudan, reports.
That game of corruption involves not only some of the directors of the Tanzania Airports Authority (ATCL) but also some of the members of parliament who at the time the organization is going on to teach them, among them being the senior officials of the government.
Sure reports show it publicly that despite the government having the ability to buy a new plane for ATCL, but the environment of the organization for now will have a blow to the country.
For a long time now, we should have a desire to see that international organization is supposed to be removed due to caring that it is a sign of the national identity cards in the international platform, but due to the environment of corruption, it will not be productive until the trap of corruption that was not submitted.
Our source of information has been noted by saying that "the new plane has already bought a new plane, which had been arrested, they did not go back, then it will not be played just after it will be arrested only."
That source is continuing to be noted by saying that, "some of the leaders who are concerned in the government together with members of parliament who had received high positions in the government is the main involved in which it is, but in a surprising condition and today, they have the courage to talk to that organization."
Those reports from our news source in some way are not yet confirmed by the minister Doctor Mwakyembe who is a lawyer of a doctorate degree in the year 2013 / 2014, especially after some of the members of parliament to question the reasons for the government to fail to buy a new plane.
In order to send an entrepreneur, members of parliament, Doctor Mwakyembe told the environment of the organization for now it is not good to bring capital, that the government right now are struggling to register it by that organization, to put good environment that is where investing their new capital.
According to Doctor Mwakyembe, the debt is big and a load of that organization and the biggest part of that debt was not supposed to be constructed by the previous leadership of that organization in conjunction with other leaders inside the government.
A confirmation of the effects of that debt to the new investment is the payment of the plane that got an accident, it explained that more than 80 percent of the money that was paid and put in the accounts of that organization that had been able to pay debts from the organization.
That organization which is paid 10 million American dollars like insurance after one of its planes get an accident, but those funds were put in an accident at the account that were left on the account had been paid to pay for the debts of that organization.
In a situation to confirm the absence of patriotism among the directors of that organization and some of the government leaders, among the issues that have contributed a huge debt claimed to have been taken for now and if the government will increase capital, then the capital will be taken to that debt together with other fake debts. "
What is happening?
According to news reports, what is happening at the moment under the leadership of the ministry of transport is the verification of debt, the concerned parties and then take appropriate measures to clean the organization, including its accounts to end the first paying the debt caused by the organization.
In their contributions, some of the members of parliament complained to the step of showing them badly in a great nation like Tanzania to lack of a National Park with energy which could arise from Rwanda and Kagera countries with the organizations that surrounds the plane.
"It is not that the country like Burundi or Rwanda are wanting us to have problems in the planning, they have requested the aircraft and we have directed the road," stated Doctor Mwakyembe answering issues of members of parliament, while sure that his secret is together with fear a new plane that will be shaken.
However, in a step that performed some of the members of parliament are some of the leaders of CCM that contributed to the organization to prepare strategies of mocking him, Doctor Mwakyembe has been mentioned to look for mistakes of bringing together it so that he can be involved in these weaknesses by the Tanzania Railways Limited (TRL).
Those organizations were forced to be under the ministry which the member of parliament for Bariadi West Andrew Chenge, has got led by Andrew Chenge, before that, he has been the attorney general (AG) and several ministers also have received that ministry, who are together with Doctor Shukuru Kawambwa, Basil Mramba.
