Where is where I would like.
Or he is a member of parliament of our agenda that we have in entrepreneurship education to youths and I would like to speak with.
Most youths especially when we get in the province, they gave them a lot, we are looking for many youths in their profession.
But we are unable to continue because, because of the problems of work hard for example in Pwani we have done or the field they are facing many youths in the small country.
There is a technician, there is a mother and technicians.
Photos and others.
But we are unable to do that job or they are unable to do that work or they are unable to work with my fellow youths because the poverty of money will give them this money because they are unable to continue with those things because they are unable to fail to continue with those things because they are unable to fail to make it.
Absolom went to his government in community and private organizations.
You cannot look for us the youth and we find priority to our groups that have been affected by many people who come from many people, but these boys are annoyed if they have brought to maybe the opportunity for young people but the cost of sponsorship is very high to the youth.
When they go to go to take a loan because it's not a lot, therefore, I would have asked that they are forced to reduce the amount of at least they should have the ability to take a loan even if possible, the youth should use his certificate so that he would have requested the youth?
Who's the rebels to be there.
For a loan or to get a loan in general, we need to work if he used to take the loan so that we can take this loan so that we can take advantage of the loan so that we can get that same same as they eat the same type.
Because it is taking another time, maybe it has shown the farm for your father and again, when you take the loan you failed to work or goals, yesterday it seems to do you like in.
Why we request that we get the work or the money we will we get to do in work if we have refused as we are not affected.
He will be the chairperson.
I will not be?
And the sacred heart.
I want to thank his friend.
Together with a certain organization because those are we have led until it took to the youth for this time.
And be able to listen to this few things that we have cannot get to the relevant levels, because these are also the same day we have tried to speak here and they can be able to reach the place.
Therefore, I was surprised when I would like to be the government.
Together with private organizations that they can be able to give advice together with education known as youths.
For giving loans the loans are able to come up with loans but they offer loans to provide education that the loan that will take care here and we have been asked by giving me this opportunity and to see my thoughts I have spoken here and faith that we have been able to be heard by various leaders and the community as a whole.
Thank you so much brother Joseph for contributing to our debate, I request to help them.
I am taking this opportunity to welcome another delegate so that he can continue with discussions so that when the mother for another time, Kagera has not closed down.
They must be educated.
Let me know!
I will love you to increase the speed on education.
The technical bench.
First.
I will continue to thank God together but not in general.
I would like to talk about it is the technical profession for us we youths in the small ward we win to learn or join technical education because the cost is high.
The first studies of the university we have for there here among them.
It is one university for one institution for six kilograms, therefore, they have a great cost, we have been unable to join because we have no income to be able to join because it is a very high cost now.
