
ACT warns CHADEMA flag in Ngurdoto, Kigoma, members of 3500 members of CHADEMA.

The Alliance for Change and Development Party of Kigoma province has condemned the Party for Democracy and Development Party CHADEMA, Nachingwea District, the former office and increasing the presidential flag (ACT) during the official launch of six branches in Kigoma Municipality.
Speaking to the citizens of that area, the ACT Patriots secretary, Athuman Kabogo claimed that the aim of reducing the flag is a step of refusing to be sold to be 61 percent of other people by lack of rights to meet and vie for the party's positions.
Therefore, to start a ACT party as the concerned party can be able to listen and give rights to each one.
Kabogo urged members not to take ACT Patriots cards so that the party gets full registration in accordance with the law, regulations and concerned procedures together with providing sustainable donations, being a great effort to make sure the party moves ahead.
For the interests of the nation.
"The citizens are a catalyst to the party to be in the process of a small elections for the chairpersons of local government in order to believe and get the consent to be able.
The changes in development "said Juma Ramadhan, who was the campaign secretary of CUF.
On the side of ACT Wazalendo's side, Won Mwachibuzi, said that the aim of the party is to bring change in political parties, whereby they are determined to defend public interests with the aim of removing the system of private interests which is a springboard of political parties to fail to bring positive changes to citizens.
In that tour to launch the concerned party branches, ACT Patriots has succeeded to open branches in six wards out of 19 wards that are in Kigoma town region, while some of the leaders from CHADEMA, CHADEMA and CUF have joined the party.
Because they need a party with a problem and deal with the poor challenges.
However, 3500 members of the Demirtas and Residential Development, Kigoma Province have thrown out the new party of Alliance for Change and Development (ACT).
By Margareth Sitta, Kigoma.
