Minister Sitta, "there are parliamentary candidates in CCM.

The Minister of East African Cooperation, Samuel Sitta, has said some of the members of CCM are cargo as even if they go to parliament, they did not meet the party.

Sitta, who was the speaker of the ninth parliament, said that the day before yesterday at a public rally held at Nyamkazi Primary School, Busega County, Simiyu Province as part of the campaign to strengthen the life of the party.

"The truth is that, some of the members of parliament of this way do not see for us that they are going, they are going to parliament, they do not see the issues of running their health," said Sitta.

Sitta said that despite the kind of members of parliament, they are also those who don't have the responsibilities, to inspect development activities.

"There are some members of parliament who have never been even one day to visit their constituencies to visit the citizens who came to him, it is possible even voters are not aware where these votes are not seen but they are not supposed to wait," he said and added.

"It's impossible for a member of parliament to stay in the city and failed to visit his people in the region of the member of parliament who is going to visit the constituency for paying for him and the citizens who he is doing and gave him votes?

"President Jakaya Kikwete has done so much to bring change, it has caused the success of economy and many issues, to the members of parliament to go and listen to the citizens on these development, it is possible that people don't know but people do not know these development?"

Speaking about the process of the new constitution, Sitta said that "first, there are signs of some people to start reducing the constitution in court so that those people should be supported since that is why they started falling.

"The constitution that we want is for the purpose of development of Tanzania and Mchuchuma is and not for others, therefore we must have everyone to use that opportunity to submit its contribution to improve the constitution of the constitution."

He urged the delegates of the constitutional councils to use the opportunity to submit the issues that are building and they should not hesitate to resolve the process of the whole process.
