There is a conflict between Rozay and defense of the public service?
October 17, 2013.

Last week I wrote a article where you know what is the way to reach, to complete the process of completing the process of implementing the law on constitutional changes in the year 2013, through a great intention of President Jakaya Kikwete, through his good speech to the nation of last month, most of us want to do what is going to it?

The president wants the appropriate time nationally and wants to prevent us from all, so that we can be able to go safely in completing the process of writing a new constitution this year, I went back again, because his soul will help me, and why his soul will not give me the truth.

In our work, it is pleased by showing that we are tired of peace, and he will stop and decide.

According to the constitution of the United Republic, article 62 and 63rd minutes, parliament has two areas, the president of the United Republic of parliament and on that meaning the law is waiting for the decision by the constitution of the United Republic of parliament to sign anything for the authority that was given by the constitution of the United Republic of parliament.

In this article I decided to look in short summary, what will happen if he would take a good way, I've done so much to avoid showing my great stand on this issue, by respect the authority of the president and to avoid being trying, he could destroy his thoughts.

The truth is not to be true that I have written more on the appropriate national way and which will stop all members of parliament and we should leave all members of the United States, called "me '," I said the plain truth.

I have been able to talk about many questions from the readers, I will ensure that the process of passing the law in parliament was completed as possible and there is no doubt that the law can be approved by the parliament and therefore it's not a must for a must for the constitution, law and regulations.

The media with work of making law is the president on one side and members of parliament on the second side of members of parliament who had already completed their work, we have already killed President Magufuli to work in him.
