Police believed to be divided.
Fly on 1st, 2012.

Together with the police force to announce some of the suspects who are involved in the killing of the former police commander of Mwanza Province, Liberatus Baranaba, claimed that the existence of government efforts being supported by some of the army officers with an aim of maintaining the cause of those killings, our citizens, Mwema, has been told.

It is alleged that some of the officers who want to use the system of failing to avoid the cause of the killings being attacked by some of their colleagues who claimed to be keen to protect some of the concerned parties without caring about their positions in the agency that has the authority to supervise the law and protect citizens's property in the country.

In the middle of the division led by one of the politicians inside the ruling party (CCM), inspector general of police (IGP), Saidi Mwema, he was not ready to talk about that situation as a result of his mobile phone being received without the receiver on anything.

According to the report from the special forces concerned with the investigation of that incident, the suspects who were arrested are supposed to be used in implementing the crime and the suspects will be forced to implement that incident, it is claimed that there are efforts to register their suspects.

Our source from the police force has been arrested are people from the highest level in that program and that he is a leader.
That person has not been arrested but it is reported to have an important evidence because he knows the involved in the strategy.

These two who were arrested are quoted but there are two people who were mentioned and they have not been arrested including a penalty (the leader of POS), who this one was the one who was carrying these attackers, but this one has been a lot, after his colleagues are still continuing, "explained our source.

However, that source has explained that the great job is still there to realize that who are involved with this plan, because those who were arrested are forced to implement the act and that those who are in behind that plan are big people inside the police force.

"We are in great efforts from inside the police force themselves and requested others who are behind this program, you know one problem even the force has many groups here in the force they want things to end here in the country," explained the source.

Our source has stated that some of the names of people who are well-employed in the community are mentioned to be involved in the plan but they have started coming out the signs of wanting the army people not to be joined in order to protect those involved.

In addition, more information have been clarified that there was a time when the investigation was read, the place has got a direction and wanted to rise up of those people.
The ones being mentioned because there were evidence that you will be on the next to do that and what is needed is to follow up with some of the suspects and reports that were found but there have been an intentional efforts to mix up things to disrupt the investigation.

"Here we are, where we are in the first time, there was a time when he was found and given out a light of those concerned parties and the source of those killings but because they are not known we have done a lot of things to stop, until now it is not true."

This investigation officer of the killings of Commander Barkley scored two weeks after the government through the minister of state, the office of the prime minister, policy planning, William Lukuvi promised.
Citizens on behalf of the Prime Minister that there is no need that will be left is a must that those involved in the crime are arrested, arraigned before law.

Speaking during the farewell of the body of the late in Nyamagana District, Minister Lukuvi warned the fear of Mwanza and Tanzania in general that all state agencies for their union will partner in ensuring that anyone who was involved and planning to implement these killings as arrested.

That statement was supported by a great emphasis by the head of the National Security of Mwanza province, Major Jacob Mutta, who assured minister Lukuvi that the suspects will be arrested quickly as possible so as to bring faith to the citizens at the murder of security and security.

At the end of last week, the police force through the inspector general, Saidi Mwema, announced to arrest five people being associated with the killing of Commander Baranaba, while promising to continue searching for others and get them before the law.

Commander Liberatus Barkley was killed by being shot dead by people who are believed to have robbers last night on October 13, this year, at the Kitwiru, Mwanza, at eight o'clock at night.
