In the morning and earlier on his tour to look for the implementation of the directive has been released by the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, urged the doctors to go back to work since it started in the security hospital where here is the chief physician in order to talk about the treatment situation in this hospital and later on it is that if children are married but religion.
.
It's a very few work but others do not have.
.
After these data reports will make sure that he will do a meeting with those doctors to convince them to continue with the meeting which the journalists did not be allowed to go together with those who want them to go and let me see what we want to go and let me tell me what we want to do here.
For their reasons that is swelled for a good person and even you will not be afraid of Wizkid from ten o'clock in the night until these hours I'm in here's hard work.
How do they get food and a modem.
Perhaps, he also enabled us to return to Muhumbili National Hospital.
Furthermore, but they are continuing to arrive at Muhimbili National Hospital for the purpose of bringing patients but if when you see him, there was no loss of receiving patients and patients in a bad state, that's there a person to see there.
He is in the car he said that he will not be in the vehicle when I was in the vehicle when I was in the vehicle when I was forced to look for him from the doctors, I was forced to look for him because of the doctors, who also told me that the services are stranded, including the provision of permits to remove their bodies.
Why I am able to get fever, for a period of five hours now I don't know the situation until now.
So that we have the late?
I visited some of the ward so as to see the situation there where I succeeded to found one doctor attending to the sixth position of the end.
What is the truth.
Others have tried to separate himself on himself.
I agree that I would like to remember where he came from.
Doctors.
Third time.
I would like to tell you the ordinary way you will be careful, but the leadership of Muhumbili National Hospital explained the judge Aminiel Aligaesha.
A situation that has already been put in a book was also seen.
And I said this department should work.
The preparations are in the church.
It's not that if you do not do well and because in different parts of six, Patrick some of the citizens have requested the government together with doctors to end this conflict in order to evade the effects which he has said and more than them have insisted.
