
21st December 2012

Editors, we want freedom of media stations.

By Agnes Chaki.

The Tanzania Editors Forum (TEF) has called on the government to ensure the new constitution is prepared by a special article that will give the media freedom in the country.
The secretary of the platform, Mister Neville Meena, said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he was speaking to journalists about different resolutions reached at the TEF meeting, which took place in Tanga Province recently.

He said the current constitution in use of the year 1977 it does not have any article that makes the freedom of the media.

Mister Meena said, TEF has apologized to the action of the constitution not knowing the freedom of the media even after being done on 14 changes in the year 2005.

"The forum has ordered this constitution with great keenness and discovered that there is no word or section that provides media freedom and therefore for the interests of the country and the development of the country, we want to see the next constitution is increasing the freedom of the media," he said.

He added that for the interests of the development of this nation, editors want a new constitution to be with section that gives the right to get news to all citizens without being discriminated against.

According to Mister Meena, TEF is urged the government to accept to make laws of service to the media whose recommendations have already been released by the media stakeholders who have presented the government.

"The editors with one statement, we insisted that our intention is to ensure we cooperate with the government to work hard for the interests of the nation and the development of our country," he said.

He said together with those resolutions, TEF will do the opinions of the editors, journalists and present them at the commission to collect the views of the new constitution so as to ensure the contributions for the news sector is considered as required by the constitution.

Speaking about the colleges of journalism, Mister Meena has determined those colleges who are supposed to start using one curriculum that was organized by NACTE, the Tanzania Media Council (MCT) in collaboration with other media stakeholders.

He emphasized that there are some colleges which have been doing training on journalism and other courses which have no relationship with the profession.

He added that, other resolutions are together with the media to consider ethics, regulations, professional guidelines and to avoid having conflicts between people, religion, political parties, race or any social institutions.

Other things are the media to build upcoming poets, to advise the owners of the relevant agencies to consider professional criteria when they are given employment.

On the side of radio and television stations, TEF is determined to implement terms of reading the newspapers and urged the managers of programs to stop reading all information instead, they do not deal with.

"This will destroy the newspapers of the newspapers in the country because someone went to listen to the newspapers program, he cannot go to the market he will be in everything," he said.
