
There is a big problem in the police force, October 14, 2013.

Although the decision by the Minister for Internal Affairs of the country, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi opened up some of the senior officials of the police force is to be supported, but it has changed, in a large extent, concerning the professionalism of important sections of the army in order to fulfill its responsibilities nationally.
Between those units, the senior unit which is the senior officer, head of investigation in Kagera province, Peter Elias says, has been found with a mistake of being sacked from work because its meaning is that there is a result of a big crime network inside the police force.
For example, as the police force, that was revealed for three officials out of five who have been chased away from being discovered that they have arrested drugs of the type of Octa but were sent to the government's chief chemist, were found to have been salt and sugar.
For other words, the police have taken care of drugs for their private benefits and put salt and sugar of the medicine that they took.
That the police have seized the illegal products and put it into their benefit and then to have cheating by using the army itself with the aim of maintaining that crime, it means that the army's crime system is big than the network to control or prevent the crime of crime.
In another example, the senior commissioner of police who deals with employment of the army is alleged to have taken bribes so as to get the youth in the force.
This is a big offence and basically, it is a must that you have taken out of that army.
Therefore, it is not enough to believe that the result of those people is a step that will take place on the cleaning of the police force in the country.
And in the environment of these steps that were taken by the Minister Nchimbi, it is clear that in a certain way, the criminal offenses could be revealed maybe by involved some of the defense and security agencies outside the police force, contrary to that there could be a big game against politicians.
Following, as the head of criminal investigation in Kagera province, assistant superintendent of police who was chased away from mistakes that were acted by the committee led by the prime minister in monitoring land conflicts in Nyansalwa Primary School, there are sure there are important sections of the police force especially the department of investigation, they are safe for caring for the security of the country?
Therefore, we advise that the major changes in the police force because there are all signs of criminal offenses in the army is big and to be enough than the networks of controlling the crime of crime.
As a result of the mistakes of these officers who were sacked by Minister Nchimbi, we advise President Baranaba for inspection officers of this force, although we are talking to the fact that the results of the investigation of many commission which got effects are not supposed to be done as required.
But on this issue, we advise the creation of commission that will involve senior officials from other security agencies and security so that the senior officials of the police are enough to take action against the benefit of the citizens.
