The games of sports and big entertainment in the Mainland Tanzania Mainland Premier League is expecting to continue tomorrow in March, and one of Yanga and Simba is among the competitive matches that will be at the field tomorrow to get three points in that league only, and two days to be safe for our sportsmen.
Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga will be the host of one hundred thousand match, we will have eight matches out of Coastal Union of Tanga and Yanga soccer matches and the referee for Msangi in Dodoma who will be made by an evaluation will be made by Ruvuma.
And nine of assets are from Ruvuma at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam city while they were accompanied by the leaders of that league, the team of Spain's team was played starting at ten o'clock in the evening while talking to Simba and believes they will be able to perform well by winning and collect three points.
The match?
We have signed events I will be satisfied with.
It has caused them.
The things are in every match.
I succeeded to do work of our age, we can get three goals?
I will work to inform them when they read it on his side, the information officer of Simba Club, Ezekiel Kamwaga has said that Simba club has prepared well more than billions where from that squad, he said there is no injured as well as well as the result of lack of discipline she had shown.
He has urged the fans of Simba to come out in large numbers to play in the evening against that team who on Sunday becomes one barrel up to the agenda of the Confederation Cup match against street.
Against him.
Simba have refused 'sorry' to what's the father?
With great strength.
The failure of failing to be defeated.
When the match ended with a prey in the world.
We have more strength.
Therefore,
She does not pollute the environment and you're close to the fire and they see you.
He said.
What is the truth.
Last season of first of this year on Sunday, there will be a match between Azam and I will not be played at the Chamazi Stadium in Dar es Salaam city ready to contest for the championship due to every team having a champion club from Dar es Salaam.
