
The Kamanga ferry is fighting the news headlines on the 30th of 2012.

A scandal is caused inside the headquarters of the Immigration Department which gave documents to sit in Belgium's citizens, to make sure they avoid evil deeds, different from the instructions of the office of the region of wanting them to be careful.
The information has said that it has been a chance to sit in the bridge on the bridge, although previously, the immigration office of Mwanza province wanted to be treated because he presented the documents of the request to destroy the reputation in front of the law.
The reports that were found is that the certificate has been given to the blood of some of the ones that made the security officers, they made the police force at the headquarters of Immigration saying they have been given instructions by "big leaders" that the department gives a support to the director of Kamanga ferry area, after the death of his former owner.
The documents which even so, it can be completed his term was given at the headquarters without considering the instructions of the office which is a procedure that is supposed to advise the headquarters about the fate of the applicant from that which is the residence of the applicant from whom she is requesting for the documents.
The certificate of and you missed the bridge of "A" which is given to big investors has been requested by the mother to enable him to run its operations and management of the Kamanga ferry area after her husband died.
However, his request to ask for the certificate has risen up by being the immigration office of Mwanza Province ascertained that he had brought to the office a certificate of manslaughter.
The certificate that has a number of 87887 students were handed over to Magu on October 10, 2008, according to the letter of immigration officer of Mwanza Region on November 11, 2008, the Head Coach of Immigration, receiving the certificate's certificate.
"After this office getting an application, they have been given a certificate to you, and you missed a copy of a ring, and when you put up a historical letter and. MZ / C / C / 1 / 248,477,944, 2008, administrative secretary of Magu district so as to confirm if the applicant was a wife of the deceased.
As a result of the marriage certificate, I have attached it in his request, the answers of the administrative secretary in his memory photo with Kamoga - 1002 and it has never been released in Magu, "says a section of the letter signed by J. Mshomba to see it.
That office has also received another confirmation of the letter on July 15, 2008 from Anthony Maverick, who was written in that certificate to be the one who stopped the marriage.
In the letter he told the lawyer Pindani Nyalile, Jay Moe said that he has never missed the marriage between those two, because the period that is said to be released, he was not the registrar of Magu district, but he was the administrative secretary of Kagera Province.
Together with other things, the Immigration Department Mwanza received a letter of objection from the child of the deceased, Mark Mwandosya, which is opposing that the marriage is not legal according to the wedding certificate.
As a result of those problems of the wedding certificate, the immigration officer of the province claimed that the mother should be allowed to be given a certificate of you and asked him to submit the documents to obtain the documents.
"It's my recommendations that when you go through, you should be given a certificate, and you will be able to be careful with the mistake of submitting the documents of faking documents so as to give a certificate of knowledge to prevent you according to the general commissioner of Immigration.
In another step, that mother presented a briefing of the session of the Kamanga ferry that had appointed him as the director that was attended by two people, he and the former director of that company (Steering), representing the child of the late Mark.
However, Mark claims that he had not received the reports of that sitting and even after that session there will be informed that there was a session done to appoint that mother to be the director of Kamanga ferry.
In addition to all those restrictions, that mother who previously was living in the country with documents (thoughtful narratives), number + 2226, for how his time enabled him to get out of a donation of some government officers, he was able to get a certificate of him and not using the bridge.
Reports from the Department of Immigration officers are saying that in addition, the mother after getting the certificate in the way he knows him, has never been to take it to that office so that he would be emphasized to the officers of the area to know their status.
This issues of this country are not just to leave, here I have heard this one who had been unable to get a certificate, but when a woman does not have a lot of honor, "said the small officer of that office, but he refused to mention his name because it is not the spokesperson of that office.
More information that got to this newspaper are saying that a certificate of you and she has served for a period of two years before the player asked for another.
The certificate of that mother was given out of the year 2008 and 2009, it can be completed his term, but according to some of the Immigration officers in the province, that it did not be the reason of not questioning the legality of that permit.
Even if he has finished his term, but if he was sent away by a huge way, finishing his time, they do not know that, they are required to consider the advice of this office, but they are required to consider the advice of this office but because they are required to do anything, we're just looking at, "said another small officer of that office.
The investigation of Raia Mwema has shown that for now the mother who is in a tension with the child of the deceased, should be the first lady of the deceased, especially who is supposed to be the director of that company that owns Uda in April 18, 2012 which will complete his time on July 18th, 2012.
