
Lugalo Army Golf Club emerged as the status of 16 o'clock.

Finally the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF), Lugalo has been into the status and that the referral hospital after meeting the standards of medical services, the decision aims to improve health services in the country.

I have talked to one of the experts in that hospital who because he is not the official spokesperson of the army refused to be written in the newspaper but told me these words concerning the status of the Lugalo Referral Hospital in Mwanza province, Moshi Municipality and Mbeya Regions. "

"The issue of considering in giving the referral hospital is together with considering the number of patients who are treated, the number of doctors (experts), number of beds, patients, where Lugalo has more than 300 beds.

"Another issue is to have medical equipment for patients (SMS), this is the important issues to consider the hospital to be taken to the office," said the expert.

Speaking about the steps that have been worked with JWTZ in the issue of provision of health services in the country, the doctor said that they have enough number of medical colleges in the clinic and diploma colleges (OPD) together with Huria University, where we will also improve the main hospital. "

About the cost that are being implemented in Lugalo says if patients have been charged affordable medical services especially in the surgery (surgery), whereby it is a cost of two hundred thousand shillings, compared to other government hospitals and those of the private sector.

While the hospital which was paid in the status of appeal, the director of that hospital, Brigadier General (T), says that a total of 324,068 students of patients who were treated here is a citizen, especially among them, we are receiving many patients especially after the existence of doctors in some of the government hospitals. "

Speaking about the reasons for their services to give those services at the hospital Baden al of giving those services to the hospital that were affected by the strike, Lyimo said.
"What caused the services in our hospitals in the camp instead of going to public hospitals, during the strike is lack of cooperation from our colleagues (doctors Mhenga) the period of strike is in March, this year.

"By true we don't know the cooperation and even the other time to fear of our security, bad luck is going to the place but to see you get the importance of improving our hospitals so that we do not be able to provide good services to the farmers here in the Lugalo Referral Hospital."

Speaking about the responsibility of that institution to the public of Tamfi, Lyimo has said.
"When an emergency place anywhere, if the occurrence of the floods or an emergency plan, it is our responsibility to help public authorities in accordance with our oath which every one is a servant I believe in the oath.

However, Lyimo did not hesitate to talk about the issue of ethics for the public servants saying it is need for launching training for the National Housing Corporation (JKT), in order to restore discipline in serving the country because the army is a place to learn more in patriotism, education education, upbringing, gender, and building the citizens.

In addition, Lyimo did not hesitate to talk about inheritance and its effects to Tanzania through that, he says that, "has brought the effects of globalization, some of the leaders are supposed to be accountable, some of the leaders are supposed to participate in the country because it was previously, in the era of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere leadership."

He urged his fellow doctors who have participated in the strike going back to work and requested them to look for an appropriate time, they believe that conflict is available in way of talks.

On his part, the Executive Director of JWTZ headquarters in the headquarters, Lieutenant Colonel Mtunguja was said that the army had been trying to deal with the restrictions that it needs to implement its responsibilities to citizens authorities, according to the directives of the government, responsibilities which he said are also in accordance with the law of defense of the nation.

"We don't have enough cooperation where we are going to help citizens' authorities and this happened even if we want to provide services at the Muhimbili National Hospital during the strike of the month of March, this year, the environment of not getting the partnership was unable to go back to our hospitals to provide services to patients.

"Citizens are required to know that the army has a lot of experts to work when they will move to the country and this country will take a very big step but it is owned by claims that the army is involved in other areas.

However, Mgawe said that they have been recognized by the Lugalo Hospital to be taken to the status and to be a Referral Hospital "I have heard a lot about Hosea Ndagala of Lugalo Army to be taken to the status and to be the Referral Hospital," he said.

While talking about the responsibilities of TDPF, he says that "Pickup, where the government will need to support the army in providing services, that donation will be done in accordance with the law and those who are supposed to work hard to stop their responsibilities according to the law.

Speaking about the responsibilities of the government institutions, Chris Brown has said that as the institution, all have an important needs, it's like the body of a human being work, as if we start, the doctor claims that everyone has to be responsible so that everyone has to have any responsibility. "

Makatu said he insisted on the importance of starting the training for the National Building Army as it was in the past five years, where youths have been unable to love the country, break the cooperation and solidarity nationally.

He says that if a lot of nations are required by their youth to have direction, JKT has to go back so that it is able to build the youth so as to build themselves and they should remain in the country, "he said and added.
"Lack of JKT, it's like a national disaster. This is enabling us to have a union, during the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere car, I had put the bombs from the vehicle for 24 hours because of patriotism, it is good for JKT Ruvu to be given training there."
