
Tigo Concert has been cut off 100 desks to eight primary schools.

September 16, 2016.

By our correspondent, Kagera.
Tigo Tanzania mobile phone company yesterday has handed over 100 desks worth 39 million shillings, to be divided among eight primary schools in Kagera province as part of the strategy to provide the desks that is going on in the whole country, which will benefit from 18 provinces in the Tigo Concert 2016 season.
The strategy of Tigo to provide desks is known, "desks for every student is the foundation of better education in the Fiesta 2016, in an up roar of Tigo free education, then the child is complete," speaking at the occasion to hand over the desks.
In a small primary school which is one of the schools that will benefit with those desks in Misenyi district, the manager of Tigo lake region, Edgar Mapande has said that there is a great need for desks in primary schools, together with that shortage, it was revealed that one of the reasons that affect the ability to learn together with the success of students in our primary schools.
"Our aim as a company is to ensure that the environment for learning in our primary schools have been improved and we are happy that the season of" said 2016 "you are changing the future generation.
Primary schools in order to ensure they are not supposed to happen anything, "said Mapande.
The handing over of those desks were when they witness with the district commissioner of Bukoba villages, Deodatus Mwiliko, who is representing the provincial commissioner of Kagera, Major General, Salum Mustafa Kijuu.
What happens, he said that 235 desks will improve on a high level, to learn for children in that district and in Kagera province as a whole.
Moreover, he urged other people with good love to come out and join those efforts to eliminate the shortage of desks that is in that area in that province.
DC Mtatura who mentioned eight schools that will benefit with those desks and its number in brackets as Jihadists (25), Isakonko District (25), Kitoro (25), Kitoro (25), Kitogo (50), at six districts in the province.
"We would like to thank Tigo for representing us in our efforts by reducing the number of desks in primary schools in Kagera province.
"We believe this 100 desks will be able to reach out in enabling hundreds of children to be in a good environment for learning that is needed for success in being the future leaders," said before yesterday.
The strategic plan of Tigo Concert started in Mwanza and six districts have benefited in the province.
Kagera is together with Ngara District, Mbarali, Bukoba villages, Missouri and Karagwe.
