
The ticket is now started to be sold.
John is holding the fight against Fred Halla.
They should complete the final match of today's match between the locals of Taifa Stars and they have said the fans have lost 600 shillings to sit on the main platform when those who lost more than 200 shillings.
The Wote Scheme 'company has been given that responsibility, it has said that those tickets will start to be sold at two o'clock in the morning at their stations that will be held in Kenya cinema halls in Nairobi city and Nairobi West Stadium.
The squad of Harambee Stars has been fined more after the arrival of the former striker of Gor Mahia, Edwin Lungangira who was playing football in Tunisia.
The Deputy Coach, James Nicrox, said the arrival of Langoni Area is a great gift to the team and said that he has the ability to change the game.
I have been planted, the squad of Harambee Stars is in strong and ready for the contest of vying for the ticket for playing the African finals in Morocco in Morocco.
The mid-fielder, Jamal Mohamed arrived at the Friday for that match that will be played at the same field.
Already the captain of Dennis Oreo ', Victor Mugenda, Johannesburg, Dar es Salaam and David Juffali, have joined the squad.
The former coach, Amir Abutalebi was admitted yesterday that his team does not have severe pain as Kenya but he insisted that they will benefit from their host.
He said the air state is good and insisted that the team will use it well the opportunity to play with victory.
While speaking yesterday at the City Stadium, the coach said that today's match is important in every side and said that despite bringing upcoming youths he has faith that they will be proud of especially in the field.
"TOKIU" a o-Square will never be among Kenya having great experience to Siwema who loves Kenya, but due to the reputation of growing good athletes in the world, I believe that they will give us a difficult time because they will be celebrated by home fans, "he insisted.
While speaking to the help of an entrepreneur (red card), that coach said that because a player is known, Harambee Stars has a great opportunity to win but he gave them an assurance that he didn't expect to get married.
