
It comes up of new year can destroy the son.
200 savers have helped the ones to be careful after violence erupted in the celebrations of the new year vigil in China where 35 people were killed in that tragedy.
Shanghai, China people were killed after violence erupted during the celebration of introducing the new year in Shanghai, according to the government's information.
That tragedy was received during the crowd of people held in Bevois area, welcoming the new year of 2015 yesterday at six o'clock at night.
Although the investigation is still ongoing so as to identify the cause of the disaster, the news agency of that country, XI, told me the witness who said that the violence caused by people when they met and insisted that the tickets that were being thrown from one building was near.
Bottling Company has come out popularity in China due to many tourism attractions like cloves and luxurious shops.
The government through its report said that it is doing every efforts to make sure that 42 injured are getting medical services.
"The time of tension I met with enough weather.
Our colleagues who were in that they did not succeed to leave, "said one of the congratulations through a network or I don't have the headlines, which is equal to Twitter.
The injured were taken to three different hospitals, according to the report of the government of Shanghai, Tanzania.
On Thursday in the morning some of the words were prepared together in the door of unity in the Shanghai, Number One, where there were 20 vehicles of police who were blocking the security of that area.
A boy of a girl in the 12th minute, who was not stolen has been found dead in that hospital while being surrounded by his family.
"We are not knowing the situation he has planned for now because the police officers have risen up to see," said the brothers of that boy.
The government's report said that more than 300,000 people were thrown in the scene for the celebration of introducing the new year.
Those celebrations that were being organized by the district, had already been part of the songs from different artists and then covered by gun.
Last year, 14 people, most of them being children were killed while 10 others were injured following an eruption of tension similar to those in the area of XXL.
Likewise, six students have been killed in depending on the compared to those that happened at the time of handing over the year at the primary school to save.
