Here, we are rushing for?
Mose 21, 2013.

My reader will remember that I have emphasized on the importance of having plans that look at a series of shortages, because here is our place, we have been directed and we are where we are continuing.
Unfortunately, we are continuing to do our issues if we get a way and I have given several examples, but every time I see other examples of doing our things very fast as if there is where we are marrying.
Recently, I had a huge discussion that made him to be objection instead of having ideas with the thoughts and competitions, we are discussing my motion that the community that it's determined to bring changes in production, education systems, education systems, security and security, and so on.
I was giving an explanation (and the request I go back today) that we are building a lot of patriotism and the keenness that shows that we are here to live and last year or only 500 years to come.
This, basically, it is a problem in the whole Africa, and believes that we have no ability to check the life of our nation because of the range of five years to come.
We look in cinemas we are building, even buildings in the high level department in the country, cinemas and doesn't have any defects in one of the parliamentary building that was built in Dodoma town in the recent years, and which it is very happy about the image of the main council of the law and management of the government.
The parliament's building that is in Dodoma would be able to be used as the building of the computer technology or exhibition of laboratory equipment, or even the day before time comes, but it's not a parliamentary building because it is unacceptable and decided.
Moreover, I am happy that for a long time you will be long before the building of Dodoma has no huge renovation due to the use of poor equipment in its construction.
We are not need to go back to see against the building of Dodoma's building, when we look at the Karimjee stadium that was the one that was in the parliament hall was a lot of differences.
We have done a lot in Europe, United States, Asia and elsewhere, where we believe it themselves how buildings, even non-governmental activities that were built on the 11 century, have already been standing today and are all those who look at each other.
We have seen the state house in the United States, the Congress Court, the High Court of America, Engutoto and Marine Unit (England), the headquarters of the government of India and the High Court of India and so on.
Our colleagues are Africa, buildings with status like those who have been mentioned are the ones that were left out by the colonialist, as at least in some of his neighbor, he had a thoughts to remain in life, and because he went to permanent things.
It is surprising that, then we would like we should have a permanent direction because here is our place, we are why we are praying for a long time to continue with our own journey.
In the first years of seventies, some of the big buildings in Dar es Salaam city, as he was stolen from a red card and Snowden?
In this I don't have to thank anyone who took the decision to save the death that was held in Dar es Salaam City Club of the colonial era, then came into hotel and now it is the headquarters of the chief justice of Tanzania where many others are in that area, but many others are in that area, but many others are in that area, but many others are in that area, but many others are in that area.
One expert wrote a book with the name "Ambassador Ekwesame ', he knows it from the view of the psychology lecturer of various people, while Kasese district which was buried as a place for a service that made him get from outside, to do honor, and even fear.
St Paul's house in London City or Kadyage has landed in Cibitoke village, or the Mosque of Samoa Island (Blue Pearl) and Sulley Mwitasi, is a place where everyone feels she is in front of the main force, and shivered.
This is true that the buildings have not mentioned in the country, but even here at home, we see the houses of the service that provides the feelings of responsibility by honor.
