FIFA "the international company that does business in football.
Petit 25, 2014.

We have seen that the world cup competitions in Brazil were affected by the scandal and how the citizens want to come up and inspect all over the country, this is due to the use of billions of money that are said to have been released during the building of football and infrastructure.
But we cannot talk about the problems of the country that is preparing the final matches without looking at the World Football Federation (FIFA). It is because this organization is the world cup and all the things concerning those matches every time in the world.
Chelsea soccer club had a entertainment game to players and viewers though bad luck now the entertainment has changed the international business, run by business companies.
This game has been a big business that attracts international investors from soccer clubs that have reduced the industries, entertainment and players have turned to be employed.
That is why in a rich country in western part, the players are sold and raised using the club such as products under the system that we have to sit down in the business of oil is faced with a few companies in the world.
Under this business those owning the club are ready to pay up to 100 million dollars to one player as PSG (Paris Saint Germain), Chelsea, AC Milan and Bayern Munich are selling their shares equivalent to the industries or international companies.
He knows the king or Sheikh of Ihenga town or a big rich from Russia and Germany who were annoyed because of cheating, he is using billions to buy football and star players, good music producers.
And because these players are usually recognized by the money that we see African countries competing with its players in addition to in Europe, the small club is usually injected into a high level of production and even big producers it is as the way to swell in the soccer clubs.
It is same as a big fish (Pope) to use small fish, the rich people who own a big club and the players who own money even in commemorating the results.
Such as players and clubs that do not be sold to be international business, that is also the FIFA which is holding international soccer and even nationally, it is why in Brazil when the world cup was competed for, citizens get married that "FIFA will turn out in the country."

It is because those citizens know that the World Cup is strengthening the FIFA cup at the headquarters in Zurich city (Switzerland), while those laborers are studying the football fields to go at work.

Those who understand that while Brazil is using the tax of tax using billions to prepare for the world cup finals, at the FIFA seems to have many billion shillings among the FIFA heads, if you will see why FIFA's head coach Sepp Blatter is accused that he is accusing.

The FIFA name has gone to an extent that even the sponsors of a Visa company, Adidas and Sony has made a call that the organization should be shaken.

The participants or employees of FIFA are big international companies that are using celebrations of the World Cup to announce products and their businesses, because these matches are being viewed as a lot of millions of fans all over the world, it is an opportunity to market itself.
These are the official participants of FIFA which is being paid approximately 25 million dollars every year, it is the Coca-Cola Company, Hyness Moivo has paid 10 million dollars to 25 dollars every year.
The pay for the FIFA carries their friendship on its website, publications and giving them and during all the matches, the field and the FIFA network has been a big presenter in the world and it is no wonder, these businesses have increased by 40 percent since the year 2010.
If you leave the business news during the match, there is another milestone in using the famous players followed by goals and shoes, a player urged the shoes that he got a goal.
