
Rumors continued the poverty of us Jomo, 2012.

We agree with the political trend in the country, and especially what is claimed to be threats from some political leaders and even other community groups.
On Monday this week, for another time, it has been a continuation of reports of threats against some of the leaders as it is the previous day.
In the several days the previous days, some of the leaders of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), including the chairman of the party, Freeman Mbowe, explained to the journalists that some of his fellow leaders, the Secretary General of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa and the member of parliament for Ubungo, John Mnyika have been unable to be stopped.
Mbowe and his colleagues admitted some of the government officials to be involved in that plan of killings, there are some who benefited from any kind of leaders of CHADEMA, but together with that doubt, the truth is not something to enjoy the country.
At the time those reports have not been put, earlier this week in parliament in Dodoma town, the Member of Parliament for Iramba West, Mwigulu Nchemba, gave heavy claims that some of the members of CHADEMA have sent a short message of stealing a life, due to what is explained to him in the issue of official opposition camp in parliament.
The message of threats have been shown to some of the journalists in Dodoma town. It has been explained that although those reports of threats are still being caused by the police but the previous investigation has reduced some of the members of parliament.
But more than that, the minister of the country, the Office of the Vice President (environment), Doctor, while dancing in Huvisa said that he has claimed to be suffering from his decision of managing houses that were built on the beaches of Indian Ocean, contrary to the environment of the environment.
This sequence is a continuation of the report that Jokate got to the East African Minister, Samuel Sitta, who also mentioned his fellow leaders who are responsible.
Sitta has met with his fellow leaders to be the current minister for transport, Doctor.
Harrison Mwakyembe and the minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation Bernard Membe, together with the minister, Professor Mark Mwandosya.
In general forced the life of someone not only is legal because it is also lack of ethics and especially considering that, administrative system in the country will not give opportunities to the rights to use anyone, through the court.
We did not believe that, for now, our leaders again at the members of parliament for example, have reached steps to destroy their lives despite them being involved in making administrative laws in the country.
When we look into this behavior of thanks, that doesn't like that like this history has been dominated by processes of claiming to fight for peace and harmony together and equity for all, not only inside their country but also other African countries.
We expect "normal" which many politicians have been looking for, without doubt, they don't need leaders who missed their lives, but they need leaders with wisdom and not to respect the rule of law.
Our call for Almighty God is that, leaders who do not have faith or patriotism should not accept to go to the country so that we want to go as a nation because it would make all the involved in this new wave.
We will not support anyone who's not known because any other reasons, should be because of his running mate or his stand in different issues concerning the administration of the country, we insisted that the investigation will be taken in accordance with the law.
