It is nothing.
It is very important that the water project is very good and very good, you are going on well and continue well for the new year's new year, maybe if they are seen, the late I'm with me.
It doesn't know the news of the new year of Zambia, it is good for me.
News from his home is praising the late.
Hayatou, I'm in the whole of last year he performed well and we do not expect to be happy about the new year, the late Adam.
Watch it in the book, the late Adam though the name was surprised me to see in the name.
I sat at a hospital again, I'm in a picture with me when I'm in the whole hospital, they are saying how the phone does not have a draft but the late does not have ten thousand shillings.
Listen to my condolences, but therefore, they are seeing the late God?
It is very happy to give birth to sleep when I think I think they are living with elders Network.
Anything related is there I am just similar to the late?
We are not similar to the late I am very similar to the late or even at the moment it is equal to women who have been doing well, her child has been seen to be safe for your child.
The baby's child, there is a thing that he knows the late God, the late does not know the late God, I am saying it below here, then I've started walking a bit during this time when you love me.
We did not know your children and your children are safe and they do not have problems that your children are safe.
We have managed to be at the second Christmas season, I will leave it.
Here and at a little time, the Almighty God rest his normal life because so we usually accused of modern but better than in your whole life, God bless us with their own life and that's a situation to send it.
Life is why you will use but we thank the late God rest early home.
How your mother came even at your home in the world.
However, known as Monica Amplifaya, she told me in a time when the late God bless me, "he told me when he told me when he told me when he told the late God to try to look for another one that he is going to go.
That youth has never been trying to look for another child, the Almighty God bless you.
