On the quality of the league asking him a joke to us.
The late God's called.
But up to these hours the best scorer comes from outside we shall be the best scorer in the first position of all citizens from only.
It will help to bring.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, I'm in Dar es Salaam city for a period of games in schools, therefore, the market through his party's ticket for more than ten years in school, inspector Mkingie has led to us to be in a situation like this her father, but why we see Ford, she has invested you like it is like it.
If he was unable to do so and from there I don't see if they will be able to be there.
Like today, Mister the great need started singing as usual you will be able to learn.
Because in making sure there are three things that you must be careful then in the moment you said by closing a computer.
He used to know the truth.
May there is no even I did not remember that, there are men who were sworn in, therefore there are men to be sworn in because they feel that they are measurable.
We have no youth like good, and we have failed to be the foundation or we have ever been good for the purpose of getting Ford who are involved in all the ten o'clock in the morning to find good farmers from the father to make them be better to take them.
But there is a place like someone that comes a knee injury and that is the wealth, he will get a good stage, we will have a better check from.
To promote many players who only plays the ball to be paid in the entire country, the strategy of this nation, we will remember them to communicate.
There is one hour I want to live to know many youths who vote for me.
Why do the youth get an opportunity for there, but it's not a way.
If you continue to discover ourselves, the education that education is to go to play outside so that you can be like your friendship, but you know what you are saying, what is the second thing is that it is a must that you be asked.
Most of our youths remember to think that women go back, you can understand that you are happy, he doesn't know your music to know or when I saw a food to play.
For example we are happy to give them that education, I have not noticed that we are going against them.
The same way we have written, there is no reason for the one on Saturday to go and go back as unconscious.
He gave the ball tomorrow to know the day.
We are unable to understand what is there in the order of the country, I will make sure I will be able to come up so that they do.
Almighty God bless you inside the general debate by Lucy Lameck.
How to improve our downfall?
Taifa stars and many will know the late South Sudan are at Tukuyu when they were playing.
For the purpose of having many pastors, what will you come?
Building our national soccer team, Taifa stars have but the aim of doing this is to show that the team is stable and is able to do well in the tournament.
Different areas to reach the international in Dar es Salaam.
