
24 December 2012

Keenly to Zitto Kabwe to sign the nation (5).

By Gladness Mboma.

Most of the readers of this article I have faith that everyone is continuing to follow up keenly and today I will continue with part of the fifth part that is related to the interview between members of the Community Forum and the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Mister Zitto Kabwe concerning various issues related to politics.
The question: Head of Zitto I would like to know another thing from you and in the constitutional changes that come up there is a big possibility of ministers who come from parliamentary positions and another that you have been announced to be vying for the parliamentary seat in you.

This can be taken as a teaser?

The answer to miss Ah to even me, I was not pleased by the CHADEMA, to win or have no member of parliament I believe that I will be the minister so as to implement the real change in the process.

I have announced that he will not vie for the parliamentary candidate so as to ask for the consent of my party to be the presidential candidate and that it would not want it to happen again in the year 2010 where the presidential candidate was forced on it again since everyone went to vie for the parliamentary seat.

When a question is now, the current procedure of JMT to vote and ask that they are saying they are saying that they are not the same as you meet a democratic nation to continue or change?

The answer is why there are electronic machines for voting inside the parliament and I think to start using those using them so as to put record for members of parliament about their votes.


A question do not know your stand on the presence of more than 100 members of special seats which essentially has reduced it to make sure that CCM's system can make sure that CCM's system can make sure that CCM's system can make sure that CCM's system can make sure that CCM's system can make sure that CCM's system can make sure you have a good system that can make sure you have a good system.

The answer is true that CCM is very true that CCM is using lot of dollars to end the opposition.
Honorable heading to the election of the year 2010, the magazine MwanaHalisi was given a phone communication between you and Brother Jack Warwa Mitego, up to today, I have not heard of the previous part, you can make us explain your talks about it?

I request that I ask about the mockery that MwanaHalisi was involved in those communication after the election on my issue, I could make sure we thank my party leaders and even so I think we will tell ourselves that we are supposed to protect the party and not to protect CCM and not to protect CCM.

While I am in Mwanza early in 2011, there were arrested murder of citizens that were done by the police in Arusha, our leaders were arrested with a bad environment, I has called people to tell them that this is a mistake.
