
The Coastal tourists want to reduce the new year.
By Mathias Chikawe.
The number of tourists in the Coast hotel and the wild animals is expected to rise during the new year's holiday due to fear of security and preparations of the students going back to school for the first time.
Some of the tourists from here in the country who were Coast to celebrate Christmas, has decided to return home for the new year celebrations.
Other reasons which contributes to reduction of tourists from here in the country is that many are going back home to help their children who are going back to school on January 5.
During the celebrations of Christmas, a lot of commemoration, most of the areas in Mombasa, there were those who were involved with tourists from here in the country and a few from Europe.
According to the manager of Kenya's Serena Hotel, Mister Rajesh Mistry welcoming the hotel of Mombasa Beach Resort during Christmas celebrations.
However, Mister Kraehenbuehl said that the number of visitors will go up to 70 percent during the new year festivities.
Mister Kraehenbuehl said that the number of tourists in the period of celebration will rise from 80 percent to 40 percent during the new year celebrations.
VASHARI, said that it is expected to have 18 percent guests during the new year celebrations compared to 45 percent during Christmas.
"During the Christmas time we had many visitors especially from here in the country, but during the new year feast, the number of visitors will open," he said.
According to the fear of security, some of our visitors have decided to go back home so as to celebrate the new year, though others have returned home for the preparation of the students going back to the school, "he explained.
The Manager of Jitegemee Junction center, Mister Musomba, said that the Samaki Samaki Hotel which is expected to have 85 percent of the visitors compared to 91 percent during Christmas holidays.
Mister Mwikabe has asked him to be dealt with Taqwah Mosque which occurred during Christmas time, the number of visitors will go up to 80 percent though at Jitegemee Jichunge.'
The Head of Serena Hotel, Mister Mohamed Hovind, said that during the new year of the Vogue Baamar, it will have 90 percent visitors, the Mara Referral Hospital will be a total of 90 percent though the KCMC Referral Hospital will be used by the number of visitors.
The Head of Tourism in Jihadist school, Mister Adan Sheikh said that the Wote Scheme will be between 80 percent and 90 percent of visitors during the new year celebrations.
Mister Sheikh said the big number of visitors is from inside here in the country though others are from European nations, England and police and police.
During the Christmas celebrations, Mister Sheikh emphasized that some of the hotel had to approximately 60 percent visitors.
The Manager of Rock City Mall, Mister Robert Boaz said that the number of visitors is expected to rise up to 60 percent during the new year festivities.
