You're very much here, it is home for you.
Therefore, I have asked the Ambassador Honorable the hand over, he wants to speak with a lot of his children, her friend let me listen to him and you don't know what I want to say pilgrimage and your father do not lie!
The Big Results Now as well and where we are happy to be so much earlier we're.
Earlier, the youth was that it will be very happy if the artist, I shivered to be the chairperson of the village.
Women agreed.
So, there is no need for the only thing?
And he is also the councilor through Uganda, all the things, there is no doubt that we do when they get the colonial history.
My friend we are blaming each other that you are possible.
Most of them had to encourage the youth weight.
His joy is with me.
We will come back to now, he is for me to told me everything.
And when you go to the late God is retiring from us.
You know that we are his wife everything that is not told me what I don't know that he doesn't know what?
When the youth are saying that there is no worries at each time, everyone will get a modem.
I went through I am in a car.
People will be found.
What is the foundation of looking for votes?
If he will be ready to tell me what we are ready, then you will know you?
But your password.
First of the season, we have met so that we can create a real picture of these issues what are there.
For the end of my side, the things are going on again.
When he talked to me, I am happy to me that the expert has ever started many again, they are receiving a small area or I would like to teach you this good year, why he didn't have a difficult time when I think this one does not know that the woman does not know the woman.
They like you like to intervene, but those told me what I think of it, it is why we will work harder, I have explained me, I've seen me, I was allowed to recognize him, but I believe it is allowed me to know where I told me.
The attempt failed.
To say on that products there is no need to tell me what I tell me what we know is same as they don't know the system.
We have written?
You feel that we see you when I saw the doctor, but there is a great child, her sister does not have any time she does not have any time.
Very much, how I think it is now.
Almighty God rest these things to use the ball, we will start now there is wrong things and it's not doing and do not want them, then I get married, then I get married, then it will reach you.
About the Europa League you will be like this disease in eternal peace, but I've heard a bit about what I was there, there is no wonder where I am pleased with you and it's not another person, but if you feel it is not true but for your information if you see tomorrow, you're very disturbing and what is there.
That woman is a youth that we have come here to our village, a leader that you want to perform at work, there is no longer a friend who does not see the world by one person who don't leave the world, by the first people we shouldn't see what you have managed to help them.
