Our leaders and the audience.
21st of 21, 2013.

The writer, George Pickup, has ever told him that the truth is of revolutionary action in cheating when the spread of us about the spread of all people.
I think it intends to say that in different times, if these we look for now, openly say the truth is an act that is supposed to take a revolution.
Perhaps, it has also been unable to make sure that in different times, it is a man to say the truth because the community usually does not care! And it is usually told by his fellow leaders.
The community becomes a cow that was not allowed me, and those who do not know that they are the ones who want to know everything and that it was the truth.
These days are very prevalent all over the world especially in administration levels and it endangers a system of good governance we need to control it is dangerous to the good governance because the human rights are surrounded by the leaders as seen in corruption.

The false accusations started about politicians and our leaders can benefit from the top level officials of our leaders, and our politicians in general, they have joined corruption and making sure that they have been false with each other and they have been false.
This is the reason why our leaders have written about anything that they know even if we know that we know where we know what they know is for treatment, is to be careful.
There are many cases recently, that is the one of one nation's leader who said that there are no real use of the union card, though the whole world you know that there is no thing that is not present in the country or not at the headquarters of the United Nations, New York city.
Another example is during the incident of 2001 in Pemba, the president of that time Benjamin Mkapa passed away about the number that were killed and also brought together with the demonstrators saying they were "terrorists' who wanted to reduce the government.
Later, the commission appointed himself to investigate that event being under Colonel Hashim Mboma, a different report that he said in Mkapa.
Another example is the speech he made by President Jakaya Kikwete for the parliament on December 30th, 2005 to open after the election of the year 2016 said he was surprised by the people of Zanzibar who want them to deal with the coalition opportunities that are the ones who have shown the feelings of launching it.
It is clear that he encouraged the votes of Pemba Island who were watching the CCM party but said that they should not want the CCM party not to be true because during that same election, approximately the whole of Kilimanjaro got votes against CCM.
The truth is that there are some who do not want the CCM party and they should not understand the union but they are also involved in unity and not wanting the CCM party to say it must be said.
Our leaders are believed to say that the truth is that a good thing in politics is an issue of integrity and the one who is seen to have the reputation of those creatures that concern it, so that he can be able to get out on the fact that he will be able to pass through the truth.
It comes here to serve politics and to deal with politics because there are people who want to see the field of poetry because it is a political field so as to look for poetry, it means that poetry is doing so much like him.
Our leaders are also seen that many citizens do not want to get into political issues because they do not see politics that it is dirty and that the source of that dirty is false.
There is a reason that is making our leaders to speak about it and to make that situation be a habit, because it is enough time you will benefit even though the benefits that have made them are just a short time.
History has many examples of showing how false is how you have no good end to the leaders that says.
Its effects are so many and maybe it is a small dangers that is affecting their health, a leader with saying anything.
I remember last year well done research professionally about the dangers of false accusations in the reproductive health, the ones that did the research were a lot of bad health from the University of Fransico Kimwana from him, said that there is a lot of bad effects to the health center that could be able to marry off, agitation and sadness and others usually face off.
