Baraza Ditto also bullied.

It has been written by Makame Suleiman, Zanzibar.

It has been published in September 2016.

President John Magufuli has said he will not tolerate any kind of breach of peace because he is taking the oath of protecting peace and calmness to the interests of the citizens of Tanzania, thus in a period of its five years leadership, he will make priority to protect peace and strengthen the union.

President Magufuli said that yesterday at the Democratic Field of Kibanda Maiti in Unguja, Zanzibar when speaking to the residents of Unguja South provinces giving thanks after being elected for many votes as the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, October last year.
He said he will not tolerate any kind of actions that demonstrate about the collapse of peace because he is taking oaths for peace and tranquility for the interests of the citizens of Tanzania.
"Masau boasted. I will not tolerate any country's peace and endanger the peace of the country because I have committed the oath of protecting the peace of Tanganyika and Zanzibar that was founded by senior leaders who brought the liberation of the citizens, thus he will sell its strength.
"Therefore, it's the priorities in order to protect the peace of all Tanzanians together with protecting the union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar who is the role of our nation," he said by all those by hundreds of citizens who had flooded the stadium.
In addition, he congratulated Doctor Shein that forced him to be patient including with their opponents in the government, but he has shown his satisfaction with the action of the secretary general of the Civic United Front (CUF), Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad refused to support President Shein in the funeral of the second Vice President of Zanzibar, Alhaji Aboud Jumbe the last month.
"You know President Shein is a lot of patient, Mister Cruz a person who refuses to receive your support, but later it is going to make his interests when he wants to go to the country," said President Magufuli known for his own stand and to get any other.
He wanted President Shein to do his work well and he is the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, he will ensure that Zanzibar is making a big step of development.
For example, he said there is a big water project in Unguja town which is a loan from the government of India, its implementation will help in an increase in water problem.
I am when I was the president of the union I can work together with President Shein, when he was my boss, the Vice President, his ability is big, "explained President Magufuli who has been in Zanzibar for a tour that began the day before yesterday in Pemba Island.
Earlier yesterday, President Magufuli got an opportunity to visit the grave of the father of the Revolutionary Party of Zanzibar, the late Abeid Memorial Stadium in Unguja town together with putting a bouquet of flowers and be read a prayer.
Moreover, he arrived at the residence of President of the second phase of Zanzibar, the late Aboud Jumbe Mwinyi who died in the last month by visiting his grave and welcoming the family members of the deceased, to write the book of special visitors.
President Magufuli has completed the two-day tour of Unguja and Pemba Island which is part of the United Republic on a tour which had an aim of giving thanks to voters whose voters gave a great victory to the country since the Revolutionary Party (CCM) is stable.
Shortly before welcoming President Magufuli to address them, Doctor Shein said.
"The Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar will continue to hold the dollars and their opponents who come out to hold the position of democracy of the election," moreover, he urged the opposition to forget the transition government as claimed by some leaders while insisting that there is no reason to have a kind of government because the elections have been done through free and fair.
Doctor Shein said the great job that is being done for now is to implement the CCM election manifesto of the year 2015, with the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar, in the last step of starting work to build oil and gas.
He said the oil and gas bill has already been presented to the council of representatives to be read for the first time in the future session of the representatives council that will take place on September 26th will be read for the second time and waiting for his sign.
"I thank President Kikwete for helping and make all the procedures that now have given opportunities to Zanzibar to enable the council of oil and gas which have already been read in the council of representatives," he said and removed the citizens of Zanzibar saying the country has started getting great success including the collection of tax.
