
Upcoming poets who is preparing to make sure the Coastal Union got a camp.
Despite her old age, he has identified himself not only in the field of singing but also as an expert expert on music, an issue that has brought him well, I am happy with him in the previous year, 'Foolish Age, which was caught in collaboration with Shetta has emerged in a group of musicians with a vibrant singer of music in that area.
Your song, Data 'found themselves in collaboration with an artist, Shetta was faced with a lot of lot of time, let us learn more.
The answer's answer was due to the reason being after I commend and write a song, then he told me, this artist went back to Tanzania and did a new article of new music in collaboration with Diamond.
If you followed it?
The answer is not worried about my thinking that if I can make that song and put it, then I have no enough creativity to make these kinds of skills and I don't have a conflict and I don't have a deal with anyone and if there is an opportunity to partner with him again.
Your music is doing well in Pwani province, why are now putting up with a camp in Nairobi?
The answer is what happens there in Nairobi is expecting my trip to introduce my work in the new market, my close friend who plays in Mombasa and therefore I was able to serve many others, "I believe that will simplify my work as a musician.
Nairobi has been known as a high competition especially in the field of entertainment and its strategies to deal with the competition in line with the fans?
The answer of my strategy is my own voice and I believe that I have faith that my skill of mixing up of diseases in Bongo, Bongo and Zouk Rumba.
You are a very difficult time to think and understand the issues of love though your songs have been dominated by this message, you have written this issues that you have written or what you know?
The answer is where some of the things that you go through but many are that witnessing every day.
You do not say that your music in your blood transfusion service is coming from who especially in your family?
The answer of my parents is also a musicians where he was a musician and a player who plays in the Coastal region and their mother was still a singer of Taarab.
