<1>	Blood donation drive ng Bombo Radyo Dagupan naging matagumpay	blood donation drive of Bombo Radyo Dagupan was a success
<2>	November 21, 2016	November 21, 2016
<3>	Elsha Marie B. Soriano	Elsha Marie B. Soriano
<4>	CALASIAO, Pangasinan, Nobyembre 21 (PIA) – Naging matagumpay ang isinagawang blood donation drive ng Bombo Radyo Dagupan sa Robinsons’ Place sa bayan ng Calasiao noong Sabado.	Calasiao, Pangasinan, November 21 (PIA) - the blood donation drive held by Bombo Radyo Dagupan at Robinsons' Place in the town of Calasiao on Saturday was a success.
<5>	Ayon kay Josie Sarmiento, manager ng Bombo Radyo Dagupan, ang aktibidad kung saan kasama ang Philippine Red Cross (PRC)-Pangasinan Chapter ay nakakolekta ng 190 units ng dugo mula sa mga donor at empleyado ng Bombo Radyo na nakibahagi sa blood donation drive.	according to Josie Sarmiento, manager of Bombo Radyo Dagupan, the activity together with the Philippine Red Cross (PRC)-Pangasinan Chapter collected 190 units of blood from donors and employees of Bombo Radyo who participated in the blood donation drive.
<6>	Ani Sarmiento, layon ng taunang blood donation project na makatulong na mabigyan ang mga nangangailan ng sapat at ligtas na dugo sa lalawigan.	according to Sarmiento, the annual blood donation project aims to help give sufficient and clean blood to those in need in the province.
<7>	Dagdag niya, ang aktibidad na ngayon ay nasa ika-14 na taon, ay ginaganap tuwing Nobyembre kasabay ng buwan ng kaarawan ng chairman ng Bombo Radyo Philippines na si Dr. Rogelio Clorete na may layunin na ibalik sa komunidad ang biyaya na natatanggap ng istasyon sa pamamagitan ng pagsasagawa ng boluntaryong pagbibigay ng dugo para sa mga nangagailangan nito.	she added, the activity which is now on its 14th year, is held every November coinciding with the birthday month of Bombo Radyo Philippines chairman Doctor Rogelio Clorete with the aim of giving back to the community the blessings received by the station by holding voluntary blood donation for those needing it.
<8>	“Lubos na nagpapasalamat ang aming tanggapan at PRC-Pangasinan Chapter sa lahat nakibahagi sa proyekto at sa walang sawang suporta sa pag-donate ng dugo kada-taon upang makatulong sa kapwa natin na nangangailan ng dugo,” saad ni Sarmiento.	"our office and PRC-Pangasinan Chapter are absolutely thankful to all who participated in the project and ceaselessly support the donation of blood every year to help our neighbors who need blood," Sarmiento stated.
<9>	Samantala, ang aktibad kung saan sabayang ginanap sa buong Pilipinas, ay isinagawa rin sa Plaza Enrique Braganza Complex sa lungsod ng Alaminos kung saan nakolekta naman ang higit 30 units ng dugo na may katumbas na 450 cubic centimeters kada unit.	meanwhile, the activity which was simultaneously held in the whole Philippines, was also held in Plaza Enrique Braganza Complex in the city of Alaminos where more than 30 units of blood with the equivalent of 450 cubic centimeters per unit were collected.
<10>	(JNPD/EMBS/PIA-1, Pangasinan)	(JNPD/EMBS/PIA-1, Pangasinan)
