<1>	Replay: Pagkilos ng kabataan at mamamayan noong 2011 sa saliw ng pop songs	replay: youth and people movement in 2011 to the accompaniment of pop songs
<2>	by Vencer Crisostomo January 21, 2012	by Vencer Crisostomo, January 21, 2012
<3>	Parang bonggang “baby you’re a firework” ang naging mga pagkilos ng kabataan at mamamayan para sa pagbabago noong nagdaang taon.	the youth and the people's movement for change last year seemed like a grand "baby you're a firework".
<4>	Habang “everyday I’m shufflin’” at nagkakandarapa ang hikahos na mamamayan, today “I feel like not doing anything” ang Malakanyang sa mga hinaing ng bayan. Kaya naman sawang-sawa na sila na “just the way you are” lang ang mga bagay at dumagundong ng “boomburumbumum” ang mga protesta.	while "everyday I'm shufflin" and people are struggling in poverty, today "I feel like not doing anything" of Malacañang to the grievances of the nation. that's why they are fed up with things "just the way you are" and the protests roared with "boomburumbumum".
<5>	Sa lalong pagtindi ng krisis, tila dumami ang “someone like you” na napa-“moves like jagger” sa samu’t saring mga picket protests, campus strikes, unity march, transport caravan, planking protests, occupy at campouts.	because of the worsening crisis, it seems a combination of picket protests, campus strikes, transport caravans, planking protests, occupy and campouts increased because of "someone like you" that "Moves Like Jagger".
<6>	MRT / LRT fare, Oil Price Hikes Soundtrack: Price tag (It’s not about the money) / Party Rock (Everday we’re shufflin) Sa mga unang bahagi ng taon, “everyday ay shufflin’” ang mga banta ng mga nagtataasang presyo: langis, kuryente, tubig, matrikula, gulay, MRT/ LRT.	MRT / LRT fare, Oil Price Hikes Soundtrack: Price tag (It's not about the money) / Party Rock (Everday we're shufflin). in the early part of the year, "everyday is shufflin" the looming increase in prices of oil, electricity, water, tuition fees, vegetables, MRT/LRT
<7>	“It’s not about the money” na dahil sa sobrang taas ng presyo, talagang wala nang money at butas na ang bulsa.	"It's not about the money" because of the very high price, there is really no more money and pockets are empty.
<8>	Kaya naman halos araw-araw din pinukpok ng protesta ang mga pahirap na ito. Sa maagang bahagi, pinangunahan ng mga kabataan ang Strike the Hike Movement at mga aksyon kontra pagtataas ng pamasahe sa MRT at LRT, na kalaunan ay iniatras ng gubyerno dahil sa mga protesta.	that's why everyday these suffering were struck with protests. in the early part, the youth led the Strike the Hike Movement and the activities against the increase in MRT and LRT fares that was eventually retracted by the government because of protests.
<9>	Kabi-kabila ang inilunsad na mga transport strike at people’s protests laban sa oil price hikes.	transport strike and people's protests against oil price hikes were launched one after the other.
<10>	Rumurok ang mga protesta sa malaking pagkilos ng mamamayan noong May 1.	the pinnacle of the protests was the public mass action last May 1.
<11>	Anti-budget cut strikes, fight for education Soundtrack: Born this way (jingle link) Dance step: planking at freeze mob	anti-budget cut strikes, fight for education soundtrack: born this way (jingle link) dance step: planking at freeze mob
<12>	“Pagkat ang edukasyon / ay ating karapatan / tumindig ka isko para sa ting bayan No to commercialization / at sa privatization / tumindig ka isko tayo ay lumaban”	"because education / is our right / stand-up scholars for our nation no to commercialization / and privatization / stand-up scholars let us fight"
<13>	Nakaka “gaga” naman na talaga ang muli na namang pagkakaltas ng pondo ng edukasyon at ng mga serbisyong panlipunan.	we get "gaga" about the reduction of the budget for education and public services.
<14>	Kaya naman muling hinarap ng mga kabataan at mamamayan ng kabi-kabilang protesta at ng isang pambansang welga ang budget cuts ni Aquino.	thus, the youth and the people addressed the budget cuts of Aquino with protests after protests and a national strike.
<15>	Mahigit 20,000 ang nagstrike, nagplanking, nagfreeze mob, at nag long march sa buong bayan.	more than 20,000 people participated in strikes, planking, freeze mob, and long-march in the whole country.
<16>	Nagprotesta din ang mga kabataan laban sa tindi ng pagtaas ng matrikula at mga miscellaneous fees na nagtulak sa Malakanyang na mangako ng bagong tuition policy (na hanggang ngayon, by the way, ay wala pa din.) Inilantad ng kawalang-aksyon sa mga protesta na mukhang “born this way” ang Commission on Higher Education, pabor sa mga kapitalista-edukador.	the youth also protested against the high increase in matriculation and miscellaneous fees that forced the Malacañang to promise a new tuition policy (which until now, by the way, there is none). the Commission on Higher Education was exposed of inaction that appears to be "born this way" in favor of capitalist-educators.
<17>	May mga naging tagumpay din matapos ang matutunog na protesta sa University of Sto. Tomas (UST) laban sa no promissory note policy at pagpapasara sa Philippine Maritime Institute (PMI).	there were also successes after the resounding protests at the University of Santo Tomas (UST) against the no promissory note policy and the closing of the Philippine Maritime Institute (PMI).
<18>	Clinton Visit Protests Soundtrack: Hey Soul Sister / Just the way you are “I don’t want to miss a single thing you do” ng walang protesta — yan ang pangako ng mga kabataan sa pagdating ni Hillary Clinton sa bansa.	Clinton visit protests soundtrack: hey soul sister / just the way you are "I don't want to miss a single thing you do" of no protest - was the promise of the youth at the arrival of Hillary Clinton in the country.
<19>	Dala ni “sister” ang higit pang pagtindi ng interbensyon ng US dito at “pagkakaibigan” ng US at Pilipinas sa pagmimintina ng di pantay na mga tratado gaya ng VFA at iba pa.	"sister" brought the further extreme intervention of the US here and "friendship" of the US and the Philippines through maintaining of unfair treaties like the VFA and others.
<20>	Kaya naman “when they saw her face face face” inambush ang kanyang convoy at face to face siyang sinigawan sa inorganisang forum.	that's why "when they saw her face face face" her convoy was ambushed and was yelled at the organized form in person.
<21>	Ang panawagan, baguhin na ang ang di pantay na relasyon at hindi na pwedeng “just the way you are” lang.	their appeal was to change the unequal relations and "just the way you are" is no longer possible.
<22>	Ka Roger Tribute Soundtrack: Firework “Baby you’re a firework.” Pasabog naman talaga ang buhay ni Ka Roger Rosal kaya nang mabalitaan ng bayan ang kanyang pagpanaw, mga parangal ay pagpupugay ang inialay ng bayan, iba’t ibang sektor, maralita, mga kasapi ng media at mga kabataan sa kanya.	Ka Roger tribute soundtrack: firework "baby you're a firework." ComradeRoger Rosal's life was really passionate so when the nation heard about his passing, honor and tribute were offered by the nation, various sectors, the poor, members of the media and the youth.
<23>	Mahalagang inspirasyon si Ka Roger sa mamamayan at halimbawa sa mga nagnanais lumaban sa bulok na sistema at sa mga aktibistang nagpupunyagi na mamuhay ng simple at maging mga tagapagsalita ng mamamayang api.	ComradeRoger was an important inspiration and example to those who want to fight the rotten system and the activists desiring to live simply and be a spokesperson for the oppressed.
<24>	Hangga’t bulok ang sistema at mahirap ang mga tao, mas maraming mga Ka Roger pa ang magbibigay liwanag sa kadiliman ng gabi at magbibigay tanglaw sa taumbayan.	as long as the system is corrupt and the people are poor, there are many ComradeRoger who will give light to the darkness of the night and will shed light to the people.
<25>	Fight for Luisita Soundtrack: The Lazy Song Hacienderong haciendero ang moda ni Noynoy Aquino: “today I feel like not doing anything” tungkol sa pamamahagi ng Hacienda Luisita.	fight for Luisita soundtrack: the lazy song farm owner mode of Noynoy Aquino: "today I feel like not doing anything" about the distribution of Hacienda Luisita.
<26>	Pero dahil sa lakas ng paggigiit at paglaban ng mga magsasaka at taumbayan, nalabanan ang pakanang Stock Distribution Option sa Luisita at pumabor ang Korte Suprema sa pamamahagi nito.	due to the strong insistence and opposition of the farmers and the people, the Stock Distribution Option maneuver of Luisita was thwarted and the Supreme Court favored its distribution.
<27>	Sa kabila ng atas ng korte, “yes, I said it because I can” si Noynoy na ibigay umano ang “just compensation” sa kanyang mga kapamilya.	in spite of the order of the court, "yes, I said it because I can,"  Noynoy supposedly wants to give "just compensation" to his relatives.
<28>	Hindi pa sapat ang pahirap nila sa mga magsasaka sa lupang ninakaw nila, gusto pa nilang kumita?	isn't it enough, the suffering they gave to farmers with the land they stole, that they still want to earn?
<29>	Dapat ang ibigay sa kanila: “nothing at all.” Occupy Mendiola / Campout Soundtrack: Superbass (boom boroomboomboom) Tila kinabog ng parang “boomburumbumbum” ang dibdib ni Noynoy Aquino sa planong Occupy Mendiola o Campout protest ng mga kabataan at mamamayan noong Disyembre. Layon ng pagkilos na labanan ang bulok na sistema ng iilan at dayuhan sa ilang araw na pananatili sa Mendiola at pag-occupy dito.	they should be given "nothing at all". occupy Mendiola / campout soundtrack: Superbass (boom boroom boom boom) it seems the chest of Noynoy Aquino was pounded with "boom burum bum bum" by the Occupy Mendiola Plan or Campout protest of the youth and the people last December. the goal of the action was to fight the rotten system of the few and foreigners in a few days stay in Mendiola and to occupy it.
<30>	Agad nagdeploy ng sangkatutak na pulis ang Malakanyang bago pa man magsimula at dinahas ang planong protesta.	Malacañang quickly deployed a multitude of policemen before the planned protest even began and was violent.
<31>	Hindi naman nagpatinag ang mga kabataan at mamamayan, naggiit ng kanilang karapatan at itinuloy sa iba’t ibang lugar sa Kamaynilaan ang ilang raw na campout.	the youth and the people were not shaken, they asserted their rights and they continued the camp-out in various places in Metro Manila.
<32>	Sa huli, mas marami ang namulat na walang pinag-ba ang gubyerno ni Aquino sa marahas na pamumuno ni Arroyo at ang kailangan ay ang malalaking pagkilos at magiting na paglaban para baguhin ang bulok na sistema.	in the end, many saw that there is no difference between the Aquino government and the violent leadership of Arroyo and the need for a massive action and bold fight to change the rotten system.
<33>	Pananagot kay Arroyo, kainutilan ni Aquino Soundtrack: Someone like you / Moves like Jagger Matapos ang isang taon ng obvious na kasunduan nina Aquino at Arroyo hinggil sa hindi pananagot sa ikalawa dahil sa kawalan ng kasong isinampa, uminit ang tunggalian ng mga nasa kapangyarihan ng mag “moves like Jagger” na si Arroyo at muntik nang makatakas dahil sa kainutilan ni Aquino.	accountability of Arroyo, worthlessness of Aquino soundtrack: someone like you / moves like Jagger. after a year of the obvious agreement of Aquino and Arroyo regarding the unaccountability of the latter because of the absence of charges filed, the conflict of those in power intensified when Arroyo "moves like Jagger" and nearly escaped because of Aquino inutility.
<34>	Nagkandarapa si Aquino sa huling mga sandali at nailantad na kaya naman palang magsampa ng kaso ng mabilis, bagay na hindi nito ginawa sa nagdaang 500 araw.	Aquino scurried in his last few moments and was exposed that they could speedily file a case, something that they didn't do in the past 500 days.
<35>	Hanggang sa kasalukuyan, mga magagaang kaso pa din ang isinampa ni Aquino laban kay Arroyo at tila may special treatment pa sa hospital arrest kay Gloria.	until now, only light charges were filed by Aquino against Arroyo and it seems there's a special treatment with Gloria's hospital arrest.
<36>	Para ilayo nito sa kapalpakan ng kanyang sarili ang atensyon, at pagmukhaing seryoso siya sa pagpapanagot kay Arroyo, kinampanya ni Aquino ang impeachment ni SC CJ Corona.	to divert the attention from his mistakes, and to look like he is serious to make Arroyo accountable, Aquino campaigned for the impeachment of SC CJ Corona.
<37>	Kalikasan at mga trahedya Soundtrack: Party Like 2012 / Teach me how to Dougie Habang parang end of the world na sa mga nasalanta ng trahedya, nabuking na nagpaparty at nagteteachme how to Dougie si Aquino sa Palasyo.	environment and tragedy soundtrack: party like 2012 / teach me how to doggie while it was almost like the end of the world for those who were devastated in the tragedy, Aquino was exposed to have been partying and teaching how to doggie in the Palace.
<38>	Mas malaking pananagutan ni Aquino ang pakikiparty at pagpayag sa mga malalaking kumpanya ng pagmimina at loggers na magpiyesta sa resources ng bayan ng walang pakundangan at walang konsiderasyon sa buhay ng mga Pilipino.	Aquino has a greater liability in partying and allowing big mining and logging companies to feast using the resources of the nation without respect and consideration to the lives of the Filipinos.
<39>	Matagumpay at makabuluhan ang 2011 para sa mga kabataan at sa kilusang protesta.	2011 was victorious and meaningful for the youth and the protest movement.
<40>	Mas malalaki pang tagumpay ang hinahrap ng mga kabataan at mamamayan sa 2012.	a greater victory awaits the youth and the people in 2012.
<41>	Hindi pa end of the world.	it is not yet the end of the world.
<42>	Nagsisimula pa lang ang mas malalaking paglaban para tapusin na at baguhin ang sistemang panlipunan.	the big battles to end and change the social system are just beginning.
