<1>	South Cotabato kinilala ng Nat'l Solid Waste Commission	South Cotabato recognized by the National Solid Waste Commission
<2>	February 16, 2016	February 16, 2016
<3>	LUNGSOD NG KORONADAL, South Cotabato, Peb 16 (PIA)-- Isang plaque of recognition ang natanggap kahapon ng pamahalaang panlalawigan ng South Cotabato mula sa National Solid Waste Management Commission bilang pagkilala sa mga nagawa ng lokal na pamahalaan.	Koronadal City, South Cotabato, February 16 (PIA) - a plaque of recognition was received yesterday by the provincial government of South Cotabato from the National Solid Waste Management Commission as acknowledgment of the efforts of the local government.
<4>	Kasabay ng flag raising ceremony sa Provincial Capitol, iniabot ng mga kinatawan ng Environmental Management Bureau ng Department of Environment and Natural Resources 12 ang plaque of recognition kay South Cotabato Gov.	during the flag raising ceremony at the Provincial Capitol, a representative from Environmental Management Bureau under the Department of Environment and Natural Resources 12 handed over the plaque of recognition to South Cotabato Governor
<5>	Daisy Avance -Fuentes.	Daisy Avance - Fuentes.
<6>	Ang pagkilala ay bunsod ng pagkabuo at pagpasa ng pamahalaang panlalawigan at 10 munisipyo at lungsod ng Koronadal ng kani-kanilang 10- year Solid Waste Management Plan alinsunod sa alituntunin ng Ecological Solid Waste Management Act of 2000 o Republic Act 9003. Kaugnay riro nagpasa rin ang Regional Development Council ng isang resolusyon na na pumupuri sa pamahalaang panlalawigan ng South Cotabato sa pagkilalang natanggap.	The recognition was due to the completion and passing of the provincial government, 10 municipalities, and city of Koronadal to each of their 10-year Solid Waste Management Plan in accordance to the law Ecological Solid Waste Management Act of 2000 or Republic Act 9003. In connection to this, the Regional Development Council passed a resolution praising the provincial government of South Cotabato in their recognition.
<7>	Ayon kay Dominador Samilin ng EMB 12, hanga ang Komisyon sa nagawa ng South Cotabato dahil magkasabay na binuo at inaprubahan ang 10-year Solid Waste Management Plan ng probinsiya, 10 munisipyo at lungsod ng Koronadal.	according to Dominador Samilin of EMB 12, the Comission was amazed of South Cotabato's accomplishment because of the simultaneous completion and approval of the 10-year Solid Waste Management Plan of the province, 10 municipalities, and Koronadal City.
<8>	Lubos naman ang pasasalamat ni Gov. Fuentes sa natanggap na mag pagkilala.	Governor Fuentes was grateful for the recognition that they received.
<9>	Aniya, sa buong bansa dalawang lalawigan lamang ang nabigyan ng ganitong parangal.	she said, only two provinces in the whole country was given the award.
<10>	(DEDoguiles-PIA 12)	(DEDoguiles-PIA 12)
