<1>	17 paaralan sa South Cotabato binigyan ng solar power kits	17 schools in South Cotabato are given solar power kits
<2>	February 17, 2016	February 17, 2016
<3>	LUNGSOD NG KORONADAL, South Cotabato, Peb 17 (PIA) \-- Abot sa 17 paaralan sa mga liblib na lugar sa South Cotabato ang nabiyayaan kamakailan ng mga solar home lighting kit system na donasyon ng ng nv vogt Philippines Solar Energy One, Inc.	City of Koronadal, South Cotabato, February 17 (PIA) - reached up to 17 schools in the far-flung places in South Cotabato are granted recently with solar home lighting kit system which is a donation of the NV Vogt Philippines Solar Energy One, Inc.
<4>	Ang nv vogt ang pinakamalaking solar power investor sa Mindanao.	the NV Vogt is the largest solar power investor in Mindanao.
<5>	Ito rin ang nagtayo ng 5 megawatt solar farm sa Barangay Centrala, Surallah, South Cotabato.	this one also built the 5 megawatt solar farm in Barangay Centrala, Surallah, South Cotabato.
<6>	Kabilang sa mga nabigyan ng solar photovoltaic home lighting system ang mga paaralan sa Sitio Lubol at Kiantay sa Upper Sepaka at Basag sa Salacafe; Sitio Demamis, Dangkong at Salabanog sa Laconon; Sitio Kebuling sa Basag; Sitio Talambong at Motokling sa Mongkayo; Sitio Balnabo, Datal Tablo, Coong, Datal Colon at Bengue sa Maan, lahat sa bayan ng Tboli.	included in those who are given with solar photovoltaic home lighting system are the schools in Sitio Lubol and Kiantay in Upper Sepaka and Basag in Salacafe; Sitio Demamis, Dangkong and Salabanog in Laconon; Sitio Kebuling in Basag; Sitio Talambong and Motokling in Mongkayo; Sitio Balnabo, Datal Tablo, Coong, Datal Colon and Bengue in Maan, all in the municipalities in Tboli.
<7>	Nabigyan din ng parehong pasilidad ang paaralan sa Sitio Lembuto sa Lamlahak, Sitio Tboyong sa Lamfugon, at Sitio Bulol Lahak sa Klubi sa bayan ng Lake Sebu.	given also with similar facilities are the schools in Sitio Lembuto in Lamlahak, Sitio Tboyong in Lamfugon, and Sitio Bulol Lahak in Klubi in the municipality of Lake Sebu.
<8>	Ang bawat paaralan ay binigyan ng tig-dalawang solar photovoltaic home lighting system.	each school is given two solar photovoltaic home lighting system.
<9>	Isinagawa ang turn over ceremony noong Lunes sa covered court ng Provincial Capitol.	the turn over ceremony was done last Monday in the covered court of the Provincial Capitol.
<10>	Kalakip sa solar photovoltaic home lighting system ang dalawang LED lamps, home lighting system, AC-DC adaptor, mobile charging cord at 10-watt photovoltaic panel with stand set.	together with the solar photovoltaic home lighting system are two LED lamps, home lighting system, AC-DC adaptor, mobile charging cord and 10-watt photovoltaic panel with stand set.
<11>	Nagpa-abot naman ng lubos na pasasalamat ang South Cotabato Schools Division sa bigay ng nv vogt Philippines.	the South Cotabato Schools Division sent out their utmost gratitude for the gifts of the NV Vogt Philippines.
<12>	Sa kanyang mensahe, sinabi ni Assistant Schools Division Superintendent Mario Madrero na isang magandang pagkakataon ito na makaranas ang mag mag-aaral sa napakaliblib na mga bahagi ng lalawigan na magkaroon ng ilaw sa kanilang silid-aralan.	in his message, Assistant Schools Division Superintendent Mario Madrero said that this is a good opportunity for the students in the most far-flung parts of province to experience having light in their classrooms.
<13>	Umaasa rin si Madrero na mas marami pang paaralan ang mabibiyaan ng kaparehong pasilidad sa mga darating na mga araw.	Madrero also expects that more schools will be granted with the similar facility in the coming days.
<14>	Mas mainam din aniya kung mabigyan ang mga paaralan ng solar power kits na may kakayahang magpa-andar ng computer at computer printer upang hindi na kailangang lumuwas pa sa bayan ang mga guro upang mag-encode at mga print ng kanilang mga isusumiteng report at gumawa ng mga instructional material.	it is better, according to him, if the schools will be given with solar power kits which has the ability to operate a computer and computer printer so that the teachers will not need to travel to the town to encode and print the report that they are going to submit and make the instructional material.
<15>	(DEDoguiles-PIA 12)	(DEDoguiles-PIA 12)
