<1>	DSWD sinisi ang LGUs sa ‘slow’ Bicol relief By Jun Tadios January 5, 2017Isinisi ng Department of Social Welfare and ­Development (DSWD) sa local government units (LGUs) ang nararanasang delay sa pagpapadala ng relief goods sa mga lugar na binayo ni bagyong ‘Nina’ partikular na sa Bicol.	DSWD blames the LGUs in slow Bicol relief by Jun Tadios January 5, 2017 the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) has blamed the local government units (LGUs) in the delay experienced in the sending of relief goods to the places devastated by typhoon Nina particularly in Bicol.
<2>	Gayunman, nilinaw ni Secretary Judy Taguiwalo na hindi nagpapabaya ang pamahalaan sa pagpapadala ng relief goods sa mga lugar na binayo ng bagyong ‘Nina’.	nevertheless, Secretary Judy Taguiwalo clarified that the government is not neglecting the sending of relief goods to the places devastated by typhoon Nina.
<3>	Maagap ang DSWD sa pag-aksyon sa mga lugar na tinamaan ng bagyo noong Pasko at garantisadong naibigay ang bawat pangangaila­ngan ng mga biktima ng bagyo alinsunod sa mandato o sakop ng tulong na kayang ibigay ng kagawaran.	DSWD was alert in taking action in the places hit by the typhoon last Christmas and guarantees that each need of the victims of the typhoon is given in accordance to the mandate or covered by the aide that their department can give.
<4>	May insidente man umano nang mabagal na dating ng relief goods ay nasa lebel na aniya ito ng lokal na pamahalan dahil sila ang naatasang ma­migay sa mga apektadong barangay o lugar.	there might be incidents that the arrival of former relief goods is slow, this is already in the level of the local government because they are mandated to distribute to the affected barangay or place.
<5>	Reaksyon ito ng DSWD sa pahayag ni Vice President Leni Robredo na mabagal ang da­ting ng tulong sa mga biktima ng bagyo sa Camarines Sur na hometown ng bise presidente.	this is a reaction of the DSWD in the statement of Vice President Leni Robredo on the slow arrival of aide to the victims of typhoons in Camarines Sue which is the hometown of the vice-president.
<6>	“Bago pa man po mag-landfall si Nina sa mga affected areas, the DSWD had prepositioned food packs in addition doon sa sariling food packs ng mga LGUs dahil may kanya-kanya naman silang calamity funds. So hindi po dapat sa DSWD ang sinisisi sa ganitong mga pangyayari dahil we are pro-active and always ready to help our kababayan na nag-Pasko na may bagyo,” wika ng kalihim.	"even before Nina has taken a landfall in the affected areas, the DSWD has prepositioned the food packs in addition to the respective food packs of the LGUs because they have each their own calamity funds. so, the DSWD should not be blamed in this kind of incident because we are pro-active and always ready to help our countrymen who are celebrating Christmas while there is a typhoon," the secretary said.
<7>	Gayunpaman, ­humingi ng paumanhin ang DSWD kung mayroon man aniyang delay ng distribution ng food packs mula sa national government.	nevertheless, the DSWD asks for an apology if there are said delays in the distribution of food packs from the national government.
<8>	“This is a challenge to us. Mayroon palang ganitong insidente kaya hindi natin ito papayagang mangyari. We are here to help our kababayan and out mandate to serve them is our top priority,” giit ni Taguiwalo.	"this is a challenge to us. this kind of incident actually is present, so, we should not allow this to happen. we are here to help our fellow countrymen and our mandate to serve them is our top priority," asserted by Taguiwalo.
