<1>	RONNIE’S HELPING HAND	Ronnie's helping hand
<2>	SA pamamagitan ng pagiging bukas-palad at matulungin sa kapwa, nakatagpo ng tagumpay ang isang kababayan nating OFW sa Singapore na si Ronnie Albeus!	by being an open hand and helpful to others, our OFW countryman, Ronnie Albeus, has met success in Singapore.
<3>	Bago pa man nakarating sa Singapore ay isa nang OFW sa Saudi Arabia si Ronnie, halos anim na taon rin siyang namalagi roon upang maghanapbuhay.	even before Ronnie has reached Singapore, he is already an OFW in Saudi Arabia. he stayed there for almost six years to earn a living.
<4>	Nang matapos ang kanyang kontrata ay umuwi siya sa bansa upang alagaan ang amang maysakit.	when his contract expired, he went home to the country to take care of his father who had a sickness.
<5>	Taong 1993, dumating ang isang oportunidad kay Ronnie upang muling makalabas ng bansa at magtrabaho sa Singapore bilang empleyado ng Sun Tech City.	year 1993, an opportunity arrived for Ronnie to go out of the country again and work in Singapore as an employee in Sun Tech City.
<6>	“I worked as a document control manager Supervisor at the Suntech City project.	"I worked as a document control manager supervisor at the Suntech City project.
<7>	Then after I completed my task, I become the company quality assurance manager.	then after I completed my task, I become the company quality assurance manager.
<8>	In between, I do also the supervision of the safety management system in the company.”	in between, I do also the supervision of the safety management system in the company."
<9>	Kwento niya.	he narrated.
<10>	Dahil na rin sa pagiging organisado at malinis ng Singapore ay naibigan ni Ronnie ang pananatili roon.	and because Singapore is organized and clean, Ronnie has loved to stay there.
<11>	Ayon pa sa kanya ay naging madali rin para sa kanya ang pag-aadjust sa pamumuhay roon nang siya’y mapabilang sa iba’t ibang organisasyon roon, kabilang na rito ang isang church group kung saan ay isa siya sa mga nag-oorganisa ng mga misa na gumagamit ng lengguwaheng Pilipino.	according to him, the adjustment to a lifestyle there has become easier for him when he has become a member of the various organizations there, included here is a church group where he is one of the organizers of the mass which uses a Filipino language.
<12>	Iyon ang naging simula upang madama niya ang pagnanais na makapagtatag at makabuo ng mga organisasyong naglalayong umalalay at umagapay sa mga kababayan nating nangangailangan ng tulong at suporta.	that was the start for him to feel the desire to build and compose an organization aspiring to support and guide our fellowmen who are needing help and support.
<13>	Hindi nagtagal ay napasimulan niya ang mga organisasyong gaya ng Bicolano Association sa nasabing bansa at ang Filipino Catholic Community Association of Singapore.	not long after, he was able to start the organizations such as Bicolano Association in the said country and the Filipino Catholic Community Association of Singapore.
<14>	Dito nagbukas ang pintuan ng maraming oprtunindad para sa kanya, sapagkat napabilang rin siya at nabigyan ng pagkakataon upang gampanan ang pagiging bise-presidente ng Overseas Filipino Workers of Singapore.	here, the doors of more opportunities opened for him because he also became part and given a chance to act as the vice-president of the Overseas Filipino Workers in Singapore.
<15>	Makalipas lamang ang maikling panahon ay muling napansin ang kakayahan ni Ronnie bilang isang leader, naging vice president rin siya ng Filipino Association in Singapore, hanggang sa siya na ang itanghal at kilalaning president nito nang maglaon.	just a short time had passed, the ability of Ronnie as a leader was noticed again, he became the vice-president of the Filipino Association in Singapore until he was hailed and recognized as its president later on.
<16>	“The organization is looking forward to help others.	"the organization is looking forward to help others.
<17>	We do feeding program, reach out to those domestic helpers that are affected by their employments in Singapore, for those not	we do feeding program, reach out to those domestic helpers that are affected by their employments in Singapore, for those not
<18>	giving salaries, those molested, those raped and those other cases that were being handled by our labor attache in Singapore.	giving salaries, those molested, those raped and those other cases that were being handled by our labor attaché in Singapore.
<19>	We organize sports tournament, the search for Filipino idol to discover more talent and to make this people more productive while they are staying in Singapore, through this, we can discover and let this people be recognized, so they can maximize their talent and showcase it to the entire Singapore community.”	we organize sports tournament, the search for Filipino idol to discover more talent and to make this people more productive while they are staying in Singapore, through this, we can discover and let this people be recognized, so they can maximize their talent and showcase it to the entire Singapore community."
<20>	Pagbabahagi niya ng mga proyekto at adhikain ng kanilang organisasyon.	sharing his projects and advocacy of their organization.
<21>	Masasabing tunay ngang matagumpay si Ronnie sapagkat hindi lamang mga pagkilala ang kanyang natanggap dahil sa kanyang mga ginagawa, naranasan rin niyang lumahok sa International congress bilang kinatawan ng kanyang organisasyon, at dito ay nakasama niya ang mga international leaders sa buong mundo.	it can be said that Ronnie had indeed succeeded because not only in the recognition that he had received because of what he was doing, he also experienced attending the International Congress as a representative of his organization, and here he joined the international leaders of the whole world.
<22>	Subalit para kay Ronnie Albeus ay higit na matamis ang tagumpay ng pagtulong sa kapwa kahit sa munting mga paraan sa panahon ng pangangailangan ng mga ito.	but for Ronnie Albeus, success is counted sweeter in helping others even in small ways in their time of need.
