<1>	‘Skywalker’ nasa ICU pa rin, dasal kailangan	'Skywalker' still in ICU, prayers needed
<2>	Ni ATan (Pilipino Star Ngayon) | Updated November 30, 2014 - 12:00am	of ATan (Pilipino Star Ngayon) | updated November 30, 2014 - 12:00am
<3>	MANILA, Philippines – Nananatiling nasa intensive care unit (ICU) ang PBA Hall of Famer na si Avelino “Samboy” Lim matapos mawalan ng malay sa idinaos na Legends Game sa Ynares Sports Arena sa Pasig City nitong Biyernes.	Manila, Philippines- PBA Hall of Famer, Avelino "Samboy" Lim, remains in intensive care unit (ICU) after collapsing in the held Legends Game at Ynares Sports Arena in Pasig city last Friday.
<4>	Ang 6’1 na si Lim na kilala sa pro league bilang ‘Sky­walker’ dahil sa galing sa pagbitin sa ere, ay nag­lalaro para sa Legends na hawak ni William ‘Bogs’ Adornado nang biglang kumulapso matapos isalang ng ilang minuto sa unang yugto kontra sa Resorts World team na dinidiskartehan ni Pido Jarencio.	6'1 Lim, known in the league as 'Skywalker' because of his skill of dangling in air, is playing for the Legends, managed by William 'Bogs' Adornado, when suddenly he collapsed after a couple of minutes sent off to the game on the first stage against Resorts World team, strategized by Pido Jarencio.
<5>	“The game had just started.	"the game had just started.
<6>	He (Lim) had played about five to six minutes and had just been subbed by Vince Hizon when he collapsed,” wika ni Adornado.	he (Lim) had played about five to six minutes, and had just been subbed by Vince Hizon when he collapsed," said Adornado.
<7>	Hindi na itinuloy ang laro at si Adornado kasama ang iba pang Legends na sina Alvin Patrimonio, Allan Caidic, Jerry Codiñera at Nelson Asaytono ang nagsugod kay Lim sa Medical City.	the game didn't go on, and Adornado along with other Legends, Avin Patrimonio, Allan Caidic, Jerry Codiñera, and Nelson Asaytono, rushed Lim to Medical City.
<8>	Hanggang ngayon ay wala pang naipapalabas na medical bulletin sa kalagayan ng dating national player kaya patuloy ang hingi ng pagdarasal ang kaanak ni Lim.	until now, there is no released medical bulletin on the condition of former national player, hence, relatives of Lim continues to ask for prayers.
<9>	“Medical City Hospital will be releasing a statement soon in response to a lot of inquiries.	"Medical City Hospital will be releasing a statement soon in response to a lot of inquiries."
<10>	To all Samboy’s friends and loving fans, please continue to pray for him,” wika ng nakatatandang kapatid ni Lim sa kanyang Facebook.	to all Samboy's friends and loving fans, please continue to pray for him," said the elder brother of Lim in his Facebook.
<11>	Marami ang nagulat sa nangyari kay Lim dahil kilala ito na maalaga sa kanyang kalusugan.	many were surprised with what happened to Lim, because he was known to be careful of his health.
