<1>	Mark H., sa 2018 na pakakasalan si Winwyn! By Jojo Gabinete June 16, 2016 Nagsalita nang tapos si Mark Herras sa presscon ng Sa Piling Ni Nanay na si Winwyn Marquez na ang huling babae sa buhay niya at dalawang taon mula ­ngayon, plano ng lead actor ng bagong afternoon ­drama series ng GMA 7 na pakasalan ang kanyang girlfriend.	Mark H., will marry Winwyn in 2018! by Jojo Gabinete June 16, 2016 at the press conference of Sa Piling Ni Nanay Mark Herras spoke with finality that Winwyn Marquez is the last woman in his life and two years from now, the lead actor of the new afternoon drama series in GMA 7 plans to marry his girlfriend.
<2>	Ayon kay Mark, si Winwyn ang sagot ng Diyos sa kanyang mga dasal.	according to Mark, Winwyn is God's answer to his prayers.
<3>	“Actually, yes. Ipinagdasal ko siya. Sabi ko, I want a partner na hindi na kailangan na dumating ang panahon na maghahanap ako ng panibago. I want a partner na panghabambuhay na kasi I’m not getting any younger. I’m ­turning 30 years-old. I want a family na talagang legit na talagang mag-iipon ako for them. Magka­karoon ako ng business with the love of my life.	"actually, yes. I prayed for her. I said, I want a partner who when the time comes I don't have to look for another. I want a partner for a lifetime because I'm not getting any younger. I'm turning 30 years old. I want a family whom I'll legit save for them. have a business with the love of my life.
<4>	“Everytime I pray kay Lord, nagpapatulong ako sa Kanya, sa Daddy ko, sa lola ko and now, sa Mommy ko. Kahit papaano, I have 3 guardian angels sa itaas. Talagang humihingi ako ng tulong sa kanila.	"every time I pray to the Lord, I ask help from him, from my daddy, from my grandmother and now, from my mommy. in some way, I have 3 guardian angels above. I really ask help from them.
<5>	“Pinag-uusapan namin ni Winwyn na we want to get married after 2 years. I’m very happy, I’m very thankful na everything’s going well with my career, with my lovelife.	"Winwyn and I discuss that we want to get married after 2 years. I'm very happy, I'm very thankful that everything's going well with my career, with my love life.
<6>	Nagpapasalamat talaga ako na after all these years, there’s someone na ­talagang nakahanda for you and I’m hoping na ­magawa ko lahat for Win.	I am really thankful that after all these years, there's someone who is really set for you and I'm hoping I can do everything for Win.
<7>	Gagawin ko lahat for her para hindi siya ma-disappoint.	I will do everything for her so she will not be disappointed.
<8>	“Siya na talaga ang gusto ko na maging nanay ng anak ko in the future,” ang punumpuno ng pag-asa at pagma­mahal na kuwento ni Mark tungkol sa kanyang bagong inspirasyon.	"she really is the one I want to be the mother of my future children," Mark shares his new inspiration full of hope and love.
<9>	Nagpapasalamat din si Mark sa GMA 7 dahil sa magagandang projects na ibinigay sa kanya, ang Sa Piling Ni Nanay na mag-uumpisa sa June 27 at ang sitcom na Conan My Beautician na mapapanood tuwing Linggo nang hapon, simula sa June 26.	Mark is also thankful to GMA 7 because of the good projects given to him, Sa Piling ni Nanay that will start on June 27 and the sitcom Conan My Beautician that can be seen every Sunday afternoon, starting June 26.
<10>	“I’m so thankful naniniwala pa rin sa akin ang GMA 7 after all these years. Siguro, nakita naman nila na maayos ako na magtrabaho.	"I'm so thankful GMA 7 still believes in me after all these years. maybe, they have seen that I do my job properly.
<11>	“Hindi talaga ako sumuko, ­hindi lang ako nag-expect. Minsan kasi, mas nabibigyan ka ng chance na mailabas mo talaga ‘yung ­acting skills sa different roles. Ako, ­before, sino ba ang mag-aakala na magiging maganda ang resulta ng una kong (guesting) sa Karelasyon na bad ‘yung role ko.	"I never gave up, I just didn't expect. because sometimes, you will be given more chance to really express your acting skills in different roles. me, before, who would expect that my first (guesting) in Karelasyon with a bad role will bring good result.
<12>	“Masarap din ‘yung makapag-try ng iba’t-ibang klaseng roles.	"it also feels nice to be able to try different kinds of roles.
<13>	Hindi lang ‘yung palagi kang mayaman, boyfriend ka ni ganito or mahirap ka, ayaw sa’yo ni magulang ni ganito,” ang opinyon ni Mark tungkol sa pagbalik niya sa leading man status sa mga programa ng Kapuso Network.	you're not always rich, boyfriend of this or poor, the parent of this doesn't want you," Mark's opinion about his return to leading man status in the programs of the Kapuso Network.
