<1>	REMEMBERING NINOY	remembering Ninoy
<2>	Sa kanyang 33rd death anniv By Bernard Tagui­nod	in his 33rd death anniversary by Bernard Taguinod
<3>	August 21, 2016	August 21, 2016
<4>	“I have returned on my free will to join the ranks of those struggling to restore our rights and freedoms through non-violence.	"I have returned on my free will to join the ranks of those struggling to restore our rights and freedoms through non-violence."
<5>	I seek no confrontation.	I seek no confrontation.
<6>	I only pray and will strive for a genuine national reconciliation founded on justice” Unang bahagi ito ng nakahandang talumpati ni dating Senator Benigno “Ninoy” Aquino Jr.	"I only pray and will strive for a genuine national reconciliation founded on justice" this is the first part of the prepared speech of former Senator Benigno "Ninoy" Aquino Junior.
<7>	sa pagbabalik Pili­pinas matapos ang tatlong taong pananatili sa Boston, sa Amerika noong Agosto 21,1983, gamit ang pa­saporteng nakapangalan sa Marcial Bonifacio.	in coming back to the Philippines after three years stay in Boston, America last August 1983, using the passport named to Marcial Bonifacio.
<8>	“I am prepared for the worst, and have decided against the advice of my mother,­ my spiritual adviser, many of my tested friends and a few of my most valued political mentors.	"I am prepared for the worst, and have decided against the advice of my mother, my spiritual adviser, many of my tested friends and a few of my most valued political mentors."
<9>	A death sentence awaits me.	a death sentence awaits me.
<10>	Two more subversion charges, both calling for death penalties, have been filed since I left three years ago and are now pending with the courts,” ang sa­sabihin sana ni Ninoy.	"two more subversion charges, both calling for death penalties, have been filed since I left three years ago and are now pending with the courts," Ninoy was supposed to say.
<11>	Pero hindi na naide­liber ni Ninoy ang talumpati niyang ito dahil bago pa man bumaba sa sinakyang eroplano habang nakahimpil sa tarmac ng dating Manila International Airport (MIA) ay sunud-sunod na putok ng baril ang narinig at da­lawang tao ang humandusay, isa na siya roon.	but Ninoy wasn't able to deliver his speech because before he even went out of the airplane he traveled in, while stopped at a tarmac of former Manila International Airport (MIA), successive gunshots were heard, and two people fell flat, and he was one of them.
<12>	Hindi na pinaharap si Ninoy sa korte na sinasabi niya dahil pagbaba pa lang ng eroplano ay sinentensyahan na siya ng kamatayan ng mga taong hanggang nga­yon ay pinagtatulunan pa kung sino ang nagbigay ng kautusan sa mga sundalo na siya ay itumba na.	Ninoy wasn't even summoned at court because just as the plane landed, he was already sentenced with death by people who up until now are argued who gave the instructions to the soldiers to shoot him.
<13>	Pero bago namatay si Ninoy, itinututuring siyang haligi ng oposisyon sa panahon ni Marcos at bagama’t mula sa mayamang pamilya sa Tarlac ay gumawa ng sariling pa­ngalan nang maging war correspondent sa Korea war sa edad na 17-anyos.	but before Ninoy died, he was regarded as a pillar of the opposition during the time of Marcos, although, born in a rich family in Tarlac, he made his own name when he became a war correspondent during the Korean war at age 17-years-old.
<14>	Sa edad na 22-anyos ay nahalal si Ninoy bilang Mayor ng Concepcion, Tarlac at sa edad na 27 ay naging Vice Governor ng Tarlac at na­ging Governor ng Tarlac sa edad na 31-anyos.	at the age of 22, Ninoy was elected as the Mayor of Concepcion, Tarlac; at the age of 27, he became the Vice-Governor of Tarlac, and became the Governor of Tarlac at age 31-years-old.
<15>	Noong 1967 sa edad na 35-anyos ay na­ging Senador si Ninoy Aquino at naging kritiko ni Pangulong Marcos at pinaniniwalaang malakas na kandidato sa pagkapangulo noong 1973 ng Partido Liberal.	in 1967 at the age of 35 years old, Ninoy Aquino became a senator and critic of President Marcos and was believed to be a strong candidate for president in 1973 by the Liberal Party.
<16>	Ilan sa mga privilege speech ni Ninoy ay ang “Jabidah!	one of the privilege speeches of Ninoy is the "Jabidah!"
<17>	Special Forces of Evil?”	"special forces of evil?"
<18>	na kanyang idineliber noong March 28, 1968 na patungkol sa pagmasaker umano ng Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) sa mga Muslim recruits na sinasanay para bawiin ang Sabah na hawak ng Malaysia.	that he delivered on March 28, 1968, which was about the Armed Forces of the Philippines' (AFP) alleged massacre of Muslim recruits, who are being trained to take back Sabah that is under Malaysia.
<19>	Natunugan din ni Ninoy ang nilulutong ‘Oplan Sagittarius’ ng Marcos administration na ang layon ay isailalim sa Martial Rule ang Pilipinas, halos isang taon pagkatapos bombahin ang political rally ng LP sa Plaza Miranda.	Ninoy also hinted the cooked 'Oplan Saggitarius' of Marcos administration which aimed to put Philippines under Martial Rule, almost one year after bombing the political rally of LP at Plaza Miranda.
<20>	Hindi nagkamali ang senador dahil noong Set­yembre 21, 1972 ay idineklara ni Marcos at binuwag ang 1935 Constitution at inaresto may may 400 katao kasama si Ninoy dahil nagpaplano umano ang mga ito na agawin ang gobyerno.	the Senator wasn't mistaken because last September 21, 1972, Marcos declared and demolished the 1935 Constitution, and arrested 400 people along with Ninoy because of their alleged plan to take over the government.
<21>	Nilitis si Ninoy kasama ang lider ng komunista na si Ka Dante Buscayno subalit tumanggi ito kila­lanin ang military tribunal sa pagsasabing “I would rather die on my feet with honor, than live on bended knees in shame” noong 1973.	Ninoy was investigated, along with their communist leader, ComradeDante Buscayno, but he refused to recognize the military tribunal by saying "I would rather die on my feet with honor, than live on bended knees in shame," last 1973.
<22>	Naghunger strike si Ninoy habang nasa loob ng kulungan bilang protesta subalit hindi ito pinansin ni Marcos hanggang sa tulu­yan itong magkasakit at itinakbo sa Veteran Memorial (Medical Center) kung saan nanatili ito sa nasabing pagamutan ng halos isang buwan.	Ninoy rallied with hunger strike while at prison as protest, however, he wasn't paid attention by Marcos until he got sick and was rushed to Veteran Memorial (Medical Center) where he stayed at the said hospital for almost a month.
<23>	Noong Marso 1980 inatake sa puso si Ninoy kaya dinala ito sa Philip­pine Heart Center at sa pamamagitan ni Uni­ted States (US) President Jimmy Carter, napapayag si Marcos na magpagamot ang Senador sa Amerika noong Mayo 8, 1980 at matapos makarekober sa kanyang sakit ay kabi-kabila ang Speaking engagement nito sa Estados Unidos para sa pakikipaglaban para sa mga Filipino.	on March 1980 Ninoy had a heart attack so he was brought to the Philippine Heart Center and through United States (US) President Jimmy Carter, Marcos allowed the senator to seek treatment in America on May 8, 1980 and after recovering from his condition he had numerous speaking engagements in the United States about fighting for the Filipinos.
<24>	Dito nagkaroon ng maraming paha­yag o qoute na kapag nari­nig mo ay maaalala mong si Ninoy ang nagsabi tulad ng: “A time comes in a man’s life when he must prefer a meaningful death to a meaningless life.”	it was here that statements and quotes were remembered to be icons of Ninoy, such as: "a time comes in a man's life when he must prefer a meaningful death to a meaningless life."
<25>	“I will never be able to forgive myself if I will have to live with the know­ledge that I could have done something and I did not do anything.”	"I will never be able to forgive myself if I will have to live with the knowledge that I could have done something and I did not do anything."
<26>	“We only ask that freedom be returned, we ask for nothing more but we will accept nothing less”.	"we only ask that freedom be returned, we ask for nothing more but we will accept nothing less".
<27>	Totoo nga sa kanyang sinabi, bumalik si Ninoy para tulungan ang mga Filipino na makalaya sa pagkakagapos sa matagal na panahon sa ilalim ng pamamahala ni Marcos na tinaguriang diktador.	true to his words, Ninoy came back to help the Filipinos be freed from the chains of Marcos government, known to be a dictator, after a long time.
<28>	Gayunpaman, ang naging kapalit nito ay ang kanyang buhay dahil hindi bago nito mailapag muli ang kanyang paa sa lupa ng Pilipinas ay isa na siyang bangkay dahil binaril na siya habang pababa sa eroplanong naghatid sa kanya sa sinilangang bansa matapos ang tatlong tatlong taong exile sa Amerika.	however, the exchange was his life, not before he landed his feet on the ground of the Philippines, he was already a corpse; because he was shot while coming out of the plane that flew him to his birth country after three years of exile in America.
