<1>	MUNTINLUPA PATULOY ANG PAG-ANGAT	Muntinlupa continues to progress.
<2>	PATULOY ang ibinibigay na pagkilala sa Pamahalaang Lungsod ng Muntinlupa na pinamumunuan ni Mayor Jaime Fresnedi matapos na pumasok ito sa 10th Overall Ranking ng National Competitiveness Council’s City and Municipalities na ginanap sa Philippine International Convention Center noong nakalipas na July 14.	the recognition given to the City Government of Muntinlupa, headed by Mayor Jaime Fresnedi, continues after it got the 10th overall ranking in the National Competitiveness Council's City and Municipalities which was held in the Philippine International Convention Center last July 14.
<3>	Kabilang sa mga pinagbasehan sa pagbibigay ng karangalan ang tatlong kategorya gaya ng Economic Dynamism, Government Efficiency at Infrastructure na pinangasiwaan ng Regional Competiveness Committees na inasistihan ng United States Agency for International Development.	included as bases in conferring the award are the three categories such as Economic Dynamism, Government Efficiency and Infrastructure, managed by the Regional Competitiveness Committees, and assisted by the United States Agency for International Development.
<4>	Samantala, nagsagawa naman ng extensive clearing operation ang city hall sa mga kalsada ng Alabang para maging maayos ang daloy ng trapiko at lalakaran ng mga tao.	meanwhile, the city hall conducted an extensive clearing operation on the streets of Alabang to make the flow of traffic and pathways of people orderly.
<5>	Ang hakbang na ito ni Mayor Fresnedi ay bilang sagot sa utos ni Pangulong Rodrigo Duterte na linisin ang lahat ng kalsada para magamit ang ipinagawang footbridges sa iba’t ibang bahagi ng lungsod.	this step by Mayor Fresnedi is in response to the order of President Rodrigo Duterte to clean all roads so the constructed footbridges in various parts of the city can be utilized.
<6>	Layunin din nitong maging ligtas ang lahat ng motorista at pedestrian sa kanilang araw-araw na pagdaan sa mga pangunahing kalsada ng Muntinlupa City.	his goal is also for all motorists and pedestrians to be safe in their everyday travel on the main streets of Muntinlupa City.
<7>	Pinangunahan din ni Mayor Fresnedi ang inagurasyon ng MRH Multi-Purpose Covered Court sa Soldiers Hills sa Brgy. Putatan noong June 8, 2016 na magagamit ng mga nakinabang sa socialized housing project ng lokal na pamahalaan.	Mayor Fresnedi also led the inauguration of the MRH Multi-Purpose Covered Court in Soldiers Hills at Barangay Putatan last June 8, 2016, which can be used by beneficiaries of the socialized housing project of the local government.
<8>	Sa laban sa iligal na droga, sumuko sa police department ang 257 na drug pusher at user at nangako ang mga ito na tuluyang magbabagong-buhay at hindi na muling babalik sa kanilang mga bisyo.	in the war against illegal drugs, 257 drug pushers and users surrendered to the police department and promised to completely change their lives and to never return to their vices.
<9>	Kabilang sa mga nagtulong-tulong sa programang ito ang Philippine National Police, Drug Abuse and Control Office at Barangay Anti-Drug Abuse Council at may 264 bahay na ang napuntahan na kasama sa kanilang intelligence report.	included among those who help each other in this program are the Philippine National Police, Drug Abuse and Control Office and Barangay Anti-Drug Abuse Council, and some 264 houses included in their intelligence report have already been visited.
<10>	Nagpaliwanag naman ang mga kinatawan ng Maynilad Water Services, Inc. sa Muntinlupa City Council hinggil sa mga reklamo ng mga kostumer dahil sa kawalan ng suplay ng tubig sa lungsod at iba pang karatig na lugar sa Metro Manila South area.	meanwhile, representatives of Maynilad Water Services, Incorporated explained to the Muntinlupa City Council regarding customer complaints because of the loss of water supply in the city and other neighboring areas in the Metro Manila South area.
<11>	Ayon sa MWSI Business Area Operation head, nangyari ito sa Metro Manila South area dahil na rin sa pagkakaroon ng problema sa pag-filter ng tubig na nagmumula sa Laguna Lake.	according to the MWSI Business Area Operation head, this happened in the Metro Manila South area because of a problem in filtering water coming from Laguna Lake.
<12>	Nangako din ang mga ito sa Sangguniang Panlungsod na gagawin nila ang lahat ng kanilang makakaya para hindi na maulit ang pagkawala ng suplay ng tubig sa naturang lungsod at mga karatig na lugar nito.	they also promised to the City Council that they would do everything that they can so that the loss of water supply in the said city and its neighboring areas will not happen again.
<13>	ALINGAWNGAW/ALVIN FELICIANO	bustle/ Alvin Feliciano
