<1>	GUWARDIYADO!	guarded!
<2>	By Betchai Julian August 17, 2016Dahil sa pagiging instant millionaire matapos ang kanyang silver medal finish sa weightlifting event ng Rio Olympic Games, matinding seguridad ang iniha­tag ng Philippine National Police (PNP) kay Hidilyn Diaz at sa miyembro ng pamilya nito sa Zamboanga.	by Betchai Julian August 17, 2016 because of becoming an instant millionaire after finishing with her silver medal in weightlifting event in Rio Olympic Games, the Philippine National Police (PNP) gave a tight security to Hidilyn Diaz and to the members of her family in Zamboanga.
<3>	Ayon kay Zamboanga City Mayor Maria Isabelle Climaco, bago pa man makabalik ng bansa noong nakaraang linggo, ay agad na niyang kinausap si Officer-­in-Charge (OIC) Zamboanga City police director Supt.	according to Zamboanga City Mayor Maria Isabelle Climaco, even before she could return to the country last week, she immediately talked to Officer-in-Charge (OIC) Zamboanga City police director Supt.
<4>	Luisito Magnaye, na paghandaan ang ibibigay na seguridad sa atleta at sa pamilya nito.	Luisito Magnaye, to prepare for the security to be given to the athlete and her family.
<5>	Maliban sa ibinibigay na seguridad ng PNP kay Hidilyn, sinabi ni Climaco na iniutos rin niya sa PNP na kailangan na ring bigyan ng seguridad sa bahay mismo nina Hidilyn para na rin sa kaligtasan ng kanyang pamilya.	aside from the security given by the PNP to Hidilyn, Climaco said that she had mandated the PNP that a security is needed in the house of Hidilyn itself for the security of her family.
<6>	“Even before she arrive the Philippines, my ins­truction to Col.	"even before she arrive the Philippines, my instruction to Colonel
<7>	Magnaye was already to provide security for her and I will be following up again because not only security to be provided with her but also to the periphery of their homes,” pahayag ni Climaco.	Magnaye was already to provide security for her and I will be following up again because not only security to be provided with her but also to the periphery of their homes," Climaco stated.
<8>	Matatandaan na umabot sa P7.	can be recalled that it reached P7.
<9>	5 milyon ang natanggap ng 25-anyos Zamboangueña weightlifter bilang incentives ng gobyerno matapos masungkit ang silver medal.	5 million is received by the 25-year old Zamboangueña weightlifter as a government incentive after she got the silver medal.
<10>	Naniniwala ang alkalde na kailangan na ni Diaz ng seguridad dahil magbabago na ang buhay na tatamasahin bunsod ng pagkakapanalo ng medalya.	the mayor believes that Diaz already needs security because the life she is going to experience will change for winning the medal.
<11>	Kaugnay nito, umaapela ang alkalde sa mga residente na respetuhin ang Zamboangueño Olympic medalist at huwag siyang hayaang mapahamak.	because of this, the mayor appeals to the residents to respect the Zamboangueño Olympic medalist and do not let her be harmed.
<12>	Maging si Nestor Colonia, isa ring Zamboangeño at kasamang sumabak ni Diaz, at kanilang coach, ay pinababantayan na rin ng alkalde.	even Nestor Colonia, another Zamboangeño and have undertaken with Diaz, and their coach, are also guarded by the mayor.
<13>	Ang coach ay nakatakda ring tumanggap ng insentibo base sa umiiral na batas na ipinatutupad ng Philippine Sports Commission (PSC).	the coach is scheduled to receive an incentive based on the ruling law implemented by the Philippine Sports Commission (PSC).
<14>	“Umaapela din ako sa ating mga residente na si Hidilyn, Nesctor Colibia at ang kanilang coach, mga bayani ‘yan sila na nagsakripisyo para sa ating lungsod.	"I am also appealing to our residents that Hidilyn, Nesctor Colibia and their coach, they are heroes who sacrificed for our city.
<15>	At humihingi talaga ako sa inyo na bigyan natin sa kanila ang lahat ng ating respeto dahil hindi biro ang ilang taong sakripisyo nila bago nila marating ito,” dagdag ni Climaco.	and I am really asking from you to give all our respect to them because their years of sacrifice is not a joke before they reach this," Climaco added.
