<1>	Programang pangkaunlaran ng OrMin, inaprubahan ng PDC	OrMin development program, approved by PDC
<2>	November 13, 2016	November 13, 2016
<3>	CALAPAN, Oriental Mindoro, Nob. 13 (PIA) – Apat na mahahalagang programang pangkaunlaran ng lalawigan ang inaprubahan kamakailan ng Provincial Development Council (PDC).	Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, November 13 (PIA) - four important development programs of the province were recently approved by the Provincial Development Council (PDC).
<4>	Kabilang sa mga inaprubahan ay ang mga sumusunod: Disaster Risk Reduction/Climate Change Adaptation-Enhanced Provincial Development and Physical Framework Plan (DRR/CCA-PDPFP) 2016-2025; Provincial Development Investment Program (PDIP) 2017-2019; Annual Investment Program 2017; at ang Provincial Commodity Investment Plan for Calamansi and Coconut 2017-2019 ng Oriental Mindoro na nasa ilalim ng Philippine Rural Development Project (PRDP).	among the approved are the following: disaster risk reduction/climate change adaptation - enhanced provincial development and physical framework plan (DRR/CCA-PDPFP) 2016-2025; provincial development investment program (PDIP) 2017-2019; annual investment program 2017; and the provincial commodity investment plan for calamondin and coconut 2017-2019 of Oriental Mindoro under the Philippine Rural Development Project (PRDP).
<5>	Ayon kay Gob. Alfonso V. Umali, Jr., ito ang kauna-unahang pagpupulong ng inireorganisang PDC base sa kaniyang nilagdaang Executive Order No. 80 series of 2016, na nagsasaad ng pagrereorganisa ng PDC at iba pang layuning may kaugnayan dito.	according to Governor Alfonso V. Umali, Junior, this is the first meeting of the reorganized PDC based on his Executive Order No. 80 series of 2016, that states the reorganization of the PDC and its other related objectives.
<6>	Sa nabanggit na pagpupulong, iprinisenta ni OIC-Provincial Planning and Development Coordinator Lydia Muñeca S. Melgar ang DRR/CCA -PDPFP 2016-2025.	at the said meeting, OIC - Provincial Planning and Development Coordinator, Lydia Muñeca S. Melgar presented the DRR/CCA -PDPFP 2016-2025.
<7>	Ito ay ang pinagsamang Physical Framework Plan at Provincial Development Plan na kinapapalooban ng long term vision ng lalawigan, mga tunguhing pangkaunlaran, istratehiya, layunin at target at mga programa at aktibidad na magsisilbing basehan ng paglalatag ng provincial investment, ang paglalaan ng pondo at ang implementasyon ng mga ito.	this is the joint Physical Framework Plan and Provincial Development Plan which involves the long term vision of the province, development goals, strategies, objectives and targets, and programs and activities which will serve as basis for the provision of provincial investment, allocation of funds and their implementation.
<8>	Ipinahayag din ng gobernador ang kanyang executive agenda para sa taong 2016-2019 na kinapalooban ng 10-point agenda ng Pamahalaang Panlalawigan kung saan higit pang titiyakin ang pagpapaunlad sa agrikultura at eko-turismo bilang mga pangunahing industriyang magsusulong sa pag-asenso ng lalawigan.	the governor also announced his executive agenda for the years 2016 - 2019 which includes the 10-point agenda of the Provincial Government to ensure the advancement of agriculture and eco-tourism as the key industries that will further the province's development.
<9>	Samantala, ang makapagkaloob ng abot-kaya at para sa higit na nangangailangang serbisyong pangkalusugan, de kalidad na edukasyon na may pagpapahalaga sa kultura at tradisyon at episyenteng serbisyong panlipunan ang mga pangunahing layunin ng Social Services Sector na tinalakay ni Provincial Social Welfare and Development Officer Zarah C. Magboo.	meanwhile, to provide an affordable health services especially for those most in need, quality education that gives importance to cultural and traditional values and efficient social services are the primary goals of the Social Services Sector discussed by the Provincial Social Welfare and Development Officer Zarah C. Magboo.
<10>	Ang tiyaking may sapat na suplay ng pagkain, maunlad na turismo at oportunidad sa pagnenegosyo, mahusay na napangangalagaan ang kapaligiran at likas-yaman at ang magkaroon ng maayos na sistema ng komunikasyon at mga serbisyong pampubliko naman ang iprinisenta ni Provincial Agriculturist Christine M. Pine.	to ensure there is an adequate food supply, prosperous tourism and business opportunities, preservation of the environment and natural resources, a well-established communication system and public services was presented by Provincial Agriculturist Christine M. Pine.
<11>	Isang responsable at aktibong pamahalaan na may integridad at nakatutugon sa pangangailangan ng mamamayan, maayos na relasyon at pakikipagtuwang sa ibang ahensya ng pamahalaan at pribadong sektor at may mahusay na kakayahang pampinansya ang mga tunguhin ng General Public & Other Services Sector na tinalakay ni Provincial Budget Officer Nennette M. Pineda.	a responsible and an active government with integrity that meets the needs of its people, good relationship and partnership with other government agencies and private sectors, and good financial capabilities are the goals of General Public and other Services Sector discussed by Provincial Budget Officer Nennette M. Pineda.
<12>	Tinalakay din ni Pine ang Provincial Commodity Investment Plan para sa calamansi at niyog.	Pine also discussed the Provincial Commodity Investment Plan for calamondin and coconuts.
<13>	Isa itong programa na nakapaloob sa PRDP kung saan pauunlarin ang iba’t ibang produkto ng lalawigan.	it is one of the programs of the PRDP where various products of the province will be developed.
<14>	Bukod sa calamansi at niyog, isusunod pa ang mga programa para sa mga produktong virgin coconut oil, saging, seaweeds at palay.	aside from calamondin and coconut, programs for virgin coconut oil, banana, seaweeds and rice products will follow.
<15>	(CPRSD/LTC/PIA-Mimaropa/Calapan)	(CPRSD/LTC/PIA-Mimaropa/Calapan)
