<1>	Pledge of Commitment ng mga lokal na pinuno sa OrMin, nilagdaan	Pledge of Commitment of the local leaders in OrMin, signed
<2>	March 15, 2016	March 15, 2016
<3>	CALAPAN, Oriental Mindoro, Mar 15 (PIA) – Pormal na nilagdaan nina Gob.	Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, March 15 (PIA) formally signed by Gov.
<4>	Alfonso V. Umali Jr., Bise Gobernador Humerlito A. Dolor, mga hepe ng iba’t ibang tanggapan sa sa kapitolyo, at ng mga myembro ng Sangguniang Panlalawigan ang Pledge of Commitment para sa proyektong Partnership for Integrity and Jobs (I4J) na isinagawa sa Tamaraw Hall ng Kapitolyo kamakailan.	Alfonso V. Umali Junior, Vice-Governor Humerlito A. Dolor, the chiefs of various departments in the capital, and the members of the Provincial Council the Pledge of Commitment for the project Partnership for Integrity and Jobs (I4J) done in Tamaraw Hall of the Capital recently.
<5>	Sa kanyang pananalita, ipinahayag ni Gob. Umali ang kanyang paniniwala na sa pagkakaisa ng lahat, mapagtatagumpayan ng lalawigan ang hamon ng programang ito.	in his speech, Gov. Umali announced his belief that in the unity of all, the province will be able to triumph in the challenge of this program.
<6>	Ang Pledge of Commitment ng Kapitolyo ay halaw naman mula sa mga pledge of commitment na ginawa ng bawat tanggapan sa kapitolyo na nilagdaan din ng mga staff nito.	The Pledge of Commitment in the Capital is adapted from the pledges of commitment done by each department in the capital signed also by its staff.
<7>	Ang commitment na ito ang magsisilbing gabay at direksyon ng bawat tanggapan at magpapaalala ng inaasahang serbisyo mula sa kanilang tanggapan.	this commitment will be serving as guide and direction in each department and will be reminding of the expected service from their department.
<8>	Ang Oriental Mindoro at ang bayan ng Naujan ay kapwa benepisyaryo ng programa na ipinatutupad ng Konrad Adenauer Stiftung ng European Union at ng German Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development.	the Oriental Mindoro and the municipality of Naujan are both beneficiaries of the program which is implemented by the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung of the European Union and the German Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development.
<9>	Kabalikat din sa programa ang Centrist Democracy Political Institute, European Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines, League of Cities of the Philippines, League of Municipalities of the Philippines, at ang League of Provinces of the Philippines.	associates also in this program are the Centrist Democracy Political Institute, European Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines, League of Cities of the Philippines, League of Municipalities of the Philippines, and the League of Provinces of the Philippines.
<10>	Matatandaan na inilunsad ang I4J sa Pilipinas noong taong 2014 at humihikayat sa mga napiling LGUs na gawing pangunahin sa paglilingkod ang pagkakaroon ng matapat at mahusay na pamamahala na magdudulot ng tuluy-tuloy na kampanya para sa kamalayan ng pagganap sa tungkulin at bukas sa pamamahala para maiwasan ang korapsyon sa mga kalakaran sa pamahalaan.	it can be recalled that the I4J was launched in the Philippines last year 2014 and encouraging the selected LGUs to make it a priority in their service to have of loyal and brilliant governance which will cause a continuous campaign for awareness in performing duties and transparent governance to avoid corruption in the regulation of the government.
<11>	Nahahati sa apat na phases ang programang ito, ang Project Set-up Phase, Piloting Phase, Dissemination Phase at Conclusion Phase.	this program is divided into four phases: the Project Set-up Phase, Piloting Phase, Dissemination Phase and Conclusion Phase.
<12>	Matatapos ang I4J program sa Disyembre 2016.	the I4J program will be finished on December 2016.
<13>	Samantala, ang iba pang benepisyaryo ng I4J program sa buong bansa ay ang lungosd ng Puerto Princesa, lungsod ng San Carlos, Cagayan de Oro, Tuburan, Iranun Cluster (Barira, Buldon, Matanog at Parang) at ang mga lalawigan ng Cebu at South Cotabato. (CPRSD/LTC/PIA-Mimaropa/Calapan)	meanwhile, the other beneficiaries of the I4J program in the whole country are the Puerto Princesa city, San Carlos city, Cagayan de Oro, Tuburan, Iranun Cluster (Barira, Buldon, Matanog and Parang) and the provinces of Cebu and South Cotabato. (CPRSD/LTC/PIA-Mimaropa/Calapan)
