<1>	31 Konsehal ng OrMin, pinarangalan	31 councilors of OrMin, honored
<2>	July 29, 2016	July 29, 2016
<3>	CALAPAN, Oriental Mindoro, Hulyo 29 (PIA) – Bilang pasasalamat at pagpupugay sa kanilang naging panunungkulan bilang mga konsehal ng bayan, pinarangalan ang 31 mga 3-termer ng Sangguniang Bayan sa Oriental Mindoro sa isinagawang Philippine Councilors League-Oriental Mindoro Federation (PCL-OMF) End-Term and Recognition Activities 2016 sa Batasang Panlalawigan, Lungsod ng Calapan kamakailan.	Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, July 29 (PIA) - to thank and honor their service as municipal councilors, 31 3-termers of the municipal council of Oriental Mindoro were awarded in the Philippine Councilors League-Oriental Mindoro Federation (PCL-OMF) End-Term and Recognition Activities 2016 held at the Provincial Assembly, City of Calapan recently.
<4>	Pinangunahan ang gawain ni PCL-OMF President at Ex-Officio Member ng Sangguniang Panlalawigan (SP), Board Member Gideon B. Abuel.	the activity was headed by PCL-OMF president and ex-officio member of the provincial council (SP), Board Member Gideon B. Abuel.
<5>	Tumutok sa temang "Integrity and Social Responsibility: Commitment of the Councilors to its constituents in the Province of Oriental Mindoro", tumanggap ang mga natatanging konsehal ng bayan ng mga plake ng pagkilala at ng kani-kanilang sipi ng kapasiyahang naipasa ng SP na nagbibigay-pugay sa kanilang mga naiambag sa larangan ng lokal na lehislatura ng lalawigan.	focusing on the theme "integrity and social responsibility: commitment of the councilors to its constituents in the province of Oriental Mindoro", the outstanding councilors of the town received plaques of recognition and their own copies of the resolution passed by the SP recognizing them for their contributions to the field of local legislature in the province.
<6>	Naging panauhing pandangal sa gawain si Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) Provincial Director Ma. Victoria J. Del Rosario.	Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) Provincial Director Maria Victoria J. Del Rosario became the guest of honor of the event.
<7>	Binigyang-diin ni Del rosario sa kanyang talumpati ang pagbibigay-parangal sa mga opisyal ng bayan.	in her speech Del Rosario emphasized giving honors to the municipal officials.
<8>	Gayundin, hinikayat niya ang mga opisyal na manguna sa pagtataguyod sa mga lokal na pamahalaan at lehislatura na tumutugon sa mga tunay na pangangailangan ng kani-kanilang nasasakupan.	also, she encouraged the officials to lead in supporting the local government and legislature to answer to the true needs of their constituents.
<9>	Mula sa mga konsehal na pinarangalan, kinilala rin ang mga nahalal sa mas mataas na posisyon sa kani- kanilang mga bayan.	from the councilors honored, those in high-ranking positions in their own towns were also recognized.
<10>	Kabilang na rito sina dating konsehal ng Calapan na nahalal bilang myembro ng Sangguniang Panlalawigan mula sa unang distrito Bokal Edilberto Ilano, Jr. at dating Roxas Councilor na ngayon ay SP member mula sa ikalawang distrito, Bokal Ramil O. Dimapilis.	included in these are former councilor of Calapan who was elected as member of the provincial council from the first district Board Member Edilberto Ilano, Junior and former Roxas councilor and now SP member from the second district, Board Member Ramil O. Dimapilis.
<11>	Kinilala rin ang dating konsehal ng bayan na nahalal bilang Gloria Mayor Bitoy Rodegerio gayundin ang mga dating konsehal na ngayon ay nanunungkulan bilang mga ikalawang punumbayan.	former municipal councilor who was elected as Gloria mayor Bitoy Rodegerio was also honored as well as the former councilors who now serve as vice mayors.
<12>	Sina Calapan City Vice Mayor Engr. Gil Ramirez, Naujan Vice Mayor Sheryl Morales, Victoria Vice Mayor Mel Callo, Puerto Galera Vice Mayor Marlon Lopez, Socorro Vice Mayor Roy De Claro, Pinamalayan Vice Mayor Rodel Magsino, Bongabong Vice Mayor Richard Candelario, Mansalay Vice Mayor Lhay Postma at Bulalacao Vice Mayor Ramon Magbanua.	Calapan City vice mayor Engineer Gil Ramirez, Naujan vice mayor Sheryl Morales, Victoria vice mayor Mel Callo, Puerto Galera vice mayor Marlon Lopez, Socorro vice mayor Roy De Claro, Pinamalayan vice mayor Rodel Magsino, Bongabong vice mayor Richard Candelario, Mansalay vice mayor Lhay Postma and Bulalacao vice mayor Ramon Magbanua.
<13>	Sa nasabing okasyon, pormal ding tinanggap ng mga opisyal ng Sangguniang Panlungsod ng Calapan at Sangguniang Bayan ng Pinamalayan ang tig-P75,000 na gantimpala bilang natatanging Sanggunian sa kanilang kategorya.	in the said event, the officials of the city council of Calapan and municipal council of Pinamalayan also formally accepted the P75,000 reward each as the outstanding council in their category.
<14>	Matatandaang Nobyembre ng nakaraang taon nang pormal na kilalanin ang mga bayang ito bilang pinakamahuhusay na Sanggunian sa Oriental Mindoro.	recall that it was November last year when these towns were formally recognized as the best council in Oriental Mindoro.
<15>	(CPRSD/LTC/PIA-Mimaropa/Calapan)	(CPRSD/LTC/PIA-Mimaropa/Calapan)
