<1>	Usher at Stalzer at home sa Pilipinas By Robin Mendoza	Usher and Stalzer at home in the Philippines by Robin Mendoza
<2>	September 3, 2016	September 3, 2016
<3>	Mapapasabak na sa mainit na laban ang Foton Pilipinas sa AVC (Asian Volleyball Confederation) Asian Women’s Club Championship pero kila­lanin muna ang dalawang imports ng Tornadoes na sina Lindsay Stalzer at Ariel Usher.	Foton Philippines will now be facing an intense match in the AVC (Asian Volleyball Confederation) Asian Women's Club Championship but first, get to know the two imports of Tornadoes who are Lindsay Stalzer and Ariel Usher.
<4>	Hindi na bago sa mga Pinoy ang mga beteranong manlalaro mula sa America dahil nakapag­laro na sila sa Philippine Super Liga.	the veteran players from America are no longer unfamiliar to Filipinos because they have already played in the Philippine Super League.
<5>	Si Stalzer ay nakadalawang conference na sa PSL kasama na ang championship niya sa Foton, kaya sila ang napili para katawanin ang bansa sa AWCC, samantalang si Usher ay naglaro na para sa Cignal noong nakaraang taon.	Stalzer has already attended two PSL conferences including her championship with Foton, so they were chosen to represent the country in the AWCC, while Usher has already played for Cignal last year.
<6>	Masaya ang dalawa sa kanilang pagbabalik sa bansa at muling makita ang kanilang Pinoy fans, pero lingid sa kaalaman ng mga fans ay higit na nasisiyahan ang dala­wang foreigner sa Pilipinas at mga Pilipino.	the two are glad with their return to the country and seeing their Filipino fans again, but what the fans did not know was that the two foreigners more delighted with the Philippines and the Filipinos.
<7>	“Why would I not want to come back?	"why would I not want to come back?
<8>	I had such a good time last year, I had fun playing volleyball, I had fun seeing the Philippines and the culture and obviously ma­king friends here it was such a good time I had to come back,” pahayag ng 6-foot-1 outside hitter na si Stalzer.	I had such a good time last year, I had fun playing volleyball, I had fun seeing the Philippines and the culture and obviously making friends here it was such a good time I had to come back," said the 6 foot 1 outside hitter that is Stalzer.
<9>	Ibinahagi ng dala­wang blonde beauties ang kanilang mga naging experience sa Pilipinas at maging ang mga salitang Filipino na natutunan nila.	the two blonde beauties shared the experiences they had in the Philippines and also the Filipino words they have learned.
<10>	“I did ride a jeepney a couple of times we were on a trip in Puetro Gallera, it was fun and I also tried balut,” masayang kwento ni Stalzer.	"I did ride a jeepney a couple of times we were on a trip in Puerto Gallera, it was fun and I also tried balut," Stalzer told happily.
<11>	“Salamat po with this (pabebe) wave, ate is ol­der sister, that’s the two that I know for sure,” sabi ni Usher.	"thank you with this (acting cute) wave, older sister is older sister, that's the two that I know for sure," said Usher.
<12>	“And you guys speak a lot of Spanish words like cuchara, derecha, I just hear a bunch of Spanish words, I know Spanish.”	"and you guys speak a lot of Spanish words like cuchara, derecha, I just hear a bunch of Spanish words, I know Spanish."
<13>	“And your numbers are also spoken in Spanish and the days Lunes, Martes, Miyerkules.	"and your numbers are also spoken in Spanish and the days Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.
<14>	It’s funny cause when they start talking I don’t know what they’re saying but then I hear some words and I’m like o, maybe I do,” dagdag niya.	it's funny cause when they start talking I don't know what they're saying but then I hear some words and I'm like oh, maybe I do," she added.
<15>	Umaasa naman si Stalzer na mapaplantsa nila ang kanilang laro lalo na ang depensa para sa torneyo sa September 3-11 sa Alonte Sports Arena sa Biñan, Laguna.	Stalzer is hoping the they will be able to iron out their game play especially their defense for the tournament on September 3-11 at the Alonte Sports Arena in Biñan, Laguna.
<16>	Nanggaling sa Thailand ang Foton Pilipinas para sumali sa Sealect Tuna Thailand Volleyball League.	Foton Philippines came from Thailand to join the Sealect Tuna Thailand Volleyball League.
<17>	“I mean there’s always an improvement in every team,” saad ni Stalzer.	"I mean there's always an improvement in every team," said Stalzer.
<18>	“I think we need to streng­then our serve, make our offense a little faster, we need to be more disciplined on our blocks as well as coming up with this taller, more powerful teams.”	"I think we need to strengthen our serve, make our offense a little faster, we need to be more disciplined on our blocks as well as coming up with this taller, more powerful teams."
<19>	Makakasama nina Stalzer at Usher ang core ng Foton na sina Jaja Santiago, Angeli Araneta, Rhea Dima­culangan, Maika Ortiz, Bia General at sina RC Cola Army opposite spiker Jovelyn Gonzaga, F2 Logistics middle Aby Marano at Petron libero Jen Reyes.	Stalzer and Usher will be joined by core of Foton who are Jaja Santiago, Angeli Araneta, Rhea Dimaculangan, Maika Ortiz, Bia General, and RC Cola Army opposite spiker Jovelyn Gonzaga, F2 Logistics middle Aby, and Petron libero Jen Reyes.
<20>	Makakalaban ng Foton Pilipinas ang LienViet Post Bank ng Vietnam at Kwai Tsing ng Hong Kong.	Foton Philippines will be facing LienViet Post Bank of Vietnam at Kwai Tsing in Hong Kong.
