<1>	KUMAKARERA: Lalo pang babagsak? By Andy Sevilla	racing: will further fail? by Andy Sevilla
<2>	June 16, 2016	June 16, 2016
<3>	Dumarami ang nagtatawagan sa atin kung kailan daw pag-uukulan ng pansin ng bagong Pangulong Digong Duterte ang ‘pagbabago’ sa sistema ng industriya ng karera?	many of us are calling when will the new President Digong Duterte allot an attention for a change in the system of the racing industry?
<4>	Ilang text na rin ang natanggap natin nitong mga nagdaang araw, kailan daw ilalabas kung ano ang mga balak o plano ng bagong administrasyon sa ‘bagsak na industriya ng karera.	we also received a lot of text messages these past days, asking when will the new administration release their aims or plans for the fallen racing industry.
<5>	’At alam nyo ba na marami sa mga taong tumawag at nag-text sa atin ay nababahala sa lalo pang pagbagsak ng revenue sa karera sa taong ito?	'and do you know that many of the people who called and texted us are concerned on the worsening downfall of revenue on racing this year?
<6>	Nakarating na sa kanila ang ‘masamang balita’ na may posibilidad daw na bumagsak sa P6-billion na lang ang magiging revenue sa karera ngayong 2016.	the 'bad news' which is the possibility of the revenue on racing falling to P6-billion this year has already reached them.
<7>	Mula sa P8.2-billion noong 2014 ay ‘lumagapak’ sa P7.5-billion ang revenue noong 2015.	from P8.2-billion last 2014, the revenue 'crashed' to P7.5-billion last 2015.
<8>	At kung hindi magbabago ang patuloy na pagbagsak ng benta­han sa takilya, inaasahan daw na lalo pang babagsak ang benta sa karera sa nakakatakot na P6-billion!	and if the continuous downfall of ticket sales does not change, it is expected that the income on racing will fall further to a frightening P6-billion!
<9>	Bakit nagkaganito ang industriya ng karera sa bansa?	why did the racing industry in the country turn into this?
<10>	Halos nagkakaisa ang sagot nilang lahat – at alam ninyo na ang sagot dyan.	all of their answers are almost unanimous and you already know the answer to that.
<11>	Umabot sa anim na sabak sa karera bago nakaalis sa maiden si Belmont Stakes champion Creator.	six races were reached before Balmont Stakes champion Creator left maiden.
<12>	Pero meron na siya ngayong dalawang Grade-1 victories dahil napanalunan niya ang Arkansas Derby.	but he now has two Grade-1 victories because he won the Arkansas Derby.
<13>	Isa pa, ang mino­rity owner nito na si Bobby Flay ay nakabili ng kanyang share kay Creator halos tatlong araw bago ang Belmont Stakes.	one more thing, its minority owner who is Bobby Flay has bought his share on Creator almost three days before the Belmont Stakes.
<14>	“The truth was that I planned to bring about 15 to 20 people to the Belmont Stakes, which I do every year.	"the truth was that I planned to bring about 15 to 20 people to the Belmont Stakes, which I do every year.
<15>	I had a horse named America, a filly, who was going to run in the Ogden Phipps (gr. I), but I retired her just last month, so I really had nothing to run.	I had a horse named America, a filly, who was going to run in the Ogden Phipps (gr. I), but I retired her just last month, so I really had nothing to run.
<16>	So, I wanted to make sure my guests had a very enjoyable experience.	so, I wanted to make sure my guests had a very enjoyable experience.
<17>	So, I wanted to purchase a horse to run – not necessarily in the Belmont Stakes – and there were a couple horses we were looking at.”	so, I wanted to purchase a horse to run not necessarily in the Belmont Stakes and there were a couple horses we were looking at."
<18>	Si Flay na tubong taga-New York ay isang celebrated celebrity chef, restaurateur, at reality television persona­lity sa Food Network.	Flay, who grew in New York, is a celebrated celebrity chef, restaurateur, and reality television personality in Food Network.
<19>	Ilan sa kanyang mga celebrated restaurants: Mesa Grill sa Las Vegas at Bahamas; Bar Americain sa New York at Mohegan Sun, Uncasville, Connecticut; Bobby Flay Steak sa Atlantic City; Gato sa New York, at Bobby’s Burger Palace sa 19 sa iba’t ibang lokasyon.	some of his celebrated restaurants: Mesa Grill in Las Vegas and Bahamas; Bar Americain in New York and Mohegan Sun, Uncasville, Connecticut; Bobby Flay Steak in Atlantic City; Gato in New York, at Bobby's Burger Palace in 19 different locations.
