<1>	PAISTARAN: Rhian, ayaw maging pantasya ng mga lalake sa banyo! By Dondon Sermino July 7, 2016Nag-rebranding ang tsika ni Rhian Ramos sa style ng FHM magazine, kaya napapayag daw siyang mag-pose ng sexy, na out na nga ngayong July.	stardom: Rhian does not want to be fantasized by men in the bathroom! by Dondon Sermino July 7, 2016 a new branding, says Rhian Ramos, for the style in FHM magazine, so, she was convinced to pose sexy, coming out this July.
<2>	Pero kung tulad pa raw noon, na may mga kolum o kuwento tungkol sa sex, o karanasan ng mga tao sa pakikipagtalik, hindi raw papayag si Rhian.	but if it is just as same as before, that there is a column or story about sex, or experiences of people about having sex, Rhian will not permit it.
<3>	Tsika niya sa pocket presscon ng Sinunga­ling Mong Puso, na ginanap sa GMA 7 studio, 7 years daw siyang niligawan ng FHM. At madalas nga ay ‘hindi’ ang sagot nila.	she tattled at the pocket press conference of Your Lying Heart, held at GMA 7 studio, that FHM pursued her for 7 years. and usually their answer was "no".
<4>	Pero ngayon nga, napapayag siya, at naging maayos at nakiayon ang sitwasyon, na kung saan ay sa France pa nga ginanap ang pictorial, bago ginanap ang kasal ni Solenn Heussaff kay Nico.	but now, she is convinced, and the situation is smooth and appropriate, where the pictorial is conducted in France, before Solenn's wedding to Nico.
<5>	Anyway, bentang-benta siyempre sa mga leading men niya sa Sinungaling Mong Puso na sina Rafael Roselle at Kiko Estrada ang mga photos ni Rhian sa men’s mag.	anyway, Rhian's photos in the men's mag is a great click to her Your Liar Heart's leading men Rafael Roselle and Kiko Estrada.
<6>	Sabi nga ni Kiko, bibili siya ng marami, para ipanregalo sa mga kaibigan niya at mga pinsang lalake.	Kiko even said, he will buy a lot, he will give these as gifts to his friends and male cousins.
<7>	Ganun din naman si Rafael, na todo-suporta raw siya kay Rhian sa naturang men’s mag.	same as Rafael, in full support for Rhian in the said men's mag.
<8>	Sa tsikahan namin ni Rhian, inamin niya na hindi niya type na ginagamit siyang pantasya ng mga kalalakihan. ‘Yung tipong nilalagay ang photos niya sa banyo at ginagamit sa kahalayan.	in my conversation with Rhian, she admits that it's not her type being used as men's fantasy. like her photos are put in the bathroom and used for immorality.
<9>	Pero sabi ko nga sa kanya, hindi naman niya mapipigilan ang mga boys na gawin ang gusto nilang gawin, gamit ang kanyang mga sexy na larawan.	but I told her, she could not stop the boys to do what they want to do, using her sexy photos.
<10>	“Ayoko lang talaga maging bathroom material. You know what I mean, na pinagpapantasyahan talaga nila.”Pero, halos lahat ng babae, naaliw na ginagawa silang pantasya ng mga boys. “If they dream of me in a different way siguro…	"I just don't want to become a bathroom material. you know what I mean, that they are really fantasizing. but, almost all girls are having fun that they are made as fantasy by boys. perhaps, if they dream of me in a different way.
<11>	“Depende kung ano ba ang fantasy nila. There are some fantasies na pasado naman. Pero, meron naman talaga na hindi (like pinagbabayuhan siya).“‘Yun din ang reason kung bakit umabot sa 7 years bago kami pumayag sa magazine. Nung na-check ko kasi ang magazine content, nawala na ‘yung mga item noon na hindi ko gusto. “So parang I just didn’t want it to be naman na 2 pages away from my photos, mga sexual experiences na ng ibang tao. Ganun lang naman. I don’t have a problem naman with being sexy. “Like, I think when I posed for Men’s Health, I mean, kita pa nga ang tummy ko roon. Because we’re talking about a fitness routine. At pinag-usapan lang ay routine kaya pinakita ko ang body ko,” tsika ni Rhian.	"depends on what are their fantasy. there are fantasies which can pass. but, there are really which can't (like masturbated on). that is also the reason why it reached 7 years before we gave permission to the magazine. when I checked the magazine content, the previous item that I don't like was already gone. so, like, I just didn't want it to be 2 pages away from my photos, the sexual experiences of other people. just like that. I don't have a problem with being sexy. like, I think when I posed for Men's Health, I mean, my tummy is shown. because we are talking about a fitness routine. and what is only talked about is the routine so I showed my body," tells Rhian.
<12>	Reaksiyon ng Daddy niya? Nagpaalam ba siya?	daddy's reaction? did she ask permission?
<13>	“Hindi naman paalam, pero ga­ling ako sa London, before going to France para sa wedding ni Solenn. So when I was running and running, sabi niya, vacation nga raw ako, so stop working out. Sabi ko, I have a shoot. So, alam naman niya.”	"not really asking permission, but I was from London, before going to France for Solenn's wedding. so when I was running and running, he said, I am on vacation, so stop working out. I said, I have a shoot. so, he knows.
<14>	Eh, ang boyfriend niya?	and, your boyfriend?
<15>	“My boyfriend, he knew too. He was actually with me, he was there sa shoot. Solenn was kind enough to invite him as my plus one sa wedding. So, he and Bianca King, were there, cheering me on, giving me wine, telling me I’m sexy, para maniwala ako.”	"my boyfriend, he knew too. he was actually with me, he was there in the shoot. Solenn was kind enough to invite him as my plus one in the wedding. so he and Bianca King were there, cheering me on, giving me wine, telling me I'm sexy, for me to believe."
<16>	Anyway, hindi nga raw rarampa si Rhian ngayon sa FHM, dahil wala namang ganung event ngayong taon.	anyway, Rhian will not walk down the runway for FHM, because there is no such event this year.
<17>	“Not rampa for FHM, dahil as of this time, wala yata silang ganun. Ang alam ko lang, parang red carpet type. O party. A mixer, we can go there. Talk to people. Sign some magazines. Pero, hindi na tulad noon na me and my underwear lang.	"not a walk for FHM runway, because as of this time, they have no such thing. what I know, like a red carpet type. or party. a mixer, we can go there. talk to people. sign some magazines. but, unlike before with only me and underwear.
<18>	“Yeah, I’ll go, and I’ll make sure na I’ll be sexy pa rin! Ha! Ha! Ha! “Kahit hindi rampa, sexy pa rin!	"yeah, I'll go, and I'll make sure that I'll still be sexy. ha! ha! ha! even not a walk in the runway, still sexy!"
<19>	Wala na nga kasi ‘yung walking in the underwear. If it’s like that, I wouldn’t…” prangkang sambit niya.	gone are those walking in the underwear. if it's like that, I wouldn't" she frankly said.
<20>	Anyway, one year and seven months na raw ang relasyon nina Rhian ang dyowa niyang Chinese.	anyway, Rhian's relationship with her Chinese boyfriend is one year and seven months.
<21>	“So far so good. We were together during ‘The Rich Man’s Daughter’. Pero, My Destiny pa lang, nanliligaw na siya sa akin. When he was getting to know me, nakilala na niya ako na busy, na hindi niya ako makikita everyday. “And then, nung matapos na ang show at nung naging couple na kami, I see him everyday na. Sa The Rich Man’s…, kami na. And that was his first experience na ako talaga, super busy talaga. And we made it thru that, and I’m confident na makaka-survive kami now that may bago ulit akong show.	"so far so good. we were together during The Rich Man's Daughter but, just still with My Destiny, he was already courting me. when he was getting to know me, he knew me as busy, that he could not see me everyday. and then, when the show was finished and we became a couple, I see him everyday. in The Rich Man's, we are already. and that was his first experience that I am really, super busy. and we made it through that, and I'm confident that we can survive now that I have a new show."
<22>	“Sabi nila, the hardest part sa relationship ay ‘yung hindi kayo nagkikita. Pero I’m confident na malalagpasan ulit namin. Because he’s very supportive, and not a jealous person. And I don’t know how he does it, na kahit hindi siya taga-showbiz, he understands,” sey niya.	"they say, the hardest part in a relationship is when you are not seeing each other. but I'm confident that we can still make it through. because he's very supportive, and not a jealous person. and I don't know how he does it, that even he is not in show business, he understands," she said.
<23>	32 years old na ang boyfriend niya na isang Chinese nga at 25 naman si Rhian.	her boyfriend is 32 years old and a Chinese and Rhian is 25.
<24>	“Not bad, ‘di ba? Perfect!” sey ni Rhian.	"not bad, right? perfect!" Rhian said.
<25>	“Actually, hindi ko alam na Chinese siya noon. Kasi he’s one of those Chinese na wide eyes. When I met him, hindi ko talaga alam na Chinese siya. We’re on the same race team kasi. Tinuloy ko na rin. That’s my once a month kind of like distressing.	"actually, I did not know he is Chinese before. because he's one of those Chinese who are wide-eyed. when I met him, I did not really know that he is Chinese. we're on the same race team. I continued. that's my once a month kind of like distressing.
<26>	“Kasal? We don’t really talk about it like pertaining to ourselves. Sinama niya ako sa wedding ng friends niya at sinama ko rin siya sa wedding ng friends ko. So, napag-uusapan lang namin, ‘Ah ang wedding, ganito ganiyan’. So, it’s like views, but it’s not about us.	"wedding? we don't really talk about it like pertaining to ourselves. he brought me along with his friends' wedding and I brought him along with my friends' wedding. so, we have talked about it, a wedding like that, like this. so, it's like views, but it's not about us.
<27>	“I mean, no rush naman!” sey pa rin ni Rhian.	"I mean, there is no rush!" Rhian said.
<28>	Anyway, tsinika rin ni Rhian na na-shocked siya nung mabasa niya ang script ng Sinungaling Mong Puso, na pinagbidahan sa pelikula noon nina Vilma Santos, Gabby Concepcion at Aga Muhlach.	anyway, Rhian also tells that she was shocked when she read the script of Your Liar Heart, which was starred in the film before by Vilma Santos, Gabby Concepcion and Aga Muhlach.
<29>	“I was in shocked, kasi ‘di ba, may araw pa ‘pag afternoon prime. Pero ang concept, super-daring. Sa afternoon nga raw nilalagay ang mga daring na teleserye. Ang akala ko kasi, ‘pag daring, we air it at midnight. ‘Yung tulog na ang mga bata. O pinaka-last na timeslot.	"I was shocked, because, the sun is still out during afternoon prime. but the concept is super daring. all daring shows will be put in the afternoon. what I thought of, if daring, we air it at midnight. when the kids are asleep. or the last in the time slot.
<30>	“Pero, I guess, dahil nasa school nga ang mga kids, kaya nilalagay sa afternoon. Pero, daring talaga ako rito. Lot of love stories. Love story with Rafael and love story with Kiko.	"but I guess, because the kids are in school, why it is put in the afternoon. but I am daring her. lots of love stories. love story with Rafael and love story with Kiko.
<31>	“There’s a lot of love in the air. With Kiko I don’t know yet kung magkakaroon kami ng love scene. Pero with Rafael, sure na meron na. “But I have a funny feeling na meron talaga kami ni Kiko na love scene,” sey na lang ni Rhian.	"there's a lot of love in the air. with Kiko, I don't know yet if we are going to have a love scene. but with Rafael, sure that we have. but I have a funny feeling that Kiko and I will really have a love scene," tells Rhian.
