<1>	Php14 M na proyekto sa kape ng South Cotabato, inaprubahan ng PRDP	14 million-peso coffee project of South Cotobato, approved by PRDP
<2>	September 05, 2016	September 05, 2016
<3>	LUNGSOD NG KORONADAL, South Cotabato, Set. 6 (PIA)-- Inaasahan ang patuloy na paglago ng industriya ng kape sa lalalawigan ng South Cotabato, ayon sa isang opisyal dito.	Koronadal City, South Cotabato, September 6 (PIA) - the continuing growth of the coffee industry in the province of South Cotabato is expected, according to an official here.
<4>	Sa isang pulong-balitaan kamakailan, kinumpirma ni South Cotabato Provincial Agriculturist Justina Navarrete na nagbigay na ng "No Objection Letter" ang ang pamunuan ng Philippine Rural Development Project para sa panukala ng South Cotabato na proyektong "Enhancement of Production and Marketing of Dried Green Coffee."	in a recent press conference, South Cotobato Provincial Agriculturist Justina Navarrete confirmed that the head of the Philippine Rural Development Project gave a "No Objection Letter" to the proposed "Enhancement of Production and Marketing of Dried Green Coffee" project of South Cotabato.
<5>	Ang Php14 milyon na proyekto ay pamumuan ng Tupi Coffee Growers Association Inc. (TUCOGAI) na nakabase sa bayan ng Tupi kasama ang iba pang mga kooperatiba ng mga magsasaka ng kape sa Upper Valley at Lower Valley ng South Cotabato.	the 14 million-peso project will be led by Tupi Coffee Growers Association, Incorporated (TUCOGAI) which is based in the town of Tupi together with other cooperatives of coffee farmers in the Upper Valley and Lower Valley of South Cotabato.
<6>	Sa taya ng TUCOGAI, sa pamamagitan ng naturang proyekto aangat ng may 10 porsiyento ang produksyon ng kape sa South Cotabato sa loob ng anim na taon.	TUCOGAI estimated that through the project the coffee production in South Cotabato will increase by 10 percent in six years.
<7>	Aangat din ang kita ng mga magsasaka ng kape sa lalawigan dahil mas mahal ang bayad ng TUCOGAI sa produktong kape ng mga magsasaka: Php 12 kada kilo sa fresh coffee berries at Php 63 kada kilo ng dried green coffee beans.	the income of the coffee farmers in the province will also increase because TUCOGAI pays more for the coffee products of the farmers: Php 12 per kilo of fresh coffee berries and Php 63 per kilo of dried green coffee beans.
<8>	Ang green coffee bean project ng TUCOGAI ang panglimang proyekto na inaprubahan ng PRDP para sa SOCCSKSARGEN Region.	the green coffee bean project of TUCOGAI is the fifth project approved by PRDP for the SOCCSKARGEN region.
<9>	Bago rito, inaprubahan din ng PRDP ang Php39.4 M Production of Cassava Granules and Marketing project ng South Cotabato; ang Php35.7 M na Enhancement of Production, Processing and Marketing to High Quality Abaca Fiber ng Sarangani; ang P43.4 M na Virgin Coconut Oil Processing project ng Sarangani at P14.9 M na Rubber Sheet Processing and Marketing ng North Cotabato.	before this, the PRDP also approved the 39.4 million-peso Production of Cassava Granules and Marketing project of South Cotabato; the 35.7 million-peso Enhancement of Production, Processing and Marketing to High Quality Abaca Fiber of Sarangani; the 43.4 million-peso Virgin Coconut Oil Processing project of Sarangani and the 14.9 million-peso Rubber Sheet Processing and Marketing of North Cotabato.
<10>	Inaasahan ni Navarrete na matatapos ang lahat ng dokumento para sa dried green coffee project bago magtatapos ang taon at nang makakapagsimula na ito sa Enero ng 2017.	Navarrete is expecting that all documents for the dried green coffee project will be completed before the end of the year so it can begin by January of 2017.
<11>	(DEDoguiles-PIA 12)	(DEDoguiles-PIA 12)
