<1>	Cloud seeding sa N. Cotabato sinimulan na	cloud seeding in N. Cotabato already started
<2>	February 18, 2016	February 18, 2016
<3>	LUNGSOD NG KIDAPAWAN, North Cotabato, Peb. 18 (PIA)- Inumpisahan na ng pamahalaang panlalawigan ang pagpapatupad ng cloud seeding sa buong probinsya kahapon.	City of Kidapawan, North Cotabato, February 18 (PIA) - the provincial government already started the implementation of cloud seeding in the whole province yesterday.
<4>	Ang Cloud Seeding Operation Kick- off Ceremony na ginawa sa Central Mindanao Airport sa Barangay Tawan- Tawan, M’lang ay pinangunahan ng Office of the Provincial Agriculturist (OPAg) at Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Division ng Provincial Governor’s Office (DRRMD).	the Cloud Seeding Operation Kick-off Ceremony which was held in Central Mindanao Airport in Barangay Tawan-Tawan, M'lang was led by the Office of the Provincial Agriculturist (OPAg) and the Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Division of the Provincial Governor's Office (DRRMD).
<5>	Kabilang din sa nakiisa sa aktibidad ang Department of Agriculture 12 – Bureau of Soils and Water Management (DA-BSWM).	included also in those who joined in the activity is the Department of Agriculture 12 - Bureau of Soils and Water Management (DA-BSWM).
<6>	Ayon kay Provincial Agriculturist Engr. Eliseo Mangliwan, abot sa P3.	according to Provincial Agriculturist Engr. Eliseo Mangliwan, reached up to P3.
<7>	4 milyon ang pondong inilaan ng pamahalaang panlalawigan na nagmula sa calamity fund nito para sa pagsasagawa ng cloud seeding na magtatagal ng 60 araw.	4 million is the fund allocated by the provincial government which has come from its calamity fund for the implementation of the cloud seeding that will last for 60 days.
<8>	Sinabi ni Mangliwan na mahalaga ang cloud seeding o pagsagawa ng artipisyal na ulan upang madagdagan o mapa- angat ang lebel ng tubig sa mga irigasyon at iba pang mga nagsusuplay ng tubig sa mga sakahan.	Mangliwan said that cloud seeding or making an artificial rain is important to add or to raise the level of water to the irrigations and others that supply water to the farming fields.
<9>	Naglaan naman ang DA 12 ng pondong abot sa P700,000 bilang suporta o augmentation sa cloud seeding operations ng lalawigan.	the DA 12 also allocated a fund which reached P700,000 as a support or augmentation in the cloud seeding operations of the province.
<10>	Nabatid na bawat lipad o sortie ng eroplano ay karga nito ang abot sa 15 sako na naglalaman ng mula 25 hanggang 50 kilo ng asin.	realized that each flight or sortie of the airplane, it carried up to 15 sacks containing from 25 to 50 kilos of salt.
<11>	Una nang hiniling ni Governor Emmylou Mendoza sa Sangguniang Panlalawigan na isailalim sa State of Calamity ang probinsya dahil sa El Niño phenomenon.	initially wished by Governor Emmylou Mendoza to the Provincial Council to put the province under the State of Calamity due to the El Niño phenomenon.
<12>	Dahil sa matinding tagtuyot, libu- libong ektarya ng taniman ng palay, mais, kape at iba pa ang napinsala.	because of severe drought, thousands of hectares of planting fields for rice, corn, cacao and others are damaged.
<13>	(SJDuerme-PIA12 wth report from JSta. Cruz-NorthCot Media Center)	(SJDuerme-PIA12 wth report from JSta. Cruz-NorthCot Media Center)
