<1>	Drug test sa athletes, coaches at sports officials nakaumangBy Ramil Cruz	drug test for athletes, coaches, and sports officials is pending by Ramil Cruz.
<2>	September 19, 2016	September 19, 2016
<3>	Bilang pagtalima sa mahigpit na kampanya sa anti-drug users at pushers ni president Rodrigo­ Duterte, nasa radar na rin ng Philippine Sports Commission ang mandatory drug testing sa mga national athletes, coaches at maging sa officials ng may 53 national sports associations (NSAs).	in obedience to the strict campaign of anti-drug users and pushers by President Rodrigo Duterte, mandatory drug testing is on the radar of the Philippine Sports Commission for national athletes, coaches and even officials of around 53 national sports associations (NSA's).
<4>	Isa ito sa plano ni PSC chairman William Ramirez sa PSC executive board and NSAs presi­dents/secretary generals meeting bukas, Setyembre 20 sa Century Park Hotel sa Malate, Manila.	this is one of the plans of PSC Chairman William Ramirez at the PSC executive board and NSA's presidents/secretary generals meeting tomorrow, September 20 at the Century Park Hotel in Malate, Manila.
<5>	“It is one of the agenda but we have to talk about it deeply with the NSA’s dahil baka may matapa­kan kaming karapatan at ma­labag na batas sa mga indibidwal na personahe,” ani Ramirez bago mag-weekend.	"it is one of the agenda but we have to talk about it deeply with the NSA's because there could be rights that we might step on or laws on individual personalities that we might break," said Ramirez before the weekend.
<6>	Naisipan ito ni Ramirez at commissio­ners Arnold Agustin, Charley Raymond Maxey,­ Ramon Fernandez at Fatima Celia Kiram ang hakbang matapos magposi­tibo ang isang atleta ng Philippine Amateur Sepak Takraw Association (PASTA) sa unang linggo ng buwang ito.	this measure was thought of by Ramirez and commissioners Arnold Agustin, Charley Raymond Maxey, Ramon Fernandez and Fatima Celia Kiram after one athlete of the Philippine Amateur Sepak Takraw Association (PASTA) tested positive during the first week of this month.
<7>	Daan para sibakin na ng PASTA at PSC at ma­ging nang nag-enlist sa kanyang Philippine Navy (PN).	a way for him to be kicked out by PASTA and PSC and even the one who enlisted him in the Philippine Navy (PN).
<8>	Kung papayag ang mga opisyal ng bawat NSA, isasama ang nakatakdang hakbang ng government sports agency sa pagkakaloob na rin sa mga players at coaches ng isang kontrata sa naisin ng PSC na maalagaang mabuti ang manlalaro’t coaches.	if officials of each NSA agree, the scheduled measure of the government sports agency will be included by giving players and coaches a contract, in the PSC's desire to take good care of players and coaches.
<9>	Makakasama ng PSC sa pagpapaliwanag sa drug test ang nakatakdang umupong ­Philippine Sports Institute (PSI) national training director Marc Velasco.	in explaining, the PSC will be joined by the person due to be seated as the Philippine Sports Institute (PSI) national training director, Marc Velasco.
