<1>	Tax incentives sa sports donors By Tina ­Mendoza November 20, 2016Aprubado na sa House committee on youth and sports development ang panukalang bigyan ng incentives ang mga donors ng mga atleta na nagwagi ng medalya sa Summer Olympic Games.	tax incentives for sports donors by Tina Mendoza November 20, 2016 the House committee on youth and sports development has approved the proposal to give incentives to donors of athletes who win medals in the Summer Olympic Games.
<2>	Ayon kay House committee on Youth Chairman Rep. Conrado Estrella III sa ilalim ng House Bill 4054 na isinusulong nina House Speaker Pantaleon D. Alvarez, Majority Leader Rodolfo Fariñas, Minority Leader Danilo Suarez at 1-Pacman Party-list Rep. Michael Romero at PBA Party-list Rep Jericho Jonas Nograles ay bibigyan ng tax incentives ang mga indibidwal at korporasyon na nagbigay ng donasyon o kontribusyon sa nanlong atleta, layon ng nasabing panukala na hikayatin pa ang nakararami na suportahan ang mga Filipino athletes.	according to House committee on youth chairman Representative Conrado Estrella III under House Bill 4054 supported by House Speaker Pantaleon D. Alvarez, Majority Leader Rodolfo Fariñas, Minority Leader Danilo Suarez and 1-Pacman Party-list Representative Michael Romero and PBA Party-list Representative Jericho Jonas Nograles individuals and corporations who give donations or contributions to winning athletes will be given tax incentives, the said proposal aims to encourage the majority to support Filipino athletes.
<3>	Ipapasa naman ng komite sa Committee on ways and means ang panukala para syang magtakda kung magkano ang insentibo na maaaring ibigay.	the committee will pass the proposal to the committee on ways and means who will decide how much incentive can be given.
<4>	Matatandaan na si Hidilyn Diaz,25 anyos mula as Zamboanga City ang muling nakapaguwi ng silver medal sa weightlifting para sa bansa noong nakaraang Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Olympics, taong 1996 pa nang huling makakamit ng silver medal ang Pilipinas nang manalo noon si Mansueto “Onyok” Velasco sa boxing.	it can be recalled that Hidilyn Diaz, 25 years old from Zamboanga City was able to bring home a silver medal in weightlifting for the country in the recent Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Olympics, it was year 1996 when the Philippines last obtained a silver medal when Mansueto "Onyok" Velasco won then in boxing.
<5>	“The bill provides that any donation, contribution, gift and grant of real and personal property to any Filipino athlete who has won for the Philippines a bronze, silver, or gold medal in the Summer Olympic Games shall constitute an allowable deduction from the income of the donor for income tax purposes and shall be exempt from donor’s tax, in accordance with the provisions of the National Internal Revenue Code”nakasaad sa panukala.	"the bill provides that any donation, contribution, gift and grant of real and personal property to any Filipino athlete who has won for the Philippines a bronze, silver, or gold medal in the Summer Olympic Games shall constitute an allowable deduction from the income of the donor for income tax purposes and shall be exempt from donor's tax, in accordance with the provisions of the National Internal Revenue Code" stated in the proposal.
<6>	Limitado lamang naman sa P1M kada taon ang exempted sa donor’s tax at sakop nito ang mga insentibo na mula sa gobyerno at mga pribadong sektor.	the exemption from donor's tax is limited to P1M only every year and it covers the incentives from the government and private sectors.
