<1>	PNYG-Batang Pinoy pinaaga By Ramil Cruz October 8, 2016Binago ng Philippine Sports Commission (PSC) ang original dates at venue nang isang leg na lang sa taong itong 2016 Philippine National Youth Games (PNYG) – Batang Pinoy Championships.	PNYG-young Filipino set earlier by Ramil Cruz October 8 2016. the Philippine Sports Commission (PSC) changed the original dates and venue of the only remaining leg for the 2016 Philppine National Youth Games (PNYG) - young Filipino championships.
<2>	Mula sa Disyembre 8-13 sa Dumaguete City, Negros Oriental, gagawin na ang palaro sa Nobyembre 27-Disyembre 2 sa Tagum City, Davao Del Norte.	from December 8 - 13 in Dumaguete City, Negros Oriental, the games will now be held on November 27 - December 2 in Tagum City, Davao del Norte.
<3>	Kinumpirma ito kahapon ni PSC Chairman William ‘Butch’ Ramirez makaraan ang planning session sa PSC Program Research and Development Division sa pa­ngunguna ni Dr. Lauro Domingo, Jr. kamakalawa Huwebes naroo’y na-finalized ang lahat ng mga detalye.	PSC chairman William "Butch" Ramirez confirmed yesterday after the planning session at the PSC Program Research and Development Division headed by Doctor Lauro Domingo, Junior two days before Thursday that the details were finalized.
<4>	“Yes, it will be held now in Tagum and at earliest dates from the previous one we announced last month,” sabi ni Rami­rez, hinggil sa kumpe­tisyon na itinaas na rin ang edad ng mga kalahok na buhat sa dating 16-anyos pababa tungo sa 17-year-old below na upang makatugon sa sinusunod nang Department of Education (DepEd) K12 program.	"yes, it will be held now in Tagum and at earliest dates from the previous one we announced last month," said Ramirez about the competition which has also raised the age bracket of the participants from 16 years and below to 17 years old and below in accordance to the Department of Education (DepEd) K12 program.
<5>	Pangalawang multi- sport event ang Batang Pinoy na ihu-host ng Tagum pagkaraan ng 58th Palarong Pambansa 2015.	young Filipino will be the second multi-sport event to be hosted by Tagum after the 58th national games 2015.
<6>	Inistriktuhan na rin ang pagpapatupad ng representasyon ng manlalaro sa kanilang dadalhing Local Government Units (LGUs), mapa- provincial, city o municipality man.	there is a more strict implementation of the representation of players of their local government units (LGUs), whether provincial, city or municipality.
<7>	Hindi makakasali ang isang atleta kung walang accreditation ng LGU.	an athlete will not be able to join without the accreditation of the LGU.
<8>	Inaasahang ipapadala ng mga LGUs ang kanilang pinakamagagaling na atleta para mabigyan ng sponsorship subsidy ng PSC na may maximum 75 athletes subsidy sa 75 bawat LGU.	it is expected that that the LGUs will send their best athletes to be able to receive sponsorship subsidy from PSC which has a maximum of 75 athletes subsidy from 75 athletes per LGU.
