<1>	“It’s more dead in the Philippines” By Jeany Lacorte	"it's more dead in the Philippines" by Jeany Lacorte
<2>	September 3, 2016	September 3, 2016
<3>	Laman ng pahayaga­n nitong mga nagdaang araw ang reklamo ng dating jueteng star witness Sandra Cam, na noon pa raw sana niya ibinunyag ang koneksyon ni Sen. Leil­a de Lima sa drug menace sa New Bilibid Prison (NBP) pero tatlong mambabata­s daw ang humadlang sa kanya.	newspapers of the past few days contain the complaint of former jueteng star witness Sandra Cam, that she revealed back then the connection of Senator Leila de Lima to the drug menace of New Bilibid Prison (NBP) but supposedly three lawmakers stopped her from doing so.
<4>	Ang mga mambabatas na ito ay sina Senate Pre­sident Aquilino ‘Koko’ Pimentel, Sen. Franklin Dri­lon at Ilocos Norte Rep. Rodolfo Fariñas na pawang mga miyembro ng makapangyarihang Commission on Appointments (CA).	these lawmakers are Senate President Aquilino "Koko" Pimentel, Senator Franklin Drilon and Ilocos Norte representative Rodolfo Fariñas who are all members of the powerful Commission on Appointments (CA).
<5>	Noong isalang daw sa CA ang kumpirmasyon ng appointment ni De Lima bilang kalihim ng Department of Justice (DOJ), hindi raw siya binigyan ng pagkakataon na makapagsalita sa mga nalalaman niya kay De Lima.	supposedly when the confirmation of the appointment of De Lima as secretary of the Department of Justice (DOJ) was served, she was not given a chance to speak of what she knows about De Lima.
<6>	Sa gagawing imbestigasyon ng Kamara sa pag­laganap ng iligal na droga sa NBP sa panahon ni De Lima, sinabi ni Cam na isusumite niya ang kopya ng tape ng CA hearing para mapatunayan ang kanyang mga sinasabi.	in the investigation to be held by the legislative chamber on the distribution of illegal drugs in the NBP during the time of De Lima, Cam said she will submit a copy of the tape of the CA hearing proving what she is saying.
<7>	Ngunit agad naman siyang sinupalpal ng CA secretary na si Hector Villacorta.	but CA secretary Hector Villacorta immediately stopped her.
<8>	“Sandra Cam was gi­ven more than enough time and was not prevented from blocking the confirmation of Sen. Leila de Lima as secretary of Justice before the Commission on Appointments in June 2014, based on the record and transcript of CA deliberations.”	"Sandra Cam was given more than enough time and was not prevented from blocking the confirmation of Senator Leila de Lima as secretary of Justice before the Commission on Appointments in June 2014, based on the record and transcript of CA deliberations."
<9>	“Ms. Cam was given ample time to expose the alleged illicit drug scheme and shabu factory inside the NBP during her testimony at the 2-hour CA hearing on June 4, 2014.	"Miss Cam was given ample time to expose the alleged illicit drug scheme and meth factory inside the NBP during her testimony at the 2-hour CA hearing on June 4, 2014.
<10>	But she did not do so,” diin ni Villacorta.	but she did not do so," Villacorta stressed.
<11>	Aba’y gutom yata si Cam nang magpasabog ito ng bomba dahil sa CA secretary pa lang ay supalpal na siya.	maybe Cam was hungry when she set off a bomb because she is blocked just by the CA secretary.
<12>	Kailangan siguro ay kumain muna siya ng marami sa Senate lounge para magkaroon ng laman ang kanyang mga sinasabi tulad ng dati niyang ginagawa.	maybe she needs to eat a lot in the senate lounge so what she is saying will have content like what she used to do before.
<13>	Mukhang may nagdidirek sa galaw ngayon ni Cam at nararamdaman ito ng tanggapan ni Pimentel.	it looks like someone is directing the moves of Cam today and the office of Pimentel felt it.
<14>	Mukhang hindi si De Lima ang totoong target ni Cam kundi ang siraan si Pimentel kay Pangulong Rodrigo Duterte.	it seems De Lima is not the real target of Cam but to slander Pimentel for President Rodrigo Duterte.
<15>	Alam na!	it is known!
<16>	Papalitan na raw ng Department of Tourism (DOT) ang slogan na “It’s more fun in the Philippines,” Pag­lalahad ni Secretary Wanda Teo, ilu­lunsad nila ang bagong slogan sa kalagitnaan ng 2017, ilang buwan matapos ang hosting ng Pilipina­s sa Miss Universe sa E­nero 2017.	the Department of Tourism (DOT) will supposedly replace the slogan "it's more fun in the Philippines," narrated Secretary Wanda Teo, they will launch the new slogan in the middle of 2017, a few months after the Philippines' hosting of Miss Universe in January 2017.
<17>	Noong 2002, “Wow Philippines” ang slogan ng DOT na pinasikat ni Sen. Richard Gordon, dating DOT secretary.	in 2002, the slogan of the DOT was "wow Philippines" popularized by Senator Richard Gordon, former DOT secretary.
<18>	Nang umupo naman si PNoy, naging “It’s more fun in the Philippines”.	when PNoy took seat, it became "it's more fun in the Philippines".
<19>	Gusto ni Teo na maging akma sa campaign promise ni Pangulong Rodrigo Duterte na “change is coming” ang magiging slogan ng DOT.	Teo wants the future slogan of the DOT to fit the campaign promise of President Rodrigo Duterte that "change is coming".
<20>	Totoong kailangang pa­litan na ang slogan ng DOT.	the slogan of the DOT truly needs to be replaced.
<21>	Hindi na akmang “It’s more fun in the Philippines” bagkus “It’s more dead in the Philippines” dahil higit sa 2,000 katao na ang napapatay kasabay ng kampanya ng gobyerno laban sa iligal na droga.	"it's more fun in the Philippines" is no longer appropriate and instead "it's more dead in the Philippines" due to the more than 2,000 people that have been killed coinciding with the government's campaign against illegal drugs.
<22>	Paano mahihikayat ng DOT ang mga fo­reign tourist na magtampi­saw sa mga beach resort sa bansa kung nagluluta­ngan naman ang mga patay na tao?	how can the DOT encourage foreign tourists to wade through the beach resorts in the country if dead people are floating about?
<23>	Maybe sa tingin ng DOT, mas safe na ngayon ang mga turista.	maybe the DOT thinks, tourists are safer now.
<24>	Magdiriwang ng kaara­wan ngayon si Sen.	celebrating her birthday today is Senator
<25>	Grace Poe, ang anak ng yumaong hari ng pelikulang Pilipino na si Fernando Poe Jr.	Grace Poe, daughter of deceased king of Philippine movies Fernando Poe Junior
<26>	at ni Susan Roces.	and Susan Roces.
<27>	Kahapon ay nasa Pangasinan ang senadora, ang home province ng namayapa niyang ama, upang pangunahan ang feeding program para sa kabataan — isang adbokasiya na isinusulong niya ngayon sa Senado.	yesterday the senator was in Pangasinan, home province of her deceased father, to head the feeding program for the youth - an advocacy she is currently pushing for in the Senate.
<28>	Si Sen. Poe ang may akda ng Senate Bill No. 160 para magkaroon ng libreng pananghalian ang mga mag-aaral sa public school.	Senator Poe is the author of Senate Bill Number 160 for students in public schools to have free lunch.
<29>	Malaking tulong ito sa mga magulang dahil sa hindi na sila gagastos para sa pam­baon ng kanilang anak.	this will be a big help to parents because they will no longer spend for the packed lunch of their children.
<30>	Muli.	again.
<31>	Maligayang kaa­rawan sa inyo Senadora Grace Poe!	happy birthday to you Senator Grace Poe!
