<1>	SA TRILLANES VS CAYETANO: RESPETO NAMAN! — KOKO By Eralyn Prado September 17, 2016 Magrespetuhan naman tayo sa isa’t isa. Pakiusap ito ni Se­nate President Aquilino ‘Koko’ Pimentel III matapos na hindi nito magustuhan ang nangyaring asaran at sigawan nina Sens. Alan Cayetano at Antonio Trillanes sa pagdinig kamakalawa ng Senate commite on justice and human rights kaugnay sa extrajudicial killings.	in Trillanes versus Cayetano: respect also! - Koko by Eralyn Prado September 17, 2016 let us respect each other. this is the plea of senate president Aquilino "Koko" Pimentel III after he disliked the sarcasm and shouting that happened with senators Alan Cayetano and Antonio Trillanes in the hearing the day before yesterday of the senate committee on justice and human rights related to the extrajudicial killings.
<2>	Partikular na hindi nagustuhan ni Pimentel at tinawag niyang “foul” ang ginawa ni Trillanes na pagpatay sa mikropono ni Cayetano.	Pimental particularly disliked and he called "foul" what Trillanes did in turning off the microphone of Cayetano.
<3>	“Yung pinapatay pa yung microphone, ‘yun po yung hindi magandang makita, kasi ang Senado e legislative body po ‘yan. Talagang ang mga weapons dyan mga salita kasi deliberative body talaga yan. Pero sana po wala na po yung physical interference, ng physical space ng tao na aabot ka at papatayin mo ‘yung mikropono noong tao,” ayon kay Pimentel.	"turning off the microphone, that is not nice to see, because the senate is a legislative body. the real weapons there are words because it is really a deliberative body. but I wish there will be no more physical interference, of physical space of people where you reach out and turn off the microphone of the person," according to Pimentel.
<4>	Dahil dito, apela ni Pimentel sa mga kasamahan na panatilihin ang respeto sa isa’t isa upang matiyak na magiging produktibo ang Senado at hindi maapektuhan ng anumang mga personal na hindi pagkakaunawaan.	because of this, Pimentel appealed to his colleagues to maintain respect with each other in order to ensure that the senate will become productive and not affected by any personal misunderstandings.
<5>	“Kasi kung wala kaming respeto sa isa’t isa mahirap po kaming maka-achieve ng anything,” dagdag pa ni Pimentel.	"because if we have no respect with each other it will be difficult for us to achieve anything," Pimentel added.
<6>	Nag-ugat ang banggaan matapos kuwestiyonin ni Trillanes ang mahabang pagtatanong ni Caye­tano sa witness na lumampas na sa 10 minutong itinakdang oras ng komite.	the conflict started after Trillanes questioned the long interrogation by Cayetano on the witness that exceeded 10 minutes of the allotted time by the committee.
<7>	Samantala, may payo naman si Senate Mino­rity Leader Ralph Recto sa publiko na huwag agad maniwala sa mga testimonya ng mga whistleblower bagkus dapat mapatunayan muna ang alegasyon.	meanwhile, senate minority leader Ralph Recto also has an advise to the public not to easily believe the testimonies of the whistle blowers instead their allegations should be proven first.
<8>	Kaalinsunod na rin ito sa pasabog ng isang self-confessed member ng Davao Death Squad na si Edgar Matobato kontra kay Pangulong Rodrigo Duterte partikular ang pagdawit sa extra judicial killings sa Davao City.	this also conforms with the explosion by one self-confessed member of the Davao death squad who is Edgar Matobato against president Rodrigo Duterte particularly in the involvement in extra-judicial killings in Davao city.
<9>	“My advice to the public is not to immediately believe in testimonies of whistleblowers. He or she must prove his allegations first,” ayon pa kay Recto.	"my advice to the public is not to immediately believe in testimonies of whistleblowers. he or she must prove his allegations first," also according to Recto.
