<1>	PHILANTROPIST BEN URI TALAGANG KAPURI-PURI	philanthropist Ben Uri, praiseworthy!
<2>	NGAYONG araw, Abril 5, gaganapin ang palarong basketball ni Ginoong Ben Uri, kilalang negosyante at pilantropo sa lungsod ng Batangas.	today, April 5, the basketball game will be held by Mister Ben Uri, a famous business man and philanthropist in the city of Batangas.
<3>	Lalahukan ng 20 koponan na maglalaban-laban sa trophies at cash na ibibigay ni Mr. Uri, ito’y isang buwan na tournament na tatawaging ‘BolBok Basketball for a Cause.’	it will be attended by 20 teams who are going to fight for the trophies and cash that will be given by Mister Uri. this is a one-month tournament called "Bolbok Basketball for a Cause."
<4>	Gaganapin ito sa bagong basketball court sa 2.5 hectares compound ng Tree House Restaurant, Hotel and Resorts na makikita sa Diversion Road, Bolbok, Batangas na pag-aari ni Mr. Uri.	this will be held at the new basketball court on the 2.5 hectare compound of the Tree House Restaurant, Hotel and Resorts which can be found on Diversion Road, Bolbok, Batangas, owned by Mister Uri.
<5>	Tumataginting na P.5 million ang ginasta sa court construction, at gugugol pa si Mr. Uri ng P.5M para sa pagsasakatuparan ng naturang basketball competition.	a splendid P.5 million was spent in the court construction, and Mister Uri is going to spend another P.5M for the realization of the said basketball competition.
<6>	Pamosong game fowl breeder and cocker, si Mr. Uri ang nagpagawa ng players uniform na gagamitin sa paligsahan na matatatapos sa Mayo 22 na nagkataong fiesta sa Brgy. Bolbok.	Mister Uri is a famous game fowl breeder and cocker who had the players uniform made to be used in the competition which will be finished on May 22 and by chance is also a fiesta in Barangay Bolbok.
<7>	Ang palaro ay handog din ni Mr. Uri sa maraming kabataan at residente ng Bolbok na mahilig sa sports, ayon sa kaibigan nating si Cris Ibon.	the game is an offering of Mister Uri to the many youth and residents of Bolbok who like sports, according to our friend Cris Ibon.
<8>	Tulad ni Mr. Uri, si Mr. Ibon, beteranong mamamahayag at negosyante, ay kilala ring game breeder and cocker sa Batangas.	similar to Mister Uri, Mister Ibon, a veteran journalist and businessman, is also a known game breeder and cocker in Batangas.
<9>	Kinuha ni Mr. uri ang serbisyo ni Kagawad Veksler Jason Andal at Rey Persincula, supervisor ng Tree House Restaurant, Hotel and Resorts bilang basketball coordinators.	Mister Uri took the services of Councilor Veksler Jason Andal and Rey Persincula, supervisor of the Tree House Restaurant, Hotel and Resorts as basketball coordinators.
<10>	Tiyak na masaya ang pista ng Bolbok dahil kukuha rin si Mr. Uri ng mga kilalang banda na magsasagawa ng free live show sa May 20 at coronation night sa May 21.	surely, the fiesta in Bolbok will be fun because Mister Uri will also get famous bands who are going to have a free live show on May 20 and coronation night on May 21.
<11>	Ang 12-man Team CIA Orig na pangungunahan ni Cristuz Vivo V. Ibon, isang OFW at bunsong anak ni journalist, businessman Cris Ibon-Aclan ay isa sa participants at kinokonsiderang ‘dark horse’ sa tournament.	the 12-man team Team CIA Orig was led by Cristuz Vivo V. Ibon, an OFW and youngest child of the journalist and businessman Cris Ibon-Aclan, is one of the participants and considered as the dark horse of the tournament.
<12>	Si Mr. Ibon na residente rin ng Bolbok ay ginastusan ang entry ng CIA Orig bilang suporta sa sports advocacy ni Mr. Uri para sa mga kababayan sa Brgy. Bolbok.	Mister Ibon who is a resident of Bolbok have spent the entry of the CIA as a support to the sports advocacy of Mister Uri for his fellowman in Barangay Bolbok.
<13>	Kapuri-puri ang kawanggawang ito ni Mr. Puri.	the outreach program of Mister Uri is praiseworthy.
