<1>	Top caliber athletes sasalainBy ­Ramil Cruz	top caliber athletes will be sieved by Ramil Cruz
<2>	December 15, 2016	December 15, 2016
<3>	Papasok na ang ika-60 edisyon ng Palarong Pambansa sa taong 2017, pero mabibilang lang sa daliri ang astig na naging produkto nito gaya nina dating Asia’s fastest wo­man Lydia de Vega-Mercado, former Southeast Asian Games Most Outstanding Athlete swimmer Eric Buhain, dating national 400m/100m hurdles record holder Reynato Unso at ex-SEAG long jump queen Elma Muros-Posadas.	the 60th edition of National Games in the year 2017 is coming, but you can only count with your fingers its amazing products, like Asia's fastest woman, Lydia de Vega-Mercado, former Southeast Asian Games most outstanding athlete swimmer, Eric Buhain, former national 400meter/100meter hurdles record holder, Reynato Unso, and ex-SEAG long jump queen, Elma Muros-Posadas.
<4>	Dekada 70s pa lumitaw ang mga pangalan ng apat na mga atleta, at hanggang sa pinakahu­ling edisyon ng Palaro sa Albay sa taong ito, nananatili silang standouts pa rin ng taunang sportsfest.	it was still in the decade of 70s when the names of the four athletes emerged; and up until the last edition of Games in Albay this year, they remain to be standouts in the yearly sports fest.
<5>	Walang nakasunod sa kanilang mga yapak.	no one got to follow their steps.
<6>	Kaya panghihimasukan ng Philippine Sports Commission ang kumpe­tisyon para sa mga student-athletes ng 18-rehiyon ng bansa para makatuklas ulit ng gaya ng kalibre nina de Vega-Mercado, Buhain, Muros-Posadas at Unso.	Philippine Sports Commission will interfere with the competition for the student-athletes of region 18 of the country to discover the likes of the caliber of de Vega-Mercado, Buhain, Muros-Posadas, and Unso.
<7>	“Palarong Pambansa is a grassroots sports program.	National Games is a grassroots sports program.
<8>	Pero bakit wala nang panibagong na- develop na mga world class athletes like Lydia, Eric, Unso and Elma in the past editions.	but why aren't there newly-developed world class athletes like Lydia, Eric, Unso, and Elma in the past editions?
<9>	So we in the PSC, being part of the management of Palaro, will revisit what should be done to Palaro,” pahayag kamakalawa ni PSC chair Butch Ramirez.	"so we in the PSC, being part of the management of Games, will revisit what should be done to Games," statement of PSC Chair, Butch Ramirez, the other day.
<10>	Isa sa nais ni Ramirez ang mabalik sa PSC ang Palaro.	one of Ramirez's wishes is to bring back the Games to PSC.
