<1>	South Cotabato nakikiisa sa pagdiriwang ng National Women’s Month	South Cotabato joins the celebration of national women's month
<2>	March 03, 2016 LUNGSOD NG KORONADAL, South Cotabato, Mar. 3 (PIA) – Ang buwan ng Marso ay National Women’s Month.	March 03, 2016 city of Coronadal, South Cotabato, Mar. 3 (PIA) - the month of March is national women's month.
<3>	Kaugnay rito, nakatakdang magsagawa ang pamahalaang panlalawigan ng South Cotabato ng Women’s Congress sa Tropicana Beach sa General Santos City sa Marso 17 hanggang 18. Dadaluhan ito ng may 1,500 kababaihan mula sa iba’t ibang sektor sa sampung bayan at isang lungsod sa South Cotabato, pati na ang mga miyembro ng Kalipunan ng Liping Pilipina sa lalawigan.	related to this, the provincial government of South Cotabato will be holding the women's congress at Tropicana Beach in General Santos city on March 17 to 18. it will be attended by 1,500 women from various sectors in ten towns and one city in South Cotabato, including members of the "Kalipunan ng Liping Pilipina" in the province.
<4>	Ayon kay Joy Londres ng Provincial Population Office, bibigyang diin sa pagtitipon ang kapakanan ng mga kababaihan sa politika batay na rin sa tema ng pagdiriwang na “Kapakanan ni Juana, Isama sa Agenda.”	according to Joy Londres of the provincial population office, the meeting will be emphasizing the welfare of women in politics based on the theme of the celebration "the welfare of Juana, include it in the agenda."
<5>	Kabilang sa inaasahang panauhing pandangal sina dating Justice Secretary Leila De Lima at TV personality Korina Sanchez.	among the expected guests of honor are former Justice Secretary Leila De Lima and TV personality Korina Sanchez.
<6>	Layon din ng pagtitipon, dagdag ni Londres, ang mabigyan ang mga kababaihan ng isang “day-off” mula sa kanilang mga gawain sa tahanan at tanggapan kung kaya’t sa tabing-dagat isasagawa ang women’s congress.	the purpose of the meeting, Londres added, is to give women a "day off" from their home and office activities that is why the women's congress will be held at the beach.
<7>	Bukod sa pakikinig sa mga mensahe ng imbitadong mga personalidad, panahon rin ang pagtitipon para sa pagsasaya dahil nakatakda rin silang maglaro ng mga larong Pinoy at humataw sa isang Zumba session.	apart from listening to the messages from invited personalities, the gathering was also a time for fun because they are also set to play Pinoy games and dance in one Zumba session.
<8>	Naglaan ang pamahalaang panlalawigan ng halos PhP400,000 para sa women’s congress.	the provincial government allotted about Php 400,000 for the women's congress.
<9>	(KCSenillo- DevCom Intern/DEDoguiles-PIA 12)	(KCSenillo-DevCom Intern/DEDoguiles-PIA 12)
