<1>	Duterte naki-join sa Feast of Ramadan By Dindo Matining	Duterte joins the feast of Ramadan by Dindo Matining
<2>	July 7, 2016	July 7, 2016
<3>	Nakiisa si Pangulong Rodrigo Duterte sa mga Pilipinong Muslim sa pagdiriwang ng Feast of Ramadan.	President Rodrigo Duterte joins the Filipino Muslims in celebrating the Feast of Ramadan.
<4>	“I extend my warm greetings and felicitations to the members of the Muslim Ummah (communities), as they celebrate today Eid’l Fitr or the culmination of the month-long observance of fasting for the Holy Month of Ramadan,” sabi ni Duterte sa isang statement.	"I extend my warm greetings and felicitations to the members of the Muslim Ummah (communities), as they celebrate today Eid'l Fitr or the culmination of the month-long observance of fasting for the Holy Month of Ramadan," Duterte said in a statement.
<5>	Aniya, ‘timely’ at ‘relevant’ diumano ang pagdiriwang ng Ramadan sa taong ito lalo na’t nagsisimula ang bansa sa ilalim ng bagong admi­nistrasyong Duterte.	he said, 'timely' and 'relevant' was the celebration of Ramadan this year especially since the country is starting under the new Duterte administration.
<6>	“This year’s celebration is indeed timely and relevant, as the Filipino nation starts a fresh move towards peace, stability, development, and progress under a new leadership,” sabi ni Duterte.	"this year's celebration is indeed timely and relevant, as the Filipino nation starts a fresh move towards peace, stability, development, and progress under a new leadership," said Duterte.
<7>	“Definitely, we view the new administration with high hope and sustained enthusiasm, that, with the support and cooperation of every Filipino, it will propel our country to greater heights,” dagdag pa nito.	"definitely, we view the new administration with high hope and sustained enthusiasm, that, with the support and cooperation of every Filipino, it will propel our country to greater heights," he added.
<8>	Umaasa rin ang Pa­ngulo na ang ‘sense of discipline’ na natutunan sa banal na buwan ng Ramadan ay magiging daan ng pagkakaisa patungo sa tunay na pagbabago ng bansa.	the President also hopes that the "sense of discipline" learned in the holy month of Ramadan serves as a way to unite towards the changing of the country.
