<1>	Sports kontra droga sa Tondo ikinakasa ni Erap, PSC By Ramil Cruz	sports against drugs in Tondo, urged by Erap, PSC by Ramil Cruz
<2>	August 18, 2016	August 18, 2016
<3>	Nakipagkasundo ang Philippine Sports Commission (PSC) kay dating Presidente at ngayo’y Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada para sa isang proyekto na mai-promote ang sports at mailayo ang mga kabataan sa droga.	Philippine Sports Commission (PSC) collaborated with former President and current Manila Mayor, Joseph Estrada, for a project to promote sports and distance youth from drugs.
<4>	“We had a wonderful meeting with former President Joseph Estrada and he wants us to plan a sports project for the youth of Tondo,” ni PSC chairman Butch Ramirez.	"we had a wonderful meeting with former President Joseph Estrada, and he wants us to plan a sports project for the youth of Tondo," said PSC chairman, Butch Ramirez.
<5>	“He (Estrada) is really bent and very serious on promoting sports to the youth para maiiwas ang mga bata sa droga.”	"he (Estrada) is really bent and very serious on promoting sports to the youth to keep the children away from drugs."
<6>	Iminungkahi ni Erap ang pagsasagawa ng malawakang programa sa sports sa Maynila na aniya’y magiging anti-drug campaign sa mga Batang Tondo.	Erap proposed to organize a comprehensive sports program in Manila, which will be the anti-drug campaign for the youth of Tondo.
<7>	“Sports is for human development of everybody and one of the effective ways of shying away the youth from the menace of drugs and other vices,” hirit ni Ramirez.	"sports is for the human development of everybody, and one of the effective ways of shying away the youth from the menace of drugs and other vices," Ramirez added.
<8>	Isa lamang ito sa programa na balak ni Ramirez na maibahagi sa lahat ng Local Government Units sa bansa.	this is only one of the programs Ramirez plans to impart to the Local Government Units of the country.
<9>	“We want to partner with the Department of Interior and Local Go­vernment and all the LGUs under the agency for the nationwide implementation of a genuine grassroots sports deve­lopment program, where our kids and youth will have the chance to equally participate,” panapos ni Ramirez.	"we want to partner with the Department of Interior and Local Government, and all the LGUs under the agency for the nationwide implementation of a genuine grassroots sport development program, where our kids and youth will have the chance to equally participate," Ramirez finished.
<10>	Nagparamdam ang San Juan City bilang u­nang LGU sa anti-drug program nang mahigit 400 aminadong drug dependents ang sumali sa zumba ng PSC Laro’t Saya sa Parke, PLAY ‘N LEARN sa Pinaglabanan Shrine.	San Juan City hints to be the first LGU in the anti-drug program with more than 400 admitted drug dependents to join the Zumba of PSC Fun and Games in Parke, PLAY 'N LEARN in Pinaglabanan Shrine.
