<1>	PPP sa LGU inilunsad sa SOCCSKSARGEN Region	PPP launched in SOCCSKSARGEN Region
<2>	September 27, 2016	September 27, 2016
<3>	LUNGSOD NG KORONADAL, South Cotabato, Set. 27 (PIA) -- Inilunsad ng Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) sa Koronadal City ang inisyatibong magsusulong ng pagtutulungan ng mga lokal na pamahalaan at pribadong sektor para sa magpapatupad ng mga proyektong pang-imprastraktura at pampublikong serbisyo.	City of Koronadal, South Cotabato, September 27 (PIA) - the Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) in Koronadal City launched the initiative that will advance the cooperation of the local government and private sectors for the implementation of the infrastructure projects and public services.
<4>	Tinatawag ang programa na Public Private Partnership for the People Initiative for the Local Governments (LGU P4).	the program is called Public Private Partnership for the People Initiative for the Local Governments (LGU P4).
<5>	Sa isang panayam sinabi ni DILG 12 Regional Director Reynaldo Bungubung na ang launching ng LGU P4 sa Koronadal City noong Biyernes ay ang kauna-unahang regional kick off sa naturang programa.	in one interview, DILG 12 Regional Director Reynaldo Bungubung said that the launching of the LGU P4 in Koronadal City last Friday was the first regional kick-off of the said program.
<6>	Paliwanag naman ni Anna Liza Bonagua, director ng Bureau of Local Government Development (BLGD) ng DILG, layon ng LGU P4 na isulong ang konsepto ng PPP sa mga barangay, munisipyo, lungsod at lalawigan sa layong makatulong sa pagsulong sa kaunlarang pang-ekonomiya sa mga lokal na pamahalaan.	explained by Anna Liza Bonagua, director of the Bureau of Local Government Development (BLGD) of the DILG, objective of the LGU P4 is to advance the concept of the PPP in barangays, municipalities, cities and provinces in the goal to help in the advancement of economic progress in the local governments.
<7>	Paliwanag pa ng opisyal, sa ilalim ng programa maaring ang lokal na pamahalaan ang lumapit sa mga pribadong mamumuhunan para alukin na pondohan ang mga proyektong naghihintay na pondohan ng pamahalaang nasyunal at ibang donor.	explained by the official, under the program, the local government may approach the private investors to offer in funding the projects which are waiting to be funded by the national government and other donors.
<8>	Maaari ring ang pribadong sektor ang mag-alok na pondohon at ipatupad ang mga proyektong sa tingin nito ay kakakailanganin ng LGU.	the private sector may also offer to fund and implement the projects that it perceives to be needed by the LGU.
<9>	Diin pa ng Bonagua, walang limitasyon sa liit o laki ng proyekto ang maaaring ipapatupad sa LGU P4. Ang mahalaga aniya ay mapagkasunduan ng dalawang panig ang pagkakasosyo at masigurong kikita ang dalawang panig.	insisted by Bonagua, there is no limitation in the smallness or largeness of the project that can be implemented in LGU P4. the important is, according to him, the two parties will be able to agree in their partnership and assure that both parties will gain profit.
<10>	Ilan sa mga proyektong maaaring ipatupad ay pamamahala ng pagkolekta ng basura kalsada, tulay, pasilidad na mabibigay ng serbisyong pampubliko at marami pang iba.	few of the projects that can be implemented are the management in the collection of garbage on the roads, bridges, facilities that will give public service and many others.
<11>	(DEDoguiles-PIA 12)	(DEDoguiles-PIA 12)
