<1>	P1M kay Para Games bronze medalist Medina By Boyet Jadulco	P1 million for Paralympic Games bronze medalist Medina by Boyet Jadulco
<2>	September 15, 2016	September 15, 2016
<3>	Kuwalipikado rin si Josephine Medina na makatanggap ng P1 milyon matapos manalo ng bronze medal sa Class 8 table tennis sa Rio 2016 Paralympic Games, ayon kay Sen. Juan Edgardo Angara.	Josephine Medina is also qualified to receive P1 million, after winning the bronze medal in Class 8 table tennis in Rio 2016 Paralympic Games, according to Senator Juan Edgardo Angara.
<4>	Paliwanag ng Senador, ang cash incentive ay hindi lang para sa mga nakakuha ng medalya sa Summer Olympics kundi pati sa Paralympic Games, ang paligsahan ng mga may kapansanan.	the Senator explained that the cash incentive is not just for those who win medals in Summer Olympics, but also for the Paralympic Games, a contest for the disabled.
<5>	“This is truly one of the noblest intentions of the law – to include our winning athletes with disabi­lities in the grant of cash awards from the government.	"this is truly one of the noblest intentions of the law - to include our winning athletes with disabilities in the grant of cash awards from the government."
<6>	The term ‘national athletes’ should encompass all athletes including those who are differently-abled as they undoubtedly deserve bigger incentives and benefits,” ani Angara, author at sponsor ng Republic Act 10699.	the term 'national athletes' should encompass all athletes including those who are differently-abled, as they undoubtedly deserve bigger incentives and benefits," said Angara, author and sponsor of Republic Act 10699.
<7>	Si Medina, 46-anyos na flag bearer ng bansa sa Games, ang ikalawang nagkuwintas ng Paralympic medal para sa Pilipinas kasunod ni powerlifter Adeline Dumapong-Ancheta na naka-bronze din noong 2000 Sydney.	Medina, 46-year-old flag bearer of the country in Games, is the second to win the Paralympic medal for the Philippines, after powerlifter, Adeline Dumapong who won bronze last 2000 in Sydney.
<8>	Pero hindi pa umiiral ang RA 10699 noon, token incentives lang ang nakuha ni Dumapong-Ancheta sa halagang P200,000 mula sa Philippine Sports Commission at P300,000 kay Pangulong Joseph Estrada.	but RA 10699 was not yet implemented before, Dumapong Ancheta only received token incentives worth P200, 000 from the Philippine Sports Commission and P300,000 from President Joseph Estrada.
<9>	Sa ilalim ng bagong batas, ang makaka-gold sa Paralympics ay may P5M, P2.5M sa silver, at P1M sa bronze.	under the new law, winner of gold in the Paralympics will be given P5 million, P2.5 million for silver, and P1 million for bronze.
<10>	Ang coach ay tatanggap din ng cash incentive katumbas ng kalahati ng makukuha ng winner.	coach will also receive cash incentive worth half the amount the winner will receive.
<11>	Noong nakaraang buwan, tumanggap si Rio Olympics silver medalist weightlifter Hidilyn Diaz ng katumbas na halaga.	last month, Rio Olympics silver medalist weightlifter, Hidilyn Diaz, received the equivalent amount,
