<1>	Anthony nanawagan sa mga kapwa atleta July 10, 2016Nanawagan si NBA star Carmelo Anthony kahapon (Manila time) sa mga atleta na “lumabas” at “humingi ng pagbabago,” makaraan ang pamamaril ng mga pulis na kinamatay ng dalawang negrong lalaki at ng limang opisyal na mga alagad din ng batas sa Dallas.	Anthony pleas to fellow athletes July 10, 2016 NBA star Carmelo Anthony pleaded yesterday (Manila time) to athletes to "come out" and "demand change," after a police shooting that killed two black men and five officials who were also officers of the law in Dallas.
<2>	Hinayag ni Anthony, ang New York Knicks forward na nakatuon sa unprecedented third men’s Olympic basketball gold medal sa Rio de Janeiro sa Agosto 5-21, ang mensahe niya sa social media sa paghimok sa manlalaro na manawagan ng pagbabago sa sistemang tinawag niyang “Broken.	Anthony, the New York Knicks forward focused on the unprecedented third men's Olympic basketball gold medal in Rio de Janeiro on August 5-21, expressed his message on social media encouraging athletes to call for change in a system he called "broken.
<3>	Point blank period.”	point blank period."
<4>	“I’m calling for all my fellow ATHLETES to step up and take charge.	"I'm calling for all my fellow athletes to step up and take charge.
<5>	Go to your local officials, leaders, congressman, assemblymen/assemblywoman and demand change.	go to your local officials, leaders, congressman, assemblymen/assemblywoman and demand change.
<6>	There’s NO more sitting back and being afraid of tackling and addressing political issues anymore.”	there's no more sitting back and being afraid of tackling and addressing political issues anymore."
<7>	Limang opisyal ang mga nasawi, at pitong police at dalawang civilians ang mga nasugatan pa sa Dallas noong Huwebes ng gabi sa sniper-style attack sa peaceful protest kontra police brutality sanhi sa pagpatay kina Alton Sterling sa Louisiana at Philando Castile sa Minnesota.	five officials were killed, and seven police officers and two civilians were injured in Dallas last Thursday night in a sniper-style attack on the peaceful protest against police brutality that caused the death of Alton Sterling in Louisiana and Philando Castile in Minnesota.
<8>	Giniit ni Anthony, 32, na ang adbokasiya niya sa sosyal na hustisya ang higit na mas mahalaga kaysa ang manahimik at matakot sa paglayo ng mga sponsors.	Anthony, 32, stressed that his advocacy for social justice is much more important than staying silent and scared of turning away sponsors.
<9>	“We can’t worry about what endorsements we gonna lose or (who’s) going to look at us crazy.	"we can't worry about what endorsements we gonna lose or (who's) going to look at us crazy.
<10>	I need your voices to be heard,” mariing wika ni Anthony.	I need your voices to be heard," Anthony carefully stated.
<11>	Hinirit ng 14-year NBA veteran, na payag siyang manguna sa pagkilos pero hanggang sa kasalukuyan ay wala pa ring mga tao na mga nagpaparamdam.	the 14-year NBA veteran insisted, he agrees to lead the movement but up to the present nobody has shown interest.
<12>	“I’m all about rallying, protesting, fighting for OUR people.	"I'm all about rallying, protesting, fighting for our people.
<13>	Look I’ll even lead the charge, By Any Means Necessary,” bahagi pa ng post niya.	look I'll even lead the charge, by any means necessary," he even shared in his post.
<14>	“We have to be smart about what we are doing though.	"we have to be smart about what we are doing though.
<15>	We need to steer our anger in the right direction.”	we need to steer our anger in the right direction."
<16>	“Our anger should be towards the system… We have to put the pressure on the people in charge in order to get this thing we call JUSTICE right.”	"our anger should be towards the system... we have to put the pressure on the people in charge in order to get this thing we call justice right."
