<1>	Rhian, naiyak nang bonggang-bongga By Allan Diones December 23, 2016EMOSYONAL si Rhian Ramos after ng press preview ng 2016 MMFF movie niyang Saving Sally.	Rhian cried fabulously by Allan Diones December 23, 2016 Rhian Ramos is emotional after the press preview of her 2016 MMFF movie Saving Sally.
<2>	Finally kasi, after more than 7 years mula nang gawin niya ang pelikula ay maipa­palabas na ito sa mga sinehan at mapapanood na ng publiko.	because finally, after more than 7 years since she made the movie, it will be released to the cinema and will be watched by the public.
<3>	“Ayoko namang ibida masyado ‘yung movie namin, pero ­sobrang nakakaiyak. Kasi, sobrang ­masaya ako sa naging resulta and it was everything I hoped it would be and more,” masayang bulalas ni ­Rhian, na panahon pa ng Zorro (2009) ni ­Richard Gutierrez sa GMA nang gawin ang Saving Sally.	"I don't want to highlight our movie so much, but it is really tear-jerking. because, I am so happy with the result and it was everything I hoped it would be and more," Rhian expressed happily, Saving Sally was made during the time of Zorro (2009) by Richard Gutierrez of GMA.
<4>	“Ang tagal-tagal na since I did this and before, nu’ng araw pa lang na nag-sneak out ako para mag-­audition sa movie na ‘to, ito ‘yung ­pini-picture ko na result. “Actually, the animation part is ­nicer than I ­pictured. Kasi, the curiosity for me, nagbi-build up nang nagbi-build up as every year went by. “Tapos siyempre, nagtatanungan na kami kung kailan ba ipapalabas. Pero hindi pa okey sa standard ni ­Direk Avid (Liongoren), so parang he worked on the ­movie and reworked on it again and again.	"it has been so long since I did this and before, in the past I sneaked out just to have an audition for this movie, this is the result I have in mind. actually, the animation part is nicer than I pictured. because, the curiosity of me, it built up as years passed by. and then, of course, we were asking when it would be shown. but it was still not okay for the standard of director Avid (Liongoren), so, it's like he worked on the movie and reworked on it again and again.
<5>	Nag-layer siya. “Una, parang regular cartoons. Tapos, mas may ­detalye na. Then more and more details year ­after year until ito ‘yung naging result…“When I was watching it, I really enjoyed it for the inno­cence of the project. “Mapi-feel mo talaga na it has a happy, innocent vibe na hindi nakaka-intimidate. “It’s like having a conversation with a kid na ang laki ng imagination, ang excited magkuwento.	it became layered. at first, like regular cartoons. then, there was more details. then more and more details year after year until this became the result. when I was watching it, I really enjoyed it for the innocence of the project. you will really feel that it has a happy, innocent vibe that is not intimidating. it's like having a conversation with a kid with a huge imagination, excitedly telling a story.
<6>	‘Yung mga gano’n,” maigting na sey ng 26-anyos na Kapuso actress.	"in those things," assertively said by the 26-year old Kapuso actress.
