<1>	Occ Min, idineklarang ‘Conflict Manageable and Ready for Development’ ng AFP	Occ Min, declared "Conflict" Manageable and Ready for Development' by AFP
<2>	November 04, 2016 Voltaire N. Dequina	November 04, 2016 Voltaire N. Dequina
<3>	SAN JOSE, Occidental Mindoro, Nob 4 (PIA) – Opisyal na idineklara ng Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) ang lalawigan bilang ‘Conflict Manageable and Ready for Development’ kamakailan sa Provincial Training Center, Mamburao.	San Jose, Occidental Mindoro, November 4 (PIA) - Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) officially declared the province as "Conflict" Manageable and Ready for Development' recently at the Provincial Training Center, Mamburao.
<4>	Sa mensaheng ipinahatid ni AFP Chief of Staff Lt. Gen Ricardo Visaya kay Southern Luzon Command Lt. Gen. Ferdinand Quidilla, batid aniya ng hepe ng Sandatahang Lakas, ang malaking potensyal ng lalawigan upang umunlad.	in the message delivered by AFP Chief of Staff Lieutenant General Ricardo Visaya to Southern Luzon Command Lieutenant General Ferdinand Quidilla, it is known to the chief of Armed Forces, the huge potential of the province for growth.
<5>	Ayon pa dito, kapag may seguridad ang isang pamayanan ay nakatuon ang atensyon ng mga mamamayan sa pagpapaunlad ng kanilang mga kabuhayan, na may malaking epekto sa pagsulong ng bayan.	according to him, if there is security within the community the attention of the citizens is on the development of their businesses, which hugely affects the growth of the nation.
<6>	“Only through peace can we realize progress and prosperity (tanging sa kapayapaan lang natin makakamtan ang pagunlad at kasaganahan)”, dagdag pa ng heneral.	"only through peace can we realize progress and prosperity (only through peace can we realize progress and prosperity), added the general.
<7>	Nagpahatid din ng mensahe si Philippine National Police (PNP) Regional Director PC Supt Wilben Mayor kay Provincial Director PS Supt Reynaldo Jagmis at sinabing ang deklarasyon (Conflict Manageable and Ready for Development) ay isang imbitasyon ng lalawigan sa mga mamumuhunan o investors.	A message was also delivered by Philippine National Police (PNP) Regional Director PC Supt Wilben Mayor to Provincial Director PS Supt Reynaldo Jagmis and said the declaration (Conflict Manageable and Ready for Development) is one invitation of the province to investors.
<8>	Ayon pa sa direktor, makakatuwang na ng kapulisan ang Philippine Army sa pagpapatupad ng batas lalo na sa paglaban sa droga.	according to the director, the Philippine Army will be helping the police force in implementing the law especially in the fight against drugs.
<9>	Ipinaalala rin ni Mayor na kahit may usapang pangkapayapaan sa pagitan ng makakaliwang grupo at pamahalaan ay dapat maging handa pa rin ang lahat.	mayor also reminded that although there are talks of peace between the leftist group and government, everybody must remain prepared.
<10>	“Let us remain vigilant and ready to defend against terrorist threat and aggression whether domestic or foreign (Panatilihin natin ang pagiging mapagmatyag at handang magtanggol sa banta ng terorista at karahasan na maaring magmula sa loob o labas ng bansa)”, ayon pa sa PNP Regional Director.	'let us remain vigilant and ready to defend against terrorist threat and aggression whether domestic and foreign (let us remain vigilant and ready to defend against terrorist threat and aggression whether domestic and foreign)," said the PNP Regional Director.
<11>	Pinasalamatan naman ni Governor Mario Gene Mendiola ang AFP at PNP sa patuloy nitong pagpapanatili ng katahimikan at kaayusan sa lalawigan.	meanwhile, Governor Mario Gene Mendiola thanked AFP and PNP in their continued efforts in keeping peace and quiet in the province.
<12>	Sinabi pa ng gobernador na ang sanhi ng pakikibaka ay kahirapan kung kaya’t ito umano ang pilit na hinahanapan ng kasagutan ng kanyang administrasyon.	the governor said that the cause of struggles is poverty which is why they keep looking for solutions in his administration.
<13>	Kabilang aniya sa mga proyekto na patuloy na pinagyayaman ng pamahalaang panlalawigan ay pagpapagawa ng mga irigasyon at farm-to-market roads, pamamahagi ng mga makabagong makinarya sa mga kooperatiba, tulong pinasyal sa mga magsasaka at mangingisda at pagpapaunlad sa kalagayang medikal ng lalawigan.	he stated that included in his many projects is the continued enrichment by the provincial government in creating irrigation and farm-to-market roads, providing modern machinery to cooperatives, financial assistance to farmers and fishermen, and improving the health condition of the province.
<14>	“Palalakasin pa natin ang agrikultura at turismo sa lalawigan”, ayon pa kay Mendiola.	"let us strengthen the agriculture and tourism in the province," according to Mendiola.
<15>	Dumalo sa naturang aktibidad ang mga local government units, Local Chief Executives ng labing isang bayan sa lalawigan, PNP, AFP gayundin ang iba pang ahensya ng pamahalaan.	the said activity were attended by local government units, Local Chief Executives from eleven cities of the province, PNP, AFP, and other agencies of the government.
<16>	(VND/PIA MIMAROPA/Occ Min)	(VND/PIA MIMAROPA/Occ Min)
