<1>	Resignation ng judge sa Digong drug list tinanggihan ng SC August 16, 2016 Naghain ng irrevocable resignation si Judge Exequil Dagala ng Municipal Trial Court (MTC) sa Dapa, Siargao kasunod ng paglabas ng pangalan nito sa listahan ni Pangulong Rodrigo Duterte na umano’y may kaugnayan sa ilegal na droga.	resignation of judge included in the Digong drug list rejected by the SC August 16, 2016 Judge Exequil Dagala of the municipal trial court (MTC) of Dapa, Siargao offered an irrevocable resignation following his name's appearance in President Rodrigo Duterte's list of those allegedly involved in illegal drugs.
<2>	Kabilang si Dagala sa pitong hukom na nasa listahan ni Duterte kunsaan apat lamang sa kanila ang sasailalim sa imbestigasyon dahil aktibo pa sa puwesto.	Dagala is included in the seven judges in the list of Duterte wherein only four of them will be placed under investigation because the others are still active in service.
<3>	Ang naturang pagbibitiw ay nangyari nitong Agosto 8 kay Supreme Court (SC) Administrator Jose Midas Marquez. Kaugnay nito, hindi tinanggap ng korte ang pagbibitiw ni Dagala dahil ayon kay SC public information chief Atty.	the said resignation happened this August 8 with Supreme Court (SC) administrator Jose Midas Marquez. related to this, the court did not accept the resignation of Dagala because according to SC public information chief Attorney
<4>	Theodore Te sumasailalim na ito sa administrative investigation bago pa man masama sa listahan ni Duterte.	Theodore Te he was already under administrative investigation even before being included in the list of Duterte.
<5>	“He remains under the jurisdiction of the Court as far as administrative discipline is concerned and will be subject to the fact finding investigation to be conducted by retired Justice Roberto Abad,” pahayag ni Te.	"he remains under the jurisdiction of the court as far as administrative discipline is concerned and will be subject to the fact finding investigation to be conducted by retired Justice Roberto Abad," Te stated.
