
Jembe Tido Mhando ATUA Azam TV TV.

The Azam Media Limited company, today has announced that Tido Mhando has been appointed as the acting executive director, Uhai Production Ltd. (UPL).

Tido, he is collaborating with Rhys Torrington who is the chief executive officer of Azam Media Limited and the famous presenter in the country, Mhando will start his responsibilities immediately, being his main responsibility is making and improvement of Tanzanian programs in the television and redioni.

Mhando with more than 40 years experience in the broadcasting industry and publishing, is someone who is known and respectable in the industry in the East African region and on the world all over the world.

He started working as DJ Radio Tanzania and on the year 1985 joined BBC idha Swahili in Nairobi as a journalist.
His involvement inside the organization was impled to be transferred to London in the year 1991 where he was appointed as Mwafrika first to lead the Swahili channel department of Swahili BBC.

After the return of Tanzania, Mhando has held various positions including the director general of TBC and recently the general director of Citizen Communication Ltd.

Speaking about his appointment, Mhando has said, "I have a great joy to join Azam Media, also with the biggest challenges that are ahead of us to make that the only Televisioni and radio company in providing entertainment here in the country (Tanzania) also and all the African region."

Mhando offices will be present in the modern building of Life Production Tabata, Dar es Salaam.
The UPL is known by its best in broadcast directly like, the Vodacom Premier League in Tanzania Mainland together with other popular programs like Kwetu House and Morning trumpet.

Also in the coming weeks UPL will launch his new studio with international level which will enable us Mhando to have great ability to create different programs with international standards in collaboration with the local designers.

Speaking about the appointment, British Torrington has said: "We have great comfort to Tido join us when we close to fulfill our first year since we start providing services, it is happy that Azam TV has been fast and become the chief suppliers and the best satellite Pay Tv Tanzania."

"For his experience, I hope Tido will be taking the responsibility of the dismissal of another business success by creating programs and various entertainment that is the one of our customers in Tanzania and crossing our borders.
And you wish him a good luck in his new responsibilities, "he has said.


