
Wapoem the meat of the people at the end of their children, Jul 05, 2012, 2012.

If there is an incident that has shaken the nation last week is not a strike of doctors especially but destroying of trophies, being tortured by the attempt of killing the leader of the strike, Doctor.
Stephen Ulimboka.
Last night, the nation was ready and the beginning of the strike of doctors found themselves being shown his other chapter which now has started taking it.
That, there are people who are in order between us and people who can do anything to any and there is nothing to prevent them.
As opposed to it by the commander Suleiman Kova and being repeated by President Jakaya Kikwete, that the destruction of trophies is a geni and it happened for "the first time" the fact is that this matter has now begun to be as usual.
It should be kidnapping of the political environment or of the private visasi.
In politics we already know three cases that until now the characters have not been found.
There is a case of the young man of Ubungo who was abducted the night before the small elections in Igunga.
The one boy who was called Mbwana Masoud disappeared to mysterious circumstances.
He had gone to Igunga as one of the voters of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
It was not known where he is up to a few days later on his body that was fixed with injuries that indicate that the young man was very surprised before being killed.
Are there people who were doing exercises for their dirty methods?
Who will be forgotten the event of CHADEMA parliamentarians being attacked at eight and injured again being alleged in front of the police but there is no one who was arrested until now?
What are the people who have the courage to attack the parliamentarians by swords without having a certain defense behind them?
This one who protect it is who we are especially?
An event of being attacked by Doctor.
Ulimboka for sure that it is confirmed that the phrase of wahenga to be eating the meat of the person does not mind.
The person being tasted then he will want to eat again.
I believe there are people who have already tasted this blood of activists and now they cannot stop.
And because these people seem to qualify in the ways of affliction and thinking people should expect the mistakes of the people being left alive as it was for Doctor.
When I haven't been able to.
This desire to kill people is not familiar in our continent, nor other parts of the world, especially the place where the administrators are having no argument of defending himself more than using power.
Who will be forgotten that caused Steve Bis in South Africa?
Isn't him who was a activist who guide the youth to claim their rights to open their consciousness is who they deserve?
Isn't he the government of the Kikaburu that find him is their great enemy because he touches the thoughts of people?
Isn't the one who was in the hands of the police after being given a severe defeat and mateso?
Who has forgotten of Robert Ouko in Kenya whose body was found has been read - this again getting to be a minister?
People say ATI administration of Julius Nyerere was a lot of dictatorship.
There is someone who can make us show the person who was accused of or a sequel of people whose bodies were found by mateso ATI because the government or the group of people was hakiwataki.
Oscar Kambona, Abdallah Fundheard, Kasanga Tumbo and others who were the opponents of many Nyerere have lived and saw old age!
Today, the youth opponents for this routine will find old age?
Or all will we have to treat exile to be safe?

Even if we accept the theory that these actions (together with Arumeru East) are done by the genge of wahuni, so we can believe in any way that our government is prepared to deal with it?
We have forgotten how albino they were abducted and killed ruthlessly and how it took time for our government to control those actions?
More than 40 albino people were killed and all have occurred under the leaders of those - Kikwete at State House, Mwema as IGP and Rashid Othman as the head of national security.
Who is thinking that this group will be able to control those acts of kidnapping trophies.
So if I say that there is a possibility of other people being abducted again and badly that I will be ulia or I am watching from what happened and being able to reach the conclusion that we have no great ability to deal with actions?
Kinachotibua more, and it seems our citizens seem to accept it, it is that criminal things should be investigated by commission.
The others we are opposed to this since the time of EPA but now it seems to be acceptable to be a crime in the commission!
But more irritated those who are alleged to be involved in those who are ami to unde the commission!
Isn't we have seen Songea?
We saw Tabora?
But is why we are not unzi and realize that the country will not be left or directed by the commission?
If the commission would have been leading the country there would be no ministers or different institutions that have been made to do what the commission would be able to do.
The commission is required to be formed by an independent body, it is not possible, for example, police will be able to participate in crime then those police should be in the commission especially if the ones mentioned are the top officers of the army.
The commission of that way is the peak of the illusion of the administrators.
But the most frightening thing is that if it is true there are people who are used by others to do things like this and it takes more than one week for the police to be able to think to catch anyone, then the threat of our nation's safety is bigger than we are able to think.
Imagine if it would have been affected by the matter he is a minister or head of the province.
Imagine only that one of the famous ministers is put up with his morning he is found in Mabwepande helpless babani, kang'olewa teeth and kucha.
Imagine as the police and security would have been a response that they have shown this!
Actually it would take five days or the creation of the commission?
Actually the response of the President could be like this?

Or let's go ahead more - think who disappeared this way is a child of one of the national senior leaders who is mentioned very mentioned in the media or is involved in certain things.
Then he is found in a situation that has been found with Doctor.
Ulimboka, right is not the whole country we have been told to find those who did that act?
Actually, I think of the feelings of some people that "the leader of the strike got what he deserves" could have been so for that great child?
This of the Doctor.
The Ulimboka is taught us to be corrupt they don't have a taboo.
They should be corrupt in government or outside, do not know what to do not.
And because this is true I assure you that this of the Doctor.
Ulimbuko is not the last one.
Litazama and it will come up on a lot.
These who are supposed to find themselves and they are alia and complaining.
It should be remembered witawi while they are killing the children of their colleagues and they will be required to kill them.
And that is the way it is for those who like to flooding the blood of other people.
The day it will come up with the one of them will be lost as well.
Is it not written in a place that lives in Upanga will die by Upanga?
We should not lie easily this issue and think of ATI Doctor.
I have been unable to be demolished.
If his life will be notified because of this reason, especially because he has been hurt, then of Tanzania to know the pass and doubt, we live in different times.
Times that there is no longer to be aminiana and everyone is to kumshuku even if it is one brother.
It is not the time anymore to live in the hadaa of "peace, unity, stability and solidarity."
If they have been able to commit this to a famous person as Doctor.
Ulimboka, they can do for any other, as they have been able to operate the members of parliament should be remembered even the rest of them will undergo.
The big thing is to look at the story they will be replacing the meaning several times now the famous story is "he was running with a person's wife."
If people think of them and believe these statements provided quickly quickly, then we have a big problem because our killers are sitting on.


