Yesterday, this is the one that is speaking to read daddy unakidhiri unarecord because we now want to talk Swahili for dakika kumi now we will talk to Swahili that you know even you can tell me but it is Swahili for dakika kumi same as well as it is Swahili.
Halo halo said it will not be said.
Okay we will do the same ten ten minutes will be enough to be sorry about what is it is about what it is to say is the record of what is about what is the record of what is it is about what is it is
Ehereza improved dakika kumi AHH AHH AHH.
I talked to just anything ehhe is.
Everything I was in narekodi because we should be vegetables ehyeah I'm in town at the first ehhe I'm in the first city I want to come up there for you to come up there for you to make me a girl there and a blessing here is a blessing here and a blessing here and a blessing here and a blessing here and a blessing here and a blessing here and a blessing here and a blessing here is here and a blessing here
Sokwe is where this hour is in town okay to the office left the game that we are at the same time and who is mmhm so I give you that I give him to him, he should explain to him, he's eleted to him, he's eleon him.
No he has talked to his phone to increase his own expectations now, I will start my ten minutes when we talk to only when we talk about it.
And now if he mi I am going to work on it.
It is going to work since ten minutes is not we have talked about four minutes already it has maintained I will not give up then when it is not obtained alone
July sure there is certain that it has been four minutes okay, we are not because he mi this hour I am heading to bomba ehhe is going to a lot of the day.
Yeah we are talking about four minutes and ehhe about ehhe.
This hour is in the office ohh ehhe.
I have been from there about the money that I'm not saying we have not been from there now what I am doing.
Okay what does it happen when I haven't been able to get back what we are not getting back to what we are not.
The guys can even today I would be able to go back today tomorrow at the same AHH that
And soon time he has made me know the story of yesterday we have.
Those Area yesterday is not you know he has said the weekend will be taking the moment we just released just a release.
Now we have said the weekend with me I was, I know it is today ehhe is not today's good one okay okay.
Today today, he has said today if you want to take the first one let's go to let it go to the same AHH but okay okay it will be oja until the weekend now, he will take the rest of those two so that you do not want to come to you.
AHH should make sure we should be so two to how many hours to how many hours ehhe is.
They see you eat ehehhe is in a car heading to a pipeline ehhe I see only one ehwhat problem I have happened where it is not just you know the people of the city, they are umbua people who have not paid rent is not aware of their shop they seem to make a point of their store.
Why again ehanJane ehhe is now you want you to let me down the food of seven o'clock.
Ehif I get out of the pipeline you can, you can be sure you can nistua if I get out there from there in there.
When you can't.
