
The service of the MRI are returning to Muhimbili Muhimbili.

It has been written by the penalty in Emmanuel.

It has been published: 18 September 2016.

More than 52 patients have been given tests for the MRI machine that is in Muhimbili National Hospital, since it began to provide that service on September 14th this year.

The machine that was on the repairs for three weeks, it was noted that the device called Gradient module, it was destroyed, so it was ordered new.
Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam, head of the Department of Mionzi in that hospital, Doctor Flora Lwakatare said that the machine is under the hospital in partnership with Philips Company which is working on their costs when it is welcome.
He said the device which was welcome, was ordered in Holland and technicians changed 31 battery which are long-term and new fasting so as to increase the effectiveness of the machine. "The MRI that is approximately nine years, therefore, it must be vibadilishwe as it is in another machine.
We also offer services to 40 patients for a day and one person takes 40 minutes to get answers, "said Doctor Lwakatare.
He added that the MRI is renovated for a year twice and it was more than nine years old, it needs to be changed or bought another because the equipment have been worn out.
He also said, patients admitted are done that treatment in the evening due to patients congestion that are in the morning and in the afternoon.
He explained that, the cost to the referral patients who are in the hospital is 210,000 shillings, with health insurance 300,000 shillings to 450,000 shillings, private patients are not stolen from 460,000 shillings, "an MRI is back again since August 24, this year when it was welcome from the electricity error.
The technicians of Philips in conjunction with our technicians, they sought the impact and discovered.
We urge the citizens you are because the services are back and it works at 24 hours, "he said.
The expert doctor of Mionzi, Mussa Ndukeki said, the MRI is used to test the brain and regret of the back and it will not use radiation and said the person whose body has been placed metal, cannot use that machine because it has sumaku which can destroy the metal. "The MRI and CT-scan all reduces anything in the body but it depends on the disease.
CT-scan is measured more pneumonia and uses radiation.
But among 10 patients who are placed on the MRI machine, four are leaving the treatment reason for fear, "said Doctor Ndukeki.


