
When Wema adai has got an ume, Diamond came up with saying that he never even sat on the wife's wife.

And Shakoor Jongo from my heart?
While Bimlarge Wema Isaac Sepetu, preparing to prove and the feeling that he has got a husband who is the best father, mwandani Nasibu Abdul "Diamond Platnumz" has opened up that he will never be left to marry, Friday has to destroy them.

That Diamond's statement is coming up several weeks after Wema being seen by a wedding ring on a person, then admitting to have been fed by the "crazy" of Bongo Fleva who has returned from America where he won the award for the best artist of Kiume in East Africa which went through the name of African Muzik Magazine (AFRIMMA) 2014.

The fear of marrying while speaking with this newspaper at a special interview, Diamond said that he fears marrying claiming that doing so he can be falling down kimuziki something that he does not want in his life.

Yet!
That relatives who plays for Dangote (the rich name of Nigeria, Aliko Dangote) was annoyed that in the past he had that idea of marrying but akiwatazama his fellow musicians who gave him the end of the day, their skills are reduced and others completely disappear from the music map.

"You know you can see it as much as I speak something of the nickname but that's the truth itself.
"There are a lot of musicians they were at the peak (top) but when they just oa" Kiki "of them fell suddenly in music and others have lost completely.

"If you follow keenly, there are many stars in the world who age has gone so much but haven't oa.
Even here at home there are examples alive.
I think their fear is to see that they do that they will be dropping kimuziki, "said Diamond.

Is it true that he engaged in Wema?
When he was asked if it is true he engaged the engagement ring, Wema, that artist was not ready to clarify on the criterion that the ring is beauty as another beauty for a woman.

Out of a box after hearing the position of Diamond, this newspaper added and from outside a box where it was talking with some of the artists who gave up and wasiooa where they explained heavy things.

The secret is reached in their talks with a condition of not being drawn in the newspaper, those artists claimed that Diamond fears losing Kiki to the ladies who are the fans who believe that they can get to get married to him that is why hresting and asked the phone number whenever he is going.
The series of mademu.

It was explained that the guys tend to be above that is why he was reported from the series of women stars who contributes to his name to continue being above.
It was claimed that when he is looking for a way to be destroyed kimuziki he was alleged to have been involved in love with the ladies who had small names like Rehema Fabian who got the popularity through Miss Swahili competition.

It was not said that after that he was alleged to have a series of women stars as the actors Jacqueline Wolper Massawe and Aunt Ezekiel Grayson and Jokate Mwegelo.
Later, the relatives was alleged to jump with girls who did not have a Kiki thus he had waga him within a short time as I feel ma and Natasha.

Later Diamond landed in Wema until he reached an initiative to be engaged to an engagement ring in the year 2012 inside the New Life Hall located in Masaki, Dar.

Records show that shortly after being engaged to the engagement ring, they had Diamond landed in the broadcaster of Radio E-FM, Penniel Mungilwa "Penny."

Diamond is not permanent and Penny on claims that the beauty did not have a Kiki as it was for Wema whose name has never been dropped since he puts Krauni of Miss Tanzania 2006 / 07.
It has not been said that even the awards were reduced that is when he got Penny down and back to Wema who is said he is the one that he will destroy.

These have been oa, are they have dropped?
Some of the stars who gave it together with Mohamed Ahmed "Z-Anto," Nurdin Bilal "Shetta," Amini Mwinyimmain, Lawrence Marima "," Amani Temba "Honorable Temba" and others.


