
Entrepreneurship groups are an opportunity for low-income earners years, there has been an increase in small groups that connect with agriculture entrepreneurs, rearing and different businesses.
Groups are an opportunity for members to reach the goals that for one person.
The unity of these entrepreneurs has been the source of education and expertise of modern skills in animal husbandry, agriculture, small business and sustainable economy.
It is easy for the group members to look for education and different skills from their needs that will help to increase production and enter the competitive economy that will benefit many and increase employment.
Likewise, groups is a way to expand the market of the products of the members themselves.
What they are required to know, the quality of their products is supposed to be measured well by the small market that surround them in order to make it a chance to reach far.
In the group, it is easy to use a few resources together derived from the group chenyewe, the government or development partners.
There are time members benefit from different things like small capital, education and skills of making products.
As a result of their unity it becomes easy to reach a lot of customers together with them to benefit from these resources that are available.
Making groups that will go hand in hand with the speed of modern economy, there is a need to recognize their needs that included the business knowledge that goes with the time by considering the business environment that is changed.
These knowledge include financial skills, to expand their products and sustainable training of modern entrepreneurship from time to time.
Expand the relationship and build up the groups of groups in order to promote the market and get a lot of stakeholders to do with them work.
Here is found an opportunity to meet the government as an advocate for development and other institutions that provide scholarships and entrepreneurial aid.
This relationship becomes a way of members of the group, one one, looking for extra markets even out of the country.
A directive is to avoid the networks that will be disrupting the group members and to stop them helpless or kuviua them.
To create and improve policies and good laws that will protect the interest of the group and its members by providing guidelines and vision of important things to the group is another issue that needs to be given priority.
The policy and law should finish the control of the money of members, guidelines for leaders and its members.
If you put groups with the basis of administration of policies and law then we will make the same opportunities and benefit from all together and meet the enthusiasm for development.
Groups look at the possibility of investing in the joint projects.
The existence of a group is a way to allow them to have a collective projects that will be used to produce a great capital.
The youth should be encouraged to join groups in order to contribute and make efforts to improve economically.
Hililiende hand in hand with making short term plans and long as well as a business plan so as to carry a group image to achieve its goals including to withstand the difficult environment of implementation of plans.
"Existence in many groups it's not a crime, a big one is to make sure these groups have a primary things that we need to get after fulfilling our responsibility.


