Wanted the presidency to choose the sponsors of Mwanza Jun 24, 2015.

In a situation that was not expected, the cadres of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) who are seeking the presidency have shown discrimination in search of sponsors within the party in Mwanza province.
The investigation of the details that was done by Raia Mwema this week has revealed that many candidates have continued to be coming out every day in two districts among seven that form that form that form the province to seek sponsors within the party.
The districts that many CCM cadres have been taking each other close to each day looking for sponsors in the process of asking for nominated by the party to vie for presidency, are Nyamagana and Ilemela that form the city of Mwanza.
Until the day before Monday, Nyamagana district and Ilemela were reached by more than 10 candidates, while the other five, some of them have not been reached completely and the other having been reached or and the one seeker of one presidency, or those who are unable to three.
Other five districts that seem to be discriminated in the process of searching for the leadership of the country is Kwimba, Misungwi, Magu, Ukerewe and Sengerema.
The secretary of CCM in Kwimba District, Tabu Lugwesa has told this newspaper that until the day before yesterday there was no presidential seeker who arrived in the district to find sponsors.
"So far there is no presidential candidate even one who came to look for sponsors here in Kwimba, I don't know why, maybe it is because our district is on the edge," said Lugwesa.
Likewise, there is no presidential candidate through CCM who arrived at the Ukerewe District which is an island in Lake Victoria to look for sponsors inside the party.
The chairman of CCM on Ukerewe District, Ali Mambile, has told Raia Mwema that they may reography the district that has caused the presidency to avoid the process of searching for sponsors.
"While (Ukerewe) has not gone to the presidential candidate even one, we don't see us, but I think even jiography we have sat is a problem, I doubt if there is a candidate with bad intentions and we," said Mambile.
On his part, the secretary of CCM, Magu District, Bangan issue Pangobu, has said that until the day before yesterday the only presidential candidate who was achieved in that district is the minister of construction and Chato member of parliament in Geita province, Doctor.
John Magufuli who got 38 sponsors.
However, Pangobu has explained to not be surprised by that situation due to what he explained that the procedure of looking for sponsors is not home or kumchagulia the presidency of the district to go.
"No transparency is where the candidates are supposed to go looking for sponsors, so far while Magu has come to the Doctor.
Magufuli alone, he came to June 10, this year he got 38 sponsors, but perhaps they will come to other sponsors, "he said Pangobu.
Also in Misungwi District, CCM cadre who was going to find sponsors is the former Minister for Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo alone who got 45 sponsors.
The secretary of CCM of Misungwi District, Donald Magessa, has confirmed that saying "who came up while looking for sponsors until now (the day before Monday) is the only Muhongo, I see he is very careful, he does not want a note."
At least in Sengerema District until the day before yesterday had ended up the three presidency who went to search for sponsors inside CCM.
According to the secretary of CCM, Sengerema District, Mohamed Shabani Mohamed, the party cadres who came to the district to look for sponsors are Doctor.
John Magufuli, Ambassador Ali Karume and William Ngeleja who is the member of parliament for that area.
While those districts, particularly Kwimba, Ukerewe, Misungwi and Magu are facing "discrimination" that, Nyamagana district and Ilemela have continued to lead and attained by many cadres of CCM who are seeking the presidency.
The secretary of the CCM parents of Ilemela District, Faisali Dauda Hamadi, has said that until Monday nine cadres had arrived in the district to look for sponsors.
Hamadi has mentioned the CCM cadres to be Professor Mark Mwandosya, Makongoro Nyerere, Judge Augustino Ramadhani, January Makamba, Edward Lowassa, William Ngeleja, Stephen Wasira, Luhaga Mpina and the farmer from Kigoma province, Elidephonce Bihole.
However, Nyamagana District is leading up to now in Mwanza province by attaining by CCM cadres who are seeking the presidency.
The secretary of CCM of that district, Elias Mpanda, has told this newspaper that more than 10 cadres of the party have been reached in his office to look for members of sponsors in those races.
According to Mpanda, they wanted the presidency who came to the district for that include Frederick Sumaye, Doctor.
Asha-Rose Migiro, Lazaro Nyalandu, William Ngeleje, Edward Lowassa, January Makamba and Bernard Membe.
Some of the cadres arrived in those districts to look for sponsors in order for others for the celebrations that was dominated by various mbwembwe.
Who came to look for sponsors in order to include Judge Augustino Ramadhani, Professor Mark Mwandosya, Lazaro Nyalandu, Stephen Wasira, Makongoro Nyerere, Luhaga Mpina and Elidophonce Bihole.


