Absolutely ehif we know my conversation there and I am still at the same time.
One ehtruly we have seen not to the blood we will watch the same and success through the bibilia way to the bibilia way.
I twreturning our talks at the moment in order to succeed in the new year.
You can and this subject to succeed in a way of kibiblia what should I do?
I want different positions you want what your people who are tired of
What do we have to do.
Ehtitle people succeed in a total of
Bibilia through the dollar the first time they are required to believe in God that we are iche in the areas of worship you do not know yourself after then he trust God, all the percentage that God can succeed and he does not believe that you are linked to doing something by those people arrived at the cosmetics that are affecting the army of the army.
There is a child he's coming to all levels.
In this world if he has not been told by people.
Take a member of parliament take care of heavy responsibilities to the president I take a person or all that you must know Mister we needed one of the chances there is words to be told aides with which one that is being told.
The person you cannot emerge the only one that is why the biblia is written to the source of everything is to hear the people that are required to respect the issue that will enable us to create that service, it will help you and the voeness of God can enable anyone there is no one person there is no one person there is no person there is no one person there is
He was prepared to be rich of Matoke but the children God told us that the rich and people succeed in the money is receiving what they are not succeeding to succeed.
About it and worry that God has been given to us that the president will be given only even if you will support you will be there.
We don't have a person who is asking for and I am unable to then starts another job his father.
He was he threw peace to view and from from the
Honorable Nelson mandela went through difficult problems but he was still president difficult problems but it was still the president even when you followed the end of the end of Tanzania
He has gone through difficult but it has still been easy to take that test of a public that was told only even a step but still live with food as true, God has been given Karama you should not be a leader that will be heard of you will still be hidden.
On the left, Martha mtstruggling oo here I have been saying that God has made it in the heart of only in the area of succeeding if God is asking if someone does respect the word for God's word he loves you died.
Just you eat unabarif the money must be dealt with because of the
Now I would like to urge my fellow Tanzanians and the current viewers are getting in the whole exercise of we have started a new year to follow the new people from the coast to be a member of parliament he gets news even when the councilor wants when he wants to go to the state everyone wants my fellow Tanzanians to request my fellow Tanzanians.
A masasi I can't come to come to
They are trying to attract nations that have no problems in Sudan.
Chicken follow up on the reports of Congo to visit sentensi but even Somalia
When he comes first to vie for the presidency asigundue cause of the country causing problems why because of the reason why
Someone will be embee even to learn and check and follow up to read the information and posti w even you do not have it, it will not be easy to not have the side of Chenge because they look at the honorable president since he has arrived in power our country is prepared well and it is Diamond's Diamond.
Now with mesen when it is done.
