
The first woman to lead the market in Dar es Salaam.
"I was not able to believe in or discover if I can lead people, but after getting training at the moment I believe it and I know my right," says Neema Mayenga, the chairman of Kiwalani Market in the city.
Neema (40) mother of five children says that education that he achieved through the training of legal support to the business people from the market of Equality for Growth (EFG) made it to change the changes of his business.
"These achievements have been helping other women to realize and know their rights and thus make correct decisions without fear," he says.
Grace, businessman vegetables vegetables and fruits in the Kiwalani Market, so he says apart from improving his life, the training taught how to help others.
He explains that the training that were given by the EFG and sponsored by the project of legal registrars and local governments in Kulinda women rights in the markets that are in Ilala district (LSF), did to know how he can achieve his goals.
However, research conducted by the LSF project showed that Neema is the first woman to be elected as the chairman of the market, because many markets in the country have had the chairpersons men and it's not women.
He says that the education that he achieved in the training has been able to make it to the education issue because he has now been able to have the financial discipline.
"We of the low education we were not able to have discipline in the use of money, so this training has helped me so much," he adds.
His life: He says that for now, he has managed to buy a plot to build because before the training he was not sure if one day he can buy a plot worth 15 million shillings in Chanika, Mameneja.
Apart from the business he has done, he has also started the farming of Tangawizi after getting capital from his business of selling vegetables.
"I have started to cultivate the farming of Tangawizi in Ruvuma province after getting training on how best to cultivate this crop, I take care of the money when I made it to the amount of 2 million shillings, I decided that this farming takes six months to be sent and I have a plan to cultivate vegetable farming within this month," says his position of leadership while at the chairman of the Kiwalani market who was chosen for a lot of votes in June, "says his position of the leadership while he was chosen for a lot of votes in June," says his position of leadership while he was chosen for 31, last year, he says one of his responsibilities is to ensure gender abuse in the market is terrifying.
Grace who is the only chairperson of the market for women in Tanzania, explains that the market has a good toilet service and bafu and that takataka is collected every day and a car for carrying the takataka that you have reached in time and remove and thus doing the market to be clean at all times.
However, the tax that is collected in the Kiwalani market is 300,000 shillings per month and that amount is a bit due to the business being bad and some of the employees are supporting their businesses from the business being bad.
Sexual violence is there?
He says that for now gender violence has reduced from everyone to recognize his rights.
"Before being trained, some men men in this market were not appreciate women in leadership but after getting education they have changed," he says.


