
The gift Rock City Marathon have been put in public publicly.

It was written by our writer Wetu.

It has been published: 15 September 2016.

The coordinators of the athletics competitions of Rock City Marathon have announced the cost and prizes to be awarded to the winners of the race that are expected to take place at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza September this year.

Speaking about those prizes in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the coordinator of the race organized by Capital Plus International Company in collaboration with Mwanza province, Mathew Kasonta said the first winners of 21 kilometers for men and women will win 15 million shillings each other, 900,000 shillings for the second winners and 700,000 shillings to the third winners.
On the side of five kilometers race which will be led by the heads of Mwanza and Simiyu provinces which will also involve employees from different companies together with people with skin disability, Kasonta said the winners will be trained for respect to the company while the money is raised to participants with albinism.
"Winners of the three kilometers race which are specific for the elderly will be catered 50,000 shillings for the first winners while the second winners and the third one they are also getting cash," he said.
Kasonta said to the winners of 2 kilometers race that involved children aged 7 to 10 years will receive 30,000 shillings each other.
He said the first winners at a short race of 100 meters, 400, 800 and 1500 which are specific to students will be catered for 50,000 shillings each (men and women), 30,000 shillings to the second winners while three winners ended up with 20,000 shillings for everyone.
"The biggest one is also to thank the sponsors of this race by continuing support in these preparations, that is the Freidkin Conservation Fund and African Wildlife Trust Bank, New Mwanza Hotel, the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), Real PR Solutions, Fabec, TIPER, Puma Energies, Clouds FM, Jembe FM, Barmedas Tv and EF Out, Barmedas Tv and EF Out Out, Barmedas Tv and EF Out Out, Barmedas Tv and EF Out Out, Barmedas Tv and EF Out Door," he said.
He called more participants to continue to register in order to confirm their participation in those races which apart from raising talents of athletics here in the country are also targeting to fight crimes together with advertising tourism in Lake Victoria.
"To the residents of Mwanza city and neighboring provinces can register by taking forms in several stations including the offices of all districts in Mwanza Province, all the offices of athletics in Geita Province, Simiyu and Shinyanga, at the Nyamagana University, Augustino Mwanza, the sports center of Isamilo and Mwanza Hotel.
"On the side of Dar es Salaam, the forms of participation are also available at the Capital Plus International Company located in the third floor of ATC, in Dar es Salaam city," he concluded.


