
Simba reached in town, Yanga wanacheka eka.

It was written by our journalists.

It has been published: 07 November 2016.

Simba yesterday was tasted to be defeated in the premier league after accepting a 1-0 defeat from African Lyon in the match that was played at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam.

When Simba ikionja that summer, his old man, Yanga chanua for a 1-0 victory away from Sokoine Stadium Mbeya against Prisons, while Azam agreed to score 2-1 from Mbao at the CCM Kirumba Stadium, Mwanza.
At the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, it took the 90 Lyon minute to get that victory against the leaders of the league, Simba by a goal that was scored by Abdullah Msuhi who joined the Raizan Hafidh before they saw the ball scored.
Simba was attacked all the time of the game while Lyon played the defensive game was claimed by a surprise.
In the 38 minute, Lyon did the attacks through his player Miraji Selemani, but his discipline of the punishment that he has taken to rock bottom and from outside.
Janvier Bukungu nusura aipatie Simba a goal in the 48 minute but his shot rose up.
Laudit Mavugo nusura afunge in the 60 minute but being in a good position his ball is pleased with the defenders of Lyon and to be ondosha at the danger area.
Those results make Simba continue to lead the league standings with its 35 points.
On the Sokoine Stadium Mbeya, the man of defending champions Yanga, was Simon Msuva who scored a goal of a penalty kick in the 74th minute.
The referee of that game gave a penalty after Yanga player, Obrey Chirwa was fouled at the danger area.
Previously, Prisons got a penalty goalkeeper of Yanga, Beno Kakolanya, saved that kick and thus leaving the team being safe.
Yanga has now continued to be the second position on the standings with 30 points, different than five points against the leaders Simba.
The second winner of last season, Azam has continued to get the results of periods of programs after yesterday defeated by Mbao FC mabao 2-1 at the CCM Kirumba stadium Mwanza.
Those results are making Azam ibaki and 22 points while Mbao lost 16 points.
Mbao has written his first goal in the 30th minute scored by Venance Ludovick who had connected to Boniphace Maganga on the way to construct the net.
50 minutes Maganga scored Mbao the second goal and the 67th minute, Francifunza Sebawira scored for Azam the goal of consolation.


