I'm in the neighborhood from the Swahili channel of America-VOA Washington d _ c almost our radio player and through the lasting place in another time where we are looking at here in the phone for exactly what we are trying to analysis and get more information and expansion of each other than usual in the hands. And our reporter Kenya Wandera from the Kenya
In deep today we are starting directly and report on the report of the human rights organization of human rights, watch that accident indicates that the operation, but when they were lost they are not unknown they are in the past two years while in the hands of the forces to deal with terrorism in the country.
But no one out of these was opened charges to charges.
Family members have said they do not know their condition, their brothers who were arrested are nor compared to be informed by the security agencies or their brothers at the ugani and despite the report that those who were lost were in the hands of the army officers of that army.
That period is also ten bodies and one of the people who had been arrested mahari by the government departments were found in the country.
And added more fear to those who were committed to where they are now considering the food according to the human rights observers of human rights.
Now, then talk about exactly what we have tried to look for the coordinator of the national commission to defend human rights in the country.
Likewise, Mister George Bush laura and George Mrara has led to know how it will come to the first one so that these people are lost aimlessly in the country.
Thank you very much to be done soon time.
AHH for sure we like the commission to defend human rights in the country, the reports that we have and that they are
And with no one).
The one is due to it.
Research that we like the commission we did last year where we were looking at AHH the war of people extholela in the country kenya.
I am writing a report that by the English is called the best way to the hero fighting for the policy is delayed delayed.
And in the report we have included the war of the
Mmhm more than eighty people and the main one to be feared they don't know where they are up to now.
And also more than twenty-five people who lost their lives in the AHH that we are calling for the Exhibition tomorrow or the killing of unplanned estate.
And for that case presented maybe it's one who can be implemented at this time maybe they are the steps that you're using and maybe you know they are responsible for them to take care of and maybe you know they are responsible for them.
At the moment, the action that we have to take because we like the commission we have a partnership of
AHH close to the one that we call is the council of the police things or the
Police oversight of Mamlaka.
Ohh news that we were able to cooperate with this council and we gave them a report about a visa right right.
And they have taken action that they will make more investigation to make sure that if there are police who were involved they have taken legal action against them.
The second thing that we have done is that we have met with the head inspector of police police.
Judghes is saying that the head coach of the police and we discuss it.
I AHH the events of our research research.
We stopped that there are some of the wakenya who are saying that their family their community has disappeared to have disappeared.
And we will fulfill there is a
AHH the need for police to be on the front line to ensure that they are doing research or they are doing the investigation to ensure that those who do not know what they have to bring about the report in commission commission.
AHH are confirming based on the law that is in the country kenya.
The Lord MOI MOI.
