South Africa is measurable the best life in Lungwa Mbozi village, Jul 24, 2013 by Raia Mwema

The MWASIPENJELE or Uyole 03, as it is known professionally, is the type of beans in Mbeya province, but to the citizens of Lungwa village in Mbozi district is the name that will be given to livestock and even their houses to live.
The wave of the villagers to give the livestock and their houses, the name of that kind of beans came from some of them to buy a cow or build a house due to the money they got after selling those beans.
The popularity of that of the beans, the type of beans from the way has emerged suddenly after being found in a reliable market in South Africa where the farmers of Isansa ward, through their groups, have gone into a contract with one company from that country that needs the beans.
The needs of the company from South Africa is 5,000 tons of beans for the year and according to the chairman of the Cooperative Party (AMCOS) of that village, that needs resulted in the company given tender and their government to change the school in that country.
The beans market has been found through a special program to connect farmers and marketing of beans and maize known as a short of Sapphire.
Sapphire is among the programs that are implemented under the project of advancing maize farming and Maharage by using the way it is living by a bit of utubisha soil together with markets in Mbeya province, being being implemented by funding from the East African Development Organization (AGRA- Alliance for Green Revolution in Africa).
The program that in English language is known as "Intensifying mahindi na maharage Production kwa kutumia afya ya udongo na masoko mkoani Mbeya", also involved with better farming of maize and beans, including the use of better seeds for the area, the correct use of input, the time to climb and consider the position.
According to the project manager, who is also a researcher from the Research Institute of Agriculture Uyole (Uyole), Mmari William, the demand for that kind of beans in South Africa comes from his main reputation of kutotengeneza tindikali.
It is said that the same kind of beans was brought in South Africa and the Tanzania of Tanzania who were working in the country, and attract more citizens from there due to that reputation of kutotengeneza tindikali (acid) together with his good taste.
However, it was not easy for those farmers to accept getting into the farming of a contract with the aim of producing plenty of that kind of beans due to their experience about the production projects of agriculture production.
Those farmers have already their records of crops as puplica which were encouraged to cultivate them in large numbers when they killed there is a guarantee market but it was not so.
"Farmers agreed later so much, after the buyer giving them 18 tons of the seeds of those beans," says Mmari.
The harvest of the beans in March, this year were the motivation to the farmers of that county of Isansa together with the neighboring villages to enter more energy in the farming of beans, being after the buyer bought all that, therefore, farmers find out that they have a different money and it was before getting into the contract with the buyer.
Joseph Mwashambwa is among the farmers who benefited through the farming of beans, who had him after completing the construction of his house has given the name of the beans, Mwasipenjele.
Mwashambwa says he started to cultivate the beans in December last year after they were impressed by the experts of that project of soil health, and after hesitation tried.
"This year, I have seen that beans and it is a business, they said that they have its own market and truly when I get the market," says the farmer then he adds, "Huko behind the market was Mlowo, and you will meet with it in the same day, then it has got a lot of that day then it is 5,000 shillings for plastic bucket of 20 kilograms."
The farmer demonstrates that the price that they agree with the buyer from South Africa is 800 shillings for a kilo, therefore, for the capacity that plastic bucket of plastic in the district, it means he is retiring from 16,000 shillings without transportation instead of 5,000 shillings while forced to travel more than twenty kilometers to follow the market.
"This journey, I have been following, the guys have been following here," anatamba Mwashambwa, then he gives the analysis of the use of the money he had achieved from the sales of beans saying, "I have bought the gigs for the purpose of rear and building his tent, I have bought the fee of the child and the remaining amount of 101,300 shillings that we use for the use of 101,300 shillings that we use for the use of 101,300 shillings that we use for the use of 101,300 shillings that we use for the use of 101,300 shillings that we use for the use of in the inside". "


