Union of Africa when you are run by Uhuruto-phobia October 17, 2013, 2013.

Our Africa was not ishiwi vituko.
From the era of Idd, Amini, a lady of Uganda, has Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of Congo) Jean-Bedel Bokasa of the Central Africa, Charles Taylor of Liberia, and now it has Omar al-Bashir of Sudan and others wegi.

Well, these that I mentioned were mentioned in Africa to have an image of different vituko.
From vituko in the military, vituko of administrative in their countries, they are in their personal life, he radi there was a lot of that many out of this will take a long time history to hear them.

While explaining his experience about Africa, the news reporter, Mwingereza, Martin Meredith, says that even though they are currently with the problems that face Africans in common, all the time in Africa was surprised by prostitution and their strength of the face of face to face those challenges.
Meredith, has worked on journalism in Africa for more than 15 years since he was 21 years old (1964) and he wrote a popular book, "The State of Africa: A history of Fifty Year of Uhuru."

In his own words, Meredith says: "What has always been impressed me over the years ni resilience and it makes our Africans to confront their wengi adversities."

In addition to vituko right, there are people who made Africa to be respected and at least vituko, the other being very foolishness, vifunikwe in a certain way and actions of these people of the second group.
In this list, there are Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, Nelson Mandela, has Bishop Desmond Tutu, Kwame Nkrumah, Kofi Annan, Joachim Chisano and others.

Because the list of vituko is how they talk about is very long, I would just like to discuss the new thing that is going on to get merit here in Africa right now, while the African Union has gotten in the trap of being addressed more will this.

This will be a great effort that is set on fire right now of wanting the President of Kenya Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto in the case that are facing them in the International Criminal Court (ICC).
As it is known, these cases involve the participation of these two people (before they have not been in their current power) in the chaos of after the general elections of Kenya in 2007 / 2008.

Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto is the politicians who join uniting their parties a few months before the Kenyan elections earlier this year.
Join them in that period of elections or their union in Kenya has come out of nickname as a huruto.

Analysts of political issues are noted that both of them, Uhuru and Ruto is the youth of the retired President of Kenya Daniel arap Moi politically.
It is said that, Ruto from one tribe and Moi of Kalenjin, has been political and Moi since he was a student of the University of Nairobi.

Freedom is that he was the choice of Moi to replace him in the presidential seat in 2002.
However, things do not go as how it was planned because the Uhuru was lost badly by Mwai Kibaki.
Therefore, winning the presidency for Uhuru this year to fulfill the dream of Mzee Moi, although it is for delay.

While doing the election campaign of this year, Uhuru and Ruto said that if they won, they would continue to cooperate with ICC.
But now things have been changed to have been a great inspiration (from these leaders, their country and even their friends-including Tanzania) to protest in general to continue with these cases this time being leaders of the country.

This push has led to Kenya Parliament to pass a resolution recently of the commitment in ICC.
This means the commitment in the Roma that formed ICC, which by ururidhia the concerned country has to be accepted to be taken by appropriate measures (that is convicted) for someone or a group of people in this court if they have gone crime against human beings, like the killing of mass and so on.

The inspiration of Kenya has now been supported by the African Union (AU).
Juma former members of AU (through the ministers of foreign countries of the country members of AU) have met Addis Ababa to discuss this issue.
In one voice, they have also known on ICC as demanding for the case against Uhuru and Ruto, or it does not end these cases in Kenya or it should stop until when they finish their leadership period.

Or it has gone far more by thinking of making his country in ICC as its resolutions will not be implemented.


