Yes you know when the top of the Islamic research Tanzania has always been motivated by the police force claiming that it is the one that contributes to continue because different types of the country due to not take effective measures to the secretary general of that community, Sheikh Ponda Issa Ponda has given an example that those with religious aim that happened in Mbagala in the city, the past few days for those authorities, I called them to blame in that matter of being held in Mbagala, the past few days for those authorities. An eye on an eye on the source and then the source
Dennis Masalanga and more information.
That is why we have said though we look at the ubarakala to take a look at the look.
The leaders of us.
When they tell these things in the way that they provide a great contribution to bring a division okay
For the most mares and the one that inside her there are claims that we have been offered until again and an artist to give them their condolences to the artist.
The news of the hours and the leadership through going to church.
Without seeing you have passed you must have been we and we will not be able to
It is good that is where they get found through the iliyotumiwa by the police as well as
It's been released here.
So that we can get in life but second so much.
Which reveals the reason they are fighting people are going to be confirmed.
This Sheikh Ponda Issa Ponda at a press conference in tomorrow to sell them to forget about the event of ethics of ethics is receiving Mbagala, daressin Dar es Salaam, after the age of children, causing the confusion that caused the union, the issue of police to use the big power is seen to highlight more attention to the community and those institutions while President Kikwete is being used to highlight more attention to the community and those institutions while President Kikwete is being used to highlight more attention to the community and those institutions while President Kikwete is being used to highlight more attention to the community and those institutions while President Kikwete being used to for what was described by Sheikh Ponda that it is a failure to manage the conflicts of religious religious conflicts.
The leader they were stealing a lot together together.
Fraud that of words to pay the meaning to pay but if you see their performance.
Above we have said they won't be the citizens he cannot accept that medicine.
The family members actually or he is trace trace.
The internet have to compare and humiliation of different religions can be finished by religious leaders and government to sit together and discuss those issues that are not common to the community of Tanzanians, however, some human groups are usually napingana and pay the visasi to such events with the interpretation of dividing the country on the basis of religious efficiency, Masalanga three recently daressalaam.
