
By our writer, Dar es Salaam city despite the presence of women in the air transport sector to be small, the ability to be leaders in the air travel has no taboo.
Speaking to this newspaper, the first pilot woman to lead the type of Airbus A380 that is owned by Fastjet Tanzania, pilot Anne Marie Lewis says women in Africa should not fear that part of this sector which is growing in the whole continent.
He says that it is not hard work a woman to become a pilot and that he is confident and has no fear in any matter that is why he is trusted and getting an opportunity to lead the plane in the provinces of Tanzania and other neighboring countries.
"Women should understand that there is no kind of work that is there for men alone, but women will bring in the aviation sector of their ability to work hard, bringing up with their skills of good management," he says.
According to Lewis, women of Africa need to understand that the intention and their decision will remove the fear or the economic loss.
He says that their ability to do anything, where they will put their thoughts on what they need to make will be the inspiration of their goals.
He demonstrates that he started down completely but his willingness to get into this field that had been ruled by men and for the regular support from his father was the foundation of success he is getting so far.
Many young people in Africa can think that they are a non-profit group, but they should celebrate because they are in the modern life of digital digital so they can use to learn anything they need.
The pilot Lewis says that women need to get away from poverty are faced with many challenges, this is because they seem to be people to sit and wait for it to go on with their husbands.
"In order to succeed, women are required to be their as they do, they bring a unique reputation in any position because they are attentive good, caregivers and they have great skills of programming things," he says and added that the intention, the inspiration and enthusiasm forever provides the best, it is also the basis of success.
Furthermore, Lewis gives congratulations to his father saying, "my father knew he was supposed to lead for example, let us show us that in order to succeed it needs to work hard and interest."
He adds that their father insisted all the girls on the importance of education because that is the way to be free economically.
"Women of Africa have the ability to work in any area of the air sector.
If I made the pilot, I would like to see more female pilots in Tanzania, who will be giving training to the pilots who are in charge.
"They will bring change in the same air sectors and those the west women who brought change in the air sector in their continent," he will conclude.


