
Mnyika will be thrown out in Jun 20, 2012.

The state of the government's budget for the financial year 2012 / 2013 in the parliament is not satisfactory, some of the members of parliament showing the ability to sustain economic debates and instead, wakijielekeza in the competition of political arguments, nonsense, is ruled among them to the extent of throwing words that are not Taarab Raia Mwema, has noted.
That situation is coming out when the Minister of Finance, Doctor.
William Mgimwa has been made to present his budget by the Minister Kivuli of Finance, from the opposition camp, Kabwe Zitto, and presenting his alternative budget which has been published in the local pages of this newspaper.
The trend of kuonating arrogant and political nonsense also come out among members of parliament two days after the debate of the budget to start with members of parliament, John Mnyika, Mwigulu Nchemba, Peter Msigwa and Captain John Komba, Chiku Abwao, Ezekiel iah Wenje in a certain way in the trend of the debates, revealed the tensions that are based on the political arguments, but the minister of the country, the Office of the President-Parliament and coordination, William, William. Lukuvi, giving a call to the leaders of the parliamentarians' camp to be on the forefront to protect the honor of the axis of the nation, which represents the public.
Member of parliament for Ubungo, John Mnyika (CHADEMA) who was comparing some of the same members of parliament and "machizi" who should not need to be treated their concerns and stated that the Revolutionary Party (CCM) is absurd and the president is weak, found himself being married outside the parliament hall after Lukuvi, to read the regulations about the procedure of the parliamentary debates while he built to confirm that Mnyika has broken those procedures.
Previously, before Mnyika kutamka President is weak while comparing some of the members of parliament that are similar to machizi and CCM is absurd, the situation that made the deputy speaker, Job Ndugai, wanting him to look for those words in details that it is the language of imudhi, which is against the regulations of running the parliamentary activities.
After the argument of the time, Mnyika was deleted that statements of calling the other laws and allowed to continue with the debate, but when he continues, the member of parliament of Iringa Town, Pastor Peter Msigwa was involved in pronwords, contrary to the policies of running the parliament that directed other members of parliament not to speak when their colleague was talking to the permission of the speaker.
But when Mnyika giving the language, as well as claiming that the President is weak, contrary to the requirements of the rules of the parliament and to reach the step of being released out of the parliament hall, Iramba West member, Mwigulu Nchemba, the day before yesterday evening, in a state of showing political nonsense, he referred to the budget that was organized by the opposition camp in parliament that it is "takataka" and decided to give him a copy of the speech that he was holding hand in hand. "And decided to give a copy of the speech that he was holding a hand in hand." And decided when contributing to the debate.
However, in which that prove the weakness of the leading session of that day, chairman Silvester Mabumba, was unable to control nonsense of Mwigulu.
Apart from the members of parliament, Singida East member of parliament, Tundu Lissu, on Monday, while comparing the parliamentary meetings period about the budget that is the same as the ignorance season (silly season), but on his part, the member of parliament of Mbinga West Captain John Komba (CCM), he asked for a Taarab and he warned that, as boxing will be able to be played in parliament, then the side of the camp of the camp of the camp of the camp of the camp. The opposition will use them because the number of their boxing is small and the side of CCM has a lot of boxing.
As the members of parliament intended to show lack of discipline inside the axis, noise that are not an order or permission to Deputy Speaker who was leading the session were many, one side if you play the noise to show the state of sympathy and others, they are trying to show that a cry for sympathy is not right.
It is that debates that is translated that it is denying the citizens an opportunity to know more about the state of economy and capital budget in general, from their representatives who have now decided to enter the political tensions.
The deputy speaker of parliament, Job Ndugai tried to relax the weather by using the avu of kikanuni, assisted by Minister Lukuvi.
But some of the arguments that irritated the opposition members of parliament include the statement of the member of parliament of Mwibara, Kangi Ligora, who was surprised by those members of parliament without respecting the Revolutionary Party that is paying salaries.
Kangi who is out of a few members of CCM who had signed the document of not having faith in the prime minister under the coordination of the member of parliament of Kigoma North, Kabwe Zitto, found himself in a difficult time, after the member of parliament of Mbozi West, David Silinde wanting guidance for the speaker so as to look for that statement, an argument that was emphasized by the member of parliament, James Mbatia.
In his arguments, Silinde wanted Kangi to fix his explanations that were revealing the mistakes that are based on the speech of the budget for the opposition camp, and especially in the area of revenue collections.
But Silinde was opposed by the member of parliament, Christopher ole Sendeka, who read the book of the speech of the opposition budget to confirm those mistakes and at that time, read the book of the Minister of Finance, Doctor.
William Mgimwa, to prove what is explained to be keen in the writing of the budget.
The current meeting of parliament is returning the history of the meetings that got ahead where the three members of parliament have ever been released out of the sessions, by the mistake of not considering the requirements of the regulations of the parliamentary sessions.
CHADEMA members that have ever been released out of the parliamentary hall include the former member of parliament for Arusha Town, Godbless Lema, the member of parliament for Singida East, Tundu Lissu and the member of parliament of Iringa Town, Pastor Peter Msigwa.
While the members of parliament, laying a record to be released outside the parliament in this 10 parliament, in the ninth parliament, the member of parliament of Bariadi East, John Cheyo, has ever been released out of the parliament hall and who was the speaker of that time, Samuel Sitta.


