Mbowe, Lipumba, Mbatia matful Jul 24, 2014, 2014.

In the action that will affect the veterans of the opposition, several members of the camp that he is on the run to run away, Raia Mwema has been told.
The members of parliament are expected to relocate their current parties and join the new opposition party at any time from the end of the special assembly of the constitution (BMK), reports indicate.
Most of the members of parliament are coming from the provinces of the Lake Region, North, East and Lake West and this newspaper has been told that the decisions have already been made, that is in the event itself.
The party they are mentioned to relocate to the members of parliament is what the Alliance for Change and Transparency (ACT) that is associated with the member of parliament of Kigoma North (CHADEMA), Zitto Kabwe.
Zitto himself has not moved to that party but one of his political confidence, Samson Mwigamba, has already joined ACT and has already started doing political tours in some regions.
This newspaper has been given names already of some members of parliament who will move or from their current parties but because of special reasons, these names will not be mentioned at the moment.
One of the members of parliament who are expected to move to ACT has spoken to this newspaper at the end of last week and has confirmed that he will be moved after the end of his parliamentary time, that is after officially broken by this parliament next year.
"I am leaving him.
If our country would have been allowed a politician-cross (moving to another party) without losing his parliamentary, I could have already moved out.
But I can't move out at the moment.
"Nikihama, first, I will lacked an opportunity to participate in the process of creating a new constitution of Tanzania and also contribute to the national issues through the parliamentary debates.
"Then there is an issue of income too.
ACT is a new party and it doesn't have any source of income.
As a Member of Parliament I will continue to get my salary and also contribute to my party.
It is wise to remain with the first parliamentary, "said the member of parliament.
The parties that are expected to lose its members of parliament is the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) and NCCR-Mageuzi, while it was alleged that the Civic United Front (CUF) can only lose some of its members of Tanzania mainland with influence in the provinces.
Citizens Mwema has been told that the step of some of the leaders of CHADEMA in some of the provinces to announce the commitment to the party at the moment, is part of the plan that was planned well for people to leave the action.
One of the leaders who leave the level is the former chairperson of CHADEMA in Kigoma province, Jaffar Kasisiko, who was the chairman of CHADEMA in the Western Region, Shabaani the issues and the Secretary of CHADEMA in Kigoma Province, Msafiri Wamalof.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam city at the end of last week, the chairman of CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe said that they have fununu that there are other party leaders who are preparing to leave.
However, this newspaper is aware that the picture of the members of parliament will leave in the opposition parties will be known more after the special assembly of the constitution where they are starting to show clearly their intention.
"ACT have a great secret and it will start to be exposed from after BMK.
After that there will be meetings that I didn't have four years before the parliament was broken.
Subiri first BMK liishe, "said another member of parliament who is mentioned to plan to relocate but who doesn't want to be involved completely by ACT at the current stage.
"A brother, I am asking for a lot of usitaje my name nor to use my picture in your newspaper.
When you do that you will be completely finished.
First I am surprised these things have been made to come.
I know it just is..... (the name is reserved) is what he has told me, "said the current Member of Parliament.
But most of the members of parliament and politicians who are expected to move to ACT have mentioned that youths who see that their political lives inside the party will be easy than in the parties that have built already.
While the member of parliament speaking to Good Citizen, he had one young man who is engaged in politics in the universities who told the author of this newspaper that he will go to ACT simply, "cannot harm them in the bus that is filled with" - meaning other political parties in the country.
The efforts of this newspaper wanting to speak with Mwigamba so as to get sure if they truly hope to get the parliamentarians delayed after that politician who was once the leader of CHADEMA said he didn't know anything.
"I for sure I heard just those news like you but I didn't know anything.
We are building a party and if there are people who believe in what we want to do, we will only welcome them.
But there is nothing up now, "said the politician.
Zitto was not able to be found to give his opinion because he is on the way out of the country for its parliamentary activities.


