The traffic squad of the Defense Force of Tanzania, I have not arrested ten people and two citizens that are accused of being harrated who have been arrested in the area of growing up in the ocean.
The head of the wanamaji army in the country, Major General, alisema Shaban Omari has said that the haramia were hit the school ship to use it to prevent cargo ships in the sea of hindi our lives, Etty Kusiluka has organized a summer report on summer.
Different international links have been a lot of unk that I haven't been looking for, I haven't pass actions.
Liquor then in Tanzania for the first time in this thousand year is earlier early.
Inside this water has been arrested to haramia ten and two.
This way.
The room in a small week, they had accused of these five piracy and two among them, among them entered the ship of the school, they wanted and use the experts of this job they called MOTHER show which is expected to be brought in the daressalaam, which is expected to be brought in the daressalaam.
The head of the wanamaji army in the country, Major General saidi Shabani Omary says this instrument is more dangerous because it is used to the attacks inside he found out with three weapons that have no Effect in the city of clean one hundred and newspapers, we are in five hundred and international cooperation, and the other nations are especially that made the arrest of these people alleged to be harrated from Somalia and other nations.
So if you came up this topic with his people his people.
The King kaboni.
Good luck in the future a little future.
That's the way we have said that we have said it.
He was arrested by the ship of
For the one.
The stakeholders of the stakeholders.
One ohh Iddi pengine and it will be
Since we are all aria arriving when these suspects are young people between fifteen and twenty eight years which is the norm for Muhammed Ismael abdul Rashid, and the Abdullah recently, Tanzania and England have signed an agreement to fight against piracy and terrorism in the sea of the hindi Etty Kusiluka kibisi wan daressalaam.
