We should leave the tension, Doctor.
Mwakyembe, Ray C should be supported this war Aug 21, 2013.

For the period of months and several weeks now, as a nation we have continued to hear the news (which have been there for many recent years) about the growth of drug trafficking.
That this business has been mature and have a great network here in the country is the truth that is evident.

There is a fact or several issues, which neither did not need to have a degree for any Tanzanian to recognize it, it's known and if they worked it would be a big step in overcome this disaster.

First, the truth that is evident is that for now drug is a problem that has affected the most of Tanzania especially the youth.
In the city of cities like Dar es Salaam, Arusha and Mwanza and other towns, for someone who is confused by different types of people will discover clearly how several people were users of these drugs.

As he said a musician who has discovered a lot of here in the country, Rehema Chalamila, famous as Ray C when he toured the Clouds television station recently, many people have been affected (addicts) and drugs.
There are students from different levels like secondary and universities, business people, artists, employees and many others, including very respected in the community.
Others are known clearly, when others are doing it for holding back great.

In addition to that, of Tanzania many (it is estimated to continue 200 people) have been closed and even others were sentenced to death in the country like China and Hong Khon (according to different media stations in the country and international) after being arrested to transport drugs is an illustration that the situation is bad.
The victims of all this is a brother, a sister, a aunt and wajomba our, and it has been a great shame for our nation.

The second truth about this disaster is that there is a big oga among the most of Tanzania's mintarafu this disaster.
That, there are many concept are spread (intentionally) about this issue to the extent that even those with good intentions in the fight against this disaster reap into the heart.

For instance, those who have the interest in this business have been using propaganda in different platforms, like the media and government agencies spreading the notion that fighting this disaster is very dangerous!
In this, it is used examples that ATI the state of the business has reached that it is a great network, an extent that paramia to fight it can even cause it to bring down the government!

Those spreading propaganda want to prove to the public that the state of here for us is like it is in other countries like Mexico and Columbia.
In these countries, by not taking strict measures early to fight for the root of this business (if it continues to be left, it has improved here for us), has caused the situation to be bad.
In those countries, this business networks are big involving many big leaders in government, the presence of groups or "the army" (outside of the government, for only to protect the interest of this business) and the people with great financial and influence.

Those with the aim of weakening the war against this business in the country have dared to even involve the deaths of some people that was attributed to those people, "staying kimbeleforward" to register this disaster.

In general, even if there are cells of truth in these allegations, what is evident is that they are being used to propaganda and many claims to weaken the most effort occurring in fighting this disaster.

In addition, these propaganda are sarcastic to various government agencies, and even Tanzanian society in general because they have the aim of showing that the participants of this business are on the law and that they have reached a step of not touched by any authority.

Another fact about this disaster is not responsible accordingly to leaders who are in different levels, in the fight against this problem.
Normally, if several people are there and they have authority in the ministry and different departments (with one-related relationship with this issue or else) as the immigration, the police, the national security and others but the state has continued to be bad, this is affecting several questions.

It is possible that these authority are among those who benefit from this business, and therefore participate in removing it is the same as cut the mirija of their benefit.
Or, they can be unemployed but a state of not caring and does not fulfill their responsibility as required that is what is causing to be mature for this business.


