
The presence of the national debate about the death of death.

It has been written by Lucy Lyatuu.

It has been published: 24 October 2016.

Last week, the Legal and Human Rights Center (LHRC) organized a conference for the purpose of discussing about the existence of death in the country, demanding it to be used for claims that it is against human rights as the constitution explained to the right to live.

In the conference, it involves various stakeholders for the purpose of discussing and providing their thoughts on the presence of the punishment in the country and its importance.
LHRC says, the right to live is the right of the very basic and the existence of death is an appropriate illustration of violation of that right to live.
Speaking at the conference, that was part of the commemoration of the day to oppose the punishment, the Director of LHRC, Doctor Hellen Kijo Bisimba, says that the right to live is unable to be constitutional under article 14 of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania of 1977, however, the protection of their constitution and the Constitution is not right.
The death of death in the country can hit anyone who will be found guilty of killing of the killings under the 39 sections and 197 of the law of discipline and so as to be implemented by the punishment, it is up to the President aweke signing a certificate of implementation of the punishment that was given by the Court.
The constitution is giving the protection of justice to live under article 14 but it has also been encouraged against non-human penalties, brutal and we are able to personality under article 13 (6) (e).
The death of death is violating the right to live, the way of the implementation of that punishment by death up to death is a brutal way, without human beings and it is able to personality.
In addition, the center believes that the punishment that is tools and the Constitution of the country to oppose article 14 which gives a broad defense against death of death, but it is 20 years where the punishment has not been implemented here in the country.
Apart from that LHRC offers reasons for wanting the punishment that should not be there in the country, to serve when the existence of a national debate on its presence and implementation of the punishment so that both sides can be addressed to the validity.
I am saying so because at the conference that was organized by LHRC, there are sides that agreed to continue the existence of that punishment, going far more to be even in the religious books they produce an opportunity to be implemented by that punishment for every one who is faced with the offense of that kind.
For example, Muslim religion are explaining that some of the faces that are in that book Kitukufu of the Koran, death is fair to the one who killed for the intention of manslaughter, his rights and to deny it is dhuluma and defend them also not the same.
In addition, the other side stated that continuing to implement the law and soon the death of death is their responsibility to manage to ensure it is implemented.
It is due to the presence of those situations to have the importance of the presence of a national debate that you will be able to ensure that you finish the issue of death of death and every side you have to donate it to the community there are people who are doing brutal events to the extent that getting the punishment is valid to them.
It is by the logic, it should serve when various civil institutions, to use their time for educating the community to avoid making mistakes that way one can bring them to reach a place to face the death of death.


