Samia acharuka Mwanza, Mwanza.

Enno explanation of the explanation.

It was written by our writer, Mwanza, Mwanza.

It has been published: 19 November 2016.

The Vice President of Samia Suluhu Hassan has given a period of one month from yesterday to officials and senior leaders of Ilemela district moving to the district and stop the habit of staying in another district on an excuse of lack of government houses.

The Vice President gave that directive in his speech to the citizens and executives of Ilemela Municipal Council who came out at the launching ceremony of the administration of the municipality and handed over 1,074 desks that were given by the parliamentary office.
The report released by the Office of Communication of the Vice President said, Samia has urged those executives to be close to their workplace so that they can be close to the citizens and help them solve problems and problems facing them quickly.
While in Nyamagana district in Mwanza province when he puts the foundation stone in the project of renovation of Nyakato slaughterhouses in Mwanza town, the Deputy President instructed the leadership of Mwanza city to supervise fully the project of renovation of Nyakato slaughterhouses and that executives found to sabotage the project which will cost more than three billion shillings to be taken against legal action.
The Vice President gave that statement in his speech to the citizens and executives of Mwanza city who attended the ceremony of laying the foundation stone in the project of renovation of Nyakato slaughterhouses that involved the improvement of the slaughterhouses building, angi to conserve water, construction of the cold rooms to store meat and construction of a sewerage plant that is from the slaughter.
The Vice President also instructed the provincial commissioner of Mwanza, John Mongella to make sure managing the management of the management of the slaughterhouses which will improve the performance of the slaughterhouses.
Regarding the collection of taxes, the Vice President urged the executives of all councils of Mwanza province to increase the speed of revenue collection of government through the electronic revenue from various sources of funds which will help the implementation of the development projects of citizens in that province.
Samia called upon citizens to make sure they claim the receipt when they buy different products, because doing that will help increase revenues which will be directed to development projects.
In his meeting of the conclusion of his five-day work tour in Mwanza province, the Vice President Samia emphasized leaders and executives of Mwanza province to work hard in serving the citizens by considering the regulations and public procedures.
He warned that the fifth term government will not be able to take stern measures against leaders and executives who will go against the ethics of public service at their workplaces.
He urged the leaders of Mwanza province to manage fully to protect the state of peace and stability and take strict action for people who want to destroy the peace of the country.
The Vice President has concluded his five-day work tour in Mwanza province by inspecting, to launch and set up the foundation stones in various development projects in Ilemela District, Misungwi, Kwimba, Magu and Nyamagana.


