
The work to the elders of Mbumba Simulizi businessmen and those of the middle were being phoned and forced to take money.
Otherwise those criminals decided to follow the homes for the rich after they warned them not to give information to the police.
In one story that I had ever heard, a businessman went to the police after being given information of the tour of that kind.
Police put a trap and a few minutes before the hour of the police officers arrived to conduct security at every corner of the house.
When they saw it safely they left.
After the officers going to their wives, the guards noticed that the rich remained in his room.
They call him and hit the door without success even they decided to be broken.
They found him being supported, feet, eyes and mouth.
When they opened up he has noted that all the money have already been taken.
Yet those were not officers, but criminals in the faces of officers.
Chui in the skin of the sheep!
Most of the criminals of the type when they went to stareiaka eighty up to the robbery of the type of mpya.
When the time they attract the helpless people to your beer, he is getting a short person and to call the drinks of drinks.
But before he has not given an order he is asking for the cooperation of the warefu people that are in that country.
They are coming out of people warefu kwelikweli thought that the one "andunis" had a special job for them.
Contrary to him, he is telling you to serve the beer boxes for the length of those people.
The attendant in the accangao is opening a bag that filled with a note and wanted him to serve payments.
That day people could drink free until the next morning.
When some of the problem people were relieved and the women are not doing it.
They were to be defeated.
They will bring a new chapter of "pedejee" that he owns palaces and the privilege cars, who is protected by the codigadi, and that she pour money in the neighborhood on how he feel.
No one was the one who's the strength to ask him that he didn't come.
Now because there are a lot of people who wouldn't want to work but with a luxury life at the umbrella of pedejee, they felt the situation continued even if pedejee is known to their property (public).
When it comes to this one control then you will be confusing many.
It is an example of the big ones who had a lot of food on the table to the point of kukichezea.
Their aides felt cheaper kuokota makombo legs than looking for a seat chakulani.
Later on the many turned out, many were struggling with the opportunity they got.
If they are sharing the same as the big ones.
What should they depend on what will we expect?
In the past when they have Israel led from sending them in Egypt, they said "it is better that we will also be left to send him in the course, we were eating and kusaza" without thinking that they were removed from the ombo so that they should be sent to the table to eat their food.
In this is not a must we enter the ngumbaru.
It is open and everyone knows we wanted the country of which kind since we got Uhuru.
The state of the use of juani eat his sweat in your shoulders.
It is not Tanzania to be forced by the auctioneer to buy your sweat at the price he wanted then sell the market for the price he wanted.
If he wants so he is not his alime?
Work to you, "the voters."


