
Collaborative security should be strengthened to fight the 'panya road'.

It has been written by Shadrack Sagati

It has been published: 12 October 2016.

Many areas of Dar es Salaam city at the moment is not safe again to live.
It is not safe because the actions of crime being carried out by different groups of crime growth in a big way.
The week did not live without hearing the events of robbery in the areas of Dar es Salaam.

Those actions have made people to live with more worried because there is no incident that the police have tried to go down or even prevent it before it happened.
Apart from robbery using firearms, but there are also groups that call themselves on the road, wild dogs and Black Americans and many others have been a big threat to the residents of Dar es Salaam as a result of doing criminal acts without even having any fear against the dollar.
Since May this year, these groups that use crude weapons like mashoka, swords, marungu and knives have been a big threat in the areas of the periphery of Dar es Salaam and despite doing piracy, also have been attacked people who are attacked by swords and knives.
An example of the day before yesterday in Mbagala were reported that one of those groups were jeruhi one of the police force officers (JWTZ), Jerald Malilo who got great injuries in head and forced to be admitted at the Lugalo Army Hospital.
Malilo was injured when he was done at work during the morning, despite the army but also many citizens have had discovered one way to get an income is kuwakaba people who are ever at work early in the morning.
The day before yesterday in Kivule also groups like those were invaded people's homes and killed two people and conduct looting.
Events like this when it comes from police, those areas are already killed or injured badly and piracy has been done.
But there are other groups itself are running grabbing during the evening in different areas.
These have been avrated even at the bar so that the only project can get anything to believe that people who are going to the bar are those who have money.
There are also other groups doing their crime at night, they are supporting many reap of people's homes.
Those wanapovamia people's homes may be willing to get any amount of money, mobile phones, television non-vichogo and the computer mpakato.
These groups of youths have been spreading because it comes to piracy or invading people's homes in the night, the behavior of the people of Dar es Salaam of fear giving support and have contributed to do these groups they should have a kiburi.
But also lack of security including the police of the community in many areas and have encouraged the young people to do their crime for more freedom.
Many areas of Dar es Salaam city have no police stations and for example the residents of Kivule, they claim that the police service is found in Stakishari which is in far from that area.
My advice is that the area like Kitunda which has more than two wards, that is in Kitunda, Kivule, Kipunguni and Msongola is good for the police to be involved in 24 hours than it is now the police station Kitunda is closed at 12 o'clock in the evening.
This is dangerous and provides an opportunity to these groups to make their crime for more freedom.
Even other areas outside the city like Mbweni and it does not have a police station depending on Wazo, something that is very dangerous.
Behind the police, the community seemed to help a lot in strengthening security.
IGP who was named at that time, Said Mwema by recognizing the least of the police seemed to afford the area and the crime in a big way reduced.
But leaving the IGP Mwema is as he has left with collaborative security.
I advise that to control these groups of crime it must be a solid defense.
Police encouraged collaborative security in our streets so as to get people to be able to cooperate with the police in doing the protection of civilians.


