
After Oscar, there is Isclosely, the World has changed in a big way, around there are different, D behavior are announced different every day with the research agencies of air affairs, technology is increasing and money is expanded.
The rich are there, they live and are looking for where they rest money every new day is written in the kalenda and every accale of the hours you are sogea.
New is a lot, they should be entertaining or kuchukiza, ilimradi has remained that pua zinafunguka and there is no one that is discouraging.
Every goats is eating at the length of his ropes, peace has disappeared and it is possible that even in the park planning and the nyumbu were living in one area and they will not be expected again.
Every one with two legs wants to make sure that he is bigger than another speed and a long race to look for success will not be finalized.
In soccer they have ever been in oil funds from the Arabuni, these are imedumu, then they are moving.
Zimeishi in England, are there to be France and will continue to spread.
Zilileta panic, heart disease and stroke for some of the American owners and kirusi who were thinking about profits than the abuse of money.
To them, these nor do not think he started out, they did not belong to his sins and they did not ever have the thoughts of Isclosely and greed for money.
The oil paid and they didn't have a different area of more investment to find out how to get to the world in the way they felt them and which they would have mentioned in a way that they would be left with Abramovich or Glazer and the women.
Good luck for them is that even their plans was in permanent in this game for a long time and that is why it's not surprising to see the previous registration of Paris St Germain and Manchester City was of leaders who are soccer people like Leornado.
In Russia, they emerged Zenit St. Petersburg, they should have been looking for him, and others who met with Warusi's money who were confused, Warusi who wanted to show their power and weight of their bags.
They continued what was called to change in the era of Arsene Wenger and entered into the life of money that could make him Raheem Sterling to be a expensive player behind Ricardo brother.
It is in this period that he's badges of the clubs were not worth compared to the presence of rich in the concerned club.
It is this period that started that rarely searching for the type of Steven Gerrard through Raheem Sterling, Dennis Bergifically through the name of S is this period that he would have already left the United where he gave him a life to buy the money of Geita.
The good luck that was built in Russia was caught up on the existence of those names like Eto'o bringing up to live with the world remains with his knee clubs in the pace of Chester City and those who p Maisha yakawa. It started to leave his own, ik honesty.
It has followed the new world a one who puts the jersey living in the neighborhood that is at any time he w his club for the money, the world that Higuaini an exchange of money, the world am trying to continue believing that Pogba has value to Ronaldo while Antoine Gr organized to break the coming record.
This lies has continued m in China, have emerged and they have arrived with their kiburi.
W what I was thinking against them, w money that they want and they have a vofeel.
Their money can k Mlima Kilimanjaro to stop Tabora and you will obey.
When they are spoiling the dream of most of the time especially which Ballon D'Or and UC of Europe is not endi apart from Lionel Messi or Cristiano R, their money change. The world players young players, amba and the opportunity to continue the kup is not in their clubs he didn't w that again and his children to hear.
The one who caused him had not been able to be a player OS tos.
This player was m his club before the arrival of w now Antonio Conte, he is up to the night that it came out again with the reason he went to a large way they go with it.


