
The main Makovu were left Kapedo but peace is improving in the Kapedo in the border of Baringo and Turkana's news headlines in the year 2014 after the assenhami kuwapiga bullets and killed 19 police officers.
This was forced to the government to start shugthis to take illegal weapons among the breeders in that area where more than 24 guns were killed.
However, despite the security kuimarishwa in that area, the hosts still estimated losses while claiming that the security officers who were running the activity destroyed their property and kuwatesa locals, the locals who talked with the nation today at the tour of that area, the previous week they told them they were through the hands of the officers during the peak of the activity.
The officers were also seeking the guns that were made from the officers who were killed.
The host complained that many people do not have been guilty of, their livestock killed by brutal bullets and their shops were speited by the officers.
"The government would take action to the suspects instead of punish people that do not guilty.
Most of us for now, we live in the environment that are not fit after our headquarters has been burnt, "said Mister Natan Loyeleis, the host of Chesakam area.
Business people at the Chemolingot business center in the eneobunge of Tiaty, they are complaining that their businesses have not been resolved after the activity because their products were stolen and the other being abducted by the officers.
Mister Paul Bahati udo, one of the business people says that he lost more than 700,000 shillings during that operation after his overall shop is being investigated.
"We are surprised how they are legal business such as they are done by the theft of livestock.
The operation that it was shining the economy of Pok community said.
The locals said that they are udi in the area lak that the peace of kudum being lost the property of those eresheni to be compensated so as to renew them.
Mister Napang'ole Lukwaso business of livestock in gulprices says that he p 2 million shillings during the ope according to the year of Ribkwo / Kositei, Mister the officers voted for nine and punda 240 more than 50 shops at that time.
He mentioned the areas that were killed as well as Caudo, Riong'o, Chesitet, Akwachatis with those who are charged at the Chemolingot stations and Nginyan "why livestock that our livestock have decided to live in our neighbors but oper has affected the economy is livestock," said Mister Tu, President Uhuru Kenyatta ali of Kapedo after the flowers instructed the operation of the operation, "said Mister Tu, President Uhuru Kenyatta ali of Kapedo after the flowers instructed the operation of the operation," said Mister Tu, President Uhuru Kenyatta ali of Kapedo hi hi "I'm here today for the officers who were k to mtoe the names of those who killed the officers.
The government is here and a stern step will be taken for those who broke the law, "said Mister Kenyatta was seen a stranger.
The pollution report of the property, theft and tortured for the locals that came out for the first time, former inspector general of police David Kimaiyo claimed that the animals were killed following the bricks that was shot out of the security officers and the invaders who had been hami Pokot.
The soldiers of KDF who were in charge of the operation also rejected the claims of their officers being involved in that brutality despite complaints.
In the report to the security agencies at that time, KDF had claimed that his officers had already left the areas that were mentioned where the theft and afflictions were reported.
The locals also complained that the officers were left against them in the area which they said recently were killed three children who were carrying livestock.
The 19 officers that were killed were heading to the process of carrying a car that had been abducted at the previous event in Kasarani area near Kapedo.
The security situation has now been strengthened in the Kapedo area following many months of peace meetings, led by leaders and athletes from the Valley Valley area.
The investigation that was done by the National Leo in the area revealed that the community of Waturkana and Wapokot that were in the previous way they are living in usalama.


