The broadcaster of Chanel ten we are continuing with our news report and the sports news and entertainment news that the war and entertainment, alisema Kilumanga and we start in the desert where we have to be the international star of Yanga who passed in different media in the past few months. The alaam was due to his new club of warning Africans, the delay of paying money that he took during the registration this season a total of thirty thousand American dollars and two to be signed up for full information.
Yanga was given I did not hold a thief by the ethics committee and the status of the players so that it should be paid the money and the goals I will have taken him but instead he signed up with Yanga but until we will not make that money to the Tanzania Football Federation, Ezekiel Kamwaga has confirmed that until now it has not given those funds to the Tanzania Football Federation, the death that is carrying Yanga to write a letter to order to be paid by the Tanzanian Football Federation. The money that money that money is the money that money the money is the money that
Thirty it did not end up there was looking for a long general secretary together with the acting secretary general of Yanga Lawrence Mwalusako who have been done about the fate of the star to play tomorrow which time hey when he was given a ten card.
I explain that the punishment is and that's fine but they fail to make us a letter to the two verses to say that there is no decisions for the committee he says right and your will be paying those money money money.
A different success of your success.
I ask for you.
I tell them when I tell them.
He should not be able to have it.
The people doing love love the people.
Ehhe will give us the money money.
It is now known that it is known that
It was the ten commission will be the
Free a player has not paid is Simba yesterday they have not paid him we have never been able to do it.
But you know that all those hours are being dealt with and when you find him tomorrow he plays it tomorrow he plays.
Have been increased.
With I can't know the community.
But we have lost dirty commissioner Mussa Mussa.
The dance of the games.
The fans of soccer in the country have complained to Tanzania Football Federation in the country in the country.
Failure to control the actions of some people being shot on the tickets of a big match in the country after the ticket of Simba and Yanga's match ended early especially those of the minimum of five thousand shillings, those fans who have claimed that the Tanzanian market will be unable to continue due to some of the people to buy normal tickets where the activities below and be eaten and sold and later on a rate of seven thousand shillings or inadequate tickets. Eight
It makes them up to make up hope.
News when I meet I don't think they defense helpless we are told to have already been eliminated.
This thing is surprising it is just a time today from the morning, maybe they could have two hours this hour at least tell them to calm down just to calm down.
Now, true the country we will go to where I really ask you to help you to help us.
I haven't heard of it and thus ended up with a bullet time like this one of the aircraft until tomorrow morning I would have just agreed a little asking you cannot if you don't like it.
I haven't know he is also afraid but he is taking the work he will be surprised yet yet.
Some time time.
With no one.
Two hours until the hour I'm done I'm finishing up to put it to put
If not take care of the furniture.
And how many hours he will get from telling you he does not mean it.
That's looking for him and find where these children especially in the villages and decide for only six million at the stadium you take a lot of people in the south we can't be with me to give them six million people all six million
I am sorry at the different price there is a lot of ten
Now, it has to come up these have the meaning they make all the ground has been filled with we cannot take the whole image we can take the whole image
We can tomorrow in the premier league game where it will start at one o'clock at night at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam city.
The province of dodoma through the company of Allah promoshen has started the process of getting three representatives who will participate in the national competition of searching for Miss tourism for two thousand and twelve thousand and three thousand and we have to join the Mwangi for a full report for the full report.
The spokesperson of the date twenty, we request for forgiveness for that report not to be ready and we are continuing with our news report and now we join Fredy Mwanjala which has organized international news for the sports news side of sports news.
The defending champions of the world cricket tournament popularly known as twenty ishirini, the England team has bid farewell to the competition after being left behind the strength and others fell in the last stage of the elimination of eight matches of soccer team has been Elvan for one week sixty and six in the sixth, has given us and get sixty and seven out of us, but that is the one concluded by the failure of it has come in the country for nine and losing twelve colors. The victory that they have taught England in the finals ehafrika in the south and india in another match to play the finals of that tournament in the tournament.
To come from the kenya who is at the end of the first contract this season in the Hispanic Premier League after scoring one goal and fitasi.
I imi wanted fewer after his son was released by a red card to the red card.
The last goal was scored by Diego Castillo earlier on the first half.
After every team than has been holding the barle leading in the league at twelve points to be given by Atletico de Madrid with ten points and even we finished with ten points with grace, the sixth religion for his ten points in ten points.
The United States in the basketball league of niliwahi we are told the preparations for basketball team that is in the new minister of the game in America has got a blow after one child to be signed yesterday is what to save or we have seen moving to the transfer of a player they have hidden too much of the money for the money.
But umepita they were removed from the peace stage of which is the elimination and comes to the champions of that league, this eggs
And the players of the national football team of France herbal that won the gold medals in the Olympic championships that has ended almost in London among those who were arrested by the police in that country on suspicion of planning results results of the results results of the results of the results of the results.
We have never thought that in the Olympic Games I'm in a hurry to a friend among eight people are being held by the police on those allegations involving them also kamari involving the initiative involving them as the motivation of the initiative involving them
That reporter is using the time he was also arrested after their Sunday match with his colleagues think today in court to answer their mistakes of bribery and if they will be found guilty he will be supported five years in prison or a fine of thirty thousand dollars.
I reported international games, Fred Mwanjala channel kumi ten.
Thank you very much Fred Mwanjala that the information on the news side of the news.
International on the part of sports news and now we have a Regia in our report which is coming from the province of dodoma where we are told that through the company of Allah promotion has started the process of getting the third representatives who will participate in the national competition to find Miss tourism for two thousand and twelve thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three thousand and three
Catholic we were able to see if you deserved to be done at least thirty participants and five times after taking the forms of requesting to participate from the organizers of the organizers from the organizers from the organizers of the organizers.
In that interview the judges were questioning the various artists including the history of their lives and what they wish to do when they will be chosen to miss the jokes of the jokes.
Speaking to this station when the interview was going on the director of the central region of the promotion of promotion promotion.
Politics especially lijenge explained that time after the nominations are expected to get twelve participants who will be posted in the camp later before getting into the mchuano I will give a win they will support us here in these hours or once you receive these twelve participants.
It has no sense of it.
From Saturday that is even one week I saw you will get into practice practice.
By starting they will start at home home.
Ehhe will be there to go back to
It is reminded I am tired of Dar es Salaam.
After me and if you woke up the new one at the end.
First farming we took two who didn't want to be able to camp so that we can know their behavior first by losing the object of something to loose something.
More close to him.
Panapo water but denge the first winner in the competition will be awarded one million shillings.
For being the second winner getting seven hundred thousand shillings and a third winner will leave with five hundred thousand shillings.
From here, he read today to be opposed to Monday.
Thank you very much to go back to Mwangi from the dodoma and here is the one we will conclude our information of sports and entertainment news and entertainment.
The weather forecast you will get and then we will return again here to conclude this information news news news.
