This is the MAISHA: The youth there is more life to be beti.

It has been written by Angela Semaya

It has been published: 02 October 2016.

Soccer is a game with a lot of fans, again especially young people of different ages.

It is an indisputable fact the soccer game has had a lot of fans in the whole world including the fans of Tanzania who are ready for anything as well as they have had a bet of money because only to obtain the game.
There is no sin to love games, but there is a need to put boundaries between support games and to work to bring development or kujikwamua economically.
Because of that sidelines, they are invented the business where fans have been entertaining the results of the popular game as "beti" and who are attending are ready to use all the money they have in order for the project only the participants.
If this issue for me to be atiza until today I decided to speak about it, that is also as seen kuitatiza the government which feel losing the strength of the youth who some of them have decided to focus on playing the initiative instead of performing or involved in the use of the money they get to improve.
The Deputy Minister, Office of the Prime Minister who is in charge of labor, employment and youth, Antony Mavunde recently explained his disappointment with the behavior of young people who use a lot of time speculation of the results of sports and using a lot of money for the things of the pregnancy.
Mavunde wants young people not to lose time to play the initiative and instead they use those funds to speculation the results in development issues.
I joined the Mavunde in that, it is not a secret I usually do not understand the youth or people who forget and play for the initiative and lost money that they could have used to do things for development and uplifting the economy.
That is the person that is working again to tire or the afflictions gets a little income, that is using going to play kamari which he is not sure to get, his results comes from the apa, the money he has lost and he won't start to haha again.
Again, others are following the masses just or wanted to see them for their colleagues that they have their own when he gets the time when it is a problem, he doesn't know what he will be eating or what he will do!
Boy separated with these things, do things development.
There is a place I know they are young people and even adults found wanaingia and from going to beti, if you hear now they are talking about things do not mean, until you asked if these family members and if they have their own then they have to eat losses.
The whole father or a boy is tired of the home you said you are going to work, yet at work for themselves is going to get money for the play kamari!
It's not good even a little, you must have knowledge, mind and knowledge, this life is not to play and lose the money hovyo.
You can say it is your work, your money and your decision, if you are in yourself as well as you will not disturb the person and your problems the same, but if your life itself to support and you have a family, then you get money you are wrong and there is no one who will carrying your problem.
The Deputy Minister Mavunde kawakumbusha, with me to open knowledge, you must have goals in life, remember those who officiated the games, they are doing business, themselves that they are losing, you are losing, because the motivation is not sure it is guess.
I don't have a doubt with someone who works and get enough money for them to continue or fulfill his personal needs and of his family, then he has extra money for him to mess with the initiative, but if he doesn't have an extra then he is anya his money to the routine then the pole has to be eaten to you.
Youths jitume, working for the goals of kujinyanyua and bringing development, shirikini in good things that will bring benefits to you personally and the community surrounding them.
Luxury have to end and its last time the other time is not good.
It's work to you.


