
13 December 2012.

The bill of citizens to get information landing in parliament in parliament.

The government expects to take the bill of justice and freedom of citizens to get all the important information on all government institutions in the parliamentary session next year.
The Minister of Justice and Law Mister.
Mathias Chikawe, said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday at the launch of the transparency competition which was organized by a non-governmental organization of Twaweza in collaboration with the government in order to get comments from citizens especially youths who are in school.

He said the aim of the government to take the bill in parliament is to enable the utungwaji of laws which will oversee the collection of views from the citizens, increasing transparency and accountability of the government in conjunction with the citizens.

"Next year when we take this bill in parliament so that you can be discussed, the goal is to ensure the government becomes a close partnership with the citizens," said Mister.
Chikawe.

Speaking about the competition, Mister.
Chikawe said it has been aimed at improving the health sector, water and education where every citizen is supposed to give the opinion he sees can bring major changes in the concerned sector.

He added that the competition will give a chance to the citizens to cooperate with the government to address various challenges that are in the sector in the country for the benefit of the country.

He urged citizens to come out to give their views so that the international plan of running government activities (OGP), you will be successful by ending bribes and using new technology so as to strengthen better governance.

On his part, the director of Twaweza, Mister.
Rakesh Rajani, said citizens will give opinions about how to improve health services, education and water in order to bring change.

"Young people who are students, if they offer better opinions in this competition, their schools will be given a computer, so as to increase accountability and transparency in the country, there is the importance of government institutions and non-governmental institutions to start the system of provision of all important information to the citizens," said Mister.
Rajani.


