
22 arrested in the theft on the mataa.

It has been written by Hellen Mlacky.

It has been published: 14 December 2016.

A special squad to combat theft of using weapons and theft of using the police force in the special region of Dar es Salaam, has arrested 22 suspects in a mistake of stealing those vehicles and pitanjia on the mataa to extend vehicles.

Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the police commander of that region Simon Sirro said that those suspects have been wakijiunda in groups and arrest the people with vehicles and pedestrians and pedestrians, a computer, a computer, an hour and money.
He said the follow-up was done and arrest the suspects at different times, whereby December 11 this year in Temeke areas of Keko Magurumbasi and mataa of Veta and Chang'ombe where were arrested 10 suspects in a crime of theft from ungoni and theft from vehicles.
He mentioned some of the suspects that are Ayubu Amiri (19), a resident of Mtoni Mtongani, Shabani Fadhili (18) a resident of Keko, Herman Francis (26), a resident of Keko Magurumbasi and seven colleagues.
"In questioning suspects have confessed to be involved in various mistakes including using robbery using weapons and using power," he said.
Moreover, he said that earlier investigations has shown a suspect Herman Francis is faced with accusations of murder, where March 20 this year he studied a knife and flee to unknown.
At that time, December 12 this year the soldiers arrested 12 other suspects for the wrong theft from vehicles.
Those suspects have been mentioned to be Sande Kassim (18), a resident of Keko, Emmanuel Abeli (21), Paulo Abeli (18), Jafari Nyerere (22), Hamis Salum (22), Hemed Idrisa (22) all the residents of Keko and six others.
In another event, the police have arrested four suspects involved in theft by kuwarubuni people by hired their vehicles and later use the power to steal.
Those suspects have been mentioned as Juma Kajeni (35), a resident of Tabata, Hamadi Kaganda (38), a resident of Mbagala, Mashaka Ally (62), a resident of Yombo and Mshamu Ally (32), a resident of Mtongani.
He said all suspects are continuing to be questioned and when the investigation will be taken to court to answer the charges facing them.
He also warned the citizens and the owners of vehicles killing keenly to those people who comes with the intention of paying them a lot of money or hired a car at a large level and then they are studied by the vehicle.
At that time, the police special region in Dar es Salaam through his squad of fighting the theft of vehicles has been arrested three vehicles of theft in various provinces.
Sirro mentioned a car with number T 386 CGY type of Verosa black color, the property of Abraham Robert of Dar es Salaam city and the car was arrested in Mbeya province has been abandoned.
Another vehicle is with number T 946, DGH type of IST color is being run by a suspect called Hamadi Saidi (27) a resident of Kimara Dar es Salaam which was arrested in Morogoro province, the car was stolen from Kawe Beach area in Dar es Salaam city.
Alilitaja another vehicle that the Mitsubishi Canter with a number T 753 CVZ which is a fake number while his real number being T.815, DJF, the property of Magreth was stolen from Kimara Suka areas in Dar es Salaam city.
He said one suspect who was arrested is going to be questioned and when the investigation will be taken to court.
He also said that the efforts to find other suspects who were involved with the theft of those vehicles are continuing to be searched in order to identify the whole network of theft of vehicles and other suspects who are wanted to the theft of vehicles in the past which they run.


