
Edward Lowassa: CCM has a lot of you.

January 13, 2017, 2017.

The former prime minister and member of the executive committee of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Edward Lowassa, has said that the improvement of unity and solidarity among the opposition parties in the country is interested in the Revolutionary Party (CCM) leading the government and to start started dirty political techniques.
Lowassa said that yesterday at the Gaprina Hotel, Kahama Town, Shinyanga province where he came to his way to Kagera province on a tour to strengthen the party.
He said that the improvement of the solidarity under the umbrella of parties that form the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) is a big step in the journey of building CCM in power and enter the State House so that they can lead the dollar.
"They have started dirty methods of making us removed from our union to feed our leaders, words, there is one newspaper limenilisha words claiming that I have to passengers CCM victory in the small elections of the councilor in Arumeru.
"These are wonderful things, this newspaper (not Majira), is living in our taxes, citizens, today is used to break this democracy is very sad," insisted Lowassa who in that journey accompanied by the Deputy Secretary General of CHADEMA Zanzibar, Salum Mwalimu.
He added that "they write lies in the afternoon weeds that I was in a campaign at the Ematasia village. I'm not going to, the method they are undertaking the citizens have not killed, they are not ready to see their desire to change when it's lost," he said.
Lowassa who came from Zanzibar where he went to participate in the launch of the parliamentary elections of the parliamentary elections of Dimani, supported the CUF candidate, said the opposition parties have great solidarity and urged their members to emulate that example.
"In the tour we do in order to strengthen the party, we also strengthen solidarity among the opponents. CCM are getting to you, we are telling them even what they are doing changes not to avoid, they will be interested in our leaders for hila but to know that it is the wind that increases Gambia, Ghana and elsewhere," he insisted.
In another step, hundreds of the residents of Kahama town were ches to the hotel that he reached Lowassa wanting to see him where the news of his presence started spreading on Wednesday evening where the citizens arrived at the hotel.
While on his way to Bukoba, Lowassa and his convoy got a chance to greet the citizens at the Lusahunga grounds in Biharamulo district where the citizens told him that their life is hard, they are also faced with drought.
However, Lowassa did not speak anything more than kuwapungia and greeted them saying that public meetings has been banned and he wouldn't like to break the law with the order.


