
The referee's daughter who is stren to reach the international level equivalent to the man Sylvester Kirof is rarely so much to meet with the referees of how female especially in the areas of the mashinani.
But in Kitale area, pamechipuka one who is continuing to do his stuff on the ulingo of soccer.
Veronica Sangok (Finder) revealed that he is revealed that he can do this work that he will peace since early and without any privileged.
But to be astonishing even more than a secret of its effectiveness, he really manage the referee of the international level, Sylvester Kirof.
He has been born three children.
And like that the whole setting has been born with the soccer blood, while Sangok continuing to whistle, her husband and her child breakfast are playing for the Moi Star team and Moi-Star Youth.
Father playing number seven or nine of the child who are usually arrested on the road of ushting.
This lady who has received a reputation is not sufficient for a short time, he has shown that when you meet this referee's sorry for the mtuvu, you cannot believe he can officiate the match.
This referee was born on 1986 in Kilima village, Moi Bridge where he understood and started his primary school studies in the Kilima school.
While at the primary school he started sha up to the province level.
After doing the class of eight class joined the high school of St to play football ball but later he started playing soccer while in the seventh class.
He played for his school and even though Anne Kapsabet where he continued with the kabumbu.
He completed school studies for now, he is a teacher of nursery school.
Before he would decide to go to the urefa training, he was one of the leaders of Moi Stars, a team that her husband is a great striker, where he was holding the position of the Registrar don't.
He started as a fan where every international Sylvester Kirof from here in Moi Bridge.
His work is entertaining that when I will peace with me one day I will reach his level, "said Veronica.
Veronica was heading to the urefa training time he would watch the match especially when the Kirisimamia would have been isimamia.
"I was interested in the work of the high refa went to the nursery school college where in Nairobi.
On the test of the race between the details 12, he concluded the first.
He says it is the only five fees who finished the race.
On the exam he got 77.7 points to be the highest points.


