The best way that he got where many others like that we had identified claiming that Mister you know our poor education is not the others we have not read the other seven secondary and the others are young, alisema maybe we tell them a lot of secrets and there are others who contested from the branches of branches.
This success is just a miracle of the ordinary human being cannot
But there are others said Mister maybe they don't have kneeling at all times think that maybe there is a person to hold the hand in there.
Others continue to say that a wide way we have a business but still getting customers is a little problems there to be a lot of things that AHH us as usual when they see it and Kibaki which are the way that we see it is the basic thing that is required for the period of what is required for the purpose of kuyafafanua more.
Therefore I would like to use this position.
You cannot answer the various arguments that were given.
And now, maybe now the pitiwa.
We're going inside for one thing one and time for you to ask questions likewise as well.
You can proceed to us in the very easy language because that most of our audience will understand how many of us will understand.
Two ways and the statements of encouraging them.
Know the last time that we talked about the frustration of the inside charles Siku ya Pai.
It is a way of WhatsApp WhatsApp.
Which was through ehatprocedures and understood so that the audience of our many audience can also learn to pass in the Mapito that it's not yours and to see if other than that but also don't forget to like other ones but also don't forget to see them like others but also don't forget
A job working).
When they start the beginning that he gets where we get to where
People went to know for the procedures if it had God Father died or we are the one that has said the internal hope he got to get a capital when he was given very close to thanks Mister primary and I will answer in the way that the very common person will understand in the way that the very common person will understand in the way that the very common person will understand.
The first thing that has been mi I have seen if I started with Mister funeral.
It reached a place where I wanted to succeed.
And this is set up to come out is that I have reached a place that I have become a desire for the English language that they are calling away,
That is also the product inside that you will make sense in the morning when I woke up in the morning when I go to work you find your problems when that is up to life, you see that life has not come to get that one desire for the inside burning desire there is two ways Mister Msimiwe to get that mentality of the first way that many people are receiving it out of the first way that many people are receiving it out of the first way that many people are receiving it out of the first way that many people are receiving
That state going round the problems and many things that are going round around them.
It will take place that it is that
He has also faced more you do not have the answer you do not know how that is it has reached a place that life has been rasted to have been
It expires at the place of that.
The trouble we have agreed is thinking about the place where the responsibilities have been Bana.
And you don't know how to face them now, you have and and I wish you have a desire to from the place where you are Samson the environment around it can be another reason but the second reason
A reason for it.
The place when you want to go to vision vision directly in the second reason but here I want to be convinced only in this where you want to go, maybe I should have a good house today when I will peace and I will be my children to read a good school more good school and I will be my children.
I will peace with me I should have to travel as my colleagues at the table I will peace with me I should have a better life to win because you want to put a picture of the place and want to head towards the place and want to go to the rest of the place and want to go towards the
It can get to Bana if you look at that is the life that they have if you're looking at that you want to head towards it.
The reason for where you want to head towards it is a big one to win the life they have been too with it.
It is building the likes to be done that the rains inside Samatta is washa the fire of inspiration to say that Mister, it doesn't matter which will be based on my way when he is going to build the rest of the picture, you will continue to think that they will continue to think that he is being built on the day until the fire is being built on your own day because they believe it is not necessary to happen no one that is being built on the day of the day you are burning in your country because they believe it is not necessary to happen no one that is being built on the day. When you get that when you get that, I leave from the place of talking to get to write about the inside of their heart in Kilindi of their heart at their heart.
He has got the first reputation of from that mi reached a place when I saw the life there is a better life to win you want to live for this start to build the one that you want to live in life and when you have to see them today because I saw it today because I saw it today because I saw it today because I saw it today because I saw it today because I saw it today because I saw it today because I saw it today because
There is a better life.
When there is the life of the upewe we have.
