UVCCM "to war" again "and Lowassa.

December 19, 2016, 2016.

The youth union of the Revolutionary Party (UVCCM) have said it is also a shame for the leaders that have ever been handed over the top bail and the government to lead the arena of administration and fail, to start being raped with their fellow accusations.
Also, the union has expressed his disappointment with the claims that were given recently by the retired prime minister, Edward Lowasa, urging President John Magufuli, leave the plan to buy a plane instead he asambaze water.
The acting secretary general of UVCCM, Shaka Hamdu Shaka, gave the statement in the province yesterday when he visited the water distribution project and inspected new water wells and safe water used to supply water in the villages of Kiniha district in Biharamulo district.
He said it is surprising to listen to a leader and a politician especially Lowassa who has ever been a minister responsible for water and livestock later that the prime minister was unable to solve water problem until he resigned from Richmond's scandal.
I doubt he said it is not good for someone being condemned even the good things that are done by the government.
"Lowassa is accused and being raped because they are seen as opposed to President Doctor.
Magufuli, someone when you want to give a kibanzi in the eye of your colleague, first, give boriti jichoni, to remember him he was a minister who is responsible for water, but he was also unable to "Alisinsisted Shaka.
The acting secretary general of UVCCM, urged the government officials and the district council to continue their partnership and realize that they have a bond to serve the citizens and solve the problems they are facing.
He urged the government leaders at the concerned level to understand that there is no need to listen to the accusations or blame provided by the opponents because their work is to say every day and the work of the government is to commit and show them to actions.
"I am happy to see leaders in the DC office, that work together with the partnership with the district council, we are all in an effort to build a stable house, therefore there is no need to kunyang off the implementation of the CCM notice of 2015-2020, President has believes in your ability for actions," said Shaka.
Previously Shaka participated in the construction and inspected the development of the construction project of teachers and health center which was started at the Kaniha Primary School in Biharamulo district.
I doubt accompanied by the head of Biharamulo district, Saada Malunde, watching the project.
The district commissioner said the government is doing everything possible to ensure the water experts are looking for areas with water ardhis so that wells are enough and people get clean and safe water.
DC Saada Malunde, said there are four wells out of 12 which have been destroyed and that they have ordered new vipuri, therefore, when it will arrive production and distribution water will be guaranteed in that county.
"We have 12 wells in Kaniha ward where four out of those have been destroyed, we're in great effort to ensure that the problem is ending quickly," said DC Malunde.


