
The donation is required to Baringo after residents to escape WYCLIFF KIPSANG NA Florah KOECH, Commissioner of Bonde la ufa, Osman Warfa addressed citizens at the security meeting in Chemolingot, Baringo on November 17, 2014.
Photos / Jared NYATATAMSAADA of human aid is needed for an emergency in the areas of Baringo North and Baringo South after more than 4,000 people move from their homes for fear being attacked by the corrupt of livestock.
In the area of Baringo South, the families that are quoted have been looking for shelter in various schools where they are living in a poor environment.
"We fear that they may be able to have a disease of diseases following the death of people in the classes.
Victims don't have the anketi of kujifunika, food and mosquito nets to prevent mosquitoes.
Pregnant women and children are the most affected, "said John Wendot, the oldest of the village.
Reports that have not confirmed that some of the pregnant women gave birth to the poor environment.
The representative of the women of Baringo, Grace Kiptui who visited the families that were not annoyed gave food support to the hasiriwa.
"It is sad that when Kenyans were celebrating Christmas, our people were sleeping misituni and in the bad environment.
The government is suitable to address the challenge of lack of security immediately, "said Miss Kiptui.
The conflict between the community of Watders and Wapokot has been marred again following the murder of former former officer KDF from Pokot community who is believed to be encouraged by the invaders of Tugen.
Peter Kokon was protesting with her child before falling with the attackers and the attackers who had dropped on his way and then burn his car.
The former KDF officer was driving a car from his home in the Mochongoi area before being attacked by the corrupt of livestock who have been hangting the residents of Baringo.
The bokot community has threatened to revenge following the murder of the former army.
Threats have made hundreds of locals of that area to relocate their homes and instead of going to isitri at the school.
More than 20 schools may not be fired today for the first term this year after parents move from their children.
Some schools that have been affected in Baringo North area is Chepkewel, Kalabata, Yatia, Sibilo, Kapturo and Chemindany.
The other is Tilingwo, Kagir, Ng'aratuko, Kosile, Rormoch, Chepkesin, Kamwetio, Chepkew, Barketalization and Moinonin.
Nazo Baringo South School is Arabal, Ruggus, Mukutani, Kashiela, Chebinyiny, Chemorokyon, Ng'eleof and Kapindasum.
Some of the schools also need to be reviewed after being revealed that the attackers steal equipment like iron sheets and solar machines in those schools.
Those attackers have now started to burn houses which have been left with victims and robbing their properties that are remaining.
The member of parliament of Baringo North William Cheptumo wanted the government to increase the number of savings in Chemoe village, the decision of Kagir, Ng'aratuko and Lorraine uk in order to strengthen security.


