And we are where we are.
Today I'm at work ehthat of I haven't talked to her for a period of time ehhe but I think he will get into the city tomorrow ohh I think that if possible I can be very safe ehif I reached the price on the rain too.
And Freddy is where he ehhe is.
He is getting in town tomorrow and we are eating mila today ehhe yesterday is not I have heard it was a very small price that how many money I tell us and I have to see it quickly he told me he was started ehhe and you eat sa you will come up with how many hours you will be able to come up with how many hours.
Mmhm then that someone gave me to steal him ehhe.
I will come to ten hours and two this evening or at least one hour AHH will resonate with the one hours I will finish my work ehhe is many or something four hours this time
AHH and the money the projects will be terrifying.
I will go back to work this hour this hour is from ununulie chakula cha mchana or hanAHH has been advanced and what is with me and what does not know I got it from it cannot be the money now will come out this hour at an hour and a half AHH.
It's not yet.
Science AHH but it is also not a must tukule chakula cha mchana at seven o'clock so that we should not know about the closing of a child that I think about it.
And now, you told me food, I will be learning I will learn we should know me in chakula cha mchana wa chakula cha mchana.
Since you must be lunch between other people.
Ohh other people from the mi I'm at the food ehhe now mi you know my hours and my stomach is
No we should know it is seven o'clock ATI ukule.
AHH your hours is also not a must for everyone's hours.
Above eight hours I will have to score the green AHH to look at the day before yesterday is the one that is in the ehhe.
AHH also at ten o'clock I can eat chakula cha mchana that you can take me
Tunabidi is the walinini Miss would have been annoyed here in town, I could have been here in the city, I knew I don't know how to cook everything that is being done in the family, I'm telling them where to go to Pwani or what I have been pitie is not impikia ATI.
Ehehhehhe had been through your wife aai your wife is not saying that your wife is not abusive to improve when you love that you love that you love it.
ATI love mmhm john AHH that the day I expect you to okota the love though ehaai will be coaching any thing with me not to contribute to anything to them and he does not write anything to them.
It is not a ATI kinafaa we are the ehhe is not ATI every hour that is how he is killing it is not enough for the house is enough for the house.
Ehhe again still can't return to them, he will not be expelled from the fare that you want to why and it must be found that it must e it.
Ehhe must have been mi ushalipa already I have a pie it is also what you have to be.
Ehhe must have given you a must that you have to pay a hhm on your parents are reading that we can ensure that this place has achieved this place in this place.
He did not read that the child of the boat has not been read that one I was given to the farms, he wants the cane, what is the only one to believe in the trees is what you have been using the leaves has not been done in the months at the end of the Mnazi or it is months months in the city or it is months months in the end of the month or it is months months.
When we tell you know how to come.
Ehhe but not you know the first one we can mi leaves leaves it also can't be a higher price not even we know it is not to bring us that if we know what the neighbors can be defeated as a person that is a hm.
The ATI.
Ehhe I was in I believe it is the one of the while above it has taken you to you and it is months with us, I paid him to the Mnazi and that's something provided inside it was what is with us not at the Mnazi Mmoja, there is the effects that is the Mnazi and the effects are not the Mnazi and the effects are not the Mnazi and the
With us is the corner sa is alcohol umlikes Mnazi alcohol alcohol.
What is that one electricity, maybe the madafu is not you know mi
We are in the water AHH lies lies.
He didn't have a lot of it.
