The residents of the neighboring village and mine, the minerals of the tanzanaiti of naisinyai in Simanjiro district to attack the area of mine to see and use the way to the main gate of the board board to the board.
And to conduct the destruction of water infrastructure for what is described as a opposing could not talk about the reduction of workers change changes to change the change.
Witnesses have said that we don't ungani one hundred people that are estimated to save
The funeral of the police defense forces put the same residents of the residents.
Full report and ramadhani mspots spots.
This station reached the Mirerani area shortly after the occurrence of the incident where the blood guard in that mine, Habiba Ahmed has said that the group before destroying the infrastructure we began to plan for stones in the main gate of that mine and found them found in the way of the main gate of that mine and found them found in the capital.
More more.
They took stoned to death there and in the air they said here, he leaves ugali to enter or from
Beka.
It is not completed.
The security manager and the relationship of the tango company sought Alfield and that's
He has said that the incident is natural production of the patient due to lack of water for several hours until he was forced to find alternative methods of returning that infrastructure to restore that infrastructure.
The activity was delayed a little because he was in will have our technicians to expect them to do extra work to create but he will also give them they can get to work at work.
A little time were not possible after that everyone had no fear and there is a hearing that swords on the road there is no one Bana in cooking after the incident, this station has been looking for and managed to find the chairperson of the village of naisinyai Laizer who has claimed that the villagers reached that step after realizing not to experience justice to the employees of that community in the exercise of reduction at work in the patient.
They have said that God has not done wrong to keep the area with vouting.
Now the TanzaniteOne company we were with them less than twenty years led by the whites whites.
Now, up to these hours it is headed by people who are calling the natives that are coming up to now right now.
They aren't two years but when they arrived at all the services that were providing the village and the
And all the companies there is no one that is there again on the sixth of the month of novemba last year, the leadership of the tanzanite mine that took a decision to reduce the work and thirty and five hundred and five thousand and one from one hundred and thirty thousand and one from the production of minerals, a situation that has killed confusion confusion in the state of the production of minerals, a situation that has killed confusion confusion in the state of the production of minerals, a situation that has caused confusion confusion confusion in the state
Ramadhani Mvungi Star t _ v Mererani Simanjiro Manyara
I think of it again in there.
