
Minister achamaa opposing the order of parliament Nov 03, 2016.

In London, UINGZA EREZA

The Minister of Foreign Affairs of England, Bwana Alan Duncan has opposed the prohibition against members of parliament to arrive at a special building of parliament to meet famous by the name of the state house Westminster with their small dog, saying it is a decision for the kipuuzi.

The State House of Westminster is the special building that the members of parliament of all two in England - the Parliament of Makabwela (House of Commons) and the parliamentary parliament of Mabwanwith (House of Lords) meets.
The area has been scored the name of "the heart of the British politics" from his popularity in that country.
Speaking about the prohibition, Bwana Alan Duncan said his dog who is called noodle has been saddened by that decision.
Due to that situation, the minister has said that in order to show his dissatisfaction with this prohibition, he will be going to his office (ministry) and his dog.

In his prohibition, the parliament has written a letter to the good offices of the parliamentary camp to explain about the prohibition that is alleged to prevent the pace of the parliamentarians to reach there with the vijibwa or their own vipches.
It is said that in the recent days, the number of members of parliament arriving with their vijibwa or vipaka has been increasing and they have been doing so without special permits.

Since the year 1991, the Parliament of Makabwela in England has put a procedure of banning dogs in the area of Westminster area.
The only dog that they are allowed to the area is a specific dog for the only defense.

In his document to go to those rare offices, the mpambe of parliament (Sajin Arms) is writing: "Here there is a specific law, there are things to consider about the issues of animals and health of parliament and even their security.
Not only members of parliament but even our staff and other guests who come to this area. "

On the side Bwana Alan who sometimes accompanied his dog in his parliamentary office told the Telegraph newspaper that, "if the situation is this, then the Noddle (his dog) will be rising more charts now, from the stage to reach Westminster up (top branches) when the office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs."

Last month, the Minister of the People Wasiojiweza, Labor and Health, Penny Mordaunt, once went to Westminster with her and defending himself that his aim was to deal with the chronic problem that was affecting the members of parliament and other executives in the area.

And Melanie Onn, the member of parliament of Labour Party in Grimsby, told Telegraph: "Many areas of work have been benefiting from these small animals when they are prohibited.
The issue of considering it is that these animals, especially the dog should not be burited for a long time themselves.


