
6 are caught by a weapon to the physician of indigenous kienyeji.

It was written by Nashon Kenya, Mwanza, Mwanza.

It has been published: 21 October 2016.

Police in Mwanza province has arrested six people with two weapons which were manufactured indigenous, they were used to use robbery and piracy of property, having been reserved for indigenous physician.

Mwanza Province police commander, Ahmed Msangi said yesterday that those people have been arrested on October 18, this year at seven o'clock in the afternoon, after police at the patrol Buswelu, Buswelu, Ilemela Municipality, arrested those people after receiving information from good citizens about the presence of those criminals.
In previous steps, the police arrested Jeremia Mkumbo (25) a resident of Malega in Singida province.
"When he was saying that he was admitted to be involved in criminal events and mention other people who were participating in it, said that the weapons that use the crime they left for the indigenous physician called Leonard Litta resident of Kagida- Buswelu," clarified Commander Msangi.
He said the police went home to the physician of indigenous, Leonard Litta (39) and after doing the upekuzi at home, they arrested 22 bullets used by a gun of gun fupi.
He said after being questioned by police, those suspects mentioned four other people who were partnering in doing crime which have been arrested.
He mentioned the people who were arrested as Kamugisha Jovin (40) guard and a resident of Iloganzala, Juma Yusuph (35) a resident of Bwani - Kinondoni, Samwel Peter (36) a resident of Buswelu and Shaban Hussein (26) a technician and a resident of Nyasaka Mozambique in Ilemela Municipality.
"All suspects when they were done to interview that they used these weapons in robbery and piracy in the city areas and our province of Mwanza," he explained and added that the police continues with the investigation about the event and others that they made and when the investigation are completed, they will be arraigned in court.
In another event, Commander Msangi said the police have arrested two residents of Dar es Salaam found in possession of theft vehicle.
He said that the suspects were arrested on October 18th this year at eight o'clock in the afternoon area Ilemela Municipality, while in the process of selling a car with registration number T.778 AZV type of Toyota Land Cruiser, they had stolen from Kiasia business businessman, Ilala in Dar es Salaam city.
He mentioned those who were arrested as Rahim Feka (28) a resident of Ilala and Ally Kawale (32) a resident of Jet Lumo- Airport.
He added that those suspects were arrested after the police receiving reports of being sealed by the car from Dar es Salaam city.
"After getting information from Dar es Salaam, we felt there is the possibility of this network of theft of vehicles in the lake region and after conducting investigations we managed to arrest those suspects," said Commander Msangi and added that all the suspects are under the police custody for further interviews.
He said the police in Mwanza province is communicating with their colleagues of Dar es Salaam, to make procedures of transporting those suspects.


