Shares of Vodacom Dec 08, 2016 by Mnaku Mbani

Original shares of mobile phones companies of Vodacom which may begin being sold at the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange market (DSE) earlier next year, will be "exam" for Tanzania.

The caution has been made by the advisers of investment who believe that they may be of Tanzania who should not be able to buy all of them due to lack of enough liquidity.

That company is leading in large numbers of customers among the phone companies in the country, has announced that it will sell its shares 25 percent worth 500 billion shillings.

The business advisers who talked to Raia Mwema at the end of last week have revealed that the amount of money expected to be collected is very high, compared to the financial capacity of many local investors.

In the period of January and February, the state of ukwasi on the stock market is usually not good, because many investors including individuals and companies are facing the responsibilities with great financial expenditure including payment of fees, claims of taxes and share of its shareholders.

The local investors in the stock market is a private company, Social Security Funds, the insurance organizations, business banks as well as individuals.

It has been noted that the amount of money that has been planned to be found due to the sales of those shares will be greater than the previous other shares that have already been sold on the market since it was started in 1998.

One of the business adviser on the stock market who did not want his name litajwe said that together and came to get rid of a great thirst for investors, the ability of the market is still young, especially local investors.

DSE currently has 25 companies listed where local companies are 18 and those listed from foreign markets including Nairobi and London is seven.
The Acacia company, EABL and TBL are the ones leading in big capital on the market.

For many years, the stock market investors have been complaining that they missed the opportunity to invest their money from the absence of enough products (company).

"We are aware that the sale of Vodacom shares has looked at the thirst for investors but I see the standard is very much compared to the ability of investors.
The issue here is how the Tanzania will take advantage of those shares and completely finished, "said the expert," said the expert, "said the expert that

However, because the capital market has already been opened for investors from outside and inside, there is a big possibility that investors from outside are the ones that will benefit from this opportunity.

"You can have a strong desire for food, but it can't happen when you take the food and sell it to each other," said the expert.

He said that collecting 500 billion shillings from the sale of Vodacom Tanzania Limited, Plc will be difficult for local investors especially during January.

It is expected that Vodacom shares will start to be sold on the market from January to March next year and its great goals were to get them from Tanzania on the official system of the economy ownership.

The sale of the initial stock of Vodacom Tanzania Limited Plc is one of the implementation of the Post and Communication Act of the year 2010 which has ordered all mobile phones companies to sell their shares to the public by the end of this year.

Another agent of the stock market who also did not want to mention the name revealed that the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange is still faced with a lot of challenges of lack of products, but the arrival of Vodacom is an examination.

"I doubt if 500 billion shillings is now the rest of our stock market.
But let me see until the end, "he said at a conversation with Raia Mwema.

That auctioneers believes that the only few Tanzanian will get the opportunity to buy those shares and the majority of the stock may be taken by investors from outside the country.

"I know investors from outside have been paid for a lot of Vodacom shares and where they are listed most of them will sell and money are going out of the country.
Without having the assistance of investors from outside the country, this initial stock edition of Vodacom will be a great exam for Tanzania since that is the only chance to enable them economically, "said said the only chance to enable them economically," said said the only chance to enable them economically, "said said the only

The company has already taken a draft of the document of expectations (Prospectus) and applications in the marketing authority of Mitaji (CMSA), which is the authority that has been involved in capital markets in the country.


