These sun will do how you will hear the blessing that he is talking about
According to the rules of the premier league, every club is required to present the names of the players between the eleventh and seven to thirty that mistake Toto and stand united is required to pay five hundred thousand per every player according to the number of players that will be presented first from now on the moment.
In the door sixty and four.
It is three parties to be unable to submit to be registered in that time which is bigger than all come from the premier league is the team of nikatold the phone from Tanga on Tanga.
Telling them everything from Yanga's yanga.
The club's club and the club.
Of Toto African from the beginning of the beginning
For clubs we are unable to present sponsors within the allocated time planned.
And if they will pass from today, he will not be enough I see if it has been instructions.
You should be able to pay a hundred thousand shillings to every player presenting a tribe in this time this time.
During that time, the coach of the national team of Tanzania, Stars charles Boniface Mkwasa has mentioned twenty players and two who will be traveling with a team on Sunday, they will be entertained twenty and third to set up a camp in the country.
For an award, Joshua two were supposed to report to camp on Sunday at five o'clock in the hotel of Tansoma for that complete procedures and the trip that
It will be posted on Sunday at the same journey, the teacher thought and the goalkeeper of the goalkeeper.
When Ally Mustafa walk a walk.
Since Yanga Aishi Manula azam
Said Mohamed from Mtibwa the stars squad is going to set up a camp in the country, a uruki for a period of two weeks to prepare for the game to qualify to play the finals of African countries AFCON two thousand and seven in Gabon against Nigeria on September five in the city.
The institution is expecting to play the second game to qualify for AFCON against Nigeria after the previous one against Egypt scored three goals away from one away away from one away away from Egypt.
I have known the star to be daressalaam.
