
Kabila asifu change at the port in Dar es Salaam.

It was written by Halima Mlaof

It has been published: 05 October 2016.

The president of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Joseph Kabila has praised the changes that started to be seen in Dar es Salaam Port, and assured Tanzania that the country will increase faster the use of the port.

Until now according to President John Magufuli, the cargo that went through the port from and going to DRC has increased by 10.6 percent while the business between those countries increased from 23 billion shillings in 2009 to 396.3 billion shillings last year.
In addition to that, DRC and Tanzania have signed the agreement of an agreement to conduct oil research in Lake Tanganyika, which were revealed and started being produced, will be transported through the oil pipeline that is expected to be built from Uganda to come in the country.
Speaking to journalists after finishing his talks with President Magufuli, at State House Dar es Salaam yesterday, President Kabila said his country is ready to continue economic and commercial relationship between those two countries.
"DRC is using the port of Dar es Salaam to a large extent to transport its cargo, but I confessed that years ago we had problems with this port, but for sure at the moment, the situation is different because there has been a huge change of services in this port that give heart," said President Kabila who arrived in the country the day before yesterday for a three day tour that is ending today.
He said that state continues in that port, it is clear that in the coming days, it will be the best port in Africa that will be used more, not only with a few countries of East Africa, but even the west countries.
He said that kijiografia, DRC on the east side and four countries which are Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Tanzania, but among those countries approximately 50 percent of the business of Congo is doing with Tanzania.
He said that he is impressed with the way the fifth phase government organized to improve more services of the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), as well as collaborating with the dry port that are in DRC, something will make it better business between those two countries.
"I'm glad to see you launch this building that will make one station to provide ports services.
I have faith in business between us and Tanzania will rise... "because together with other businesses, DRC, we are producing bronze, years ago we were producing 100,000 tons until 150,000 tons of bronze but now due to investment, we are producing one million tons to one million and a half million, so I have faith we will continue to cooperate in this area of transport," he insisted.
Speaking about the oil agreement that was signed by ministers of both countries who are Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo and the Minister of Oil of DRC, Ngoi Mukena said the contract is a good start of cooperation between those countries in the oil area.
He said that for now, Africa has begun to discover many areas with oil, giving an example of his DRC country that had discovered oil through Lake Albert and Uganda which has completed the talks of the construction of the oil pipeline that will go through Tanga.
Together with that, President Kabila also talked about the issue of peace and election in his country, where he insisted that his government is ready to assure the democracy of Congo in the elections that will take place or this year or next year.
"I would like to take this opportunity to be open and to resonate with a lot of rumors of the media that the situation is bad DRC.
I assure you the citizens of Congo and the South African Community (SADC) that the state of Congo is safe and there is peace, "said President Kabila who came in power in the year 2001.
He said at the moment in that country there is a condition of a vigrety of anxiety in the country due to the expiry of the election period, a situation that is normal for any country.
"My government has planned to call a conversation and talk about this issue.
We want elections to be held by considering the basis of democracy, freedom and peace, "he said.
However, he admitted that in that country, there have been security problem through small groups of rebels who several times have been doing attacks, including kidnapping of people and thanked the government of Tanzania because one of the countries that have taken its forces to help restore peace in that country.
On his part, President Magufuli admitted that the state of Dar es Salaam Port has changed due to the major efforts that the fifth term government has to make including the sacking of all the staff who contributed to destroy the work of the port.
"It is true in the past years here there were people that came out are gods, they used poorly their power, waliddared to set up money on their vehicles on their vehicles regardless of the interests of Tanzania.
I assure you Honorable President Kabila in the fifth term government, things like this will not happen never, "he insisted.
He said out of the issues that he talked with the president, he has agreed to increase the participation of DRC to pass its cargo because until now DRC has managed to increase cargo that went through the port of Dar es Salaam by 10.6 percent.
He said together with getting rid of the bureaucracy problem in the port, also the government has reduced milolongo that put restrictions to the business people who pass their cargo in the country by reducing the number of mizani to inspect goods and to three rounds, that will be in Vigwaza areas, Coast province, Manyoni province and Nyakahura in Kagera province.
"But I have also been told TPA have agreed to remove the relief of the business people of DRC by adding time to put their cargo at the port from 14 days to 30 days," he said and added that in improving the business environment in the country, the government also on its budget for the year 2016 / 17 has set aside a total of one trillion shillings for the construction of modern rail that will be connected from Burundi to Isaka which will also reduce transportation costs for the business people of DRC.
In addition, he requested President Kabila to follow and take action against all those who complained from the tax and customs unit of DRC to bureaucracy in order to create more good environment between those two countries.
Regarding the oil agreement, President Magufuli said that the contract between DRC and Tanzania will make the oil that will be found in Lake Tanganyika to be transported through a pipeline that is constructed from Uganda to Tanzania.
Speaking about the issue of defense and security of DRC, Magufuli said in his talks with President Kabila, has confirmed him to be in that country there is a state of security and that the government is prepared to ensure the elections is taking place in peace and follow the basis of democracy.
"For now, they are in the process of registering in the register to make a vote because this country expects to have a number of about 45 million voters where the last elections, 35 million people registered to make him vote," he said.
In addition, he said he has accepted the request of that president to follow the state of peace in that country and noted that through his position of the chairperson of the political and security department of SADC (Troika) has ordered ministers of foreign affairs from three countries to evaluate the real security of security in that country.
He said those ministers who will go to DRC is the minister of foreign affairs from Tanzania, Angola and Mozambique.
In addition, President Magufuli said that in his talks with President Kabila, has explained his intention of wanting the country of DRC to join the East African Community and wanted him to present his official letter so that it can be discussed by other members of that community.
President Kabila launched the foundation stone of the TPA building, popularly known as one stop centre, that will be used for providing all the port services and TRA.
According to the managing director of TPA, Deusdedis Kakoko, the building with the 35 floor is the tallest tallest in East Africa and Central countries.


