
Mbeya city now, tarmac roads every corner Dec 27, 2012.

The dream of the residents of Mbeya City to see changes and important improvements in the infrastructure sector, finally has been fulfilled after completion of one of the ongoing roads to be built right now in the city.
That important road which is completed recently, is the one of the Airport- Samora, which serves the residents of Iyela area, or Uwanja wa Ndege, as it is known for many, which is complete at a tarmac level.
However, along with the road to be completed and therefore easing the transport communication between those areas, the fear that the citizens are on top of accidents.
"And we are now, we have been people after they are on the road of tarmac road.
Indeed it is like I grow it, it will help to transport our produce from the farms.
We are the ones that are producing Mbeya city for vegetables vegetables and fruits, "says the resident of Swaya after that road was put in tarmac class on Saturday last week.
The Swaya village is out in the outskirts of the city of Mbeya, and it is popular for vegetables, their main market being in the middle of the city, and therefore for the citizens of that area, its importance is transportation of their crops easily and swiftly.
Apart from the transportation of food produce from Swaya village, the completion of the road is a great relief for students studying in Samora Secondary School who were forced to walk on foot for approximately two kilometers per day due to the lack of transport between the Mafistation and at the school where the new road is threatened.
That road of 1.24 kilometers known as Airport- Samora road, is part of the roads with length of 28 kilometers that are based on the construction plan of the city roads that started in November last year and is expected to be completed in June next year.
Engineer adviser from the company of Techno niplan SpA- Itali, M. Haq, says he is interested in the quality of work that was shown by the company that builds the CICO road in China.
He says that the level of quality and efficiency of the work showed technicians in the construction of that road, give him hope of work to be completed in the time planned and for the quality who agreed on the contract.
The view of the expert that resembles the citizens of Mbeya city who explained openly satisfied with them and the quality of that road by looking at only, while some of the engineers from different cities which are in the project in the country, noting that that level is confirmed to control in the tender for some of the perpetrators saving popular as "asilimia kumi".
"Here there is no" asilimia kumi, "that is why even the President of the company has come, again with his wife, you can break up" asilimia kumi "they are alleged to the contractors, not less than 40 percent of all the work payments, that is why he is forced to be forced to," says the one engineer from one of the city's cities in the country.
According to the acting secretary general, Office of the Prime Minister (Education), Jumanne Sagini, the councils of all Majiji in the country, the councils of seven municipal and the authority of the headquarters Dodoma (CDA) will benefit from the plan of improvement of cities in the country that is being implemented by money from the World Bank (WB).
According to the Sagini, the program costing more than 200 billion shillings, it is about the construction of road infrastructure, markets, destruction, buses, buses and improvement environment.
He says together with other things, that the implementation of the projects is ofautiana depending on the needs of every city and municipality.
Those roads are a great relief to the residents of Mbeya City and the province in general, where they are now supporting this year 2012 with big three projects to be proud of, because of the Songwe International Airport, Mwanjelwa and tarmac roads that are continuing to be built inside the city.
The completion of that road of Uwanja wa Ndege-Samora, to revive the hope of the residents of that city that previously bought up, an extent that it was not surprising to have found the legality of their city given the status of the city, the main reason being to see things are going to be fit as they were expected, and especially when they were injured, and especially when they were injured by the years before promoted to the status.
It is on the basis, some of those citizens in the vijiwe, did not miss the Government of President Jakaya Kikwete for good development work that will implement in Mbeya province, and especially the improvement of road infrastructure of that city.
Songwe Airport together with the Mwanjelwa market, are expected to be launched at any time from now, when the construction of tarmac roads in the city will be going on but some will be complete ready to reach June next year, having a length of 28 kilometers.
Since December 13 this year, Songwe Airport started to be used, and according to the manager of that stadium, Valentino Kadeha, what is being waited for is the official launch that is expected to be done by President Kikwete.
However, construction is only one thing in improving the road infrastructure in humu, primary is its protection, something that for experience is a very big problem, not for the City of Mbeya alone but for the whole nation.
According to the director of Mbeya City, Juma Iddi, the preparations have happened about the care of those roads, including meeting with the leaders of wards and streets and to tell them their responsibility in overseeing the care of those roads, including waste disposal, where the city will ensure that takataka are not suitable at the "guba" present on the road, and that even the citizens have been educated already.
"Citizens must know that these funds (used to improve the infrastructure of the city of Mbeya) is a loan from the World Bank, therefore we will come to pay them," says Iddi.
In this to preserve the infrastructure of community services, the acting secretary general, Sagini, that he ordered the local government authorities in the country to supervise the small laws that are in the environment so as to protect the roads in the country that he says you cost a lot of money.
In addition to the construction of road infrastructure, the program of improvement in Mbeya City (face lifting) is also about the ezi of the University of passengers vehicles and cargo at Nane Nane area, road lights and the hole of takataka (land fill).
The road being built for money from the World Bank have been divided in two phases.
The first phase will involve 13.2 kilometers to the road that starts Sae through the TANESCO electricity station to the University of Theungwani Kisanji (TEKU) together with the Airport of Airport through Jacaranda up to Bhanji oil station, Forest area.
Another road in that phase is the one of the Commissioner Road which begins at the Uhuru Mnara to the Weru Garden until Uzunguni, the block of T that starts Kabwe heading to the Church of KKKT Luanda to SIDO and the fuel station of Oil Com Soweto, and the one from Sea (TANESCO) to the clinics of Ituha.
The construction of those roads will involve water and small bridges of the type of makarafati, purchase of two vehicles for the management of roads, one plant to compete with another one of the fetching sand and the stones that is known as well as foolish.
The second phase of the program will have 14.6 kilometers and it will involve the second road in Sokomatola area together with his bus station, the road starts from VETA to the evening before meeting with where it will be Ilemi and heading to the Makasini area, Uyole area and the Provincial Hospital of the province that begins in Ndiyo Mini Super Market.
Another in the second phase include the one that starts in the new Forest which will join the one of the Airport to Sae, the Igawilo road that starts from the main road of Mbeya - Tukuyu heading to the Health Center Igawilo Secondary School to Igawilo Secondary School.
It is in that second phase, where it will be built at the University of Passof building and goods at the Nane Nane area, the waste of the sense of the dampo litachimbwa, the purchase of mizani of measuring weight in the hole of waste, three vehicles of waste (side loaders), four vehicles of carrying waste (skip bucket) three vehicles. The little and they collect 200 taka.
According to the director of Mbeya City, in the second phase of the second phase they will also be taking photos of the city housing (satellite image) which will help improve the collection of tax collection of buildings, and more will be released training to the officials about the collection of revenue, and setting up a computer system of operations of the council of that city.
In that special program of improvement of road infrastructure, Mbeya City doesn't depend on the only money from the World Bank, but it will build eight kilometers for tarmac using money from its revenue sources.
Those roads include the one of the Kambarage that starts from K's hospital to the parents' Hospital of Meta and a small bus station of Meta, the provincial library of the province, all the roads that surrounds the city Park, the road of Sokomatola among the TANU, the roads of three and four, visitors street and Nonde street, the parking vehicles from the sombrero Hotel and the area while City Pub. The small bus stations and small buses stations.
By using its money, the city of Mbeya will build ten kilometers of roads to the level of changarawe which next year will be installed tarmac, where will be the beginning of its sustainable program to build ten kilometers of tarmac roads every year.
Among the long-term concerns in Mbeya City, it is together with the lack of road lights where together with long-term noise of the citizens were put on the same road that they should have at the center of the city.
However, the problem will wish to be history, because the project of placement lights on the main highway of Tanzania- Zambia has been completed by lit.


