
The husband AMCHINJA mkewe, explained the story is the wivu of MAPENZI, himself admitted to hospital hospital.

Rashid Mkwinda

A resident woman of Mahango village, Madibila district, Mbarali District, Mbeya Region who was known by the name of JitMamga Mamga (20) has been killed by a knife by her husband known by the name Gervas Kadaga (25) who is also a resident of the village.

The incident happened the day before yesterday November 21, at 1 o'clock in the evening after the dispute between those lovers, where the late was found by nine knife injuries in various parts of his body.

The police commander of Mbeya Region Mister.
Diwani Athumani said that the late alifia at his home where a suspect who has been admitted to the referral hospital in Mbeya and has been seriously injured by the unborn knife.

However, Commander Athumani said that until now, it is unknown to the real source of that fight where the police force continues to investigate the event while a suspect was placed under police custody at the referral hospital of Mbeya where he was hospitalized.

The event of that kind is the second one for a period not exceeding two weeks whereby November 12, the wife and the son who was identified by the names of Husulina Kornel (42) and his son Kondo Alphonce Chikondo (19) residents of Iseche village, Mwambani Division of Kwimba District, Chunya district, collaborated killing her husband known by the name Sylvester Chikondo (55).

According to the report of Commander Athumani is that the woman Husulina Kornel who claimed to partner with his son killing her husband was arrested on November 20th in Mwambani Chunya.

Commander Athumani said that in the interview of the police force and the woman claimed that he did that murder alone without involving his son who is going to be searched for by the police force.

Moreover, he said that a large percentage of the murder events comes from the conflicts of marriage and wivu of sexual and that it is good for a couple to resolve their internal conflicts in a way of talks so as to evade harm that can arise.

Speaking at the referral hospital, he admitted a big mother of Gervas who introduced himself by Martha Lugenge said that these youths met Madibila each one in his activities that when they decide to live together.

He said he was given the reports of the incident the following day and that when he arrived found the late brother they have to take the body of their child for the purpose of the funeral and that he doesn't cause the cause of a fight that is causing the knives.

The mother said that the young people have never been able to get a child and that they haven't started living together a long time, "Wote is children, because they have started living a long time?


