While it is not completely like all the time he deserved to unlied about it.
Good, that is what I tell you I have not told him I did not think he was ashamed to leave why he knows where he is seen, we will have to try right but it has not given me so much to let me know first.
Still you have not been able to come back to what is
Organize yourself know that somebody is giving him his time that is when it is not saying that we are planning to know if you are planning sawasawa akileta a place at the tukule place.
The market was going to be gone.
He made it disappeared to let me know that this disappearance has also been difficult to follow up so much if we do not make it to let us know the police we have said that we should let you know the first to prepare yourself then he will come to the rest of the home.
For what has been mi you will not see the malies of the police that is even the one with the one who eta mmhm I said that if you know that is the same but just Ako that he is now ehif you don't ask first conor ehhe because you don't know if only many of the time ohh but not yet many markets and ye.
Eheyeah, he understood when he will end you know it is a faithful person to be loyal to you.
Also mmhm then that is what you wanga in it is defeated in the era.
There is a lot of wanga wakora yes, I am saying it is not they have told me more than loyal is there is not faithful to be faithful.
It is okay but we should trust him and he spoke with us on the phone he told me he will come to him when we come up mi mi.
Yeah ehhe must be one week let's go so much in the until we know there is how that protects Malindi or wherever we should also know that we should also know that we are also in the same way.
The most of the time you think since it was going to be accomplished to walk to bring in the place of the noise like the Indians well as well as the Wahindi well.
Ehhe is not the one that is not to make sense he went to a place as well as the first one went out he was not being fired as for a good time in a good place halo o'clock.
And we are reminding them to have voted for those noise and we have said another and we have now mi bid goodbye to him.
I'm not in the same I don't know and Linda more know why that's why we do the wedding they will know when they are the same problem you know if you know it's given up openly, you know that it's
