
This war of the government and doctors Ikome now Jul 16, 2012.

Our country would be ali in the sadness of conflict between the doctors and the government.
It is sorrow that was mixed and fear and mashaka.
Suluhu to shake hands has not been found.

It is sad, meaning, this is our country, they are reading it is our doctors and that is being criticized is our government.
It is the citizens of this country with kutaabika and even lost their lives due to this strike.
This is something to be deeply saddened.
It is something with the kuitia doa our country.
In the past, there are we insist on, and here I repeat to insist on my stand as a Tanzanian I love my country, that there is no other way to end this crisis but it is through kindugu talks and friendly.
Characters have a must to sit on one table as of Tanzania and to find a solution for this conflict for the benefit of our country and its people.

For now, every side you see his colleague is the one who is wrong.
Therefore, every side has been running off the handakini and developing "the fight to avoid each other."
The truth, in the war there will be no winner, meaning, as a nation, all we have already failed.
And we are going to fail more, I mean, our people are desperate for lack of reliable treatment.
Basically the claims of doctors is the primary and they are talking about it.
And the arguments of the government are primary and that are talking about it.
So, both sides can speak to reach the consensus.
It is not a matter of wisdom at the moment for doctors to continue with their strike when the doors for negotiations has not been given a bronze medal, and not wisdom because of the government "kugomea" talking to doctors on an excuse that the issue is in court.
I joined religious leaders who isihi the government to cancel the case and to be finished this commotion at the table of talks.
It is better and it is wise now for doctors to announce, for the benefit of our country, postponed their strike once and go back to work serving of Tanzania at all heart.
They do that even in the difficult environment they have, when the effort to reach the consensus and the government continues.
I mean, any strike is a loss of a loss.
Everyday that goes with a strike has meaning of a loss to the country and its people.
It is a loss of money and survival.
That's the meaning of both sides should make sure they are meeting and looking for a drawn to shake hands.
And there twendako, if there happens a situation of disagreement between the government and doctors, then the doctors' party to start now thinking about the good way to run a different migomo and this current.
For instance, in accusing the government would have been possible to begin with a strike to one hospital and not the whole country.

It would also be possible for the whole hospital but several units while the services on other units continues.
However, it would bring trouble the citizens and by accusing the government on discussing with doctors in improving their interests.

But this of the "wild strike" because of the strike of the whole country has a "risk of health" to the nation.
Tusifike a place when we contribute to make our country themselves to go through it from the migomo.
I've been able to write, that is a fact, that almost every Mtanzania who woke up in the morning, or is a patient or has brothers, relatives or a friend who is patient.
Therefore, there are millions of Tanzania with kutaabika every day and illnesses of different types.
It is of Tanzania who is depending on a lot of medical services given by our doctors.
And in our countries, the doctor is a very important friend of a citizen.
It is a very bad thing, when the government comes into the conflict with doctors.
When it comes into the conflict with the friends of the citizens.
There is no place anywhere in the world the citizens show up to hate doctors.
Therefore, it is also chaotic when the government is unable to finish its differences with the doctors of citizens through talks and even reach the point of doctors to strike.
In our countries, the physician of therapy who was stopped for the money of paying taxes and for many years he is very required.
The medical officer of the assistant treatment is very required.
And even if he would have been the assistant to the assistant medical officer of therapy, and he would be very required.
The same way to the chief midwives and the assistants, the senior nurses and their assistants.
All of those he is needed so much.
In our countries, the government are not permitted to reach the point of threaten and even chasing the doctors.
The last one to happen just where all other ways to finish the difference and resolve conflicts and doctors when they have already been impossible.
And why are we not been able to produce each other?
Well, of Tanzania we would like to see this war between the government and the doctors followed him quickly for a solution to shake hands.
I insisted again, the biggest one at the moment, is on both sides in this crisis to realize that for now the tension that is going on will not give a winner, it is because, in what happened and what is going to happen now, all of us, as a nation, we have failed.
This is the time to put her wisdom and wisdom.
We do all, but, the way you have arabu to start this crisis that is now talks in the environment of being respected, then.
God bless Tanzania, God bless Africa.


