
CHADEMA MBEYA YAELEZA SABABU ZA resignation from the secretary general of his spokesman.

Rashid Mkwinda

Two days after the former secretary of CHADEMA, Mbeya City, Lucas Mwampiki announced his resignation from his position, the party has claimed that it was not fired that position before he has not announced his resignation from the secrets of the party to the opposition.

The Mwampiki who is also the councilor of Mwakibete ward announced to resign from the position of the secretary's spokesman for claims that he has been targeted by some of the party leaders in various activities of the party for his position as a delegate.

While announcing the decision of that party against the Mwampiki, the chairman of CHADEMA in Mbeya district, John Mwambigan issue said that the session of kumvua leadership, the Publicity secretary was eti on April 14 after being satisfied the conduct of his performance and he announced his resignation from the position on April 16.

He said that following that state, the leadership of the party in the district to involve the legal sittings of the party has ratified him in his position as well as blocking against involving any of the party activities.

Mwambigan issue said that the top leader of the party violated the constitutional provisions of the party by spreading the information of majungu and not to be honest and open as well as involved with deception on the legal decisions of the party.

"We have decided for one statement to suspend all the party activities for one year, he will continue with his Udiwani, we are not supposed to do anything related to our party, as he continues we will take a decision to make a crang'anya card and depressing," said Mwambigan issue.

He explained that among the reasons that caused his position as well as leaked secrets of the party to the opposition as well as releasing cooperation in the current party activities of "Chadema is primary," and that the decision they took is in the laws that are being protected by the constitution of the party.

He said that before taking that decision, the party called the leader in the sessions four times where he was unable to attend so the decision they took you have a blessing of the legitimate sessions of the party and that even though he has a chance to appeal to the highest level if he will see that he has not fair against that decision.

On his part, the Publicity Secretary who resigned from the Mwampiki said that he decided to resign after seeing his partner with his fellow leaders and that many times when he was questioning the primary things to develop the party, he has been given a finger as a betray.

"I have decided to resign myself without being pressured by a person, due to the health of the party, according to the constitution of the year 2006 section 6.3.4 (a) this reveals the end of leadership, I have serve the party for every state to financial resources, I will continue to be a faithful member," said Mwampiki.

Moreover, he said that he had never been called by leaders or being given any letter that allows him to arrive at the office which according to the procedures was supposed to reach within 14 days and he put his signing so that any decision that was taken against him was supposed to consider those procedures.

"" I can't be taken to step without writings that they are required to make me within 14 days, otherwise any decision against him apart from announcing his resignation, it is not following legal procedures, "said Mwampiki.


