
The careless behavior of parents are affecting the growth of children, my student once told me that he desires for his children to watch Swahili films, because they don't have ethics but he failed to fulfill his dream because the neighbors and some of his brothers have let him down.
"A teacher I wish so much my children should not watch this film, one day he came to my son asked me this mother's meaning?
I told her why it's a child, my son refuses and said why the artist X was letting him the artist Y? "
While the parent should be able to control the use of communication agencies because it can be destroyed Mwanao.
The agencies are used well have a great contribution to the development of the Mwanao.
There are programs for children that are building the children mentally and ethically.
These programs have to be Swahili or other foreign languages, they are required to be given a great opportunity instead of periods of ajuinteresting visivyomyomes in any child.
We are the parents also that we won at home in the end of the week then children don't have fun.
Our job is to look at news reports from Al Jazeera, BBC, CNN and other international channels.
When we finish the news we are moving to England league, and we are finishing up on the day and Bundasliga.
We are not supposed to look at the news and different games, but we remember that your children are supposed to be given an opportunity to view Tv and considering that many children's programs are there in the final days of the week.
Your habit of the parent to hold onto 'ughaibuni control' and denying your children to view Tv there to build a habit of selfish and not love to cooperate with others.
Usishangae should also be given the charges and your young children to be a great Mwanao when you leave him with the quote of managing television until you will return.
Also this issue can give an opportunity for your children to go to view Tv to the neighbors where he can learn non-behavior.
Recently, we have always witnessed the emergence of the generation that we are using Ukakasi.
Behaviors that have been a nuisance on the streets, at school and home.
Unfortunately there is no one who is struggling to know what the cause of those interesting behavior that are done by their youth.
Many parents have threatened to print the movements of their youth without knowing what they take action to fight the problem.
There are also parents who the responsibility of nurturing has been defeated and decided to leave the globalization, their children.
These are the parents who are praised their young men that they are going to and when they are crossing the hair, not to marry ears, to esha at the disco spots, wearing milegezo.
The fact is that there is a big relationship between the success of the child and his behavior in total.
This is a fact that many parents have not been aware or they have knowledge, but they are doing not aware of them.
Experience shows that students who do well in school have caused the upbringing that consider ethics from their parents and communities surrounding them.
The lowering of the level of education especially for primary schools has been contributed by the upbringing of parents to their children.
Right now, we are witnessing on a large scale students of the seventh class they are finished without knowing how to read and write.
In addition to that there are other factors that contribute to that state of decline to the success of children, but parents cannot build up with that problem.
The major reason that contribute to the wrong development of the child is absenteeism in retail and permanent.
The problem of absenteeism facing students who their parents do not have time to follow closely on the development of their child will be abia and academically.
I have ever asked one teacher in Mwanza, is how many parents arriving at school at least once asking for the development of their children?
"There are parents who come, but are very few who did not fiki even 10 in a total of more than 400 children that we are here, even if you are calling in the forums of many schools they do not leak," he answered.
Regarding the relationship of good behavior and success in class this teacher is going to say: "In the whole period of my service as mwalimu I have witnessed many students who do well are those with good behavior and those who are doing poorly are those with the behavior and movements to tackle them."
His point is supported by another teacher from Hai District who is said, "we are the teachers we will be close to the students whose parents are following the development of their children and provide close cooperation to the teachers."
Shadidu Ndossa is an advocate for education and lecturer University of St John.
0756681371.


