The questions questions.
When we are lucky we are making a secret so because that all that went to the ones that went on.
There are many in the villages and so because that this problem there is no problem
It is not a small problem and if you don't miss one means that they say that all of them have gone into the system because if most of our soldiers while on the hen maize at the maize maize maize.
We take a lie to see him when we are given we are talking about one thing and go to report to the real story of the true story.
Our police force was proposing until it has been given employment.
We have heard when the winner was the minister of internal affairs, how many youths have been fired from
We are sending what the person is causing bad ability not to give him to the employment he will be given to the employment he will be given in the employment he will be given in the employment he will be given to them.
For the mi I am speaking when I am up to the time I am talking about it.
Therefore, all that he will hear will support me because of the directions that are there we are saying some of these and we gave recommendations on the boxes that we will watch me and faith not but a big percentage of its performance of the police force, you need to obey the number that I have faith in Obama, that I have faith in Obama that I have faith in Obama.
The bacteria will come to bury someone to mpesa as a person posters the law law.
The evidence of forcing require itself against the law Celina.
If you kick it if you kick it.
He will be calling Temu will be said but the nominee is not that you will not
But our weaknesses the style of that those who are dropping that is why even in the report we have discussed the legal weaknesses that you don't speak for one of our major groups that are taken against them.
To use otherwise he will be lost and will be taken to what is we are talking about this and it doesn't have a doubt if the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania of seventy-seven years will be thrown before article ten and three minutes, the law of evidence is given up before the third article and the law of the evidence is given up before the third article and the law of the evidence is given by the evidence given by the evidence.
And there are another law, it has remained where you do not know who needs the children's desks to listen to Kigamboni is the basis that I will be able to do the human rights have been thrown because I used to also think that the three judges of the three minerals will be able to tell you no budget for that one, if you go to tell you there is no budget for that one.
Walishika point I recommend when you opened up with the police force to build a hotel a word passport.
When it's Bana.
We do to work professionally.
The environment you are up to professionalism professionally.
I have wake up to protect the citizen we find that that is seeing that
Two different things in the police force not we have mi nspoken there will come to her three times I have been at the siwapigii fingers and he looked at it and to appreciate them from the Ajira from those who are in the inside are not where you will continue to loose you more than otherwise we will continue to lose you very much, when you are criticizing something but we have been born very well.
The names have to get to the end of this place of we talk in the morning to the side of there because life without head head.
But the biggest one that I was looking at in the morning in this place yeah is the controversy of the death of the late Samsung Nyakia moreover, it is helping the past emphasis on getting into the past
I have been arrested arrested).
The one with the owner as well as the
The wildlife officers on suspicion of engaging crimes but what is said in accordance with the news is that he was beaten by police together with the KINAPA police officers together with the KINAPA police officers together with the KINAPA police officers.
But also the situation led to the samsoni to be taken to the hospital of Bugando Referral Hospital where that is where his death got to get the death.
The controversy that starts there is a file market analyst but also the chairperson of the journalists who oppose the use of drugs as well as the crime mi today is a kuli and frightening here in Anton.
Ehon the twelve of the month of januari fifty years ago on the date of today in Zanzibar.
As the mzanzibar in the morning good for all Tanzanians and kibaya.
You have said only every good in celebrating fifty years and one if you ask for it to you.
