
You do not know about Britain to exit the European Union ministers of foreign affairs from the country's founders of EU, France, Germany, Belgium, Italy and Holland while in a joint session yesterday in Berlin city to discuss the fate of that union after Britain's exit.
Photos by AFP.
This is the first time for a country member commitment to the union since the establishment of his London, England.
While European nations going to reflect on the British decision to vote to withdraw from the union, there has been several arguments that are killing controversy.
The big argument that is discussed more is about what is called critical questions which have begun to be known in order to identify what can happen in the relationship between England and 27 nations that were lost in that union.
For now, the European Union is in shock and you are getting into the area where he is still not in charge.
No member who has ever been devoted since the establishment of the union and section 50 of the European contract gives a few details.
The following are some of the details about the event that is going to be discussed in the whole world.
What the meaning of "Brexit" is short of words that mean the possibility of Britain kujitoa from within 28 countries that are members in the European Union (EU).
This is the first time for England to run that opinion poll.
The word 'Brexit' was used as part of the following example of the word "Greancers" that was used while Greece was close to the use of Euro currency.
The question of it came out the voters were asked, "it is suitable for England to continue to remain being a member of the European Union or iondoke in that union?
The question was proposed by the British Electoral Commission and agreed with the government as well as the assembly of that country.
For what has taken place now: That step was done in order to complete the demands of the Conservative Party as it was promised by the British Prime Minister, David Cameron who promised to do the referendum if he would have chosen again in the general elections of 2015.
In general, the members of the Conservative who are currently the most divided about the membership of the EU for approximately 40 years.
Waconservative of the low level in a total prefer to leave the EU while the others who remained prefer remaining in the community.
The importance of the people who proposed Britain to exit, believe it will also benefit the independence in Britain from the administration which is preventing the success of the creation of employment and allowing the country to elect its law and friends of business.
Activists who support the British membership in the community as much as other countries will help improve the influence of the world in the issues of the army and economic security.
Voters who deserve a citizen of England who are more than 18 years old are the ones who voted.
This includes a citizen who are in England and in other countries of the Commonwealth.
It will take time to leave the EU law number 50 explains that any country member can withdraw but in several terms.
One of those conditions is that any process of commitment is complete within two years since the first day of starting the process.
In that period, England will continue to be accepted with a contract together with the EU laws, but it will not participate in making any decision.
Things that will be considered before leaving will begin to talk about components of leaving him.
Great issues including the things like the rules of financial that will still be there in London, the business tax and the rights of civilians in the European Union.
What are the effects that are seen by Britain kujitoa EU?
Some believe his commitment to encourage other nations to follow the system of taking the referendum on their areas.


