CCM will be the history of developing this nonsense Dec 30, 2015, 2015.

Last week I said that it is not possible to have a political party that you wanted the consent to lead people who are poor then it should be running as a rich party.
For a long time now, CCM has been running its political issues as well as it does not know the importance of those who are led or who gave the consent to dominate.
The party that has decided to ignore his ideology of liberation and to be umbukiza in the ideology of you will be resolved for a few cannot continue doing so eternal because those who decide to be there or not be in power that is the last decision.
For several years there has been a misunderstanding inside the ruling party about what is exactly what is required to happen in every aspect it should be political, economically or socially.
The tension that was there and which will still continue the existence of the situation that we witnessed in the campaign of the general election that brought in power in the government of the fifth phase of Doctor John Magufuli.
No doubt even a little that those who call the blood members are recognized and they have already made an evaluation of knowing what is a party that his candidate was wins with a landslide last years, suddenly he has found a victory of 58 percent which is a sign of the collapse of the party's fame.
There's no doubt even a bit that the method that he used Doctor Magufuli during the campaign to bid himself without leaning towards his party was good and developed by political professionalism.
I know there are some who will not be intimidated by the fact that it accumates the candidate marketed himself as him but the truth you wish the truth and that is the one that made that candidate came up with a win.
After that win, one issue is growing open and very important to CCM and it is that after that happened what is following?
That party has a nanny to sit silent and pretending to be that it does not see what happened?
If you have seen what happened now the way it is right to make sure to continue to remain in power as the ruling party in the coming elections?
The assessment of the state was by the expectations of the party in the near future is an important thing that is being held by a calm headlines without papara nor mawenge.
It should be remembered that CCM before the system of many political parties returned here in the country was a dollar.
The meaning of the party dollars is a political system that the party is only one in politics of the country involved.
That party is what manages the government to implement the policies associated with the ideology of the party.
The party is having an usemi at the end in every issue of political life, economically and social in the concerned country.
No one is happening by the government that the party has not been idhia.
The system of administration that make sure that the party is having power and great ability maybe continues to even the government in every sector and that is the reason they were formed for various secretariat of the economy, defense, money.
Secretary were the party's main units that we can be compared to what is known as the opo of wabunguabongo (think tanks).
These are teams that are made by experts who are capable of making policies that are being taken to the government officials to interpret the actions.
The party to hold the rule of government leadership means that there is no one that does not be given the blessings of the party that is being implemented in the country.
So that is how the situation was before the political reforms of our country in the nineties and certainly the conclusion was in the constitutional reforms of the United Republic of Tanzania which agreed to be restored to the political system of many parties here in the country.
It is clear that CCM does not be prepared to enter into a political system of many parties and its results are that many things are left to do it without a good procedure that you have to make sure that you change even in the political competition.
The party that had a culture that has been involved in the interests of the weak, farmers and workers are released to be heard in the hands of the bealist agents and colonial news.
That took place in the environment where the international economy was standing all over the world and there was every kind of pressure to ensure the political parties of the lefwing of the left as it was planned to be the Revolutionary Party, an order and running their vivuli.
CCM found themselves received kigugumizi in a very primary thing that is the ideology.


