When it is going to go.
It is very entertaining Mister apart from the bilashaka we are inviting the studio so that you can be able to
Ukawa to encourage your fellow youth in other people and many people.
That there is a great advantage of owning the internet and using the networks that not only a must ehable to do other things that are not fit in the community but if you get a lot of keen carefully being keen.
You can't get an income because after kuhangaika looking for employment ehyoung people we have only again a good time to be able to operate business now than it was five years ago last ten years ago.
I don't support it.
We should take a lie to the very common man aisee we are Kota when it is taking the secretary to slyeka the whites plot the plot.
From press to continue the cargo is not supposed to strike it is called Ben and that they guide the mountain dirty until it can be your life in your relationship with those of the products every day while they are back back to your life.
How you can create a connection to the extent that if they come to the visitors would benefit me I want to be called is called to be called is called to
Now social networks can't do that thing something.
The right of that number of fifty tourists here I have been wrong every day there should not be the whites that globalization Jimmy in them has to be for everyone mi has come up with a hyena when he is called now that you start to bring those women and the hyena.
That they have come to you have talked about the word just like five to talk to you.
To live in his ways to confucius your has to leave it has remained our colleagues in America AHH it has been your and the work you are doing you are doing you are doing it.
I was talking to the disasters.
If its star those friends claiming to come to come.
They want to see him see it.
If you want to see we in time.
The artist of the Lord you want to.
We have to be successful.
Because arusha shouldn't have to send the internet to be taken seems to be there.
He has revealed his eyes to take now how the tationary will be looked at the small things that we are doing every day to benefit themselves to benefit themselves.
We had to be very grateful I think without a doubt the youth follow up for very close to now, we started with a great paper innocent, very close to the thank Mister the support I am convinced that they are sending to the industry we are recording and broadcast the plane we are recording and broadcast the plane.
Mawasiliano there is a communication and there is an mwingiliano of communication services you can get television on the radio on radio radio.
Amen on the phone you can't get radio on the phone that technology has to be signed ups.
The people who were studio on the radio can be following in the ehbroadcast and people are sending a message to protect themselves from twitter the people that have communication starts in the studio live but people are Kibiti in his period to use the message now when we started to see even on the radio programs here.
Which is tough early in the difficulty because of that ehhe for the ordinary person cannot be able to solve and you found someone reading here says that he is not mi here says that he is not mi.
It is a mike he has said that you find me the rest of us sir.
Now that this situation was contributed by a small professionalism of the users of communication communication authority has the ability of example of the model of communication.
By being able to prevent the contenti if that does not appear or be banned for services but we are looking at our progress yet on technology I will not accept now your under sa sa.
We have to know the whites say we have brought ugali, we are in the people who are not using
Not having anything up to use the phone they are getting into the internet for that there is a lot of people wanting to use those services without even looking at its usage.
Based on our colleague in which they will take care of their communities, that is what person will tell you that you will give us to be taught how to comment on the public comment at the internet now, there is a person that has never been taught to come to the internet. The preparations will be mi now, we the first campaign focused on doing two major things in two major things.
They should enable people to know that
In the law or social media networks.
It's like the former one we had been on the buinge they were calling I don't know if they were at the vilinge at the bottom of the trees Sayuni when there are elders until today they are drinking and there are other than the other football that are talking about the other things that are talking about and there are other football.
Are those differences that we are directed to Physical mitandao ya kijamii.
Now people came from than they were able to be insulting publicly because it is in Grupu only.
Do not know that you have to be insulting now on the kijamii that it has connected to the computer and all the phones in the world that have internet access to the internet.
Why we give people you don't know that first but the second one is called self-responsibility and responsibility that is your accountability, that is your responsibility.
Personally and look at it is what is best to make course we wanted people to understand that every one that has a comment that and I am on the facebook there are friends I have heard they have arrived at the stand they have arrived at the stand.
I see I can't add to others that when I say something or five thousand
I was going to be alike.
All his friends will see that they would like to go home like a comment Kiswaga for that so that it is spread now for a large group and people now, our effects people were not aware of his effects that if we could have erupted there, there could have erupted that there could have been there, there could have erupted there.
A certain group of people who have abuse are making abuse of communication to be on the mitandao ya kijamii.
