
Fastjet has added the fifth plane, Fastjet Tanzania has added another plane of Airbus A319, while they will be the number of its planes and thus keeping the organization of affordable flights to continue with its plans to be awarded by Fastjet. As well as the necessity of increasing the ability to carry on our local trips and the ones that will be able to draw them, but the Manager of Fastjet Tanzania, John Corse.
That nyongezaas is doing a total of the position that is there for the day on the journey for the customers to reach 1,000.
Fastjet started its trips in the country on the year 2012and right now is running by using a plane tanoas a variety of A319 on its network of the journey that involves Dar es Salaam, Mbeya, Mwanza, Kilimanjaro and Zanzibar and making it ijikite to make air travel within Tanzania all the people that will be able to manage.
Likewise, it started the journey of it will be able to Entebbe in Uganda, Nairobi Kenya, they will be Harare Zimbabwe, Johannesburg South Africa and Lusaka in Zambia in the period of three years of running the offerings, they will also be able to give them more than 1,800,000, where our research shows that they will have more than one-thirds of our passengers. The traveling to the ndegeare, when they are planning to be entertained, he says that Corse.
He continued to say, when they are planning that they are forced to increase the ndegee. they will also be saying that the journey is also expected to give them an important opportunity to increase the masafa by the ones that have been given to them in order to meet the needs of the customers, and and it helps in our goal to increase the international one on our network for this year that is on the same year that is on the same year that is on the same year that is on the same year.
Likewise, Corse he demonstrates that the airline of it will be among them that Fastjet is sawia and it is great in kutosheleza expansion of Fastjet activities.
That plane A319, which is the Airbuse. they are on the engines that they provide high level of efficiency together with the lowest level of harm on the environment, including the increase in the highest level of the state of thinking of the state of the political plane.


