
Diplomasia of Uchumi will watch DR Congo Dec 22, 2016, 2016.

There are indications of believing that the situation can kuchafuka and be worse in the neighboring country of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).

The problem that is in which the nation was made to hold his election according to his constitution this year, but because of what the opponents of President Joseph Kabila wanakiita figisufisu, that election was postponed.

What is going on now in DRC is another blow to the African continent democracy.
If there is something kibaya that is returning to Africa fast these days, it is the behavior of the administrators to hold onto power.

The first one that we would like to register is that the citizens of DRC have the right to understand the fate of their country without interference with any foreign country.

However, the truth that is clear is that the citizens of Congo will not be left and the mabeberu waamue their fate - as it has been for approximately 50 years ago.

That's the reason, in a unique way, we ask our government that doesn't accept being left behind or continuing with things going on inside the nation.

Economically, DRC is among the most important partners of Tanzania.
According to the last year figures, DRC and Zambia alone, they contribute to the ads that are passed by using the port of Dar es Salaam for more than 70 percent.

While the situation, we are also aware that other main users of our port, Burundi, and they are in chaos, something that has affected the business connection.

Because now we have decided to follow what is called the economy of economy, we think Tanzania cannot accept being left behind when others seeking a solution for a short period of time, medium and long term about DRC.

We should not accept showing people with the side on what is going on in the country at the moment (although that is the side in a certain way), because at the end of the day, our customer is supposed to be the nation of DRC.

For whatever, we are responsible - because of our economic interests to DRC, and the fact that the major problems of the wave of refugees will come to us, to make sure that we are participating in ensuring things are not welcome.

This is because, for the neighborhood to open, you are not safe.


