
It improves health and income by producing rosella Patrick Jonathan, Mwananchi Rosella is, you have a lot of supplements as well as they believe in, and the mining of salt.
For many years, this crop was used in large numbers in the Asian continents, South America, Caribbean beani and Europe.
Rosella is one of the crops that have a lot of use and in a different way.
Some of the use of their rosella is as well as making juice, jamu, oil, Sosi.
Rosella also used to be opposed the body and various diseases like cancer, ini and lack of nutrients.
It also helps to reduce the leout and treat blood pressure.
What are the reputation of mmeof rosella?
His leaves can be eaten as vegetables, it is their business and are used at home.
Mmethis hukua and you reach the length of 35 meters for the season.
The stem together with its branches have gone out of other Sifa leaves, have been arguing with divided into three to seven places, on the edge of being a dumeno.
Mmea has a green color, black to the red.
Flowers is great with a red color up to a yellow.
You have a long wait and provides flowers at the end of the drought.
I also tolerate the land with the tindikali on top and lower together with diseases.
The types of roselof Zao has been given the names of different types depending on the areas and the people of those areas they were lying to be good.
For example, you have a roselkundu of the red flowers known as Choya in Dodoma and other areas, while the coast region of Tanzania is called in charge.
Basically there are two types of roselsRosella divided into groups (names) two that are known professionally by different people.
Technically, it is known as Hibiscus sabdy: This is a type of rosella which has a warning of red colors and other green.
The Vikonyo will be born.
Other types are Hibiscus altissima Webster.
This kind of roseloare planted more because of the ropes kamba (fibres), but vikonyo haviliwi.
How to improve their wives this Zao has flourished in the Tropiki areas with the rain between 1500 - 2000 per year.
There should be an mwinuko of up to 600 eta from the equation of the ocean.
It is a product that is destroying the heat and the state of unyevyevu, floods, winds and water stagnant.
Rosella hupendelea brown with rutuba which water reduces easily.
However, it can grow in different types of soil.
Require palizi from time to time to get rid of the shadow and leaves.
When you want to climb, you need to be source, fertilizer, soil, sand while following these steps, we are killing the land well to go down to the amount of sentimeta 20, the holes of the size of sm15 to sm 15 and has a sm 5.
Panda seeds 11 - 22 to the hectares are good to climb seeds to the complex, palizi in the first month is very important.
The traditional fertilizer will be used and helps in Mtindo to change the produce is used especially for the circle, whoever is in the root.
You can change with the green as the second and the maize.
For the small farms at home, the panda verses then if you grow up it should be in the verses of 1 meters for 1.
For sashamba great, the seeds should be aired on the nursery and we should be on the farm with a four-year-old widts to 2.6 and the verses of 2 meters to 3.
The diseases, a huge disease for this is fungus (fungus), there are different types of fungus which hushended rosella in the root and leaves.
Treat, nyunyiza drugs that are used to control and get rid of fungus in the harvest as soon as possible.
You can use the drugs to be opposed before the explosion of ukungu.
The supervision of the farm is important especially the palizi, to cut off, to be yeka, kunyweshea, placement fertilizer, control of destructive pests.
All this is important in the protection of the roselin order to be sure of the best harvest.
The harvesting of the fruits and the warning takes three of the three uses after flowers kuchipua.
It is advised that they are warning they are withdrawn after boiling fruits.
Courtesy of the mkulimcreative.


