Now we put on the edge so as to be able to continue with the pishi that follow the following.
Here, he answered how we put a long time, this time is for the purpose of making an egg that we will be going to put in the wali those who we had already been able to cook is ready for that is this one and rice that you know is not very sufficient to ask for the eyes of the game, it has to be a problem that you are able to start to wait for you to wait again because until here we shouldn't be able to wait for them to wait again because it's up here we shouldn't be able to wait for them because until here we shouldn't be able to wait he has heane three quarters of our food is ready to be confusing in order to get the blame that will put a little fuel to put a little oil.
He didn't have a lot of it.
And with no one).
And with no one).
Even a little in my life check a check.
The here I have the eggs.
While oil is getting a fire I will be required to these eggs but six of violence violence.
This is our life that will be breaker by here but it is a act to take care of in a long time, there is a reason to do so because we still want this cause of the egg we can, when we wait for a little of salt in it, when we wait for the fuel to acquire fire.
The lover you want to ask me when he will not be able to remember twenty, we will go to how
We have our language.
I will be posted that is what I will be doing.
In the world for cooking praying or the delay of people with the current continent especially the Chinese many times the Chinese people will love to keep the egg in their foods and the reason for cooking pishi this we know that we have a good relationship between Tanzania and China with the aim of putting a win also in that relationship, then even Tanzanians can get to the office in the office, even Tanzanians can get to the office in the office.
Our is ready we will be putting on the edge.
Then then we will continue to intervene.
Here we will write a sufuria that I did not deserve we use for the food itself or our wali.
We will put oil fuel.
Nowadays our teachers were over, so if we have said praying is not a game that our food had already been completed, but now not to love that we are going to drair them in order to get to live this one that we had only managed or capital.
We are waiting for oil when they are chemka when the fuel comes as we are looking at if we have all those hours that we are needed for our pishi ours.
