
The government, the industry employing 1,000 youths in Morogoro Morogoro.

It was written by John Nditi, Morogoro, Morogoro.

It has been published: 28 October 2016.

The efforts of the fifth phase government of increasing employment for youths have started bearing fruits after signing a joint contract with the manufacturing clothes of MazRegion Fabric & Production East Africa Ltd of Morogoro so as to give them technical training in modern technology.

That agreement was signed in the office of the Provincial Commissioner of Morogoro, through the secretary general in the office of the prime minister (policy, parliament, labor, youth, employment and with disability), Eric Shitindi on behalf of the government and the planning manager of that factory, Nelson Mchukla signed on behalf of Mazgovernors.
Shitindi said under that procedure, already 360 youths have completed the training of that kind in Tanzania Tooku garment factory located in Dar es Salaam city and the aim of the government is giving them 27,000 training for them to enable them to get jobs in different areas in the country.
In that event, the witness witness by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Doctor Adelhelm Meru and the Director of the special region of the Tanzania's special region of investment (EPZA), Joseph Simbakalia and administrative secretary of Morogoro Province, Doctor John Ndunguru.
"The signing event for the contract is important in our country where the intention of the government to see the nation is causing a big step in the economy of industries and so as to achieve that goal they don't have to have employees with getting skills to serve the industrial sector.
He added that the opportunity has been made by the government to youths from different parts of the country and that in order to get announcements is being given in the newspapers and other organs and there will be no limits for the reputation of education.
He said the office of the prime minister that will sponsor the training, while the Mazava Factory will give its area and experts for teaching the youth elected to join the training in various phases.
Doctor Meru said that those are major reforms in the issue of investment in the country, where the government has decided to teach its youth so that they should be ready to be employed by industries that will be built and also their self-employed.
He said the office of the Prime Minister in collaboration with his ministry has initiated the special program to teach youths skills by writing and sewing clothes for the cost of government.
Doctor Meru said that 1,000 youths will get a training of sewing for three months every phase, something that will enable investors in the industrial sector to employ youths with skills.
The planning manager of the sports industry of MazRegion Fabric & Production East Africa Ltd, Nelson Mchukof, said after signing the contract they are ready to receive 100 youths from November 15, this year.
The manager said that the government will cater for those youths allowances, the fare, food, when the factory will have the responsibility of providing technical training to sewing clothes using modern machines through the trainers that are present.
The Mazawa factory Fabric & Production East Africa Ltd is owned by winds Enterprises (Hangzou) LTD, where it is involved in the making of sports clothes and its big market is foreign countries, especially the United States.


