The leadership leadership will not be in charge of the leadership.
The first leadership I would like to listen to the new leadership of the new
I usually do not love them and ten by the jamal Malinzi.
When he led well.
But those who board her have failed to implement the leadership reason.
They like to export no search for talent.
They are getting these in to do it in the city only in the villages do not know.
I only see my view.
No reason for God to acknowledge abusing what we are going on is going to be going
Welcome close to you.
Thank you very much called the gold water.
I would not like talking about it more than Musa.
In our country of Tanzania, many people we are in touch with Bush.
Now it becomes a property of feni which is to pay that it does not benefit from here in Tanzania as we need according to the sports issues then if we enter bribery it will be available for example that is getting into the registration thing when they are in the clubs of different teams.
Simba yanga all the clubs causes that one of them, register people who are not in murua because you believe that I do not like the Device stage, we have to give up a veteran people to play the ball well so that the youth is referring to the coaches that are returning back to the nation, a young man is referring to the coaches that are returning back to the nation, the youth is referring to the coaches that are returning back to the nation, the youth is referring to the coaches that are returning back to the nation,
We have been resting back in Tanzania we are taking a great cost to buy a coach to get him out of foreign countries than far than other than
Come to look at how these people come to the critics are people who don't pay so much for that mi I see naonelea right of those coaches of the national teams of us for us the national team of us.
Improved so that they are oreting to go is even ourselves they can teach people from different clubs here under example if you look at Ndanda Ndanda Ndanda.
Ndanda after being played five goals during the league of vodacom, they become a coach wanting to dismiss him and which is a very fast priority I am very grateful to thank you very much, I am very grateful for the very
Very much.
Some time time.
Time is not a friend it is the one that trafiki giving to let you go and he will be an end if you are committed to HIV let us find the end of the AIDS.
What should be done, we have opened up all these reasons when we take the players to miss the sports education now we're going to the end of the time when I managed the tax that is watching if I managed to give them well.
He was already ready.
For prayer what should be done first, I will start soccer athletics.
The same for if you look at the person who had done athletics in Tanzania this second Beats by who
Yes he is above now let sure let me know bureaucracy in the matter of going to choose people so that you choose a certain person because of this every day he is there or because you know you will get twenty percent of them pasenti when the important squad even in the leadership of you can choose to choose the leadership of you.
Elections is taking place to stop bribery not to leave the laws that will fight the leader that will fight the leader that will go to the leader.
And also the leader who is elected should be a leader who is again now, there is someone who becomes he thinks all but this has been a problem too.
For the one we also look at a lot of corruption and bureaucracy.
To be removed from that inside but the mid-fielder of Syria to face the person well that what should be done to solve that problem is that I will talk about two things two things that I will talk about two things.
The first one is the issue of leadership then the second issue is the issue of patriotism.
That if we want our games to let us know how far we must have a vision leaders with vision vision.
Leaders to see that he did not have a pain and our country to see that after five or ten years our national team is doing well and secondly the whole issue of sponsorship to have enough sponsorship in all the games we see in our country. Another another question is that for us and patriotism patriotism for both sides will be protected by the fans and patriotism for the players we saw a lot of the fans of Tanzania who we want the success of the year that is what you have not been able to do is very difficult to see what the fans are forced to be elected is that we should be able to use them for several years but at the end of the day we can get a team. The best of the team that will come to perform well for the next years but if we want a short term success he will be able to reach and second fans who is getting to the field he Msome the player of his team so that he is using a player that is ready to deny him more than the oldest of the desert supporters.
The best way that is as Sadik they love their team and they agreed to be patient and we will do better in Santa games in Santa games in Santa games.
