
On the first of May, it will be urejeshe in the basis of accountability workers of Tanzania, today they join their colleagues in the whole world during the celebration of May first which is used to talk about and evaluate the success and challenges they face in the implementation of their responsibilities.
The source of this day that began since the 19th century in America and spread in Europe and then all over the world is employees to oppose a long time of work and wants to have the right to join.
Employees were working for a lot of hours sometimes up to 20 per day.
Employers complained about not caring about the interest of workers and even their work environment to the extent that many lost their lives with a small age due to the diseases caused by poor environment at work.
The first party of workers was made up of 1827 in Philadelphia, America and his big role was wanting to be there for a special time of work.
It was continued to be formed by the aim that area and reached 1866, 30 parties were met in Baltimore, America and form a federation that was called in the National Labor Union.
Three years later, it was called the international meeting of workers in Switzerland and there was made up of the international federation of workers.
The year 1876, another international meeting was held in Paris, France and is the one that had hoped that May first will be celebrated as the World Workers Day.
Since there claims of the hours of work yalipamba fire and even the solution started to be found, it came out many things including unyonywaji, which is not involved in the past and poor life, therefore, wanting the existence of a change in order so as to control the main highway of accountability production so as to eliminate the exploited of capitalist.
The history of May first is long but it will only inform us that the claims and the complaints of workers is a lot of century ago and have been taking a new look as every one challenge is given a solution.
For example, the natural challenge that gave birth on May first of the work hours, although it is still a problem for several countries especially developing in the world, in a big way has been resolved.
The staff understand their time of work and for institutions that his work need employees for a long time or all, there is turn.
The biggest challenge that has been a cry for years go back is of interest and now there is recommendations that the minimum amount should be done Sh750,000 per month.
But there are also another challenge as the best environment of work especially considering that sometimes a good salary is not everything for an employee because they are who run away from the bad environment of work and contrary to her, there are organizations or institutions that are imedorora due to the environment that is not evil.
That's why when we celebrate this day with the history of claiming justice to workers, we are supposed to remember that right I go hand in line with duty.
We are employees, from the public up to the private sector we are supposed to ask each other for his time if we fulfill our responsibility as required?
If we do not, or there is a weakness, we should take action.
When we do that, that is now the chest in front tudai our stahiki on the basis of the law.
We believe that when we do that, we will pass quickly steps for economic development and the interest of employers and employees will be considered.


