Now, it is not a question to be avoided.
Mmhm and even when I missed the book is very hard to read the book that is when I need it when I need things with hours at an hour.
Where ATI match at the time and so it is not I had a time let me read this hour this hour.
A number of many days even it is hard to read shortly now eight when it is fixed and I will be showing the problem that is where I think that and one for the boss otambo it brings to be the only one that brings me think then yeah yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah yeah, yeah yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah yeah
AHH imagine I hear someone who is talking with ye ye.
SA about when I took it to you, he brought it is not what he is in no ATI ehmi isn't in the right to know you have heard I have heard I read I read I read I read I read
No one mmhm as I don't know what you will give me what will give me what you give me to do, yeah, if you think about the books you have to entertain has gotten inside my sister now.
I'm not where I have said that I will have
The book I read with me and Katibu loves to read it.
With a lot of Swahili that will give me down today the same way in order
We are looking at the darkness we give to any book.
SA has given us what is up again sole is getting what he is ehehe and what is and what is and what is
We got one thing mi zimekaa Stephen is the one that has seen something is the same thing.
An hour I have been looking for a little four book then I will give you maybe then I will see and this hour I don't have the books I'm doing I don't want to give you a call I read this hour.
ATI, maybe you will see it not only to tell me this hour the same way then but how you get another one that is
I did not know what he is maybe maybe.
First one that no one is no one.
Ehthere is a Library with them there are and libraries there are those things so that you do not know her books in which I will go and I will tell you to reach twelve and still see the identity card and yet I see the identity card and yet I see the identity card.
Okay then before the towns register, I will help him and the Almighty him, the ninth AHH is not I want because they are the babangu he was saying he wants me to take him and the nyeusi I need to tell him so that he is not able to tell him so that he is not able to tell him so that he is not able to tell him so that he is
Ehatsa we go then we should be able to or after we have got your Idi then you will not go there in the books to cease the library to the library of the library.
