What happened in the international meeting of Davos Feb 07, 2014, 2014.

Recently, President Jakaya Kikwete attended the international meeting of every year in Switzerland in Davos known as jufor the economy in the world (WEF) or Davos.
This meeting that started on December 22, 2013 is 44.
Attended approximately 2,500 people including presidents, the heads of government, heads of international companies, investors, heads of international banks, the experts of the economy together with a few representatives of civil societies.
They were on that 80 aires together with mamilionea who should not be counted.
A total of them is 1,500 when the veterans of the government is 48.
The leaders of African countries are reached there every year in order to attack donations and grant or attract investors.
All of those are reached in a luxurious hotel that is in the mountains of Davos.

The agenda of the meeting had a topic about poverty, lack of employment, water, treatment and community reserve, as well as climate change.
The goal is to bring economic and social development in the world, as they are claiming.
The report of WEF 2014 presented said the biggest threat that faces the world today is an increase in contrast between the rich and mafukara, that is the rich and they are continuing to benefit them when the poor are continuing to be covered.
Participants were talking about those topics in 250 meetings that took place.
Rich exchange ideas and politicians and scholars with the purpose of protecting and strengthening their capitalist system.
That's why they were willing to pay 250,000 dollars each other in order to attend the meeting and be members of WEF.
Civilian institutions are invited and they are allowed to recommend how to improve the system.
Ten Naioo, a activist from South Africa said, "I'm usually invited every year and WEF without payment in order to show that with our contributions is believed.
He is the leader of the international organization to protect the environment (Green Peace).
It was invited to the Oxfam organization which presented a very important report before it was opened for a meeting.
The research of that organization has shown that one percent of the rich people in the world are owning 110 trillion American dollars, that is 65 times more than the property owned by half of all the people who are poor in the world Baya more is that when you continue to sabotage, the rich people are continuing.
For example, Bill Gates who we depend on him very much as a great sponsor, last year, its capital was increasing to an amount of 15.8 billion dollars and to 78.5 billion.
His results now he has been getting the first position in the world that he had lost.
This Gates in its report of 25 pages says the state of the world now is engemaa, that poverty is decreasing, that the children who died have reduced and that the poor nations are starting to be independent instead of depending on aid.
He is boarded that by the year 2035 there will be no poor country in the world.
He wouldn't forget that every 20 elements a child who is under five years is dying in the world due to lack of clean water and greetings.
That's why the director of Oxfam, Winnie Byanyima told the meeting that "it is the frightening thing that in the 21st century, three billion people and a half more than a property owned by a few rich that can spread in one of the passengers."
OXFAM added that this situation has been caused by a few rich people to attack the property by controlling the political system, also use the ways of the TAPELI ways to control the economic system for their benefit.
OXFAM it warned the rich of Davos to be a fight against poverty is only empty words without making sure that the difference between the rich and the poor may not increase the causes of resources to continue being controlled by a few rich, when we remained when we fought for the purpose of bran or the ones that are thrown from the big table, "said Byanyima, said Byanyima, said Byanyima, said Byanyima, said Byanyima, said Byanyima, said Byanyima, said Byanyima, said Byanyima, said Byanyima, said Byanyima we live in a community where the best medical care services and education are being handled by a few rich for their benefit and of their children.
This situation seems not in the poorest countries but even in those countries that call themselves rich.
Pope Francis also warned that strange income as well as allowances and allowances of the notes that they are getting veterans is a sign of the economy that filled with afi and choyo of a few.
He added that without the same opportunities (political, social and economic) for all our communities will not live in peace.
He rebuked a lot of community who are dying in hunger when food is abducted because there is no market.
Akabeza "nadharia" that claims that the wealth that is increased by a few under the market system that is benefiting too many poor.
He warned that the system of worship wealth of a few will cause many of them to cut up with the community if this will not live in peace because the poor will come out to persevere.
"I pray for God to strengthen politicians who are offended with the poor state of our citizens," said Pope Francis.
But there Davos words that were semated by Oxfam, Naioo, Byanyima and Pope as usual were sidelined.
Ungetarajia otherwise in this meeting that was attended by the veterans who are destroying the wealth of the world and who are awala the economy, politics and policies of our countries?


