
Minister Nape bless Karatu festival in Karatu.

It was written by Cosmas Mlekani, Dodoma Dodoma.

It has been published: 12 December 2016.

Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye will be the guest of honor at the peak of the Karatu Sports Festival that will be held on Saturday, December 17th, has been said.

The coordinator of that festival, who is the former player and a member of the executive committee of the Athletics Tanzania (RT), Meta Petro said in the city that Minister Nape is the guest of honor at the conclusion of the festival, which takes place every year.
Apart from 10 kilometers race for women and men, the festival has also been involved in the sports race of 60 kilometers, the race of 25 kilometers and football and soccer games, cultural music, comedy as well as choir.
According to Petro, the football game and soccer, its finals will take place on December 16, but the winners will be handed their gifts together with their partners of athletics and bicycle on Saturday, December 17 on the peak of the festival, which are being sponsored by Olympic Solidarity.
The great excitement is expected to emerge in the 10 kilometers race for women and men together with the ones in bicycle, which many participants are coming from Arusha and other areas of Karatu, Mto wa Mbu, Manyara and elsewhere.
The soccer and the football match that you start at the lower level and involve many teams, before playing the finals and get the winners of that games, which are entrusted a huge gift from the organizers.
Some of the gifts offered by the Institute of Filbert Bayi Foundation (FBF), who are the organizers include cash, balls, higher goals of soccer, jersey, glovu and other equipment.
Also on the side of the football game, the equipment that will be used for various winners and cash together with balls, fatigue of playing with other equipment of that game, ambyo in Karatu town is usually played more by religious religious teams.
Petro wanted the athletes who will participate in the race to endeavor to register early in order to know the full number of those who will participate instead of waiting for the last day is to come out, because it gives them a hard time organizers to plan for different procedures.


