
The waliovamia for the good Swaare in detail and the concerned criminals should be taken against them.
Doctor Swazuri is not a common officer of the government.
T leads the important commission that will decide the fate of several land owners, especially those who their ownership certificates were have been called by the time.
The Commission for now continues with investigations related to the growth of land in different parts of the country and especially in the Lamu area where several acres of land were claimed to be eaten by famous people.
Therefore, there is a possibility that those criminals were set up to win the necessary documents so as to sabotage any investigation which had enabled the commission to recognize the growth of those who do the growth of those who are doing, they have used relatives and friends to win that land.
Tumerejelea this story considering that a few months ago, criminals were rated at home by Doctor Swazuri in Nairobi, but the attempt came out when his guards were competing with them.
The office of Doctor Swazuri is at the building with high security building, that is protected for 24 hours every time, therefore, it is surprising that the criminals can get land House easily, to ask up to the head of the master that imo ghorofani and breaking up with robbing the important documents without the AP police who protect the building to see them.
We are hoping the police will do an investigation of it and encouraging those criminals and also the police officers who walk at work.
The most important thing is that the attack shows the need of a copy of the important documents of the government to be preserved elsewhere so as to prevent the possibility of criminals to disrupt the evidence.
Likewise, we encourage the acting inspector general of police, Mister Samuel Arachi to assess the protection of that officer at his home and afisini with the aim of improving even further if it will be revealed that there is a possibility of criminals and who are not entertained by the incident of the national commission of land, Mister Muhamed Swazuri on Friday and robbing the necessary documents are being investigated being investigated.


