
Vehicles that were arrested has been transporting illegal immigrants will be confiscated-Masauni.

It was written by Prisca Libaga, details, Arusha, Arusha.

It has been published: 19 September 2016.

The government has ordered the Immigration Department to ensure that it is in charge of the law by taking them and to unveil all vehicles used to transport illegal immigrants from outside the country.

Also, the government has warned involved in the internet to transport illegal immigrants to stop immediately and look for other jobs to do because the government is keen to control illegal immigrants.
That order has been issued by the deputy minister of internal affairs of the country, Hamad Yusuf Masauni when he visited the border of Tanzania and Kenya, Namanga area at the end of the week, so as to see the challenges that are in the border and understand the real situation.
Masauni warned the staff of that department that if the vehicle will be arrested in any area in the country with illegal immigrants through that boundary, they will have lied to the government and revealed that their responsibilities will be defeated.
He said together with satisfaction with the actions taken by the immigration department of Namanga to control illegal immigrants, there are still the ways of panya used by the same immigrants in collaboration with the few Tanzanian who work for them to bring them to the income against the law.
He wanted the department to use a few tools that it is as well as a few servant who are in order to control loopholes used by those immigrants.
He also ordered the patrol from time to time and strengthen inspection within vehicles so as to identify illegal immigrants.
He said that the department is working on difficult environments due to lack of tools, the size of the area of the border, therefore, removed the citizens to help exposing illegal immigrants.
And the head of Longido District, Daniel Chongolo said that the department is facing the challenges that are in the border due to the size of the border area so that it is unable to control the area fully.
Previously, the head of that department in Namanga area, Abdalah Katimba, said they are faced with various challenges, including the shortage of staff and tools.


