
Contractor bridge Kinyerezi- Bonyoby being given 25 days.

It has been written by Sophia Mwambe.

It has been published: 24 November 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda, has given 25 days to the contractor of Texas Company, Francis Musiba to complete the construction of the bridge that joins Tabata Kinyerezi and Bonyofor.

Moreover, he has directed the Municipal Engineer of Ilala, Nyamagalula Masatu to make sure he is partnered with the agency of roads in the country (TANROADS) to inspect the construction as quality and the required levels has been reached.
Makonda gave that statement when he visited the Kinyerezi bridge and inspected the bridge as part of his tour in Ilala District.
Despite that order, he has also ordered the roads agency (TANROADS) and managers of that project to inspect the quality of the bridge if it has standards required before starting to be used.
He gave that order after the citizens of the area to complain about the delay of completion of the project that is mentioned started in the year 2013.
After those complaints, Makonda asked the member of parliament for Segerea, Bonna Kaluwa, as he once arrived at the bridge to inspect the construction where he admitted and join the citizens accusing the contractor for delaying the construction of the bridge.
"I have come here five times and the contractor told this bridge would have been completed within four days since April 2016 but until now it has not been finished and my citizens are continuing to suffer," said Bonna.
That answer made Makonda to want him to put up openly the contract of the bridge was signed when he answered that the contract was signed on March 30th, 2015 and started on June 30th, 2015.
However, the representative of Texas Company, Musiba where he has the construction information to start in the year 2013 and claimed that they are inza on April 29 this year.
"This bridge is under the roads agency (TANROADS), so we are waiting to get a permit to demolish some of the places that are being accepted by this project from Ilala Municipality," he said.
Makonda said that if the construction will not be finished within that period he will not be given any tender in Dar es Salaam.
In another step, Makonda instructed the police commander of Kipolisi Ilala Province, Salum Hamduni to arrest the chairman of Bonyoward, Solomon Kagaruki, for allegations of not implementing his responsibilities including taking bribes, threatening citizens and also alleged to take 10 percent of the price of the fields that are sold.


