
Maonesho ya Sabasaba yaboreshwe Jul 09, 2014 2014.

For almost two weeks hundreds of hundreds of residents of Dar es Salaam and others from the provinces and even outside Tanzania, they were coming out at the International Trade Exhibition of Dar es Salaam, popular as the Sabasaba exhibition.
If they witnessed this exhibition 20 years, and more, ago, they will agree that they have risen in every way: The number of countries participants, organizations and companies, quality of products and prices, services and the public that is flooded the first day until the end of the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Grounds.
For whatever standards, the big step has been played by there when it reached this 38th exhibition of the Sabasaba of this year 2014.
It is because of the big progress that reached, we have no choice but to congratulate the organizers of the Sabasaba exhibition this year for a good job that took place, of preparation and assurance of the participation of business people, the country, the company and different organizations.
This speed must be continued.

We have heard it, last week, the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, akipendekeza the need to ignore more than the exhibition of the Sabasaba so that they are avute the country and show more than it is now.

He was proposing that if they would be forced even the exhibition grounds to be built afresh because of expanding the area and make it more modern so as to livutie the country, public and private companies, organizations and more people.
Undoubtedly now the time has come to kuitafakari this point of the Prime Minister Pinda.
For all that is good, that's the best ones, with us to support the prime minister Pinda for his proposal.
In addition to the growth of the Sabasaba exhibition, there are still things not to stay the same.
There are many areas that I am sure do not give someone a comfort of peace every time to go to Sabasaba.
And that is what is attracted to the country, the company and organizations and individuals.
This point of Pinda, without a doubt, has merit.
And because the organizers of this exhibition of Dar es Salaam have been getting an opportunity to go attend the exhibition of our colleagues outside, they can only start at that experience of our colleagues in implementing the directives of the Prime Minister Pinda.


