
Our minds have been closed, then the keys has lost Aug 15, 2012.

"TUMEROGWA and the one that we roga with him, then he dies."
"No, we have not been blessed but I think of our bongo, and the keys have land."
Those are some of the statements that are starting to take the ears of Tanzania when they discuss the future of the country.
If you hear those statements you can end up laughing by checking the secret that is just fun.
But if you take time to be meditating, you can find you join the tizamo with those people.
Right in the normal environment you can explain "wisdom" of the Olympic Committee to fill in many leaders of the athletes in the convoy of our representatives at the Olympics of the summer which ended the day before yesterday in London City, here in England?
When our colleagues Kenyans went back with several medals while Waganda as they are proud of gold medal, we have continued to make it in line "our reputation" of being the head of the high speed.
But if you doubt that decency in our participation at the Olympic unachefua, then listening to this great "great" from our parliament we are calling "temed."
Last week, the deputy speaker of parliament, Honorable Job Ndugai explained to the Tanzanian of Tanzania to be some of their representatives in parliament (parliamentarians) have been getting into the sessions of that mechanism to make laws while they understand alcohol and cigarettes that are not common.
Before we went far to discuss this report of fear, it's good to remind me that according to the recent renovations, honorable members of parliament are paid 11 million shillings per month.
It is important to mention that level so when we discuss these people we should have an understanding that as well as the poverty of our country we have decided and give them all honorable interests.
In some way I congratulate the deputy speaker Ndugai for opening eyes about a question that I think many citizens have been asking, "why some honorable appears have been temporary in parliament while the session is going on?"
The internet has filled with pictures of "wachapa sleep in parliament," and there are only honorable many who like to change the parliament to be a part of sleep.
Some of us that we see the pictures of that kind we try to give me hope that maybe those honorable those are familiar with sleep because they are esha thinking about how to serve their voters, and maybe the country in general, efficiently. "
Meanwhile, the statement of Ndugai has been helping us to throw light about some of the members of parliament that citizens cannot be blamed to feel mchangiaji is looking for the role of Bongo Star Search for the talent of informative.
Inakera but that is the truth itself, some of the honorable use the opportunity to contribute to the point to show their competence of insulting, kudhiright and even the flusi.
But what is era in the explanation of Ndugai is "the defense of kitoto" that, (I quoted) "members of parliament are people like other people, they have a character if they were other human beings, they are in which way I feel they are getting into parliament especially the sessions from the afternoon while they have made beer."
First, our members are not the same as "other people."
It's "other people" how many are called "honorable?"
And how many are the ones who are paid allowances for fulfilling their duty (despite being paid salary by their positions)?
And is "the other people" how many of them are paid huge salaries though in a big way they are mostly in the informative, to safeguard and propaganda the other ones that are not helping the Tanzanian?
Ndugai is not right claiming that the members of parliament that are coming in parliament to understand "they have a character if they were other human beings."
I like a student I am not allowed to enter the class when I'm understood.
Even in the parts of the drinks "baamedi" is not allowed to enter at work drunk.
Now, "human beings as others" is telling him the deputy speaker come from the planet?
And then more offensive is the fact that the deputy speaker understands that there are members of parliament wanaingia at the parliamentary sessions they have understood but he didn't take any steps but he is waiting until he is waiting for the opportunity to flooding that matter in an interview with television station.
This is a weak leader.
Although we can congratulate him for "making the secret of what happened in parliament," but the bond that he was handed is not to give me the other people (because of noted there are members of parliament walevi) but to take action deserve against "criminals."
And it's not like I have used the word "criminals" unfortunately.
Certainly not.
A person who is paid 11 million shillings as a salary to represent a citizen, then he decided to hold the representation while he has gotten several beer, or he has deleted a non-unusual (marijuana) or has been set up certain things ("flour" - drug), has no different from the culprit.
It is a robber who causes people to live in a problem so as to manage its interests to the expectations that those interests are that will bring success in the work but he is threatened to implement his responsibilities with "the head 'profit" (every head given)!
In one of my articles in the past I put it clear my stand that big salaries to pass the amount of our members of parliament is robbery in the afternoon.
And now that robbery is revealed clearly by the uhuni of some of the honorable ones who ignore the rules of parliament and their responsibility, and to appear in parliament to understand.
But there is one question of the foundation that every Tanzanian is supposed to be asking, "how it has been reached a place some of the WABUNGE that are in parliament to be understood?"
One reader of this magazine, Omary Abdallah, a Tanzanian who lives in Germany had used a message through the facebook network advised that instead of continuing to target leaders in Tanzania and we see our weaknesses that we do to choose leaders who do not fit (for those example walevi).
In short, the reader will conclude that the nation has been marred by fraud and uvivu.
I went back to the parliamentary campaign.
You will see the candidate "comes from the sweat in the body and mapovu mouth" kuwahadaa voters on how he cares for them.
And for the uvivu of our thinking, nor we are not questioning if the "pain" of the candidate is for our own interests or her stomach (and maybe "small houses").
The results are the ones we are told they represent while they are drinking, smoking or kulamba kilevi.
But also, in the skandali of the drunk of some of the members of parliament, I see the income of honorable members to be among the factors to disturb their responsibility.
In the normal environment only, the person who is given the money nyiingi more than his needs can end up doing weird things.
For while Ughaibuni we are witnessing some of the scientists, for example, who are paid millions of money, and there is an opportune kind of kimizamo that "bugs" are done by some of them are contributed by the bulk of the money that does not bother each other and their normal needs.
The issue of additional salaries of members of parliament is seen as limeridhiwa by the public.
While doctors and teachers are told the government does not have the funds to improve the stahili and the environment of their work, we have not been given the primary reasons to increase the salaries of members of parliament who already had big salaries.
The performance of many of them is not endani and even "a little" what they have given before new salaries.
It should be remembered that millions for our members of parliament are the money they rented which many of them are poor in Tanzania.
There is every reason for it not only condemning "unyexploited" this but also opposed to all the strength.
Now, because we have to allow the parliamentary to be a strategic method of the wealth then we should expect to see our elections in front protesting and every kind of vituko and vioja among those who want to be part of "this project of the wealth of the chap chap" (get-rich-quick scheme).
In the mood only, who doesn't want to be paid though only several thousand shillings for the work of sleep while you have two more beer in the head?
It is like going to the bar then you are paid by being married.
I ask you to be understood that it is not every member of parliament copyright.
There are few Patriots who recognize their responsibilities.
Some of them, they have threatened "to be fired" by the speaker for "violating the rules of parliament (isomeke: To defend the interests of the voters in the way that is not acceptable to the administrators).
These few heroes have the extra courage because when they are married out by fulfilling their responsibility, they are witnessed some of those who are left to continue with the sessions they have been temporary due to drink, cigarettes that are not common or set up certain things.
I did finish by getting back to the questions I quote at the beginning of this article.
Tumerogof and who we roga him and then died, or our minds, then the key has been lost?
I ask you not to reply but your answer should be on the ballot box in the next election.
Where there is a wide way way.


