But I heard to read the sister's sister.
And they have to or certain it is not that nineties and time.
Africa will not be a surprise of free WhatsApp, it will be done by the sports and our Kikmwezini in the peace of the money to take him to fahirisi the presidency because they make a lesson that you have said that they are saying that they are saying that they are saying that they are saying that they are saying that they are saying that they are saying that they
There is a lot of that we have to withdraw more health in order to say the games that brings them where and the nyie of my child, I am not looking at all the secrets we were in the forests in which he is not suitable to make him know and assurance of a hundred percent and do not know what they should know and be sure of a hundred percent and do not
You know something for their house around they are playing with they are not paid allowances for it will succeed you know that it is playing even used to prominent studies and also let me know what they care about and those children have been given to the Mlimani city equivalent to our colleagues.
I think we have to have it and have it.
If the investigation of it.
Very not ugali that we are not looking at the same time.
The same you have time to look for and there's time.
But waridi to look at even the games there will change changes to change.
This insults will be embee if they make our left of us.
A look at the end of it.
Where we have from the coming from looking at and fly back then to look at it is to look at the maslai and look at the interests of looking at the interests of the nation, they demolished the well go and your one will also be their father and the youths of automatiki and those who are able to change them instead of hours are only sports and women, therefore, they will change them.
Yapi that will add you follow up looking at the time and time you are changing one that is when it has to be eaten.
How it will be in the evening on the internet yet a young man to be ilia palilia palilia.
Even even when you don't know it.
If you play new things of the corner maboya, maybe the giver of this topic that
To change they are not aminiani more that July this year passes from also if it is a pevu of that too we're also together without following mi and I also congratulated all African teams who have managed to go there because the only act of going to the country, and I also congratulate all the African teams that I have managed to go there because the other act of the nation from Tanzania go safely. The phones in our colleagues that have been there in the church napiga pictures in the church.
