
The army ladai kuangamiza 100 rebels in the area of Bujumbura, Burundi approximately 100 rebels were killed after the cost of clashes in the Central African Republic and Burundi near the border of the Democratic Republic of Congo, according to the military Republic of Congo, according to the military Republic of Congo, according to the military.
The right level officer in the army of Burundi who did not want his name litajwe said that attack that was committed by the rebels that were not identified was brought up after five days of the Northern city of Bujumbura.
"After the five days of Public Service of Public Service, those who were armed were shocked by soldiers after attacking Burundi.
In total we have killed the rebels 105 and held four out of all the 121 rebels who entered the Cibitoke province from Congo, "the army officer said.
"In those attacks we got the president of Burundi, they would have seen 60 guns, five rocket and more than 100 bullets," he said and added that the Burundi army has lost two soldiers.
More information did not have been released in relation to the attacks while the army refused to give news about the rebels on the basis that the military operation is still ongoing.
The government officials of Burundi together with who saw said Pierre and / AFP that the rebel group who will not be recognized entered Burundi last night from Kivu Mashiriki of Congo, the area known as the stronghold of the rebel groups.
On Wednesday, the number of those killed was 35, including 34 rebels and one army of the government rundiundi of the rebels who had set up with the Chama cha Ukombozi Taifa (FNL) that confessed being involved in the previous attack in the border of Burundi.
The FNL rebels who are popular by developing the attacks while singing religious songs, they went through the agreement of peace a government of Burundi in 2009 and since the time they changed their group to be political party.
Those rebels who are still developing attacks on claims that their requirements were ignored, claimed to kill six soldiers on October last year.
After that attack, the rebels were apa to develop the attacks until the time of taking place for the general election of June 2015.
The group also has rejected that it was involved in the recent attack and withdraw from the blame of the murder of the soldiers of Burundi.
Burundi, "ilifufuka" from the political chaos in 2006 after the war of themselves in itself with 13.
July 2014, the organization of defending human rights in the world, Amnesty International said the party that is ruled in Burundi has been running the threats of threats against those who seem to go against the government.


