Zano that are not productive will not benefit the Z'bar tough Nov 11, 2015, 2015.

Next week I will continue with the article last week on this election to be a lesson.
Today I saw I say a bit about the challenges in the Zanzibar elections.
I start by saying that the election of the year 2015 has given a big lesson as a nation, we have to know more as people and civilians, and that I do not like our Ikiplaced in the big attempt to get lost, ustahimdue to us and there are some of our colleagues, not all of them, decisions for them is more feelings and not the logic.
Our leaders have found themselves so much better and many we have to know their real colors.
It is certain in one way or another we have been arguing here and everyone because of a citizen has a contribution to reach us here.
Our dollar and its agencies also have the contribution to reach us here, our political parties have also a huge contribution to reach here, where we are not good, we should not be able to be able to be affected, not to be respected, not to be able to love each other, not to be able to love each other, a great amount of selfish and hatred and everyone to evade being responsible from citizens to the citizens to the citizens.
We start to be responsible as one person, we ask ourselves and think about where each one of us has wronged and we are not satisfied with the answers that he esi that our minds will start to throw as well as, is the government, it is a certain tribe, it is a certain tribe, it is a certain tribe, it is a certain tribe, it is a certain tribe, it is a certain tribe, it is a certain tribe, it is a certain tribe, it is a certain region, it is a certain religion or a certain religion.
When you get there as a parent I will tell you when the last time that I inform your children's goodness in Tanzania?
When it is when you tell me how Tanzania is a country of its own Africa and in the world?
And if you are a citizen when you are planning and start raised a finger to others I will be asking when the last time was participating in the sessions of your estate government and stopped specify the opportunities and barriers to development "Opportunities and obstacles for Development (O & OD)" in your area?
Or has been prevented by your activities is waiting for the masses of the argument during the campaign of 2020?
Bchanged starts standing the government, starting to be a citizen to be careful now.
Zanzibar has stuck, wisdom to be striving to Zanzibar elections held one day and the elections of the United Republic on 25 October.
According to the Constitution of the United Republic and the Constitution of Zanzibar, these two elections are different and don't have any connection.
While talking about the authority in authority, these elections are being supervised by two different authorities, back to the constitution of the Republic article 4 that are talking about "the country authorities" because of the United Republic under the National Electoral Commission (NEC) which should do the elections of the President of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Parliament together with the addition of the Tanzanian mainland.
Zanzibar's authority under the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) has a guarantee to coordinate the elections of the president of Zanzibar, members of the House of Representatives and councilors.
In these two different elections, all the two commission should put its supervisors all over the country in charge of the activities of elections which constitutionally and legal have the authority.
The translation of these details is that even Zanzibar National Electoral Commission (NEC) put officers in every station in order to manage and run the election of the President of the Republic and members of the republic.
In line with NEC, ZEC put its officers to manage and run the elections of the president of Zanzibar, representatives and councilors in all stations in Zanzibar.
Even stations are one area but it is two different authority.
During the results of the election results going to be released under the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) show several issues which in one way or another led to the chairman of the Zanzibar Electoral Commission to cancel the elections of the President, representatives and councilors.
The chairperson of ZEC, brother Jecha has given a reason more than eight, I will explain a few, first, when the exercise is going to the delegates inside the commission they failed to "know each other" in the easy language of while Tanzania Mainland, members of ZEC were left with a fight.
The chairman is going far more to say the members of ZEC avua mashati and started being Makonde, if it is not enough for the members of ZEC to turn back to their vobedience and start flying the flag of their parties.


