We what we want is to remove CCM only "Aug 19, 2015.

As I had planned in the last article, this week I continue with my analysis about the general elections that is expected to take place on October 25 this year.
And if it was in several articles that were ahead, my analysis will be elemea in the race for the presidential position.
While in the last article I discussed the opportunities and restrictions to the "heads" two, that is Doctor.
John Magufuli of CCM and Edward Lowassa of Chadema / UKAWA, this week I will get in deep exactly, while the aim being to use this article to make an analysis for one candidate, and the article next week will look at another candidate.
I start with Lowassa of Chadema / UKAWA.
Between the last article and this, it is not a secret that the news that governs more is what is called "the floods of Lowassa."
All the activities that involve the politician in that period has protested with a huge crowd of people, from when he took the forms of vying for presidency in Dar es Salaam city to be introduced in Mbeya, Arusha and Mwanza.
The quantity of people who are coming up in the activities that concern Lowassa, whether to demonstrate or attend meetings, it has given great hope to his followers that the way of the former prime minister heading to the State is white.
In line with those big attendance, several members of CCM have moved to the ruling party and joined Chadema.
But the biggest one is to relocate to some of the leaders "who had names" within CCM.
That protests and the meetings of Lowaasa is building a lot of people, that has no debate.
That the events to enable the politician will continue to fill people is also not an issue of the debate.
Meanwhile, that there are members and more leaders of CCM will follow Lowassa in Chadema is also a expected thing.
We should not be able to conclude by sure this time is if you will not ahama that of some of the members of CCM and their leaders follow the Lowaasa in Chadema will be interpreted in the victory in the next general elections on October 25, approximately two months from now.
Despite the presence of great inspiration about registering in the voters' register that was improved by the technology to store a record on the computer (Biometric Voter register in a short while BVR), until this time the National Electoral Commission hasn't a full number of people who registered themselves.
But despite that, there are already signs of errors in the BVR issue where it has been obtained several reports of those who registered themselves not seeing their names when they are doing sure.
The size or the UDOGO of the errors has not yet known because the National Electoral Commission (NEC) has not delivered an explanation on that issue.
Here I will connect those two issues on the above, that is the majority of the people who are coming up in the activities of Lowassa and the exercise to register BVR.
Yayumika ending that in order for the numbers of people who are coming up in the activities of that politician to make it better for him and his party in general, then the first most of those people, if not all of them, must be self-registered to vote.
Without so their numbers will remain to be just history.
But for the experience we have many, register to vote is one issue, to succeed in voting is another issue, and vote for a certain candidate and that vote to help him win is another issue completely.
I have been talking about in my articles that were ahead that one of the biggest benefits to CCM is a privileged relationship between him and various public institutions.
And I expect many of you brothers, readers, you have heard the cries of the politicians of the opposition approximately since the start of a system of many parties that those who feel their votes are being paid by the ruling party by being assisted by the public institutions "zinazokipendelea" that party.
Although all the allegations have continued to remain that allegations, the environmental evidence is heading to support those allegations.
Personally, I have been following the pilika of the general election through online, especially on social media (Social media).
Recently, I warned the fans of Lowassa about their joy resulting from the numbers of the audience in public activities that involve the politician.
I had reminded them about the past elections, particularly "the speed of (Agustino Lyatonga) Mrema," who was the presidential candidate in the general elections of 1995 through the NCCR-Mageuzi party, how he used popular and filling the mass of people at his meetings, but he threatened to be lost by the CCM candidate, Benjamin Mkapa.
I have reminded them also about the numbers of people who came out of the Doctor's campaign meetings.
William brord Slaa, who was the presidential candidate on the Chadema ticket in the last general elections, in 2010, but fails by the CCM candidate, Jakaya Kikwete.


