Even when you are struggling when I had that entertainment Swahili will be fired, we will be fired and the period when we are being concluded
Mmhm related to Swahili mmhm.
When or not).
I tell them the goodness of Swahili is what things maybe you want to learn more in Swahili ohh.
For what I want to learn Swahili right now.
Now I want to learn the language here.
AHH is not another, except English in the way it's happening there is a woman of students of students of students.
All of her child I'm in the neighborhood Kidata but English ehose Mtoni River and to take care of the disciples and flowers with flowers and flowers.
This ATI didn't know what he is looking for a while he is a simple system of an easy system.
Swahili to show you to be given a lot of joy, I am very happy that you talk about something else people want to know ehhana question to mwalimu ohh mwalimu ohh a question for mwalimu ohh mwalimu ohh.
A skilled of Swahili is Msome as a lot of
Karume did not complete hard when signing even we want him to let me know sarufi has shown me.
You will communicate the benefits, the mwalimu have been harharor may not be able to say it's bad if one person wanted to know more about it will anzania about East Africa in East Africa.
We have to learn that Swahili that wants to know the taiti will use you to use it.
They won't be encouraged to participate, we have been a teacher of the church just to apologize to the child, one that different from the very importance in everyday life and the lives of other people like the Chinese people are able to use their language even the people of China is a lot of development and many people are continuing to use their language even the people of China is also Swahili in bringing development why the language of the country that is coming back to Tanzania is also Swahili in bringing development why language of the country that is coming back to Tanzania is also Swahili in bringing development to why language of the country, that is our sinarendo is a mzarendo of us is a mzarendo of
A lot of even an hour, a teacher, afrodenzi I'm in secondary school in Arumeru walter from the University of Dar es Salaam, together with Sharifa Selemani from the tears,
A lot of programs but though.
If you want to see you suffer it should be able to remind me by foi
I request you and the life you don't know.
You are struggling with the new bottles in the new victor Elia who is also that Benin should stop China and look at the culture you are endeza but also the Swahili language is in which way it is being used in different sectors in the next Saturday, we will be again in the period of Swahili and repeat, it is Wednesday at eleven o'clock in the morning on behalf of all who collaborated with me and called Flora mwanana and wishing you will be wishing you will be wishing you will be wishing you will be wishing you will be wishing you will be wishing you will be wishing you will be wishing you will be wishing all the good exchange of programs prefer here in the Island Island.
