
The decision by parliament in Bangalore Bongo Honorable makengeza, do you know other people are wehu.
Please give one reason why the parliamentary debates irushled and I will have given you a ten reason why it does not trust us completely.
Again I will tell you as a very common citizen.
God comes from the misokoto of their debates.
Again these days with the decision is not so much that I do need to hear them while they are being treated as well as they are struggling instead of the maspontown.
Please me to be the main principles of defense and security of the nation.
Linda wajinga in the country that respect the same rights, we must protect weaknesses within the community.
Well.
If the only reputation of being a member of parliament is to be able to know how to read and write only, when even to be a driver, you must have a form four certificate, for what is the chairs of the sponji lets give one reason why should not be the solution to offenders?
Honorable has not requested to be a minister.
He has not requested to be given a job that is needed in mind.
He has requested to be just a member of parliament so as to hand you to go to the kinywani and mapochopocho kochin.
A person while he was not a member of parliament, he has no choice but to say in parliament because that is the hadidu rojorojo of the honorable.
Now if the statement is taking him in front of the kadamus of the whole country, we are being treated true.
It's not his fault, he has not read, why he is fired?
Since we show the mistakes of professors in class?
If the professors is unable to why Honorable who knows the reading and write only to be unable?
That's why, because Tanzania is the country of the people who are the Almighty God is obvious that we are supposed to protect the status of these honorable who grow looking for work associated with their reputation.
Linda language of the nation because we would like our national language and we don't think it should be doa, we don't have to realize that they are others who do not know our national language well.
Even foreign is a problem.
For example, someone is using the word "beibii" knows what does it mean?
It was not his fault if he was arriving when the teacher is undunduring in the classroom.
Or because he is used to stay on the village stones and the language of stones, it is completely badly affected by the other citizens that are infected in Swahili.
Therefore, to protect our citizens against abuse of the language that can be enough or kuwafadhaisha, these use remains.
When there are absolutely those who are coming out so that they are able to be questioned and spreading bad words that were semin the privacy of uspontown.
Linda faith, the peace of the previous voters were coming to elect this one or the one.
I doubt if most of them really looking at their candidate of the sponji level.
They looked at the color of his clothes regardless of what is inside the color without forgetting those who look at the color of manoti or a t-shirt or those who will be complicated.
If huniamini, how many went to the campaign meeting of honorable potential of their constituency?
Now, as they come to realize that the one with the color PENDWA is doing things to face, this can't make it up.
It will be unable to work.
They will be unable to preserve his family.
It will be unable to build a country.
Yes.
When I was young me, we trust a lot of our leaders.
We respect it not because they were honorable, again this word was rejected completely.
We respect them from the words and their actions of honor.
That's why we volunteered to die and recover to build a nation.
We ilima ately even while we were in students.
We went to teach our father and our mother and sisters and sisters to read and write it.
We totally believe we were in one journey.
It's not all that we are capable of and a suit.
Now, let me think, find other words of the kipuuzi that are offered by their honorable, people will have Mori actually to build a nation.
Linda concern this is the foundation of msahafu, those who will be added and narudia to kuse ma that, unfortunately, this country has filled with wacha God who like to follow misahafu directly.
Those who have, the winners' Forum, have the right to protect those who have without suffering from the eye of those who have uda on the second side.
This is the first commandment.
Linda your concern do not protect the interest of others.
That's why the person being at the sponji seats, he is looking at only one thing.
While he is a woman and women of the second side they are notified by the man on their side, he will put him forward humanity and honor of women.
It must be put up the interest of his group in front.
He must protect his colleagues with interest together.
Vivyotherefore, being a person of a certain area, potelea as far as your colleague is being suspected, who are the first, others are the dream of alinaof.
However, it's not good to be seen because you can be understood by the citizens who do not know these principles or those who are uda for what these have got and they have missed them.
That's why we can scenes people in protecting their interests.
Linda a male system will not be ae makengeza.
This country has its own culture.
His culture is a male system upende usipende.
Mabeibii they are obisha to lose time.
Personally, I am looking for the world to change every corner and when they are entertaining you must give you a gift.
There's a ubaya.
I do that because that's how we end men.
Beibii in front.
Now if someone is doing that in his life he has to see how all the women are so?
It's not his thoughts surely?
But in front of the citizens with an understanding of finyu and especially when it's affected themselves who are the most voters, you can be understood badly.
That's why we are using privacy to protect the culture you will.
Usinitell me that it's not true.
This is not a point.
The point is that we must win our culture of watching these as a whole when we do not mean that we do not do that, at the end of the day people will know to discover that yet they have minds than us.
The Mmmh or!
Linda the market will be involved in the network you have seen yourself faults.
We don't want the overall announcements because that is available above, but this retail there is wrong?
Here, every Honorable, he can decide to see the yesha laivu at the time he is outaka himself.
It was not when he had been buried and sleep due to the following of the national dhifa or when the head is moving due to the heavy debates on the near bar.
It is when he can see it in good.


