
A student who was placed in Dar es Salaam back to school.

It was written by Peti Siyame, Sumbawanga Sumbawanga.

It has been published: 03 November 2016.

Head of Sumbawanga District, Rukwa Province, Doctor Halfani Haule and the defense committee and security has succeeded to bring back to school student aged 16 years of grade one who was tired of being fixed in Dar es Salaam city.

Doctor Haule has also warned the parents who are atiza the subjects of their daughter by marrying them and men who will marry that their solution is ready including searching for them and present to court.
He has commanded parents and guardians to make sure that they will be chronic and all those who were forced back to school to continue with studies, and those who will benefit the stern action including being taken to court.
"The level of absenteeism of students in school in this municipality for primary and secondary schools is very much isitting to the number of female students who are atiza for getting married is also terrifying," he said.
The district commissioner noted that when he addressed the session of the council of councilors of Sumbawanga Municipality which sat yesterday in the city.
He narrated the tragedy of the female student who survived to get married at a young age and returned to school, who was reading form first in the secondary school, Itwelele in Sumbawanga Municipality.
"The girl was given the sack of maize flour and lobby one of the beans and cash amount of 30,000 shillings for use so that he started a boarding life in that school (Itwelele) but after one month ran away from school.
He said after the girl to escape, when they communicate with his brother in the city where he reaches him, he will inform him that the girl ran away.
He added to say that when he directed the head of the police force of Sumbawanga District (OCD), he ensures that he is communicating with Dar es Salaam so that the girl will be back and continue with studies.
"I have a great joy to inform that the girl has returned and now he continues with his studies at the school," he explained.
About absenteeism, he said that primary school Chipu that is in Kasense ward, Sumbawanga Municipality is leading in having a chronic more than 400 oro including three girls aged 14 years that have been shown.
"Kinachoshangaza this time the yakitendeka at the school, the head teacher of the school committee, coordinators and leaders of that village are there," he insisted.
He ordered those leaders to make sure that their chronic children are back to school once and continue with studies.
On his side, the councilor of Kasense Ward, Ndinda Ludimila left this paper that it is a chronic 148 oro out of 400 who have returned to school and continue with studies.
He added that the female students who were shown by their parents have not returned to school where until now they are not unknown they are.


