
Imechapishwa: Wed, APR 26, 2017, 2017.

Why Nape SI SHUJAA WANGU WANGU.

If they read it.

Everyone will be avuna that he is rising.
This is a Swahili phrase that Waswahili has been lucky to have them in our Swahili language.

This means that if it was crowded with good then you will reap good and if it was crowded sadly, then the halt should do what good but you will make that problem wrong.

So that is the way it is for the former Minister of Information whose uwaziri was revoked March this year by President John Magufuli.

Personally simitikii Nape though for other people appeared as a man and he seems like a person who deserves to be bullied, but to me is not a man and I didn't ungani with them and I didn't get it even a little because everyone will face what he has to climb.

Since his tenure, he was fired, Nape seems as a person who has ideas and can see them so if you follow up on social media especially on Twitter network.

He seems to keep the several several activities with showing it in which way he was fighting for his party and some of the Tanzania's problems that he saw which didn't look like to be resolved, it is like a certain routine to throw the stone when he is depending on the one who is getting then he will give you a voice.

Why for me, Nape is not a man man's man.

He may be the man of his soul or for his position but not for the Tanzanian, I say this because since the beginning of the drug scandal, after being mentioned the first phase of the list of sellers and the users of the series of that is when I saw the war of two bulls that later it came to be ordered by the incident to attack the radio station and television station of Clouds.

It is a war that got people seen as the auspices of upiganiaji of rights but there were private issues, actually I have ite Nape shujaa, "the man's man's man.

Why I didn't make it to Nape Nape.

Who is between us who loves to see a person being paid a salary that doesn't go along with the work he has done?
We are all we would like right and so that right will endeke, everyone is required to acquire based on the work he has done.
If it is so, we have the reason to be hurusing Nape?

Nape this one who had a kibabe's statement when they are fighting for the parliament "live," this one who takes the bill of news kibabe and for pride, Nape this one who had pride against Tanzania who were complaining about his statement of that they will win even with any other fear, this is the one we should use?

This is the one we should be the man's ite?
Right when he is uga demons and then mention killing him and we will call the man because he was struggling so much when he is defending his soul before death found him, followed him and we were injured?

The problem of Tanzania has been forgotten so much and that's all the years we have been bridges of politicians, while our economic state continues to be bad, usahaulifu is a bad disease.

Many politicians especially who usually have the positions of leadership you forget and see if those positions are usually permanent and they have forgotten their names and they have forgotten that until they get there, there is a level when they get out there is no place to go again, therefore, I am urging them to respect the citizens regardless of the position that you have.

Right, who has ever been thinking if Lowassa and Sumaye can complain about the soldiers like he ever complained to the former secretary general of the Party of Democracy and Development (Chadema), Doctor.
Wilbrod Slaa?
Power does not hold the good to forget.


