
SADC to beat drug dealers Aug 08, 2013.

The war against the business of drug trafficking in the country is expected to take a new look, after the Community Development Community of Southern Africa (SADC), planning to fight that business by using the combined security of the kidola.
Those details have been given on Monday this week by the minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation of Tanzania, Bernard Membe, when he was speaking at the general television program on Monday, which is run by a legend reporter, Jenerali Ulimwengu, every Monday at Channel Ten television station.
The countries that form SADC apart from Tanzania are together with South Africa, Zimbabwe, Angola, Botswana, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Swaziland, Zambia and Seyshelles.
Madagascar has been passed for the membership of the community.
It is in some of the countries where some of the Tanzanian have been cut with drugs and the recent event is being arrested for famous artist Agnes Masogange and Mellis Edward, who were arrested in South Africa at the International Airport of Oliver tambo and drugs which are alleged to be worth more than six billion shillings.
Speaking about the issue, Minister Membe said the war against drugs is great and he removed the call to people with the aim of wanting to vie for presidency in the year 2015 to make those fight against drugs that are between their agenda, by considering that the use of those drugs are destruction for the youth.
Membe who was the leader of SADC observers in the general elections of Zimbambwe recently, talked about the conduct of the election saying that the report draft the whole trend will be presented in the future session of the heads of that community that will take place in Malawi.
In that election of Zimbabwe, the ruling party ZANU-PF of President Robert Mugabe (89) which was running for campaigns for fighting for land and land in the direction of opposing visitors, especially the whites who owns a large part of the land in that country, managed to get a big member of parliament, Joshua Sacco.
Sacco has won the parliamentary seat of Chimanfaith in East and surprising nations that followed politics of that country.
Mugabe has been wishing that Joshua is the last white person to return to Zanu- PF.
In 2009, Joshua was elected as the deputy secretary of the production in ZANU PF, the side of youth and was the first white person to hold that position Zimbabwe.
Kilichoshangaza many are to see the mzungu in the elimination stage to get the consent of ZANU-PF to vie for the parliamentary seat of the party and the Deputy Minister Economic, Planning and Investment Zimbabwe, Samuel Undenge.


