
The wedding of death a person!
Aug 15, 2012.

"Your seeds has been mature today, my will be mature tomorrow.
It is a matter of good for all of us as I will be alima together with you today, and you are helping to cultivate tomorrow.
I can't have friendship with you as I see that you have not engi friendship with me.
Season will pass, with us when we do not trust each other and cooperate, then we will eat losses. "
(Mwanafalsafa David Hume) there is a while I traveled to Finland.
In the city, I was surprised to be very surprised to see a lot of tractors have been on one farm.
I asked my host, where he is looking at?

I was stolen that that is the culture of the farmers of the country.
Every year has always been a competition to cultivate it to the matekta.
The farmers of one area may be on their colleague farm and to do the competition, they are looking for who has to keep his colleagues in the kunyosha verses, cultivate fast, and so on.

It is in the country of Finland, I understood, that the culture started since the era of farming using farasi.
Tractors when he entered in agriculture, happened to one farmer and asked his colleague, "then, your tractor is the same as the power of the farasi many?
It is in those circumstances, even the measure of the farasi power started being used, a horse power, it means the power of farasi, is used even today in determining the power of various machines.

I will talk about the importance of social capital (Social Capital) and civil society (civil courage) to be able to uplift the economy of one person and eventually lift the economy of the country.
In order for the community and the country in general continued economically it needs to have this important capital.
The growth of social cooperation in various activities, whether to sadness or a celebration, is an example of the existence of a good foundation of social capital.

This concept of social capital and the civil motivation may be familiar to some of us.
However, it is something that we are witnessing every day.
We see various community groups being increasing.
Today we have the examples of the community to be denied, we have the communities of lending and many others.

We should take this example of the community with collaborating in a celebration, for instance, the wedding.
These days visiting luxury spots is not surprising if you meets with people who are in the session of the organizing committee of the wedding.
It is these committees with planning strategies to make the wedding.
Sometimes you are planning even what is called "the wedding of death!"

The organizing committee of the wedding will meet even twice in a month.
And most of the time he meets the luxury spots after the work hours.
The committee will air strategies to achieve the wedding while other members of the committee are having drinks.
And even when they accomplished the wedding, they will meet again as a special committee for "to break the" committee.
They will eat, they will drink, they will fill it.
Fungu of doing that is planned too on the wedding budget!

When our colleagues in Finland are competing in development activities, we, together with our poverty, we are still competing in doing the wedding of the great anasa!
We are using millions of shillings to do the wedding of "dying people" when there are people this country who died for poverty.
They are dying for the roads from the villages to them until they are in the district hospitals are not complicated!
There are people who are dying for lack of money to buy drugs for their diseases.

We should realize closely this concept of social capital and the civil society by looking at the texts of Professor Robert Putnam in his book, making a Democracy work (making the democracy to work).
Professor Putnam, an American, gave his book this year 1993.
He and his colleagues did research by looking at two areas of Italy, north and south.
This was the 70's years.
Those two parts of Italy have had economic development with kutaofautiana until this today.

Italy of the south are more poor compared to Italy in the north.
Professor Putnam through that research he demonstrates, that this is coming from South Italy to miss what Italy north is.
The people of Italy north for many years have been a culture of joining together on various communities of the things that they love, there are the community members of the fishermen, the community of fishermen, the community of going to porini to check on the plane.
There are also a community or different sports clubs.
In general, there are lots of people from their favourites.

But the foundation that he saw Professor Putnam is the fact that participants in these communities are getting out of looking at their personal interests and of the community.
It begins also to look at the interests of the entire community because of the nation.
That's when it comes to the concept of civil motivation.

The civil motivation is the state of the person to discover that it is a citizen in the country, and that if a citizen has a responsibility to put the interests of the country that he was born and he registered his citizenship.
He has a duty to participate in building his country.
The social capital, the civil society and aminiana are three things of essentially which according to Professor Putnam, it is lying to grow to the economy of the area or concerned countries.

Professor Putnam and his colleagues are noted that the South Italy has remained behind development due to its people to look at more personal interests and those of the families that surround them.
It is in the South Italy where until today we are ikia there are groups of harrated as a famous Mafia.

When we are putting up with scientific information and experts more than this professor, let me look at the situation in our country.
Surely, for this social capital that is built now in our community, Tanzania as a country can make steps for developers.
We look like these weddings committees and even of the burial with planning and using millions of shillings for "the wedding of dying people," and prepare the burial, maybe "people to be accomplished!"

That for the procedure would have been made up of the infrastructure committees for our streets.
They should be planning to plan strategies to ensure that money is contributes by people who are encouraged so that the holes of the local roads are covered by the water and dirty water is brought up.
That those should be the activities of the "death person."
The neighborhoods, the neighborhoods, the district and regions by involving citizens competed ane for such activities of the nation's construction.

And ifike a place too, those who are keeping itself to make themselves feel shame in the community.
They should not be given a reputation for keeping their selfish ones and even to sabotage the public property.
Today in our country, a leader sees a privilege to drop in the public car and allow the driver to continue to improve the car engines until he comes back to the activities that he is doing.
The car is able to stand up while the search engines even for the whole hours!
They air oil and taxes of citizens.
The big one when he was with his driver in his private car he is turned into a provoked when his driver is unable to shut down the engines when he has gone down to make a purchase shop.
There will see the pain about the oil that is planned for free.
He will be trusted about the cost of oil for the money of his pocket.
But, with a public car, he does not see the pain and the oil, he gets the government!
There is where I miss the motivation of civil.
Lack of patriotism.
It is examples of actions that are returning back development.
This debate will continue.


