Three days of citizenship education in the village who has been taken on goro, February 18, 2015, 2015.

After 13 hours of the trip I arrived at the village of mechanical goro, Mpwapwa District, Dodoma on around three o'clock at night.
When I was in Dodoma in the city, I was advised one of my fellow passengers on the sake of being petgoro.
The state of Latin goro was against the words Matamu of the passengers that had told me there are all primary services including the houses of enough visitors.
The severe hunger that caused by my fear of eating safarini, it's pushing one of them in the vihepe, where I was told the house of sleep visitors is only one on the second side of the road!
Vihepe vyangu hand, I crossing the road towards when I was directed.
After asking several times, I arrived.
Four rooms with a toilet inside vilishajaa.
The electricity present is the light of the sun and you started the lights only.
A room in a dirty bed.
Godoro has been filled with a bang while mosquitoes celebrating food when you leave the hot heat.
The toilet was very dirty while water as a problem.
Around five o'clock in the night artists of the TACCgroup, those who brought him to the goro goro arrived at the visitors's house that I have reached.
To get into them to bring a big conflict since the rooms were not enough, while the water burning completely.
TACCI, it is a threat of Tanzania Community Association Initiative is a civil institution of Dar es Salaam that provides civil education.
Artists of TACCI described that the problem that I met when they are putting up goro goro even half of the mikumu migumu that they went through in their convoy of time not less than two months in the ward and the villages of Mpwapwa District providing citizenship education.
But, do all the problem that they have been through that are highly productive worth a lot of bombers this amount?
My three day schedule to walk and witnessed the work of the TACCI gave answers.
In the morning of my first day of work after the toughest needle of mosquito and manufactured, two lawyers, Clementina William and Husna Kiobof, which is part of the group they started a schedule by running a seminar for leaders of the ward about inheritance and better governance.
Leaders were interested in the subject of wosia.
Particularly meaning, the benefits, the terms and the place to store wosia.
At the end of the seminar, leaders were visiting the lawyers to visit their villages to give the citizens that education.
"We would be able to go to ourselves but we will not explain to clarity like this," the chairman of the village of mechanical goro popular as Punda of Jesus, told the lawyers.
After the seminar, leaders were shown plays with a classic training intended to be displayed in three villages that were appointed by that county.
In the afternoon of that day, the task of providing education through the exact game started in Wiyenzele village.
In line with plays, it is also said of law to advise citizens free way to fight for their rights.
In the process of advice, which began nine hours that were witnessed in the queue of citizens with various problems waiting to meet the lawyers.
Clementina, one of the lawyers said many citizens of Mpwapwa have been praying for advice on marriage disputes, land and inheritance while the main victims were women and children.
Several times, the consultants have been getting feedback from the citizens who thank him after succeeding or want more advice.
At 12.30 o'clock in the evening show the art of plays started.
Four plays were shown to be touched on various content including the best governance, the oppression of women and children.
The first drama was on the dance and the sign is started by showing the father is bought alcohol and people who are coming later to bribe him money so that they can run his daughter with good development education who is in a primary school.
The mother of the child anapinga and receiving a big defeat while the daughter was urged in shock.
The second drama shows they will guide them who have been waiting for the development of development and leaders, husbands, parents and so on.
Citizens did not attend meetings to discuss development believing that they had chosen leaders who are supposed to bring development without any citizen's contribution!
The igizo of three linahusu the oppression of women and wajane.
After the death of her husband, one of the characters is chased away from the house they have built with her husband while the brother wakijirithisha everything.
With her sister, he complains to be beaten by her husband who is being drunk, lazy but he depends on being disono without leaving money.
This sister every time he reported, - to the father, the mother, the aunt - was told the avumilie.
The men have consulting to charge the child so that we rich should be bought alcohol.
However, the ones that are pushing for two fees to fight with bringing down the whole clan that was planned to attract the widow and the orphaned.
The fourth ones shows the level of moving forgotten of Tanzania.
It is starting with a patricukwa, pbecame where one old man explained about one good country, with the rich of milk, honey and minerals but it has citizens wapuuzi.


