
ALAT will be announced to gogoro by the government government.

December 2, 2014, 2014.

The government of the local government (ALAT) in Tanga province has announced a dispute with the main government claiming some of the district heads, they have been kidnapped the servants, the elected leaders using the authority they have to put in jail.
The chairman of ALAT in that province, Bw.Sadick Kallaghe, said that the day before yesterday at the community session that took place in Muheza district, while emphasizing on a declaration of their session which took place in Pangani District on September 22, 2013.
He said they are not ready to see any leader of the Supreme Government anawanyanyasa servants of local government.
He added that the main government has distributing power to local governments as an illusion because many money in the budgets of every year that are taken to the council especially development funds, it is coming for delay or not very concerned.
"Its results citizens are missing the faith and leaders of the council including politicians.
"Some of our workers are oppressed when they implemented their work, has reached a step even the councilors are laid inside but because the issue of the councilor of Mswaha ward, Korogwe District, Aesu Kipaku is in court, we can't speak about it," he said.
He said local government is the actual authority that was formed legally by the executive director, the chairman of the council, heads of department, councilors and other staff.
Kallaghe who is also the chairman of Korogwe District Council and the councilor of Dindira ward, said he is one of the people that were assaulted from his district and some of the members of the parliamentary committees who visited that province in the year 2013 since some of them have their agenda "pocket."
"At the forums of leaders of the council and parliamentary committees, the information provided are not true, the Member of Parliament is standing and said the council of Korogwe has got dirty documents, this asking himself has got to where this data, my council has never got dirty documents five years in a row," said Kallaghe.
He added that another thing that deny sleep leaders of local government is the main government to announce the citizens that "has waga" billions of money on the council when it is the salaries of staff and those of the development projects there are no.
Kallaghe said more than three months, the main government has not taken money to the council for the purpose of normal use (OC), financial projects for more than four months and those of the compensation of sources that were abolished (GPG).
"Apart from this money not being administered, it is still announced there is a lot of money that has been taken to the council, while it is a mix of citizens," said Kallaghe.
And the local government officer in that province, Maggie Chande said local governments are not a lot of money as claimed by the main government, thus they fail to implement many development projects instead of the local government servants have been converted and put inside.
"The leader can lead people to disperse or collect them, we must use wisdom because we don't leadership animals.
And the deputy mayor of Tanga City, Mzamil Shemdoe said some of the leaders are given power where to put him inside a servant, the executive of the village or the chairperson does not remove the problems but you add it because inside him to strike.
On January 24th this year, Mister.
Kipaku was placed inside the order of the District Commissioner of Korogwe, Mister.
Mrisho Gambo was alleged to call the general meeting of the village on January 21st and encourage farmers to go to burned Maboma, the talks of the breeders cows on January 22 this year.
Due to that situation, Mister.
Kipaku announced his resignation from that position claiming being assaulted by Mister.
Gambo.
Speaking of Majira, Mister.
Gambo said that the politicians contribute to the conflicts of farmers sometimes they are marketed to the campaign getting power providers in farmers areas.


