
Zantel, they are planning to create employment to the youth in the country in the country

December 22, 2016, 2016.

In that plan to reduce the employment problem for young people in the country, Zantel Company are prepared to create employment to youths.
Speaking during the launch of the shop and the new customer service center which is in the building of China Plaza Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam the day before yesterday, the chief executive officer of Zantel, Benoit Janin said that in collaboration with the government will create employment to youths as sales agents together with the agents of AzyPesa.
He said that is the second center in Dar es Salaam, he was assisted by the vioski and different parts of providing services, where Zantel has a plan to open more shops of providing services so that its customers can get services and products anywhere else.
"In this shop, if that other shops in Tanzania, our customers will get services and different products with the level of 4G together with other standards that will be able to meet different needs.
"These products are sold at a reasonable price, something that will make the most of Tanzania owners of communication equipment which is the important requirement for this century.
"For example, we have a special phone for students and business people, that has been given a low-cost packages.
These can help them to make communication wherever they are, "he said.
Janin said all the shops have employees with knowledge and skills and they are ready to serve their customers and help them when they need the services of the media, which is currently important in daily life.
He said that in the final stages of improvement of their network, they are ensuring that they are spreading products and their services so that they can reach customers easily.
The opening of the shop in Kariakoo area is one of the strategies of the company to move its services closer to customers, whereby recently employees of Zantel did a tour in different provinces in the country to speak with their customers.


