
Malaria is the disease of transmitting u n o l e w and cells cells known by the name professionally Plasmodium.
These cells usually enter inside the human body after bites from a mosquito in the type of Anophates.
Mosquitoes with the cells of Plasmodium when it bites someone, it makes me bring a couple of some of the diseases that are infectious on the sore, therefore spreading malaria.
The infections are traveling up in the liver where they are usually up until they reach maturity.
There are 4 types of malaria, which are P. vivax, P. malariae, P. ovale and P. falciparum.
Have been given names based on the type of Plasmodium that is not causing them.
The first 3 types are not dangerous but falciparumis is very dangerous and even it can cause death faster.
This is because it does not get in the body huzaana for the numbers inside the blood.
Red blood cells (which are spreading in the body), affected are usually heavy and can't get into the kapilari.
This situation causes the death of the brain part, the liver, pneumonia, kid and matumbo because of lack of oksijeni, something that cause death if he didn't call quickly.
Malaria signs include fever, setemeka, physical pain, vomiting, anemia (which is caused by leaving the red blood cells), headaches and spoiled to retina.
These symptoms come out every day after two days for the infection of P. vivax and P. ovale, while signs of P. malariae and P. falciparum arise every time after three days.
It may be accompanied by a fever that came out every after between 36-48 hours or a fever that doesn't shadidi but that is going on.
The children who are having malaria most of the time they are proved to have a usual, a sign of the destruction of brain.
It has been discovered that malaria causes problems of identifying especially for children.
Also causes the spread of anemia in the period of growth quickly for the brain and messed ufu of one of the brains.
This destruction of inurolojia is caused by the malaria of the brain that is very dangerous to children.
Malaria of this kind is involved in the retupe of retina, which can be beneficial as a sign of lack of malaria and the causes of other fever.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has ever reported that in the period of the year 2013, more than 198 million people infected malaria and it has been estimated to be 584,000 people died due to the disease.
Almost four people out of five who died are children under the age of five.
Nearly 100 countries in the world are affected by this disease thus threatening the lives of many people.
It is estimated to be 2 billion people in the world they are faced with the risk of being infected malaria.
In order to deal with the disease, scientific experts have noted a new way of encouraging drugs to kill mosquito nets.
That way has succeeded in 100 percent in tackling some kind of mosquitoes.
The international research report says that the way that uses the power of the eletrostatiki, the painting enables nets to carry out the high standards of medicine.


