
The Vingunguti councilor will solve health problems by buying beds, expanding the laboratory of the clinic as it has passed one year since the deputy mayor of Ilala Municipality who is also the councilor of Vingunguti Ward, Omary Kumbilamoto has executed half and a quarter of his promises in his ward on the part of his councilor's position.
While heading to the end of one year since he came into power, he has said he has been using his personal efforts without waiting for grants from the government to implement his promises.
Kumbilamoto has talked about those in his office in Dar es Salaam city when speaking to the journalist, where he has said that as the councilor saw it better to use his efforts while collaborating with stakeholders from his ward to implement his role because he was waiting for the grant he would be delayed.
He has explained some of the success in terms of the health sector that he enabled in his ward to be, to reduce the cry of mothers by taking the beds to deliver at the vingunguti clinic.
In order to avoid the problem of darkness in that clinic, he has taken the genereta one, four feni, and one television for the purpose of getting different news.
The Kumbilamoto has also said that he has accomplished the purchase of two vehicles for carrying a patient, something that was a long-term problem and led some of the gojwa to lose life for lack of travel.
In ensuring the issue of cleanliness in the parents' ward, has built a local toilet in that ward as well as one washing machine of the gojwa's clothes.
Also, he has said within this year he has taken a machine for measuring pressure, diabetes as well as a tochi for measuring a lot of cancer (mafindofindo) in the beginning of the spread of the gojwa wakizidiwa or died.
In addition, he has said he has accomplished the expansion of the laboratory of that clinic.
"On the part of the health sector that is the good and the big ones I have made and if I promised to my citizens that when I get in I will solve all the troubles of the health side," said Kumbilamoto.
However, he says on the side of education, apart from donations from the government, he made him big, is to take one machine to sell documents (printer) in secondary school vingunguti as well as paying for a debt of 500,000 electricity which led to the school to lack electricity in the whole year.
Without forgetting his promises to the youth that councilor has implemented one of his promises by giving the jersey sets 14 sets in groups of football and secondary groups in the morning (joging Clubs) in his ward.
In the implementation of social activities, Diwani Kumbilamoto has said that he has managed to revive two public toilets that are there outside the slaughterhouses and relini.
"This is half and a quarter out of things that I promised personally to implement, for this year I have made that, I believe the next years I will do more than this in partnership with my citizens," he said.


