
35 graduates from universities to improve irrigation farming farming.

It was written by John Nditi, Malinyi, Malinyi.

It has been published: 09 October 2016.

The graduates of more than 35 universities, have joined the residents of Malinyi district, Morogoro province to run irrigation farming of various crops including onions and rice.

Those statistics have been issued by the head of Malinyi District, Majura Kasika speaking to journalists the day before yesterday.
He said his district intends to bring the green revolution to the goalkeeper, the inspiration of irrigation farming and implementing fully the strategy of Big Results Now (BRN).
He said that the graduates have joined the citizens of Itete village, njiwa and Itete Mianzini, in Mtimbira Division in the district for rice farming, onions and matikiti through irrigation in Alabama that was built by the central government at the cost of six billion shillings.
According to Kasika, the district has a total of 127,7hectares 61.06 that are on the agricultural between those 27,884.04 hectares, which will go for irrigation farming and 99,877 hectares and 2 hectares have an opportunity for agriculture to rely on the rains which are 55,429 hectares are used to agriculture right now.
He said by recognizing the great opportunities that will result from the skmons, youth and graduates of universities joined and start groups and use that project of irrigation of Itete in producing vegetables, tomatoes, onions, mosques and rice so as to uplift their economy and of that district.
Kasika said the irrigation scheme of Itete with the size of 8,000 hectares as the whole area will be continued benefiting many youths outside and within the district including groups of other ages to produce three times in the year for crops especially rice, onions, mosques and tomatoes.
Some of the graduates of universities who came out of irrigation farming, Jasper Muganyizi, Upendo SC, and Iddi Bectro, at different times they said that they have decided to run modern farming farming for the produce of onions, rice and mosques so as to increase their income.
"The current farming is scientific, therefore education we got in different sectors is one of the ways of using farming, because irrigation farming is correct and it doesn't cause a loss," said Muganyizi.
They won't be urged the graduates of universities not to run away from agriculture because the current farming is different from the past and also to encourage the scholars women to focus on the agricultural sector for their economic benefit.


