List of the coalition things added that II mar 13, 2014, 2014.

About the qualifications to be selected to be a presidential candidate or parliament (article 79 and.
125), for now, the parties that are going to be highlighted - for sure to select the candidate.
Yet some who were chosen to contest would have been selected as voters could know him.
Propoganda of the parties and the fans are the ones that are awala.
His results in the nation does not get the bad leaders and the weak government.
I recommend that there should be an instrument to filter and it will not hikiki the qualifications of the candidates who were recommended by the parties.
It should be done by the authority of giving them and ordered the parties to impress others or another.
The electoral commission should be given the authority.
In implementing this responsibility, the commission will be led by the leadership traditions that were listed in this constitution.
There are other countries with the same procedure to filter.
Without having such an instrument that the reputation will remain in the papers and things will continue as usual as we used and the nation will continue to get bad leaders.
The parliament accusing the President's president.

It is my opinion that the level recommended by 75 percent of the members of parliament for the form of research committee and removing the president is very high.
Why more than 50 percent isitoin for the form of that committee and 66 percent (two-thirds) stopped him to pay more than that level is "to be competing."
Also, the constitution should benefit the President or the leader who was removed from power, he deserves to be paid for the benefits of uzeeni - pension - as it is for other public servants who are expelled from work.
The procedure of changing the constitution.

For this we should be discussed and experience we already received with the weight of the constitution that was passed by the citizens.
You will try to change the Constitution you should not be easy if this was proposed, which is the one that is used now.
This approach that enables the ruling party by using the bulk of its members of parliament in parliament to cancel the right of a private citizen to vie for the presidency or parliamentary without being appointed by a political party.
Tusallowed this approach to change the Constitution to continue.
I recommend first, two-thirds of the members of parliament from Tanganyika and two-thirds from Zanzibar will be required as it is now and secondly, two-thirds of the opposition members of parliament - these represent the citizens who choose, three, as a change that is intended is big article 119 recommended I support.
The creation of the parliament of the Republic article 113 needs an analysis of it, it should not take it impossible to execute it.
I see the election region in his area will be very high even working for candidates to make a campaign to be difficult and with a high cost.
There are also questions asking: The notice of the party elections or the candidate will have the policies of which kind about security issues and security, foreign affairs and others like that in order to convince the voters to vote for the commission would have looked at the possibility of mabunge of the country partners to elect the members of parliament of the United Republic of the United Republic as it is held now for the parliament of the East African Community.
But the president is elected by the citizens.
I recommend it to be so.
The responsibilities of the director of election responsibilities of the director of elections (article 196) - 3) - that "the Director of Elections of the Electoral Commission will implement its responsibilities by being assisted by executives who are public servants..."
Director asilazimishwe to use public servants as it is now.
The evidence there is showing that those workers find themselves who serve the Mabwana, the commission on one side and his employer on the second side who wants his requirements will be implemented and thus misleading!
I recommend the commission to be restored to employ or select his staff who will be responsible for him only.
The revenue sources of the United government in the sources of revenue of the United Government (article 231) first, this proposal, in my opinion, will give birth to the weak government and to put the United Republic as a shadow.
It is the government which does not have the authority to tax taxes its citizens so that it can serve them accordingly we want the government of the union with power.
This power is in addition to the ability to get enough income to run the government of the union.
Those earnings contributes to have every citizen who is able to pay taxes and every institution that pays taxes according to the law.
For the current procedure, citizens pay taxes that runs the activities of the union and the activities of Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar.


