Almost in our discussion for I did not understand your faces of me, _ e, when I am with youths and the topic that we are talking about today is that young people are using the opportunities that they are getting in their lives almost why it is called Catherine kigoli are coming from their lives almost why is called Catherine kigoli are coming from their lives. Why is called Catherine kigoli are coming from their lives. Why is called Catherine kigoli are coming
Five, what is Ako and the best I don't know what he meets from mi well for a good example, all the students will know one minute boom we call a loan to get a loan to a loan, but it can be a non-up loan to go to do shopping drinking alcohol.
This young man should be using himself as well as a young man I use my money will be done but two things that you have never thought of thinking of planting of posting that you will stop afresh in the side of the negative mi you know that these days are trying to blame the government of Tanzania that he doesn't want us to enable us to enable us to enable us to enable us to enable us.
The environment of from them to come to self-employed because the government has not called a good environment of from the university to come to self-employed, there is a lot of possible that mi I know that dependent or the government is going to produce a nation of people who are coming to be dependent on the way of Tanzania and the people who are coming to be dependent on the ways of Tanzania and the people who are coming to be dependent on the ways of
Tanzanians would not have been closed, we are thinking that from the University when we are in the neighborhood we must get employment since that registering number mzr Cid we get problems problems.
They are joining it says that it has been fraud through the internet networks.
Different boy or ile a day that is not good because the men we had to be looked at to feel I can discuss getting him but we look at that side, the citizens that the government is unable to prepare his young people well that I think I said afresh with the structure of the curriculum that he said afresh with the structure of the curriculum that he said afresh with the structure of the curriculum that he said afresh with the structure of the curriculum that he said afresh
It will not be suitable for us to be independent, baada to assume the subject of the subject you know has also been mi in a style that the cultural culture of the fish.
I haven't been a Tanzanian there is no need to train to tell them that's the team of the Msimbazi valley in Msimbazi, through
Else you don't complete to say agriculture of maize yesterday or even if you don't think it's early at home home at home.
Since dodoma was tricukwa.
I get that I get up to be able to bring in the maize I will get into the neighborhood every person read to read the child, he will read the class of four o'clock if I do not have a child is taught to help electricity by using the battery and use the battery and to use the battery and the battery.
Quarrel with great deceivers I don't know how to make a grandfather, a child to make them feel good men.
And young people who we had finished the education of technical education in the evening would have been able to come to self-up other electricity and reduce the problem of sports Tanzania, it will not be suitable to get imia unless you add many readers in the country of Tanzania Tanzania of Tanzania.
He is a teacher of the first class to be what Fresh from school to someone who is
He was living with his father until I don't have her
He was the college he was bogus what we were given to for.
The trust that we have asked for the ring there is Mziray bora wants to sell him to mapendekezo the whole person who is nurturing because you find a teacher and a student that is used there in there.
We see the Chinese to come to invest here for us and why use why they should not be sent to them to China are coming to invest here for us and you feel that they struggled there are youths in Kariakoo.
Completely selling flowers _ wanauza FIFA will work one that the economy education and it is removed that the number of Tanzania's economy has been in a certain amount but you see it still Tanzania and a very difficult life with me, I think that if a young man who is a great job of the nation we could be prioritized in the issue of agriculture as agriculture, agriculture is the deadly of the back of agriculture.
Of the Tanzanian Tanzanians.
We linked to the gardens of Tanzania until this hour since we got here, there are many areas until this hour still haven't reached out there is still a forest but the government has decided to give money and invest in the benefits of agriculture and it took the youth as that that they take the youth like that that they are to take the young people like that that they have to take the young people like that that it is that that they have to take the youth
If not saying it up to the end of it. "
That is a good thing because a young man and discover that you can work then I think that someone who does work I doubt if he can be convinced there is not to be convinced there is not a good one if you have been done with a certain goals that I am supposed to have a family that way or what is supposed to be with the family that way or what is supposed to be with the family that way or what is supposed to be with the family
That is where I won't use the nne he used to be as of the form that he will be doing ignorance in the sixth class to consider the studies because I have no goals in the animal to do many youths fail to use the opportunities for many youths fail to use an opportunity for the opportunity to do the
One including the misfaith that they have been given puta to tell God that maybe he should be the leader of the leader of the
A certain village but now he knows that the young man akigombea should not enter the level of leadership may be the karogof or those people who maybe they were struggling with them when they are following them and it will go quickly quickly.
I didn't think that the biggest reason that yesterday the washing machine is also a bad system or in that commission that commission.
You found you as a young man your needs to later you want to be Mhandisi.
But the parent should not be telling you what is thinking for later you have to
Nenda to syome, maybe what is going to be.
Ukasomee we don't appreciate them for his expectations that the teacher you cannot help to help me.
From what is even this poverty that is in the home because he can be dependent on something to the system these hours the truth Tanzanian is going to read as Mhandisi you can't read as Mhandisi you can read as Mhandisi you can't read
He believes that if you want to go to study teaching it has helped me what is the family but also
Akuulize is tired of the nation later in their lives but there is nothing like that for our many families it doesn't exists there.
This young man is unable to achieve what he termed young people we are required to use your thoughts in which they grow a good grow from who is in who
For example a boy, maybe he can and get an education for his studies and the mentality of the nation in general as a whole.
But the parent or has the sun
He has not been able to promote I was there isn't there.
The resources is not available with them.
I have given him a hundred.
But mi is a young man who is scared to tell his wife he was mazao and that the one cow should take a look because the benefits of my life used to tell him for the father has not told me they are coming out of the theft and to do that several of them comes to tell me the house of cows is a luxury tomorrow we will do what I will do to tell me the house of cows is a luxury tomorrow we will do what we will tell me.
Now, we try so that I know that I have been taken to read it until I reach the goals to reach the goals.
I don't think that's
We have not been able to peace.
So personally that someone being able to achieve goals.
We don't give you not to cut up and we should all know that everything that is
It must be reached as if you pass the areas to put private goals, we only believe that and we participate in the believe that we have to make good things that I can call for right now that we can use it for now that we can use them for now that we can use them for now that we can use them for now that we can use them for now that we can use them for now that we can use them for now that we can use
If they do not have angulia that mi I want to study then poison I used to mean?
Because there are other people who can be fifited until you want to be who he doesn't know that that is when he reads the first remaining as youths we must understand that what we need but if we kill from my heart.
To be able to achieve goals but also because of our families, they must know that we are the things that we will watch for later in the position of building a good muscles to be able to achieve their best muscles.
Kijamii finished that we leave the concept of ufie a young man to find your wants brother in making it to make it.
The world later post worked hard for the urge to put it in the course
Boy also the opportunity to study at the same time at home where he gets to clean things to check every day because he knows home there is a home there is a
A thing thing.
How's coming out.
I am given Jackson an opportunity for the use of technology as young people use it accordingly there are better people using social media for purposes.
I will not be aware of it.
They are doing it.
Studies there are those who are doing a discussion of discussion in how many students are meeting they are meeting they have to change themselves, the questions that are teachers are meeting when the women are lucky but now there are some of the people that you have found that because of the meta of the amount and other people and they said that especially for these countries that you have said I did not use the cupboard you found a lot of young people who hate the young people who hate the most people who hate the young people that hate the youths that hate the most people who hate the young people who hate the most people who hate on the issues of how we sell to sell things to sell them to sell them to
The reason I did not know that this commotion has come recently to see that we don't know his effects his hands is why you will find that someone katoka at home he has gone to work, he has gone to the office you eat that instead of using that time to serve if it is customers like maybe maybe the customers like maybe maybe the customers like maybe maybe the customers like maybe
It is a setilaiti.
The branch the time when he is used to get into the internet, maybe I will be notified social society.
If facebook, maybe you don't know.
TIRA is ae maybe to see them and there is found that
There are others on the second side with them.
Online for this time but it is hours for work yet he was supposed to use time for the dawn of kucha.
Now that you find that customers have come to come.
Ehif they need services you can from herpes the company is involved in busy is going to believe that there we have found that the losses has entered approximately three because it has to have it.
