Like that the national revolution party has blessed the decision of President jakaya Kikwete to renew the council of ministers to bless the decision of the president, Kikwete to register afresh the council after receiving that report easier about his willingness to be above, the government has been linked to the actions of embezzlement and talks with the central committee of the investigation and revealed that the actions of embezzlement and talks with the central committee of the investigation was given in his session that took place in the daressalaam, to receive in his session that took place in the daressalaam, to receive in his session that took place in the daressalaam and discuss the information and resolutions of the committee of members of parliament of that party together with the committee of members of parliament on the issues that came out of the seventh meeting of the United Republic of Tanzania that ended Monday last after that, the secretary of ideology and publicity, Nape Nnauye met with journalists to explain about the decision of the main committee of our writer and publicity, Nape Nnauye met with journalists to explain about the decision of the main committee of our writer and publicity, Nape Nnauye, met with journalists to explain about the decision of the main committee of our writer and publicity, Nape Nnauye met with journalists to explain
Now when we receive a good job to strengthen the system and control and to present them waselikali available serekali, the press meeting with the secretary general of the revolutionary party, ideology and publicity, Nape Nnauye and the main aim is the information that happened in the national committee of that party that met today in the daressalaam.
Together with other things Nape talking about the report of President jakaya Kikwete to make changes to the cabinet ministers of ministers.
The main committee.
It has been destroyed and has blessed the decision of the president of the United Republic of Tanzania docta
But but I will not be able to see it.
Have no one.
The end of the end.
The ministers that were involved in the weight of the
When they were involved in the same way.
The electricity and the ministers there are the government's directors.
And with no one).
Which have been involved in one way or another and embezzlement that was shown at the report of the Chief Auditor General of the government accounts of government accounts of government accounts.
The reports of the parliamentary committee and the parliamentary debates of parliament of parliament for parliament.
Likewise, the committee has also appointed the executive secretary of the provinces of the revolutionary party including the new provinces of njombe simile Katavi geita and the province of western town, Speaker Kapaya, Shaibu Akwilombe three to the plan of the plan.
The eighth said the women's mother.
Five siblings of busy ramadhani Mapuri Mapuri.
This will tell the stations a separation is not moving down is not darsa.
