Majaliwa wanted to sabotage the income U / Taifa to be dealt with

It was written by Evance Ng'ingo

It has been published: 12 September 2016.

The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has called for the best use of the system of cutting the electronic tickets in entering the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam and wants those who sabotage the service to be dealt with.

Majaliwa gave that statement in his speech read on his behalf by the minister of information, culture, arts and sports, Nape Nnauye officially launched the system on behalf of the Prime Minister at the National Stadium yesterday.
In his speech, Majaliwa said that the system will help to display revenue that resulted from the entrance fee of the field due to its transparency in the reduction of income for the concerned day.
He said that for someone cutting the tickets already the deductions of the Revenue Authority of Tanzania Football Federation, TFF, the deductions of the club together with every kind of deductions of that day are known and therefore there is no doubt that the system is preventing the theft of the entry funds.
"This is a system that has brought the liberation of the high level in the whole issue of the field entries which for a long time has been a big problem, people have been stealing revenue through their sun but currently this system is the savior of Tanzanian soccer and the government in general," he said.
He said that the system will help to identify the information of everyone who will enter the field on that day.
Moreover, at the launch, Nape was handed over the cards to get involved in the field President John Magufuli, the Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan together with the prime minister and other big leaders that he has been requested to take.
Previously before welcoming Nape, the secretary general of that ministry, Professor Elisante ole Gabriel said that 20 machines that use the system have been closed on the field.
He said that under the system, the user can increase money in his card that he will use to get involved in the field where for now the cards are offered free of charge.
"Previously the company has been involved in this service to enter the field here was to sell the cards to get involved in the field for 10,000 shillings but they are given those cards for free while the user will be required that he will add only money to enter the field," said Ole Gabriel.
The project manager from Selcom Company, Gallus Runyeta said that the cards have been directed to modern security system that you have to protect its use while adding in ensuring that it meets the need of the market, Selcom has 16,000 agents across the country involved in its services.
On his part, the President of TFF, Jamal Malinzi urged the perpetrators to ensure that more education is given to the Tanzanian of Tanzania so as to know the use of the stadium.
He also said that the Premier League soccer clubs depend on the income of milangoni to run their activities for that system of now, it must keep the validity of deductions so that the club can benefit.
"I recommend the existence of a clear system and confidence especially in doing the whole issue of inspection of revenue accounts so as to ensure that every side is greatly benefit, because many clubs are running for depending on the income of milangoni to not see that this system has to deprive revenue," said Malinzi.


