The money we are getting when we buy the best medicine we can have.
We were going to buy cars vehicles.
If we talk last year we were the ones that we are helping are helping the alcohol adults reached the alcohol alcohol for each we ombalo if we requested that we will get a lot of three hundred million, we will be able to sell two things, we will be able to eat money and another one I will have to eat in front of us now right now that will be the car they have a few people than a few other people than the moment.
Take medicine to take care of the medicine.
Those are also looking at thirty when we are going through now what we are doing is instead of buying things that have the cost again to use that our fund is claims of citizens to benefit things are going on well even if using those funds to repair our stations.
Myself but we have a car system for you to use in all the stuff.
When they are set your favorite for that as a big event you can find a lot of money to put it back to the citizens who are different from other places that will depend on sixty percent and five as we have been told that in the session goes directly to the use of the medicine that you have found the reputation of a few weeks and then they are coming from Mister they are coming from Mister.
And we have been told that one chicken savings a whole year Stima but what is happening that will make us when they are talking to people need Mister bad name and with me I am running to make it or because I don't know if crazy is not crazy. But else that's to succeed in a different difference in a different difference.
And at the beginning we reached up to agree with three major things, the president is required to do the work of reducing poverty then diseases together with ignorance but we are telling us what to do with me, I am seen by interfering with interfering with them.
It was seen as well as the same.
Stronger more to me and it is easy on the spot each one can do it.
That's why our slogan says one chicken treatment the whole year the whole year.
If one is not inge.
And we Paul Mabuga
And in my law and your children or they will be treated ten shillings are treated ten shillings.
It has never happened in other groups, a lot of luck that there are students of primary and secondary schools but he has taken it to the elderly people.
Most of the time you take a lie to come to you.
You know what we have we have to work to raise our citizens unifichie about a luxury issue must be in charge of the notice of our revolutionary party says kwa centres kumi na tano kumi na tano kumi na tano.
Thirty percent of the citizens in every district the whole country have joined
Health insurance jan the picture for us that we do that is to implement the notice of our party but TUNATEKELEZA notice of the party also also the notice of the party.
To say the party has put up our notice you're talking about all that I have filled with the stmons to continue to be excited to be excited to be
They get to the forgiveness will be free of charge.
They are doing that but also getting better service to small children are not supposed to and it is free if you want to get you feel a check what we are doing is to make sure three things are happening to ensure three things are happening
The first one there are children who are coordinated by
Their free colleagues for all the free children for the elderly we have agreed to agree.
The village in charge of the elders who are coming from because the laws that speak has given you as a gift he is supposed to contribute to that and therefore in the village there is tax for alcohol and drop so it is the second day for the year for that they do not take them but in the village in every village, which is stiroroked five right in the village.
The five goalkeepers and five goalkeepers.
In addition to those live in the villages in our digital money they are participating in five thousand shillings.
For that if you see the mikorogo has been six meaning.
Therefore, they will use the same perorogo is required now to put the ordinary that we have told them the reason why they have reached the things it seems to have been in the villages have received it and their other projects told them to take the revenue that you get to the income of alcohol contributions can pay for many alcohol and we have seen those doing those and we have seen those doing those and we have seen those doing those and we have seen those doing those and we have seen those doing those and we have seen those doing those
I will finish that picture.
When not twenty.
It has been able to pay for their children.
That's what we have accomplished.
