
The fans of Mbeya City CITY WATIWA MBARONI

January 11, 2013, six fans of Mbeya City have been arrested by the police force in Mbeya Province, accused of being involved in violence that happened after the end of the match between Mbeya City and Prisons that was played on October 28, this year at Sokoine Stadium.
Speaking to the journalist on this phone, the Head of Investigations Mbeya Region, Robert Mayala said that the fans were arrested just after violence and they found out that they were Mbeya City fans from some of the team leaders to reach the police station for helping them.
That Head of upepelezi said that those suspects were involved with the violence, which caused the Prisons car to be defeated vioo and two players injured, have appeared before the court of Mwanzo of Mbeya the day before yesterday and their case is expected to be heard again today.
He added that today he will meet with the leaders of Mbeya Province (MREFA), together with leaders of Mbeya City team in order to talk about the issue that has been such a practice right now due to that violence like these are not the first time that happened.
He said right now when they air special strategies to control violence every after the match, where they are preparing the procedure of spreading the team after the match ended up to camp, because violence happened when the teams have left on the field.
On his part, the secretary general of MREFA, Suleiman Haroub said that they like the party they are working on the issue and they will ensure all those who were involved with the violence, they are arraigned in front of the law because they cannot support such things.
"We like the party we cannot be an eye on the eyes of kihuni like this and I believe these are a few wahuni, which they have planned to come to disrupt and destroy the peace that is in sports including football in Mbeya province," he said.
Haroub said he believes between those suspects, there is also who are not the fans their goal being not cheering but to make violence.
Mbeya fans have been requested to avoid against violence but they take a lie ball as joy, they start and finish in peace.
Violence if these were ever happened again in the Sokoine Stadium when they met Yanga and Mbeya City at the opening of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League, where it is claimed that Mbeya City fans did a huge violence and kupasua vioo of the vehicles of Yanga leaders.
In that match that ended with the teams from a 1-1 draw.


