
Zanzibar: The next budget to prosecute the citizens.

Every time the people of the ordinary Zanzibar was going to war.
He is fighting the war and the life.
Every day in Unguja town will find people who don't have employment wakizurura on the streets or while taking part in their council.
The bags of surwali has been empty and their headlines, bravery thoughts of finding ways to earn the next meal.
If you go to the farms you will find that situation dhalin order and of the weakness is facing citizens.
If you go to Pemba things I do with it.
In total, the people of Zanzibar, these days have remained as well as they do what they should do in order for them to get the ways to change them.
It is a great exam that you got.
Without a doubt ufukara is not a guest in Zanzibar but this years of close has taken care of fees.
The responsibility of kuupunguza or sweyeka all that ufukara is of the government and especially it is the Minister of Finance and his ministry.
Minister gets the opportunity when he presented the government's budget on the House of Representatives.
Next month, the Minister of Finance of Zanzibar, Yusuf Omar Mzee, will be presented the first budget of the national government of the national Union in special sessions of the House of Representatives.
As it is the budget fees, that will explain the estimates of revenues and use of the government and will also put strategies to fight for needy, to praising the economy and to bring development in total.
The people of Zanzibar are expecting so much that the budget will be totally different from the previous decades, which contributed to defend this situation in the current time of Mchafukoge of economic.
We have been made to adjust to the budget when it is presented to the House of Representatives to feel the government marketed themselves as the economy of Zanzibar has been expanded and raised.
The government provides its official data to try to appreciate those.
Sadly things are that the state of the lives of citizens or zinaselelea remain in the same way or it is grown up to didimia.
Therefore, the details of growth of the economy is a empty story because they cannot be confirmed.
This is because there is a huge weakness in the collection of free data, that is the ones that are not given by the government.
The Minister of Finance of the United Nations is faced with a lot of challenges when he prepared the budget for this year.
The other challenges are short-term, the other of the average period and the other long term.
First, in a short period of time, he is responsible to find a solution to the deficit of government funds.
The remaining challenges, that is the ones for the average time and long-term, without a doubt is to implement plans that was organized or will be prepared by the government in order to enable the economy of Zanzibar to get a lot of new growth.
The people of Zanzibar are aware of that the future but they are good because of the long-term economy in the island is good.
They have that faith because they say it will increase investment from outside and they consider the expectations of the creation of free economic areas.
There are signs or viparticipating other than encouraging them as well, for example, hope to be found oil.
However, it is important that the economic disease that disturb the citizens should be given medicine in the budget of June.
It is important this will be ended so first to show that the policies of this government are differentiating by the ones of the past government, that these policies have the matilaba of serving the citizens.
Secondly, it is important this will be ended so that the people of Zanzibar can get to the future but their economic and welfare of their community.
If we were not usia in the sahafu, the government of the national Union needs, again for an emergency, to have "the policy of easy food" so as to meet the needs of every day to enable the citizens to get a meal.
Other things that need to be investigated and measured by keenly is tax standards and taxes, the cost of transport together with taxes twice - and the Tanzania Revenue Authority and the Tanzania Revenue Authority.
The people of Zanzibar have the desire to see how their finance minister will be playing in political karata about the leadership of the economy.
They have that desire because of the state of things it is currently the minister has no ability to hear them where the tax tax tax tax, customs activities and banks, provision of industries and trade licenses and the whole issue of the main bank.
Also, the minister has no way to reach international money provided by institutions like the World Bank of the World Bank and the Department of International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The current situation is going to be muhali implementing the long-term plans for urekebisha the economy of the national Union of the national Union.
Nor the government will not be able to bring welfare in the economic system of independent areas.
Certainly, that system of independent areas is needed by the islands of Unguja and Pemba and it is not for the areas of Fumba and Micheweni alone because Zanzibar is a country with a small area.
For sure, in the past when Zanzibari was on the economy of the free area, the independent area of the economy was both islands and the efficiency that was found on those two islands.
Grace was spread all over.
It is suitable for us to remember that in the colonial era of Zanzibar, it was able to differentiits itself without depending on being sponsored by the colonial dollar.
Therefore, it was able to distinguish its social services, it was able to pay the salaries of its employees, to build a hospital and secondary schools.
Likewise, the government was able to form the infrastructure that was toshded at the time.
So that it can take all the steps that means in the economic and social sectors, and even the political, the government of the national Union does not hila but to start quick discussions inside or outside the new constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania will start being used five years after acceptance.
The aim of the discussions should have been kuyandua those authorities and economic power and social power of Zanzibar which have risen for a period of 47 years in the union.
Unfortunately, the government of the union did not used the power to take the project anytime in Zanzibar with the economy of its citizens.
The government of the union until now has been active of kugangaiza whenever this problem is mentioned.
The power of Zanzibar that were crowded in the union wouldn't be resolved then Zanzibar will not be able to save its economy and the economy will continue to didimia and even if he didn't like it.
For now the economy of Zanzibar has but with faults following: A large number of people who don't have employment, a large number of people who do not have an income to enable them to use money, the prices of taking food, oil and other products.
Remember also that Tanzania Mainland is not a big participant of the business of Zanzibar as it is in China, for example.
The current situation is that Tanzania Mainland is involved in the economy of Zanzibar on the law of law and regulations that are tested in Zanzibar the ability to control its economy will be.
Therefore, it cannot make a lot of wall when it wants to distinguish sharp social welfare.
Then there is an issue of corruption.
This is chaotic that the United Nations government has the ability to eliminate it and it does not need an excuse to refer to power from the union.
Corruption has been such a cancer that was spread in Zanzibar all over the country and the Minister of Finance must use every way to fight.
The laiti would be your and reliable data that are showing the level of corruption in that country and how it costs the economy of Zanzibar.
The government is proud that the economy of Zanzibar is growing by six percent (6%) every year.
Corruption jee, is growing by the same amount or more?
In the past Zanzibar did not have corruption as existing now.
This disaster has continued due to uroho of the civil servants, the department that complains the government service with employing several thousands of servants, bureaucracy that has spread using money that would have been able to instead be used to improve education and health services and also helping them to mafukara especially in terms of financing prices of food.
That's the first budget of the first government of the national Union in Zanzibar, you must stand that it is following the new tarika and it's not the former one.
People will be wanayangoja the results of the budget and looking at how it will be affected without employment, those who are poor and walala helpless for a total.


