
After being said Simba Kaseja has said that "my level is still above" "high."

The goalkeeper who opened the door to leave Msimbazi Estate, Juma Kaseja has said that the reports of being said to him that he heard in the media only, and that even if it is true not surprising because he believes his level has already stood on the line.

For more than a week now, the media have been writing that reports that missed details about being said that the goalkeeper number one of Simba and the captain of the national team of Tanzania, Taifa Stars.

Kaseja who is currently in Kigoma for the rest, said he understands that his contract with Simba was eliminated since after the end of last season, so he is a free player.

"I've heard that I have been said to Simba, but actually I haven't got a letter and even if I could have julisha, I would not be surprised because my contract with Simba was ending," said Kaseja.

The goalkeeper with the only record in the country, he said he does not have a fight with the leadership of Simba as well as not to inform me if they won't add a contract.

"I have never even one day to be notified that I will not be added a new contract after the end of the one that was angulia.
No leader who told me anything more than to hear in the media that I am not supposed to, "said Kaseja.

"At the moment I can't speak a lot because I don't have that right at the moment, the time you will come I will talk.
I am resting while I am also going to practice because soccer is my employment, "added Kaseja.

Kaseja who wished Simba for nine years mfulilizo since in the year 2003, he was not ready to put clearly direction as the decision of being said Simba will remain constant.

He said: "I can't say anything at the moment, but the time comes I will put it clear my things.
I believe that I still have the ability and I will never cut up even if I will leave Simba. "

Since announcing it to be said for more than one week ago, the local reports from Simba are claimed that the decision has given birth to the conflict that is under the leaders.

Although the chairperson of Simba Aden Rage, once was reported saying that the goalkeeper will not return the jersey of Msimbazi next season, his fellow leaders are opposed to that decision.

Kaseja once complained with Simba fans at the end of last season, accusing him to play under the level that caused the closure of Kizembe goals.


