He didn't have a lot of it.
In which state wherever you are I hope you have to have a good morning edition, it is a first one februari first of the two thousand year and the fifth one is welcomed to the news report I am called to Alice Marco almost close to the news.
The government has changed the wind buyers of their mashindi, so as to benefit more small farmer and has also changed the procedure of giving a grant of input which he started being used in the next season of agriculture that changes have been announced by the minister of agriculture and corporate, Stephen Wasira while speaking with the farmers to inspect the exercise of paying debts farmers of maize in Namtumbo district and I spoke to the villages in Ruvuma province for more information to support them and he has no needs that needs to support the needs of maize farmers in the district of Namtumbo and songea in the villages of Ruvuma province for more information that we
Here in Tanzania.
It's yours.
After seeing the exercise four.
He is not said the procedures and now the purchase of maize by using the agents seems to have warned them to cultivate because those agents are not registered and who is assigned to me the price that they want the whole country from the next season will want our agents to register and enter a contract with the national agents for food and announcing the price of maize to cultivate them before buying maize for farmers we cannot live in this dream.
The system this agent is warned this farmer up to the last sigh of relief to the last relief.
Therefore I say from the groups on the phone and while
The existence of a specific contract between the person that wants to be of the ka ka
And he asks for a ka before the season is not gone and he is happy.
Our constitution that allows him to steal five hundred thousand shillings
Therefore, they would say he is where he is even buying the area where he is not able to.
And he will pay the farmer, ignorance, ignorance.
Changes on the procedure of fertilizer, Honorable Wasira has said that the current procedure of the government to carry out a stone to cultivate it has been used badly and to benefit the agents of input and voicing there are citizens banks in Mbinga, there is what is there is what they are doing.
I told them now that the farmers of cashews in groups groups.
Their groups for so being paid is in groups they have been shown to the groups.
They are given a fertilizer for a loan that is selling their crops as they sell their produce.
I will be posted that is what I will be doing.
Speaking to the anger after the cultivating of maize in Namtumbo district and I spoke to have asked the government to do each other so that the farmers have not paid their money early in the season of agriculture, even if it is for a certain extent it would have enabled the life of another season in life, the same way that we are currently using the life of the other season, the same way that we are currently using the life. Though the passengers why he is above now, it is now that it has to help me get away from the songea.
Of the citizens of their citizens.
