
What happened the younger elections are giving me the value Judge Francis Nyalali in the grave of February 27, 1991, the president of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi appointed the president's commission, to research and get answers about the requirements of Tanzania as they want a system of many political parties or stay with one party system.
The commission was led by the former Chief Justice of Tanzania, Francis Nyalali and it did work for a whole year.
February 17, 1992, President Mwinyi was awarded the report about the view and recommendations of the citizens about the system of many parties or one.
The answers that were given by the commission of Judge Nyalali is to be a system of many political parties known by Tanzania by 80 percent.
Because that is only 20 percent yes they were already in politics of many parties.
Of Tanzania in large numbers they were not ready for the system of many parties it's not because they did not love me, except they were asked something that he didn't know and they didn't have an understanding about its benefits.
The report of the commission of Nyalali shows that the establishment of a lot of political parties in 1992, to be done for forcing.
Few people with power who saw the importance of many political parties in promoting democracy, they sell many who refused.
The father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere was one of the people on the front row wanting the nation liachane with the system of one party and inviting many political parties.
Even CCM, they sack the teacher Nyerere when he was calling me a lot of parties.
Briefly is that of Tanzania they were transferred to enter the system of many parties.
Even now, many people do not know the importance of many political parties.
The results of the small elections on January 22, this year, made a small parliamentary election at the Dimani region, Zanzibar and 19 wards in Tanzania mainland to fill the positions that were open from various reasons.
The Revolutionary Party (CCM) got great success by winning the parliamentary seat of Dimani and won 19 wards, while the Party of Democracy and Development (Chadema) kikiended up only one location which is round, Babati, Manyara.
What happened in that small election is the one that has requested the judge Nyalali worth being sleeping in the grave, because it has continued to show that the true of Tanzania by 80 percent were not ready for a system of many parties.
It has passed 25 years since the commission of Judge Nyalali, when he handed the President Mwinyi report, so on this is the 25th year since the system of many political parties that are allowed to obey a few voices.
In his 25th year, it seems obvious that even the judge of the judge Nyalali would have done his research now, maybe the answers would have been that they would have been that, that it is of Tanzania only 20 percent that they could have wanted many parties.
The election results in 19 wards of Tanzania Mainland, didn't feel even a bit the results of the general elections 2015 which for approximately 40 percent of Tanzania voted for the opposition parties for the presidency and members of parliament.
Those results are not afanani even with the number of opposition members of the opposition who are present now, which is 32 percent.
The results of the small elections have shown CCM to win by 95.2 percent, when the opposition has carried a 4.8 percent.
On the logic, 25 years after the introduction of a lot of political parties, the situation is worse for the opposition parties.
They seem to have more hard work to do towards the general elections 2020 than even it was between the year 2010 heading to 2015.
Preparedness for the opposition 25 years since the judge Nyalali when he handed over the report of his commission, the results have shown that the biggest problem that they put in a difficult state of opposition parties in the country is not the existence of the preparedness of the system itself.
The reason for lack of preparedness of a lot of political parties' system is or people not to see the benefits of the system themselves or to know then kuukandamiza intentionally so that you don't.
What was happening in the repeat election for a total show that people do not know the benefits of many parties and they are not ready to accept it.
The real situation has shown that a lot of parties's not a friend to the politics of Tanzania.
The lack of friendship is the reason for many conflicts emerging during the election times.
The state was not attractive in a small election.
19 wards and only one region has brought huge ogo, so it would have been how the elections were involved though five counties?
Dimani Zanzibar the situation was bad.
There are complaints that the candidates' agents of the opposition parties, CUF, ACT-Wazalendo and Chapublic were married out by the election supervisors at some stations.
The reason for the occurrence, it is a claim to be there for several errors like the presence of two books of voters, the existence of voters whose validity was kept doubt, the faces of other voters were not similar to the pictures of recognized, the agents were given to them to get married out.
A small election in one region and 19 wards caused up to the bombing of tears to be used by other strength of the dollar.
Different parts of the country were reported to be in the tension between the police and the voters of different parties.
There is still no understanding there is a problem and that does not concern the ordinary citizens alone.
The improvement of a lot of political parties is caused by the results of two ways, being brought up and received.
Acceptance of citizens depend on how the system itself is being removed by the laws of the country.
When it comes to a system of many parties seems to be an enemy of the dollar, there will see the citizens who have to control it for two hands.
When it comes to support the opposition parties becomes the same as being a competitor of the dollar, even if people will love the amount of opposition parties, they will be scared of it.
We must opposition parties to have a friend of dollars and friendship themselves to appear.
Leaders of the opposition parties feel they are free to cooperate with the state agencies depending on the laws of the country and the agencies, the opponents are not enemies.
The system of lots of political parties is there for making the democratic stadium in the election to become a broad range.
That instead of only one party to stop one candidate then apigwhether the vote of yes or no, there is a field up to choose.
Instead of one party to stop two people then who gets a lot of votes he is becoming a winner, there is a lot of parties vinasimamisha candidates with different qualifications and then they are adi for the voters who are free to choose to wamtye.
The system of many parties was adopted by the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania together with the Zanzibar.
So, it is a system that must be withdrawn.
Parties are required to get into the elections when they see you have the same power of participation.
Conflicts and violence is participating of lack of equality.
That state of absence of equality between the parties participate in the elections and the tension of the dollar against opposition parties, show justice will not be endeki.
People are cutting up the total results have shown that in 19 wards that performed small elections in Tanzania Mainland, the number of voters was reduced to a large extent, compared to it was in the general elections 2015.
One example is a Kijichi Ward, Dar es Salaam which his voters were reduced for more than two-thirds from it was the day before yesterday.
Similar situations have occurred in different areas that made a small election.
The year 2015, the voters were 16,290 and the election of January 22, this year, those who vote is 5,274.
If you will take a number of 16,290 as 100 percent, then those who vote this year is 32.4 percent, because that, 67.6 percent of those who vote for the general elections in 2015, did not vote last weekend.
In addition to the parties of CCM, Chadema, ACT-Wazalendo and CUF seem to make a good campaign and encourage the citizens, yet people do not come out with a good number.
Voters have reduced instead of the increase.
The reduction of the number of voters that interpretation are people to cut up, that they do not see their expectations in the polling box.
Citizens when they stop voting is something to be feared.
Even whoever wins is supposed to ask you the amount of his legality being won by a small number of voters.
Luqman Maloto is a journalist, analyst and social issues adviser, politics and art.
It is the owner of the website of Maandishi Genius available for the site of the network.


