We get back I hope that we have been listening to but yet I have to continue with the topic we continue with the topic.
When he will not be changed.
Small and Botswana anachoka but that is not the ethics of worship amekalia and I see completely from their constitution so that you can reduce it we should be here but for that in the provinces is a person with without getting his beer to love the money more than what you call that called Mwita to love money for more than what you call the money for that call, Mwita would love money for the money that he called the money to love the money for that call
That's when I've been able to.
But it seems to be a good topic ehhe is now and its effects that's the same topic that is so that's the same topic.
It depends on the person and it is expected.
A person).
The other one because the lack of money.
Personally, I see that it is depending on the answers that you are depending on and the match of a patient himself sometimes a lover can work in the morning.
For the lobby. Because the law is not legally taken to
A lot of results.
A terrorist worship).
While without one.
I like to be part of it.
I will see that the property.
The view of what should be done in time between the dhikr
And the diseases giving secrets.
Something should be done that the dokta Wilbroad Mutafungwa against ebola to dismiss a job because if you know the secret of a patient will be treated by eight now now, the patient is treated and eight now.
You will be able to come up to madgoods me, my opinion I see that we have forgotten with the spots to fulfill the responsibility that they have been very surprised after the issue is the one that is supposed to be said even with the law are there but will not be on the truth because everything has to be written there but why they are saying that the law will be made to be implemented. But why they are saying that the law is supposed to be made to be discussed but why they are saying that the law will be made to be made to be discussed but why they are saying that the law will be and others say that Mister we should expect him and it is following up we can't talk so much that we implement to embrace them when you find a person that is doing this different from the others say that we have a shortage of doctors that I saw, as well as the woman's shortage that I saw and the woman they were here and the one in the later minute. Dorica the dorica that they call me and I tell him we take the one that makes me the way you go to the mpatie right, he mentioned like everything now, and you get them when you know they were sick I am unable to say that we do not know what they are and the Mkiwa is set up to you and the Mkiwa is set up to you
Okay then if it is so that again it is on a little bit when we go back to we will begin with weaknesses of the second to see him and we have come back to those who Mosha in the topic of the religious budget says that we can maintain the culture of ten ten houses and it has been able to maintain the culture of ten houses and it has been able to maintain the culture of ten ten houses and it is how you are able to maintain the culture of ten houses and it has been able to maintain the culture of ten
Cities and housing alcohol has not been released yet to be released yet to maintain the speed you maintain everything, so that the bladder is still there and it is still going to work.
And tender ka what is the meaning of the ten ten houses system that started
The house.
The government when they are asking for it.
To help them have been blessed well at ten houses because the masijala
Very close to a lot.
But but I will not be able to see it.
They will get it.
On the streets of the streets.
That from here in the neighborhood for us and busy and taken for the first, my news reporter has been released from the birthday
Since unity and mi if I haven't taken it but it will not take it but
I have given them because they will be spread accepted to accept it.
Introduction of the ten ten houses system to be removed from there will be all weaknesses.
As the first book in the city of a delegate himself and he will be that we will not know the people who are getting the visitors to get we want to tell you we know all the visitors that are coming in the neighborhood you know no little difficult to know who has to be done because even the people should be doing that in areas where the houses are found to be banana as well as to come out to me. A little bit and umpate yesterday comes from but for us in the villages to do even if you were anwa claimed because there was no only feel to know if they still have it.
