Therefore, I can I said that there has been an increase in walitakiwa regret or business people to stop tackling mi seem to be coming through to be registered and called the last way to restore that the desire they know the importance of paying taxes to pay taxes.
Of that it must be distror will be recognized as to be signed up but the preparations is recognized when it has been established diseases already our country and realize if it is a valid business here here, I would have been looking for a crime for sure that it has given birth to them to be registered there is asking for a person who has given birth to a person who has given birth to a person.
He has not been forced into his business.
I mean even because of registering, maybe this name of business business.
The car is also umbua with me with me.
Legally because there was nothing a certain thing is called.
Mwaipopo enterprise can't be a thing that will be sent a lot more than there to use their names to that for that one.
As I said that I should vote when you see it to come to a big thing I advise stand that for the assistance of the business and the means and continue to borrow to borrow the business.
There is a point that when the rest must be delivered there is a lot of success to help the community and business because of the reason for the
Uendelezaji mi I have with others so far they are being investigated darismarks that after they grow up but the biggest ones you can have a biasharani as we speak he had not started from China to China.
Kisiri to be able to recognize their activities for that it has been reading me.
He's now due to the same
CA on the video people of the money money.
Because we have to bring you the top about it.
And the council depends on the income from the citizens where they are apa benefited from
In the business that clearly in the misheni has been cut but the closing of the inside I know.
That Achia the ability of the citizens to go there to pay even if we take it said that there is a bad written news we are supposed to find is one but the biggest one can pay for their houses.
But if they will have no business money business will be so that I talked to yesterday noise every day so as to grow now when we go very high as a business recognized is understood by Cuba, even a great profit is that the market is able to go to borrow to get that you get about anything of loans for loans.
