
We are waiting for a budget with solutions to Jun 06, 2012.

One next week, on Thursday 14th of June, Minister of Finance, Doctor.
William Mgimwa is expected to present the National budget for the financial year 2012 / 2013.
This will be the seventh budget since President Jakaya Kikwete came in power in 2005.
It will be a budget that is ahead of two other budget before President Kikwete leaving power according to the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.
But this will also be the second budget for the second term of President Kikwete.
In all six weeks ago, as usual have been successful and the problems that can be explained that have been contributed to the weaknesses that have emerged in the management of those budgets.
It is possible, the weakness or stability in the management of the past budget has been contributed in a certain way by the ministers of the funds involved or even some of the government officials and sponsors of those budgets.
It is our expectation that the weakness in the management of six budgets ago will be used as a class to learn and strengthen this seven budget which will be the first budget for the new minister of finance, Doctor.
William Mgimwa.
But on the other hand, the stability of the past budget in some areas of implementation will be used as the criterion of continues to improve this budget.
It is our expectations, this budget will give solutions to a lot of problems that are not economically in the country.
It is our expectations, the budget will increase new sources of income and will reduce tax exemptions too.
The biggest one is that, we are expecting this budget will put an effective strategies of controlling the inflation of the important products in the country.
That is, it will be the budget of the citizens.
On the other hand, we expect this budget will consider the advice of the executive council of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) wanting the value-added tax (VAT) to be withdrawn from food.
More than that, we are expecting the budget will consider another advice with interest in the nation from other political parties and other private institutions in the country.
Basically, we are expecting a budget with a reasonable solution about the problems that are moving the economy of our country.


