
If you are surprised by Van Persie, you will see the Kiprotich Aug 22, 2012, 2012.

The great sports news last week, was the transfer issue of the player Robin Van Persie to go to Manchester United from Arsenal.
Media stations have written that the salary of that player for only a week will be almost 500 million shillings of Tanzania.
It's a lot of money, a lot of it.
However, in the neighboring country at all and for us, Uganda, there is our colleague has stolen wealth because of the work of one day.
It is called Stephen Kiprotich, the member of the nation who won the gold medal in the Marathon race of the Olympics this year.
Until yesterday, I heard he had already been contributed by stakeholders and various companies amounting to approximately 500 million shillings of Tanzania.
In short, the amount that Van Persie will give you the sweat for a whole week, Kiprotich has got it for only one day.
Again working to run away only.
He has not been beaten shoes.
He has not been beaten, "vipepis not," he has not been anwa by fans and more, he has got the money he serve his nation and not the club that you are working is not for love but because of finding livelihood.
Next week, Van Persie will be brought to another 500 million.
Kiprotich will have to wait until other competitions come.
If he is successful, already President Yoweri Museveni has promised that his government will be giving 400,000 dollars to each other, who will bring the medals to his country in a big competition.
The point that I want to kuileta to you today is that there is a lot of money on the sports sector like each one of us akitekeleza equally his responsibilities.
If our nation has been unsuccessful in the Olympics, the reasons for failing there cannot be Filbert Bayi or the National Olympic Committee (TOC) alone.
Sababor cannot be Selemani Nyambui and the Tanzania Athletics Association.
Reason cannot Makore Mashaga and the Tanzania boxing Association.
Even our media stations will be part of the problem.
I did not believe in Tanzania lacked even one writer at the Olympic championships that took place in London, England this year.
Even if Tanzania had only seven athletes in the tournament, it was still on at least one vessel, a representative to report so that it is going on and also can learn why Ethiopia, Kenya and Uganda have dropped away from the games when they were behind us in the past years.
Our agencies have remained to be the only internet.
And that's why, I did not be surprised by one day journalist to ask the question, the question that why the team is doing exercises in Kibaha on the heat when England is cold.
It showed it clear that the author, again the big writer, did not know that this is during the summer in Europe and that is even the Olympics was known as the drought Olympics.
But, if the writer has never been traveling or has not been taken to the competition, he will serve these things?
This is the jiography of the very common but it is a must for people to be restored.
Today, our agencies are not reported completely about the money that he has Kiprotich.
The way he slept the poor and woke up rich because of doing well in athletics.
Young people who want to be the athletes would be very encouraged by the success of Kiprotich.
The fact that the contributions for this player was invented and operated by the government's newspaper of the New Vision.
I have not seen our instruments reported that for this year, the audience who replaced a lot of money in the world is the player of Jamaica, Usain Bolt.
That until he dies the world last year, the player of Kenya, Samuel Wanjiru, had already gotten a gift worth more than one million and a half million dollars (approximately two billion shillings and half of Tanzania), in a period of three years!
Each day all of us are talking about the big salaries of they are tired alone.
We forget that people can be annoyed by playing many other games.
Manny Pacquiao (Pacman) has changed completely the estate that he was right in Manila, Philipines, because of the money he ovuna in the boxing game.
It is not possible that Tanzania has been out of completely athletes.
This is a nation that has created high level athletes like Bayi, Nyambui, Titus Simba, Habib Kinyoa goal, Mwinga Mwanjala, Nzaeli Kyomo and others.
I have faith in the talent there, so many.
The problem is that all of us want to be raped or we would like to be in a position of being raped but not to take effective measures.
Our government is threatened to give the flag when the team wants to leave the mashindanoni.
Uganda have promised to give 600 million to every medals.
We are giving the flag only!
It is a must the government to appreciate and make enough investment on the games.
It is a must all the games that can be played here in the country to be played by the children reijue.
The last three weeks, Uganda has got its first champion woman of Chess since that gets Uhuru.
Who is playing Chess here in Tanzania?
He Anatoly Kasparov, the former champion of the game in the world, made a lot of money because of the game only.
We are here to have been raped only by Chess did not play.
Our nation has remained only soccer.
Every day soccer.
Every week soccer.
Every year soccer.
We may not be able to go this way but it must be the government to take effective measures to reconcile this sector.
We got the Kiprotich, Bolt, Wanjiru, and Pacman, our country will change.
These will employ people and the economy will go around.
And those who live because of the strength of the economy of these athletes, they will respect the games.
Bayi is used by everyone because of doing badly for our nation.
But, I ask you to ask, is the other person who is using a lot of time on promoting athletics here in Tanzania more?
The government is saidiaje to get the best athletes?
How are the media they help each other to make people go to other soccer games?
If the journalist does not know that this tournament is the Summer Olympics, he will help the normal boy to go to become a player?
If Bayi and the women who Nyambui are blessed that they are the biggest problem of sports here in the country, who will want to be a player?


