Rich wanachafua the environment, the poor are affected 23, 2014, 2014.

I knew they arrived here in the remote at the end of February I expected to be a kipupwe will be put and drought will go.
The situation was very different.
The rain of the barafu and hot cold has continued to April.
Residents of here failed to understand how they come.
Experts said the situation like this has never happened in the last 20 years.
And there at home in a country, I followed up on the news of Tanzania, I see the rain and the floods have ruled the whole country.
The month of March is not normal to see the floods like this up to palcollapsed and people lost their lives.
This is the changes in the country that affected the whole world due to the pollution.
In order to understand that these changes are well to look at exactly his undani, its source, the future of its future and the following steps taken.
We should not end up thinking of only our roads in Dar es Salaam to flood or our houses collapse.
We will finish the whole world to flood or be defended.
The primary is to understand that this is the destruction done by a human being.

Doctor.
Peter Werner, who is an expert on the weather at the Potsdam of the investigation of Athari of the weather, he says: "We are investigating the weather in the world, such as the amount of rain that is not common, floods, drought, dhoruba, and to see its changes, we can say for sure that those non-ordinary situation have increased four times in the past 50 years."
He says that these changes have been caused by an increase in a certain gas in the air as well as the mvuke, the ukaa, I will have since the methane.
A human being has destroyed the natural system.
It is because for a long time industries and vehicles have spoilt the air for billions of tons of gas that cause the increase in the temperature.
The scientists are afraid that the increase of those gas has stopped extra temperatures, isitoke in the world.
Therefore, those gas are holding extra temperatures in the air of the world as well as the front screen of the vehicle rises the heat that comes inside the car.

The international panel that deals with climate change (IPCC) which is sponsored by the United Nations has given a report of 2,500 pages when it stopped international meeting at the end of March this year in Yokohama, Japan.
The report was written by 66 experts and it was signed by 271 representatives from 115 countries, and it says: "There is a new confirmation and more powerful that showed that in the last 50 years the world's temperature has increased due to human actions."
The report warned: "If this changes will continue then there is no country that will see."

Many researchers are lying that the increase in the heat is the one that is causing the major climate change in the world.
Those aminikwamba, its results there have been a huge increase in the north of the world, along with drought in Asia and Africa.
We have seen how El Niño has happened more in the Pacific areas and spread elsewhere.
The report of IPCC has given a stern warning explaining how climate change has caused the weather to change the amount of risking water sources and access to food.
The chairperson of IPCC, Dak Rajara Pachauri has said that it is good if the world will consider this report, because if it will be ignored then its results are risking the community and the whole human system.
They will use more are the poor people of the world I have been in the country "rich" and the country "poor."
Since the fact is that the number of poor people increases even in the countries that call themselves rich.
"We are lying that we are living in a rich country we're safe and that will be affected are people of only poor countries," said Pachauri and added, "you need to look at the Sandy (New York) as a small example."
In the meeting of IPCC, one participant is a activist Miss Christian Teriete urged a rich country to lead in to prevent climate change.


