
Rangers promised the funding to participate in CAF, it won the GOTV with John ASHIHUNDU TIMU the Rangers of Posta Rangers has been assured of enough funding if to represent Kenya in the competition of the Association of Association (CAF Confederations Cup) for the title of GOTV Ngao.
Speaking yesterday just one day after the club qualify for the finals of this year of GOTV Ngao ya Hisani, the head officer of that club, John Tanui said he has hope with the squad that emerged with a 10-9 win against Western Stima through penalties after the match ended having not joined.
"Tul i J iandiki sha in the GOTV competition with the aim of winning the championship and represent Kenya in the continent and we're ready to fulfill that dream," added Tanui.
"We will give our players funding who want this time they are preparing to meet the Sofapaination," he added.
"Shirika la Posta la Kenya is behind this team and we will make sure all the players are taken care of well than that previously.
At that time, the Executive Secretary of AFC Leopards, Timothy Lilumbi has defended the fans of the club following claims that they killed the violence and raised the semi-finals of GOTV, on Monday.
The fans with Bugha they throwing on the field equipment and destroy the vehicle of the Leopards players as well as the private of their defender, James I will not send.
Lilumbi said that those who were involved in the riots are not the real fans of the Leopards but they were wahuni who had bad intentions.
"Those were not our fans, our fans would not have destroyed the bus which they had planned for the money to buy, the fans of our club cannot share players.
They are disrupting peace on Monday is people who may be appointed by our enemies.
"It is the police work to arrest the criminals and take them to court," added Lilumbi.
"We like the club we strongly condemned the actions of that kind, and all those who were involved were arrested.
We are giving them sorry for people who used the time of tension, he added.
Several people used after dealing with the police officers after the Sofapaka scored the second goal zikibakia five minutes a match ended in the end of the match.


