That's not a must that you get to get it.
I sent him there are diseases like diabetes.
The diabetes diseases of diabetes.
Also one.
Patients live directly but a disease that if in the family there are diseases like for so, the possibility of children and other young people to get diseases is very easy for diseases pressure also where if parents got money at a young age at a young age.
A seven year out of years.
Arubaini when there is a lot of girls also that children have to be reunited with those diseases and those diseases.
In the spots but the secret tomorrow from the older age that even from sixty years and seventy-one that will not depend on so much very much.
But not what we mean when we say diseases to live diseases that should be referred to the generation and of the
Kitaalam now these diseases should be called in ehJim Jim Jim.
For what we need in the Swahili Swahili.
Therefore these diseases can pass in has been to the mother of the mother.
I was going to be a child.
Or you stay for a father and go to their child of all the two parents I would like to a child by name, I am called Jasmine, because the doctor who is wearing the glasses of the beauty that is any impact in the eyes wearing the organizer of the glasses of the beauty in general.
Ehhe because since they are for example glasses of the sun.
Then there are benefits than any other effects because that is tested
Ehana and a lot of beauty questions that kind of beauty?
The ehhe is the usual screen.
He's supposed to be that it's supposed to be
Offline usual but there are also the things that they won't be, maybe since something maruban special for the purpose of blocking the sun becomes glasses as it is aware of whether you are sent to glasses without fulfilling and likewise because it is being sent to those eyes.
If you do not harm the eyes ohh past wearing glasses of the eyes because that is when I got the problems someone who is sent aware of the person who is sent aware of the eyes.
It depends on the reason there is a person or eyes but maybe the period of reading only to read it.
Ehhe for so, he gives me a place that you provide learning and there is a person who is sent aware of the people of the merit people are those who have glasses all the time.
Therefore, this person deserves to wear glasses all the time giving glasses but before I see beauty he can get problems because even the meaning of beauty does not have a president talks a test for the sake of the beauty but the produce will come because it is the ones for beauty but the produce will come because of the name, but the harvest will not be able to get sleep there is any health effects in general. There is a lot of impact effect there are many effects.
For not getting a sleep sleep.
So one of them is together and enough thinking well as well.
Not getting enough sleep to the preparations that you know of the course that you are doing in general will not be more effective because the ability to think you're not in the same way because I did not get sleep for a long time, I can also cause them to get a lot of ideas in a human life and you can get illnesses to finish other different effects in the life of a human being and you can get illnesses to finish other effects of various effects in the life of a human being and you can get illnesses to finish other effects
Therefore, it is good in general that we will get enough sleep for the whole person is seven hours until eight hours can be enough for many reasons that are terrifying that the person gets to win the victory.
If he said that sleep will not get a sleep themselves when you get ideas but with ideas about the show to get a win win.
But there are different drugs.
Which people are using which can cause someone to get a lot of sleep, when you have gone from here, sixty than
He is ishiwa blah blah but it was because of their activities for that state situation.
Enough Mister his work is doing the bed and headed to the viloro, the camera mi is rahabu Freddy and state here, this section of the doctor poneo reaches if you see it when you see it.
