
Udumavu wapungua Dodoma Dodoma.

It was written by Basil Basil.

It has been published: 05 October 2016.

The problem of udumavu in Dodoma province has reduced from 56 percent to 36.5 percent.

Speaking to this newspaper yesterday, the Nutrition officer of Dodoma Province, Mary Boniventure said the new statistics of the year 2015 / 2016, show that the problem had reduced up to 36.5 percent from 56 percent of the year 2010.
He said that the problem has also reduced in Manyara province from 45 percent to 36.0 percent, Morogoro province from 44 percent to 33.4 percent.
Boniventure said that udumavu is more than a small length, poor growth of physical and mentally, reduced to the ability of thinking and working.
"Baby is having poor development in school, absenteeism and leave school, in terms of adults, poor production in the office, agriculture and animal husbandry, entrepreneurship and others," he said.
He said that someone with the problem has a great possibility of getting diseases, children suffering from time to time and legendary a great possibility of getting non-communicable diseases like diabetes, cancer and heart diseases.
He said, human life depend on more what happened in the first 1,000 days of his life.
"1,000 days since the documentation up to the child receiving two years, it is an important period because it is in this period the child is growing quickly and has great needs of virutubishi," he said.
He said the destruction that will be caused by the utapiamlo in that period of two years, he didn't urekebishiki in the whole period of his life, so that makes the whole person a circle.
He also said the strategies of the province in fighting with the udumavu is to strengthen the shortage of young children and small children, the children start being shown early the milk of the mother alone and starting out of additional foods at the right time, while continuing to be displayed of mother's milk until two years or more.
The officer of Nutrition, said another strategy is to ensure virutubishi in the foods that are made for the flour of flour and maize and oil of eating, salt.


