Specialist doctors at Muhumbili National Hospital today has met with a meeting with the executive director of that hospital dokta marina Njelekela to sell them together with other issues on strike, some of the doctors that are going on in the hospital is not the spokesperson of the hospital, Aminieli Aligaesha has said that the meeting doctors intended in search for a solution to the doctors who continue with strike in the hospital and to form a special committee for meeting with the prime minister Mizengo pinda on the left of the country. He has prepared for a report to summer the summer report.
National policy muhimbili arriving here for the purpose of meeting with the management of the hospital to discuss several issues including the strike that is going on in the hospital here in the hospital here in the hospital.
In that meeting which journalists were not required to participate in continuing to wait outside the hall for nearly three hours where these doctors also come from and writers to get what was discussed inside the meeting when I get an opportunity to visit the emergency service unit of Muhumbili National Hospital where the doctors from the citizens of Tanzania are dhabiti.
I also was able to pass in some of the hospital ward and got an opinion from some of the patients in Tanga dodoma dodoma.
Shamin fashion work to tell you the times I'm not saying that others are not mentioned that others are not mentioned.
Why UDOM getting that in front of your minute.
They take over the masange we can be considered that they are going to be fired I didn't know I didn't know I didn't know I didn't
Let you start, we should continue to suffer only and let me tell you we should be able to let us tell us.
Maybe the unk that is the statement begins to the doctors who read it to advise them that they should have heart heart for patriotism because they do what they have to do.
Actually, that is there is a misunderstanding but wahenga are saying that there is no marefu wouldn't have a tip, I think that this will reach the end, Aminieli Aligaesha is the spokesperson of Muhumbili National Hospital, they wanted to know which caused by the meeting of the specialist doctors and the leadership of Muhumbili National Hospital Muhumbili Muhumbili.
The Executive Director saw it is good for kistadi and
The specialist doctors and the doctors and the doctors.
Not to be taken out of Muhumbili Muhumbili.
Education talk just a few things related to this matter something.
And he hadn't received a good opportunity to speak with them.
Therefore, the son is good to pass a meeting for at least a
In order to see what they are in and each other.
If you come to this one.
Actually our champion soldiers of the exhibition of kudhania that actually a good story good story.
And it did not be pleased to live.
That means they felt it is good enough to stay on one table with the government government.
There are ways that you can solve the conflict so much more activities in the normal situation today to kuimarisha let's work as usual as he refused now, I get eggs and patients continue to wait to get services though the number of patients seemed to be not normal.
During that time, the party of employees of the main government and health TUGHE has given a statement of urging the government to conduct a conversation with a chosen committee of doctors and nurses so as to finish the difference that are available that are available that are available that are available.
And he has been ora Uledi kibisi daressalaam.
