
We finished the year for hatred and disputes with Jun 01, 2012, 2012.

One of the things that we will need to interpret very much when we are heading to the closing year 2008 is the steps we call us as people and as a country.
If you do far expansion of the debates that concern the best governance (the best leadership?) which is a good and important thing, there are things that we have to deal with together as of Tanzania.
We have discussed so much the issue of corruption and it has come a place it seems obvious that the expectations of citizens cannot be achieved for the environment and the system of dealing with the concerned problems that has been used.
The years of 1980 the campaign of the former Prime Minister Edward Sokoine appeared to pass so much in attending "walanguzi" and "sabotage the economy."
But a routine that was used to address the problem had a primary shortage that is causing even some of the "economic sabotage" kudhihirika that they had been oppressed.
And there was also a problem to build a certain permanent place in the environment of the time concerned.
Suddenly it was seen and even started to establish the notion that those who were engaged in entrepreneurship were not far from economic sabotage.
It was made by different boxes they put up to people according to their public image it was built.

It is obvious that since the beginning of the 1990 was passed on the resolution of Zanzibar was made a national vacuum on what we were in charge of as of Tanzania.
Instead of loving the country first than other items we begin to love more parties, we begin to love our more money, we begin to love our tribes more, we begin to love our religion more, I will start to love our villages more, I will.
His results, some of us do not sure how many of us are among ourselves - if you do away the soldiers who are in that employment - we will be ready to come back to the front line if it will happen day and we are called to go to war.
I am very convinced to believe that the day they show up Yuda who will say sure they are not of Tanzania.
They will say the war does not concern them.
They surrendered their lives and their families and leaving their poor brothers being struggling with the results of war.
I remember the terrorists day when they invaded two hotels in India on the way the head of the unit of controlling terrorism that he gave mhanga, akavaa a cap of metal, vesti to prevent bullets and resoma inside the hotel.
He was killed mle by the bullets.
The television have shown him a time while he is sitting for joining his youth to enter one of the Taj Mahal, and immediately the police should join them to remove his bodies in danger area.
I still remember also the head of the whole American fire unit on September 11, how he was offering mhanga and resoma inside one building that was being defended to fire.
The head of the zsport was also in the building the same time when it fell.
These incidents confirmed the behavior of a citizen who shows his great love for the interests of the nation and the highest gift than his soul.
Still, we can't be convinced that there are reasons for making them all of Tanzania they should be in love with their country at all times, for any circumstances, without kujiklied or question the validity of their love?
So, we can prove to prove to them that those that we are giving the bond of making great decisions on our behalf as citizens have a true love and this country to an extent that they have already volunteered to die if they defend the broader interests of the public?
How many of them are among those that we gave bond have proved to their actions, regardless of themselves or turned into turned out, that they have patriotism and anyone in the eyes of the public?
And if their actions are the influence that we ask their patriotism there are those reasons that made them to wake up in the measure of the reputation of representing or make us lead?
So, is the difference of the kimitizamo only or it touches the basis that we make ourselves feel of Tanzania?
Those who passed in a measure of patriotism is things or stuff (the gift) which gives them strength to measure and appreciate their country?
Also, they also love and appreciate their country at all times and for any circumstances without kujiklied or turned out?
So, these differences are evident open among different groups in that regard to pass the amount in our community today are indicating what?
What is the thing you give them to the group, the inspiration of them to believe they are correct and it must be washinde in the war that began below against the group hasidi?
While we are going to discuss various issues that concern the nation, there is a low fire down to the bottom you are waka in our community.
We have not discussed this fire to the necessary weight.
Already, there are people have started being put in the boxes of the kimtview.
And the situation is now that it doesn't have any different from it when it started in Rwanda when the citizens had decided to be open in the boxes that caused each other and his origin.
Today, Tanzania is already there people are introduced to them that they are of a certain group.
And almost every Tanzanian will find themselves forced (or akilforced) to enter into a certain group depending on the stand or personal interests.
It is not the goal of this column to abiri shari but there are indications that currently there are groups of Tanzania and each other in the extent that it is not possible to be missing a conspiracy to start a kumalizana.
And when the kumalizana incidents will reach a place to affect certain characters maybe this country find themselves officially closed the page of his peace book.
There are two major things could have happened.
The first one is us as a nation to sit down while with our differences, including the primary and those of using the stomach, we discuss how things that we do, we should do that of Tanzania and it is why we believe that we will be ready to fight them even if they are forced to die.
In this debate, we make sure that we are thinking transparency and good intentions to appreciate the first country instead of holding onto the groups and interests membamba that is building kiburi and selfish.
But this debate does not end just in conversation.
Umalizike by creating afresh our constitution so that it should be specified on the basis that there is no human being will be allowed to play for them.
This debate you ensure that we are returning to our curriculum from nursery up to universities to invest in the children and our youths on the basis of humanity and ethics of humanity so as to hide the problem of corruption should not be great as it is.
The second thing, which we request that it will end far, is that of Tanzania, we will continue to stimulate the fire of hatred and hostility that we decide to build ourselves among our selfish and we will come to a place we will begin to be affected.
In this second level, every group will be led by kiburi of wanting to win personally, then we will have taken this country in trouble.
History will put a very humiliating memory about our contribution to the peace of this country.
We ask him Theoneste Bagosora who was found guilty of planning for mass murders in Rwanda.


