
TFF should open the rules of its competition last week, the issue of Simba player, Novert Lufunga took the position in the news headlines after the police soccer team to appeal after the team brought together in the list he has a red card.
The police had given an appeal to Simba for what it has explained that they officiated Lufunga in the Federation Cup last week.
In that game, Simba won 2-0.
In his appeal, the police was given to be given a victory from the Simba stage making a jersey of the player.
However, TFF dismissed the appeal of the police for details that it did not meet the criteria because it was not 300,000 shillings which are supposed to be enclosed in the appeals.
However, together with TFF dismissed that appeals, there have been various complaints of law, regulations and procedures of the competition for what is explained to be a big part of the FA Cup, will be supervised by the rules of the Premier League.
Basically, what is required is for TFF to create regulations that will make every competition to be independent because they have its approach.
Even if some of the regulations resembles, there are areas rules will go to each other.
The rules of the FA competition should be different from the Premier League in order to remove the controversy that can come out.
A good example is for the rules of the FA Cup, as well as the use of the Premier League, still the FA Cup is an elimination, therefore, there must be areas where it is arguing.
We think it's good for TFF through his technical committee it looked at how to create the rules for every competition because the position is there and it is possible to do so.
Simplifying things for having one regulations for a different competition brings controversy.
A good example is the policy of 16 (2) which says, the competition of the Azam Sports HD competition will be led by these principles together with the principles of the league, VPL, FDL & SDL.
The TFF competition committee will have the responsibility of through, to discuss and give a decision on all the events happening every round according to the rules of this competition and the league (VPL, FDL & SDL).
Another area has reported, the competition of Azam Sports HD competition is an elimination, the use of the league principles will involve the areas that allows the operation of the elimination competition.
This is one weakness of regulations, because the main league does not have an elimination competition.
Another problem is the regulations given to the FA Cup that don't have the section that you are talking about the card, it should be red or green.
As a result of this mix, that is why we want TFF to have the rules of every competition and it should be open early before the concerned games start because every club is required to understand and consider them.
But this event should be a lesson, not for Simba and TFF alone, but with other clubs of the Premier League or participating in the competition with the official procedure that they will help to put memories for the club.
If it's gegeto have memories, the issue of Lufunga would not have had a chance.
Simba's leaders, TFF everyone would know and would not have happened and caused complaints.


