
The cereal factory, sunflower oil to be built in Dodoma.

It was written by Sifa Lubasi, Dodoma, Dodoma.

It has been published: 29 September 2016.

Dodoma province will get a factory of weaving cereals and to decide the sunflower oil.
250 people are expected to get jobs in the factory.

The executive director of the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), Professor Godius Kahyarara has said that while handing over a check of 3.7 billion shillings to the director of the Nafaka and Mazao Board, John Maige, with the aim of buying food cereal machines and the one to reduce the sunflower oil.
The machines will be closed in one factory.
Speaking after handing over the money, Professor Kahyarara has said that the delivery of those funds, goes hand in hand with the policy of NSSF investment to invest contributions of its members on projects with productivity.
He has said the policy of NSSF industries is to take factories that involve many citizens.
However, he said the primary thing that factory, will begin working is a must to look at the local market and outside too.
The Deputy Minister, Office of the Prime Minister, Labor, Youth and Employment, Antony Mavunde has said that the factory will give a lot of employment and the economy of farmers will change and grow.
The director of the Nafaka and Mazao Mixed Board, Maige has said that the board of Nafaka and the Mazao Mixed in conjunction with NSSF will fulfill the project.
The factory will be able to distribute 60 tons of maize for the day and to decide 13 tons of oil seeds per day, where the project is expected to produce direct jobs and other than 6,000 jobs including farmers.
Maige has said that the start of the industry of weaving cereals and decided sunflower is the result of the implementation of the government policy to uplift the economy of the country and the central economy of industries.
The director of law services of Azania Bank, Geofrey Dimoso said that the bank is partnered with the government to implement the policy of the industrial economy.
He has said the bank, is on the way to reach the farmers.
The head of Dodoma Town District, Christine Mndeme has said through the start of that factory, many jobs will be there and even the market will be found.


