
They are uoni to support two terms.

It has been written by Shadrack Sagati

It has been published: 08 December 2016.

Some of the educalists of education issues, have supported the government's step of wanting all schools that provide elimumbasically, to follow the two aspects of studies for the details that they make students get time to rest, but they also provide an opportunity to the government to implement its educational plans.

Speaking yesterday with this newspaper, they are the vision they said there are issues that are done by the government even for private schools and gave an example of sports and secondary schools together with the test for the trials of the oko and the national exams.
Professor Justin Galabawa of the University of Dar es Salaam said the operators of the school in the country must agree with the system of two-term education which gives the opportunity a student to breathing.
He said a long time student in school like that of three terms, its productivity in the success of exams becomes poor.
"It is good to have two terms, this is giving them an opportunity to students to beat home in the middle of the hula and even when they go back to school they have Mori to read more," said the expert of education issues.
He said any system of education in the world, must follow the requirements of the government so as to provide opportunities if there are activities that are implemented by the government between those schools so that it will not be affected.
"For example, there is a time there is a sports of Umitashumita and UMISETA, this is a competition relating to all government schools and non-government, how come as it is happening when other schools have been done and others are continuing with studies?
He asked.
He said the decision by the government to want all the schools to make and two terms is good, because even when the government is postponed something, like doing the ock exams of all the schools because all are made in one system.
"I advise my fellow owners of the school to follow this approach is good, they should not end the uli of the government, these are leading the education system in the country," said Professor Galabawa who owns the secondary school of Thomas More Machhas that is located in Dar es Salaam city.
And the professor of construction of the University of Dar es Salaam, Aloyce Mayo who is also the director of Alpha Secondary, said that the two-term system which has been set by the government is good for all schools that provide elimumbasically.
Professor Mayo said that two terms which in the middle has a short break suitable and he interviewed, "I haven't know why some of the owners are ang onto three terms, I don't see if it has a lot of productivity with this two."
He said he is one of the leaders of private schools and through their unity, they did not see the school problem having two terms.
He added that the problem has been there more to the owners of private primary schools that are the believers of three terms.
"Yawezekana they have a primary reason, but for me two terms that has mid-term (a short break) is very good for the running of the school," explained Professor Mayo.
There has been a misunderstanding between the government as well as some of the private schools owners about the studies.
The government has given out the number one of the year 2015 which is directed that all schools must make two terms together with short break in each time.
But private schools themselves, they have wanted a long period to be three on claims that it gives an opportunity for children to be at home during the rain and cold and it is also affordable parents and guardians in the issues of paying fees.


