
They are crossing the law in Zanzibar, the President of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein recently has been warning people of Zanzibar especially young people about risk and dangers of not respect the law.
While Pemba met with citizens at the celebrations to commemorate 52 years of Revolution and warned them who broke the law that at the end of the day they found themselves in trouble.
He said the security agencies and especially the police force does not love to taste people, but it doesn't have patience with people who are uja on the law.
This is a good advice of a parent to young people and especially being a leader of the country because the law must be unable to profession and profession.
By doing that, an excuse to break the law is removed.
As a citizen they see the law is bad and it will not love right what is required is forcing them and building the arguments of wanting to make corrections.
However, we shouldn't forget that the issue of respect the laws of the country is about every citizen and the guest and will not be expected to choose between great and small, rich and poor or the love of a person to a political party or a soccer club.
The problem that is in Zanzibar and which is seen to be assumed or not being given the necessary weight is that you are not aware of the existing laws.
This trend has caused some of the people feeling like Zanzibar, there are people who are above the law and they have the right to reduce their colleagues vichwani and do they recover.
It's not once or two or three have heard reports of people in their council of talks being ambushed and being beaten without a reason.
There are those who used and treated hospitals and in all the events there is no even one person who was arrested and held responsible for the actions of crime.
The list of events of this kind is long.
Some of the council are broken into an excuse of making a garden sometimes that are near those that are not touched.
Here is claimed to be used to the political option and it's not the laws of the country.
All of us remember several events of the journalists of Zanzibar being threatened and even being played.
Likewise, one radio station located in Unguja town was attacked by those we are told is wahuni and were arrested, but we haven't heard those that did the crime arrested.
When there is a situation like this person hubaki preparing, these laws of Zanzibar are supposed to be respected and only a group of certain people and it is permission to be eliminated by others?
If he said the President law must be respected, but the need should be for everyone and not there is a person or a group of people seem to be on the law.
Likewise, it is important for the law to be seen that are doing the work that caused them to be accused of breaking up being held responsible quickly as required by the Court.
Here first remember that the person remains to be a suspect, whoever the one is not eligible to be sentenced to and signed a lesson as it is a culprit until he is not bothered by the Court.
Therefore, responsible for a suspect for different charges except a few, usually the right of the defendant.
The terms of bail some of the times are given the terms of bail which is the same as telling the defendant has no right to get a bond.
For example, we are hearing with the right to set up a bond is the servants of Serikal.
Therefore, the people of Zanzibar have divided into the mafungu, one of the civil servants and the second one is those who don't work in government.
This is not fair even a bit and it does not give a look of a good system of law and good governance.
He has existed the complaints of the presence of cases to design and some of the people to grow prisoners for years while we feel the investigation is not complete or is on the set of completion.
This situation is encouraging the best rule and appropriate of the law issues they are emea this trend by representing us, "Justice delayed is Justice denied," that is right when it was reported to be released is the same as not being given completely.
In order for the law to make a job which was planned by the citizens to have faith in the system of law is a must right prevail and there is no injustice being done from anyone inside and outside the court.
The system of people having the courage and decided to be covered their faces then make people careless is against the law and it is not allowed.
The details that those who do that are wahuni and therefore the people should be ignored even when their backs is sold to dance or their houses were arrested without the logic and are not allowed.
In Pemba island that was receiving a huge destruction of the house being arrested, the farms of people being ambushed by many seedlings to be charged.
The issue is who especially the ones who were involved?
A lot are being said about the events and that was witnessed is the silence as much as what happened is the small things.
These are saying this and those are saying it and some of the accusations that are heard are heavy and are not suitable to be ignored.
It is well in order to cleaned the weather and the truth of this issue known as well as it is made for free commission, it's not for Zanzibar, to find out the only truth so as to investigate is who was involved.
By doing so that everyone will have faith that the laws of Zanzibar are not imbagui or kumwonea someone and any one who is broke up the eyes on this excuse or what.
While we celebrate 53 years of Revolution whose aim is to keep the state of the same citizens and remove discrimination or injustice of any kind, it is well to evaluate the way the law works in the island.
That evaluation should have a broad range and isimzie with the law, but even the way employment and education opportunities are being administered by the government.
Another thing is the issue of the provision of a citizen's identity cards.
This needs to be looked at in deep and that it does not come back will be aida to eliminate complaints about the provision of identity cards.
Among the things that want to be looked at exactly what is up to today thousands of people whose parents have been born in the island and have never been from outside Zanzibar, they are tested for these identity cards?
The Linaloshunding are people who moved to Zanzibar years recently and they don't have the graves of their parents in the island they are set up and have the identity cards and that Zanzibar more than their colleagues who were born with the right.
The government thinks that there are many people who were given cards against the law, but we haven't heard even one of them or who had made it to be held responsible.
The time has come for every thing to look at both sides of coins and if possible even at the ingo of currency instead of approve of one another.
The author is a political issues analyst and the community.
He is determined by baruaemail: Barasteki @ gmail.com and opinion @ mwananch.


