
Southern provinces has all the reputation of being a special economic region in the southern region of Tanzania includes Lindi and Mtwara provinces which for many years it was behind development due to the bad infrastructure especially the road.
For the 1990s and back back the hwas an interesting thing to spend more than two sent to the road transport for the journey from Dar es Salaam to Lindi or Mtwara, at the moment is the speed of six to seven hours.
That situation was caused by poor conditions of roads and not the existence of a bridge and a reliable ferry in Rufiji River.
The progress of development in that regions was very small to the extent that the civil servants who were transferred to the provinces felt like they are given punishment by their employers.
In recent years especially from 2000 years in Lindi and Mtwara provinces, it has been a major attraction for living and investment in the agricultural sector, industry and business.
Of Tanzania from various provinces in the country have been moved to fast in this provinces and performing in agricultural activities, rearing and business.
For this period that the government is set to sincerely build the economy of industries it is good to look at how it can use the opportunities that are available in this area.
South provinces has all the features and opportunities to carry the image of the economy of industries for our nation.
Those things, first of the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara has a great land that will not be used for production activities.
Land of the South provinces does not have conflicts and it is suitable for economic activities.
For that situation then if it will sign special strategies is enough opportunities for investment in agriculture, rearing and industries.
The presence of great land and with the rutuba, enough rain, identified it is an attraction for modern farming, rearing and construction of industries to processing farming production and livestock.
The other opportunities are the port of Mtwara which has a long time of natural.
Mtwara port is an enough opportunity for the importation of raw materials from the outside of Mtwara and also transportation of goods to go out of the country.
It can be used as the door to be used in industrial products from this regions and also to be expanded different resources of industries.
Mtwara port has a big area that can be used for the expansion and construction of the infrastructure to improve.
Natural gas is another opportunity to guarantee you the source of reliable energy for the use of big industries, small and homes.
Also the additional gas of natural gas produced and kuchakatwa can be shipped to go out of the country through the port of Mtwara.
It is easy to attract investors to come to start industries in the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara where it is where it is available natural gas to produce electricity energy for industries.
It is also a way to be able to revive and build other industries of speceding cashews so as to increase value instead of being sold to crude foreign countries.
Other opportunities for this regions are the production of cashew nuts, ufuta and sunflower.
The production of these produce is enough drive for the start of the industries to be shot cashew nuts and to decide the oil of ufuta and sunflower.
Farmers can be sensitized more to cultivate the sunflower, ufuta and cashews and then be assured of the market for sure and the good price of the harvest.
It is easy to revive cashew industries in Lindi provinces, Mtwara and Tunduru District than starting to build new industries in those regions or other provinces in the country.
Kijiografia in Lindi and Mtwara provinces bordering the neighboring country of Mozambique which has good relations with Tanzania and therefore, industrial products that will be generated from this regions will get a good market in the Northern Region of Mozambique.
On the logic then it is something that is clear that this regions has all the opportunities to be done to be the special region of economy of industry here in Tanzania.
It will be surprising if the government will continue to attract investors to continue to build factories in Dar es Salaam city when the south regions are all opportunities for Dar es Salaam.
South residents are supposed to take advantage of these economic opportunities.
Joshua Mnonin jail is the issues of economics and community.
(0787696900 or joshdecision)


