

Abdul Mkeyenge

The state of the presence of the general election of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) that is expected to take place in August this year is the one that is mentioned by some of the analysts of soccer issues in the country that is one of the something that produces a lot of bugs right now.

Wanting to get back to the division of some leaders and other leaders wanting to enter power has made leaders in power right now to forget their responsibilities for the Tanzanian and focus on the campaigns to defend their seats.

This is the one that makes the football to appear in comedy, not another.
Every leader who is in power is looking at how he will be part of the leaders of the next course.
If you didn't have a leader of this way, they expect to meet the "cinema" these that you're witnessed at this time.

The events we continue to see is due to lack of consistent leadership that can be planning well and listen to the ball themselves in order to avoid the situation that is in.
If the senior leaders have not been care and what is going on, who will come from the unknown to come care about?

As of Tanzania we have reached here, we don't have a skill.
TFF leaders have been ugueza their hostage and they are running the ones that they want.
If we could have had a solid leadership in charge of the interest of the Tanzanian soccer, we would have heard the noise we have heard right now.
We could have been focused on talking, to write the success of Tanzania soccer, but it is not available, every day is just problems!

While the leadership of Jamal Malinzi heading to a trap, the problems are continuing to increase.
Whenever it ends in one month to another month that is the way that even the problems should be arguing like months.
It is rarely in the month to end without any other problem within our passion.

Kinachoharibu is to be said that leaders themselves have been wagumu to meet with stakeholders to receive challenges, instead, leaders have been able to ban them inside their offices being beaten by "AC."
Though advice is not a must that we should have been, but the stakeholders should be heard.
I did not believe if we could make one house then we started struggling with poles.
I did not believe it.

Achana and all the previous problems in the past, the issue of Simba and Kagera Sugar clubs fighting three points is something that hit soccer headlines, though yesterday the issue was expected to be made his decision.

This issue has been serious and made up to the people of different soccer institutions to intervene and others that are sheana up to the eyes of the eyes.
But the size of this matter has been complicated by TFF and its committees that are unable to manage within their principles and instead of the issue moving to the option of individuals.

The rules of the Tanzania League Board (TPLB) are very clear as known as a player has played a match has three yellow cards in the past games are not allowed to play the following game and playing his punishment is known.
And as a player he didn't have a card primarily there is no case that can make people to be careful to involve all the time.

The report of the referee is the last statement to believe from every different event and the values of the soccer game must be made within the report.
It is said within the report of the referee shows the Kagera Sugar player, Mohamed Fakhi, got a card in the game of his team against African Lyon, but a player himself has opposed that he did not be given a card that day.

Confusion on the 72-hour committee and the committee of law and integrity of players about that matter is receiving where the report of the referee is unable to be heard?
Shame that was on our ball called up to African Lyon that they played with Kagera Sugar, went in order to be satisfied with the evidence.
If we do not want to believe the report of the referee we will believe in the report of the other person?

Gathering together, Fakhi, African Lyon and bringing them in front of the committee referees is to find evidence of violence that cannot throw the right answers more than the report of the relevant game.
TFF and his committee was resolved to clarify this issue by using only reports so that everyone will be back in the development of building the Tanzanian ball.

It is only Tanzania where you can meet with this situation and of Tanzania themselves they seem to care for me.
But despite this situation is the time now of TFF and its committees to view some of his principles and leave the team to get a win on the table.

It made a taste of soccer for the team that gave each other that I have for him to win the match on the field and later they are coming to be beaten by a win.
TFF and his committee should not implement the rules of the team that will do the actions of this way to meet the fine, but the team that won't remain with their victory.

In this members of Simba and their fans have been a priority to say even the youth squad "Serengeti Boys" goes in Gabon for the way of the table, but those people were supposed to know the appeal of TFF for the youth team to go to the African Football Federation (CAF) and the appeal of Simba for TFF and his committees are two different referrals.
These are two different appeal.

The national youth team of Congo DR, broke the traditions for playing a player with a great age "foolish."
And the penalties of this way are open to CAF that is why we did not feel the noise of the fans of Congo DR, they know they have done offense and they needed the punishment to be removed.
But part of Simba is just the issues of the kikanuni, but not Kagera Sugar to win their victory.

The issue of Simba, Kagera Sugar needs the wisdom of being written by the referees of Kagera Sugar and African Lyon.
All other what we are hearing we will be tunadanganyana.
It doesn't matter it's true a player was given a card or didn't be given.
It doesn't matter if the referee wrote actually a player got a card or didn't get.
We need to make them believe the reports of the referees.
If we don't believe their reports we will be able to uanini who will be the other.


