Tambwe has not been sure Yanga Yanga.

It was written by Grace Mkojera.

It has been published: 05 December 2016.

Yanga may have lost his striker, Amis Tambwe whose contract is heading to an end, because until now there is no conversation they did with him.

Tambwe has been only five months in his current contract that is expected to end at the end of this season.
Perhaps Yanga wakawa don't have a plan again and they want to leave the top scorer of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League last season and the last year season.
While Yanga last season scored 21 goals when he was with Simba his first season in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League, scored 19 goals.
As a result of soccer laws, a player when he gets a six month contract he can do talks with other teams or even sign a previous contract, if his team is playing the club will not add a contract.
Speaking to this newspaper yesterday, Tambwe said that for now, he hadn't given any offer, but it happens after his contract with Yanga ended he is ready.
"I still have a contract with Yanga, I haven't done any talks to be given up now, I can't say I will go where I am waiting for you, I will put it clear," he said.
The former Simba player said it is very early to decide if he will leave Jangwani, believing he has a chance to continue serving the club.
Recently, the Vice Chairperson of Yanga, Clement Sanga said that they need that player because he has a quality that does not expire, and that they will do a conversation to add a new contract.
Tambwe has scored eight goals in the premier league in Tanzania Mainland this season, he held the second position behind Shiza Kichuya leading one he threw nine.
That time, the defender Vicent Bossou expected to arrive yesterday and today to join his colleagues in the practice of the team ready for the second round of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League, that is expected to start on December 17.
Bossou arriving will do the number of players who reported the training at Yanga to arrive 24 since the new coach George Lwandamina started to train the team.


