
JPM: I am not cruel Asema wants the country to go back to the line Mussa Juma and Daniel Sabuni mjuma @ mwananchi.co.tz Arusha.
President John Magufuli has urged the Tanzanian people to be cruel by chasing the work some of the government officials, because he wants to return the country on the line.
Speaking at the mass of Sunday at the Catholic Church, the parish of the Lord Burka in Arusha town, President Magufuli said that cruel people are those who were stealing of Tanzania and suconya the weak.
Doctor Magufuli said he is forced to take a step to chase the job is not that he is cruel, but the goal is to serve the Tanzanian and returning the country on the line.
He said Tanzania is a rich nation, there is no reason for citizens to complain every corner, because there is enough land, minerals of every kind, animals of different types of animals that some have started up to be taken out.
"I speak to the point I want to put in Tanzania that yonyooka, I have already said I have made a sacrifice for the Tanzanian especially weak," he said.
He added that he will not let you down the Tanzanian and he will not be changed, he will continue to stand and defend the rights of the poor Tanzania and all the days he will walk with the poor.
The interest of the parties speaking about political issues, he said the election is over if there are people were Chadema, CCM, NRA or CUF party, the aim is one to ensure that they are partnering to bring the development of Tanzania.
"Tupeleke the interest of the tanzania in front than our parties, because even if the parties would have existed the nation would be there," he said.
He repeated his call of the urge of Tanzania to continue praying and pray for the nation, because the lead poor nation needs the hand of God.
The Priest of the church, Peter Pinto speaking on behalf of the bishop of the Archdiocese of Arusha, Josephat Lebulu congratulated President Magufuli for the good work he does for the Tanzanian of Tanzania.
He said that the Tanzanian of Tanzania who are supporting especially in his theme "Here," since even the words of God are insist on people to work hard.
The chairman of that parish, Philemon Mushi, giving greetings of believers explained to support the efforts of President Magufuli especially in the utumbuaji of boils.
He said even in the books of God, the corrupt people were denied baha Rini, so the work that he is doing President Magufuli is God's work, to make sure he return discipline and accountability for the benefit of all of Tanzania.
In that mass, President Magufuli was awarded the gift of the Bible, the bed sheets and rozali, and he gave a gift of 1 million shillings to the church choir and agreed to be a member of parliament for instance.
President Magufuli is in the province on a work tour, and today he is expected to launch the buildings projects of the NSSF Social Security Fund and PPF.
While talking about the statement of President Magufuli that he is not cruel, Doctor James Jesse lecturer at the law school of the University of Dar es Salaam, said the problem was not seen cruel or of, the big one is supposed to be seen as decisions even if it is correct, it has followed the basis of the law.
Doctor Jesse said the act of public servants being suspended in public, is the same as encouraging them because they are supposed to reach decisions they will be scared to reach the correct decisions by fear of the pressure of the President.
He said it is good for public servants who are sending different, should be followed slowly of public service in rebuking and it was not removed publicly.
John Bayo who is a coordinator of non-governmental organizations in Arusha province (Angonet) said for the nation when it reached, President Magufuli does not make violence to disturb the public servants.
He said there is a clear mistake that makes me cost the nation, which have been done by the staff to the extent that even disturb only the work publicly he didn't have enough.
"For example, an issue like sugar, people are hidden sugar so that others lack people who are coming out of public property must be taken," he said.
Hassan Hashi Ahmed, a businessman of Karatu, said President Magufuli does not make any violence, citizens support 100 percent, because he is defending the weak.
Ahmedi said Tanzania had reached a place in trouble, so it must now be strict measures taken and he congratulate President for good work.
Joram Laizer, a resident of Arumeru, said the President anafikia the decision to chase people work due to identify mistakes, but it plays some of them hard due to lack of accountability in other levels of the government.
Laizer said the President when he took steps to stop the work it was not as cruel, but there are many directors with the decision of chasing the work and they have been unable to fulfill their authority, or they are responsible for embezzlement or do not know their responsibility.
He said it has come time when President akibaini embezzlement, he stopped the executive work of the lower level, then those who were the rest of them who had left them to be withdrawn.


