
How will Yanga know the MNUNUA where Emmanuel Okwi?
What are they educate?

While the main league sinking, a player with the highest value, Mganda, Emmanuel Okwi has been one of the audience with a great value.
I have Yanga entered the 'mkenge' in his registration?
This can be a question that his answers are open.
First, Okwi is a Etoile player du Salehe of Tunisia who had bought from Simba team.

Why he is in Yanga?
He was playing for the SC team Villa of them in Uganda for a six month loan contract from Etoile.
I repeated again, he was playing for Villa for a loan.
FIFA allows Okwi to play Villa for a period when three cases that allow the Ugandan that is interested in an appropriate time.
Okwi on his side claims that the Watunnn broke a contract for failing to pay his money as required.
Simba and they claim their payments from the Etoile.

Okwi was allowed to play for Villa in order to protect his level, and he was not a player that he is owned by the team.
He was blocked to play for the national team of Uganda in the ongoing tournament of African nations for the local league players, CHAN, because he was Villa for a loan from the ng'ambo team.
Ila, it is Villa are the ones who are said to sell Okwi to the Yanga team.
For the authorities?
Up to here, Yanga will have been squandered.
Because Okwi is a Etoile player is not Villa.

Yanga have signed Okwi while wakijiprove to them that they are correct.
Believe Okwi is a free player or of Villa.
Except, he was supposed to play Villa for six months, but he serve the months that I didn't have only two and bought it.
CAF, African Football Federation have held a hinisha Okwi to play for Yanga.
The law committee and the status of the players has stopped its use until when they get an explanation from FIFA, the Federation of soccer in the world.
Yes, they are correct because FIFA, yes who said that the player acheze Villa for six months while his cases are involved.

FIFA, they can allow Okwi to mess with Yanga for the maslai of his talent.
Ila, they can also kumzuia if they will know that this player has violated their previous instructions that they told him to play Villa.
It is possible that the player had seen tapeli, by kuwaadaa Yanga when knowing it reached his contract is in Etoile.
There are players that won the war like this Okwi, but they are also those who entered into the FIFA sentences.

Perhaps Yanga are following Okwi on the front day, but for now, it is the validity of the player.
If, Etoile will continue to hold their stand that they do not know their player at the place where he is, Okwi will be revealed is Mtoro.
If Okwi will be seen it is legal claims he can be compensated by Etoile, but a scandal is where Villa got a permit to sell Okwi to Yanga team?

Every side is ai you have its lawyers.
Duh!
But the lawyer of Okwi can be a more young man, with more mind, for being able to get a sign with a billion of Yanga for his explanation while campaigning for his client that he has no problem.
If the law was put in order to be solved, and if contracts all day can stabilize, Yanga will use Okwi, but we should not be surprised by FIFA, saying that player belongs to Etoile.
Yanga bought where Emmanuel Okwi?
Maybe here is where there is a basic argument.


