
For this hard work, Lukuvi alone cannot, asaidiwe the land sector in the country for years now when it is through the major changes, where its worth we are treated that it is rising every day.
There is a possibility that it is a few of Tanzania who know well about the real value of the land that for a large part has not been tested since freedom.
If you want to know the real value of the land, try to make investments, you should be private in the sector, that's when you'll see and without doubt you will be surprised.
In the city and in the villages, these days land is the resources that is being vied so much again in a big way, it has been a source and reason for many conflicts and sometimes even a disaster, people have been playing, others have got a permanent disability.
Unlike maybe during the phases that were ahead, the current phase, the land has been given a new view, we saw her minister, William Lukuvi and his assistant, Angelina Mabula wakizunguka every corner of the country have turned out of conflicts.
Laiti could have gotten a chance to give an award or a medal to the minister who did a good job in the year 2016, no doubt Lukuvi would be sold first.
I could have said that, without a doubt and his assistants, although not all, by being dared to say the truth that all times we have been told that it hurts, to an extent that every place where he passes Lukuvi has met with one kind of conflict or land problems.
I believe, Lukuvi admits, he is thinking, is one of the close assistants of President John Magufuli who there is no doubt they are not endwi.
It is the enemy of the land owners, including leaders, which rungu has hate, they are using them, some of them have yang off the land, others were required to promote them, otherwise it will go with water!
Leaders, including local government, villages in the country will be hawampendi Lukuvi because of stealing the mirija, to sit on their income sources.
They don't know them.
For who built in a lot of areas in the city including Dar es Salaam, if you remove it in a few areas that are tested and they have been converted, they have been through his hands of dirty leaders in their areas.
I understand how they participate in one way or another at the allocation of land, fields or farms that its owners are meeting with conflicts.
Others, I believe that hawampendi Lukuvi is a madalali of plots and farms.
Some of them started offices in the pockets have helped them on their eating, although their days have reached the end.
Some of them lied to the customers who wanted the land for their own variety of different types.
Also, experts, including urban planning officers, the land officers before the arrival of Lukuvi were bosses, watching them was to sweat and these days have turned into young.
Some of them were living in a skill, they saw that they were searched for land or intellectual land documents, farms, documents that were taken many years to receive, although these days I'm told that i will disappear.
As I explained earlier, the land sector is cross-cutting is supervised by the ministry, many laws, has been with conflicts, conflicts since this country get his freedom 55 years ago.
Why do the conflicts of the land did not end?
A few who benefited, including the leaders, clever among the scholars who know the real value of land, they ihodhi or for buying, get free, later they sell through the local directors, villages and madalali, some of them now are the big rich.
That wealth that was found through land, which we have been amined to be public property, you hurt, has left behind many conflicts that I have been told the Lake Region is leading in the country.
Buyers of plots or farms for many years have been used, although now they feel the light.
His results, the sector seemed to the frustrations, the anaka of evil and the pain of many citizens, who wanted to invest in one way or another.
Land, it has a curse, we have been told on the religious story that Kaini killed and bury his brother, Abel in the ground, so that it's cursed until today and that curse has bothers many of them.
We are told those who were following, were required to bring God the best harvest from the land so that they should be dealt with lied to the agents.
Many years later, the land that is very sensitive resources has continued to frustrated many until today.
Watch, someone who is investing in the sector in mind has a chance to live well, although in the urban side, the value of the land has made it to be a bit vied for the amount of causing disasters between farmers and breeders.
I am asking them, this generation we are asking for land, and we have to ask each other, the land that is reduced, do we will leave what the children, our quote of the next century?
The answer to this question should leave today, I feel it is our responsibility as a community we start to look at the land for a new perspective than it is now.
We find him Lukuvi that he is a frog, he is running the country and the whole to solve a lot of land problems in the city and the villages, we think he has nothing to do.
I could have advised Lukuvi, who my friend since the times when we meet when the building of the Youth Union (UV-CCM), along the Morogoro road, not afraid but achape work.
In that, Lukuvi, he should realize he has remained a leader with a stand, asilegeze kamba, asimamie the sector for the new view, afikirie how to change some of the laws governing the sector.
I advise that the issue of getting a title for every owner land, plot or farm in the city and villages should be given a new perspective, should be taken, if possible to use information available these days easily at the public authorities, National Identification Authority (Nida), the National Electoral Commission (NEC) or Rita so as to enable all the land owners to get documents.
The system of reviewing ownership for different levels should be looked at afresh so as to enable the land to be the resources that help in Tanzania to develop themselves, to borrow banks or financial institutions as believed, it's not to be charged as it is now.
My advice is to be looked at afresh by the law of the sector, removing bureaucracy and great power to some people, including leaders and executives of that sector, that needs a national debates.
I don't want to believe that the issue to organize and provide documents for plots or farms to happen land or at the regional offices, it is suitable to be the power of the agents to manage the availability of documents so as to help them get easily documents and tough on the collection of government revenue.
In tandem with that, the use of commercial land, the construction of major buildings that is being done at a great pace in the country, must also its laws to be handled in order to tax land and buildings to the councils to make sense, benefits to the country.


