The national soccer team of Tanzania Tanzania stars in December three this year will welcome champions champions.
It's football in Africa and it's
The national team of Zambia chipolopo in the international friendly games that will take place in the daressalaam at the national stadium for the preparation of the match against Morocco to qualify for the finals of African countries together with the official launch of the nation stars since the introduction of the sponsorship of the beer company, since the introduction of the beer company's sponsorship since the establishment of the beer company of beer company since the introduction of the sponsorship of the beer company of
Tanzania kivitendo through his beer of Kilimajaro Kilimanjaro.
Kirundo and full report, the coach has said that due to the level of soccer that is being shown by the national team of Zambia decides to spend a lot of time to sharpen his squad so that it is staying in a good position of soccer level ready for playing chipolopo who is also set to use the position of the national quality standards that are being recognized by the international football federation in the world. Nyota wa anjaro stars that is expected to go to Kampala this Friday for the competition to contest for the changamoto cup, he has said that after completing God wants the attempt of a friendly game against chipolopo, even returning again to camp his squad in the next year for preparations for the matches to qualify for the finals of African nations now.
Reply to you then there is James.
He didn't have a lot of it.
I haven't been here in the heart.
I have to read the college.
Abiri in napost something the train will be played only that Kapteni.
I was forced to get it.
Look for the striker and the captain of that team, the week Kaseja did not stay behind wanting Tanzanians to be praying for the national team of Tanzania mainland in all the matches that are facing him holding back when he took back home to be employed in the whole country, the national team of Tanzania
Our residents are not found to be found.
To the child for those mandizi.
I can't really be the manager of the Kilimajaro beer company who are the chief sponsors of the national team of Tanzania mainland and the nation stars said they will continue to cooperate in conjunction with the partner.
Hand in hand so that you will be able to get great success in the arena of soccer he used the opportunity to carefully the words of kulengalenga aims at the target.
The first time.
The release of the team.
Tanzanians because of the plot and we are organized there are different programs that have been prepared for ensuring that AHH Tanzania knowledge about a cry for a few months Rondo sports and entertainment channel one ten months and entertainment channel one ten months.
