The meeting will be free - Manji.

It has been written by Rahel has been in charge of it.

It has been published: 22 October 2016.

The chairman of Yanga, Yusuf Manji has said that the general emergency meeting that is expected to take place tomorrow will be free and fair and every member hai will be given a chance to give the duku duku before the agreement will be achieved.

Speaking to journalists yesterday, Manji urged the members of the club to come out in large numbers at that meeting that will take place at the club's headquarters in the desert, Dar es Salaam for discussing various issues including the one of the ones that were completed in the club.
"A meeting will be free and fair to each member who has also given his card will be given a chance to give comments and dukuduku before the agreement will be achieved," said Manji.
Also Manji said he has heard of the media (it's not this newspaper) to be the secretary of the Council of elders of Yanga, Ibrahim Akilimali that he has not paid membership fees, something that is destroying the reputation of being a member, but Akilimali has confirmed to this newspaper that he is a member alive since his card has also been a whole year.
However, Akilimali speaking on the phone with this newspaper in the future yesterday, he said that he is a valid member and has the right to attend the meeting since he has also given his card for one.
He said since he released his card is six months since he still has six months before the end of the time he paid for one year.
Manji said after the agreement of the general meeting held at the practice stadium will start being built within 90 days in Gezaulole area that is in Kigamboni according to the contract that was signed by Yanga Yetu company.
In addition, Manji said about the signing of a contract with the board of sponsors against the Yanga Yetu Company, everything will be discussed at the meeting, where the members have been urged to have been early as security being guaranteed.
He said if there will be a conflict of kimaslahi between him and Yanga, then the members that will decide if he can continue or sit along, he is ready to obey any decision.
Manji said instead of members ran to the media talking about the issues of the club they are required to come out in large numbers at the meeting so as to contribute to the benefit of Yanga.
This emergency meeting is taking place while there is a misunderstanding in the way of a contract that has been selected for the Yanga club for the Yanga Yetu Company, it was signed while violating some of the important procedures.


