Politics have forgotten the risk of El Nino Sep 30, 2015.

The way of Tanzania, we have to assume the precaution of El-Nino rains which are expected to start pounding next month can explain why our ability to combat the disasters is small.
That clearly is that we are not suitable before the disasters have not been a wall but we approve when the enemy is on the goal.
I have been following the advertisements of television and radio stations in Kenya and discovered that our colleagues have already started taking different steps to fight or at least reduce the impact that are expected to happen due to the disaster of those rains that are expected to rain in the East African countries from the second week to the third week of October.
First, already El Nino has already been a big agenda in Kenya which is discussed in the media and social media every day, while the government has released a report of what is doing and what citizens are expected to do.
According to one source, the government of Kenya should not air a budget of 15 billion shillings to combat that disaster of El Nino, the government giving five billion shillings while partners including the World Bank and European Union promised to give 10 billion that were remaining.
Some of the states have begun to hold meetings with citizens in their areas to educate how to fight El Nino while the National Center for combating deaths (councils), as they plan to provide professional instructions, education and coordination for the central government and the states before the rains, during those rains and after those rains, during those rains and after those rains, during those rains and after those rains, during those rains and after those rains, during those rains and after those rains, during those rains and after those rains, during those rains and after
But, the most important thing is to be already different authorities of the government of Kenya in cities, especially Nairobi have started to be raised mitaro in order to allow water to pass easily.
The government has also been able to encourage the citizens to do the activity in their streets.
For the advice of experts, action have been taken to keep stones, kokoto or build a hard way to prevent erosion of some of the areas for you.
The government states have not been planning to relocate people in the valleys areas which are expected to be affected from those rains.
Special areas of the transfer of people who were affected are already prepared.
Education is given to people that had been forced to pass the areas with floods because the best delay but ufike safe at home.
In the plans to deal with El Nino, Kenyans have organized 70,000 youths, their savings force (example of JKT) to address any emergency of spoiled to infrastructure, while several other steps were taken to prepare to deal with epidemics.
Kenyans will not start thinking on how to deal with the impact of El Nino in various sectors of the economy including food and tourism.
It is expected that those rains can destroy the produce on the farm and run tourists who are not warned that they should be epuke to come to these areas in that period.
Kenyans have also started to think that way they can change the balaa that grace by harvesting water, which otherwise will be lost free of the sea.
Advice has been given to be the government of different cities to think of digging dams to harvest those water.
It is possible that should not be done, but at least the people they talk about.
How are we?
Maybe if the media I will visit to look for information is not right, personally I have never heard the debates of El I see how people are able to disagree with its impact.
And even if the debates is there, then it is for a little bit.
For now, all our minds are in the election matters, we forget that we will choose only if we will be alive.
If you praise, it doesn't matter again who is awala, Magufuli or Lowassa, CCM or Ukawa.
Kenya where the debates to deal with El Nino are many and has been given a lot of weight in the media not that they do not have issues of politics that ruling and shook the country.
For now, Kenya is facing a strike of the whole country teachers who claim to be condemned more salaries, when the government told them that it doesn't have the money to pay them.
Masiku several, if not a week students are at home.
If that is not enough, the opponents of Kenya's government of President Uhuru Kenyatta led by Raila Odinga, have started paying that issue of strike a political face, while they used to claim to start the action of removing the president in power.
But together with all that, Kenyans know that their lives and welfare of the country is important and therefore they have not forgotten that they have a responsibility to protect the rest, which without that there is nothing else human beings can do more than being buried and to be forgotten.
When they enya they have ung'amua that fact, Tanzanians have violated and we are thinking of politics only.


