Well that you are thinking today without a doubt you will be asking for yourself that we desire to explain what we are happy to explain and changed today in the studio that you care about we will be talking about entrepreneurship after retiring from entrepreneurship after retiring from entrepreneurship.
In respect and taazima is happy to welcome him in the studio studio.
My friend of I did not know the retired commander Mister with expectations so close to the ahsante news that is not only surprising news of your life after retiring again thank God's only good joy that you are very happy to be together with us and very close to thank you very much as well as very close to thank you very much as well as very close to thank you very much as well as very close to thank you very much as well as very close
And why is the first one way and very happy to welcome them in the studio because since it has been cleared but it has been a little abu to meet, eventually God has helped us, we will be able to see them maybe before we begin the period I would like to give a chance to our audience who have been following our programs you cannot know our programs you cannot know of our programs that you have been following our programs you cannot know our programs you cannot
We are who my actual name is who is and you receive where you are doing the activity very close to thank you very much Superman Superman.
Actually that if you missed the mi I am called upon.
The retired officer of the police force of the rank of secret, Kamishna Msaidizi is not very consistent and police police.
That is not we arguing through the next little we were as if you are heading to the lead you are heading to you.
Very close to a lot of it is true.
It has given me on the edge and without a doubt because of my profession that I am putting the stage in the area of my work which was not easy to leave that we can't make another different job, but if they ask me to have a two year old and ten years, I was given a two-year contract, I was finished two thousand and twelve and then I'm at home home and then I'm at home home and then I'm at home home and then I'm at home home and then I'm at home home and then I'm at home home and then I'm at home home and
But if he said all my names
I am called anyisile chombezo.
When we are Mwakalinga.
Ehhe is a foreigner in Mbeya Mbeya.
He joined the police force one hundred thousand and seventy-four in the novemba.
As an expert after finishing my technical education at the former college, it was called a car baadhi ya chuo cha Ufundi these days is called i think that the Institute of Technology of Technology.
Not from the umenifanya I have been young as a piriton you know that you know.
We were seventy-four when we are starting to serve our police nation mi I was a young child when he is getting seven class is the second class is the second class.
Administration now seems to be still a young man.
