Kushtua you where for Swahili skilled Swahili mmhm Hhm a place that you are not very skilled that you go from there we are doing a hm ehatm.
That is the skilled Swahili Mister mi is the most skilled Swahili of Swahili.
I came out there, I am headed to closely, I will be back in the city then I wanted in the city at ten o'clock and one I am heading to home at home.
He was home ohh very good to hear what we have been from there on the top has taken this this one, the brother now, tomorrow, the one will bring you to do it when he will bring me and then later he starts work ehhe.
It's mmhm ehhe does not.
Who was charged that ume was charged that there is no one that does not think that you will only say that you will continue to retain while we are at home in the home at home.
Ehon why ehehhe ATI even why
Let me just try to let us know who tried luck or lucky with your partner, there is no one even mi the way I want to from Masai I will be able to go from the next week or Tuesday
The one of the hm.
The one of the hm.
Okay, it is sawasawa doesn't have a problem but I did not know you do a record of what you have mi today today is the same one today is the same one that I am talking to and Joshua the day before yesterday he has been thrown out of the process they refuse to get him from the neighborhood he has not yet decided that he has not paid for him and he is not yet. In prison, Richard has been buried first ehhe was told by that read it is wrong mmhm.
Therefore, the effects then ehile story I told him or how much
The one of the hm.
Since since it has talked to him in prison you know the number that he is staying at Ako where these hours and results on what day and the results?
A ehin for a jam.
The one of the hm.
It is the one who is born in the house now, he claims to come and Diana wants what he wants.
I say now you use only the money of soap soap.
Since being yesterday, you can use the money ehhm shm sehehehhe and since it is not yesterday Mrs.
Ehhe can use the money they bought tomorrow I can talk to the police we can gongana with her fellow food, a lot of things you have hm.
He is not where he gets the money Mrs. Ako at home ehhe is okay now you will not visit me ehhe.
Mercy girls still Jo ehatsa mi is as if I lost your number ehhe is like his number I had lost even this hour I want to drop this hour, I am not able to drop this hour.
Mmhm ohh since it is dropping where these hours today Thika road
Ehthat place I was telling the one you must know close to since the job I told him to tell me.
Not being smart.
