Mmhm ehin years ago because I remember the one of what is ehhe is doing so much two years there are metal in the school of schools in schools.
We are the ones we are reading and we are in High School ohh I ask you to ask.
Ohh mi I remember when we were seeing the television there so as well as the life was.
Mmhm ehehhe and I remember the life that we were living in the same recall or Entertainment Jo ehhe and there now that the life that he has changed and there is now that life that he has changed.
And I remember completely ohh I see the school is that now their only female one of his only mmhm ATI mi is so, I was surprised I was surprised to see that so young people had given to the school we have been yesterday alone its only yesterday alone.
Ehhe school has been the only one these days I went to there, I get the councilors I failed because they change the constitution or how should I come to change the constitution or how to come.
Ehactivity have changed I am very surprised to see it as well as
Ehhe saw the school that is even clothes have been changed on the date they are changed, that is how they are doing very different.
It's a draw that you don't know how he is playing.
Ehhe is very true about how things run you know when the other time may be changed ehat when the people are blessed to be blessed in or people are going to still matuu.
Ehhe today itself eight eight
AHH that must still be going to we heard first, there is a kiwa I think that they are going to the side of the crahururu ehhe, I think so that ehdrama I haven't heard so much but it is livelihood I hear and think about it is going to place a place
Ohh that year and the nyahururu, music music and drama drama.
SA strategies for tomorrow that you come about which the day it will be able to be.
AHH as I see tomorrow I see if it will be a lot of activity playing there is a lot of music we will be going for tomorrow to please me there so that I will be able to have fun.
Ehby so tomorrow there is a place where the research is.
Ehhe will have the same preparations that I do not know when he is pushing and then I will get into school I prepare for you all the things then know what I will do, so we will have to make a lot of preparations that you know the life.
It's AHH so it will be good enough at all.
Ehmi so just as well as you know these days we have to mean it has only been.
Ehhe plans and strategies for the near future which we are heading to now to see how that continues to come.
AHH at the same time that that's up to sa we should know we have to finish school but that is the years without thirty and ATI where so that is we will know we will be we will know we will be where we will know we will be where we will know we will be, we will
Ehaged thirty years and mmhm ehm since we will have again we must obey the woman you know the man is the one that is gifted and think about the month that you have to come and think of the month that we have to come and think that we can kill the ue and think of the month.
Ehhe then you come to this house plan for the house.
Yeah that we must look for a good program to make me prepare themselves that it will be the one I don't know whether it will be that it will be
Ehehhe is the one we start at the lower level until we prepare to prepare the same but I will tell you this AHH must be able to do it and as well as hard preparations that I do not want to get involved in those high school again. Atiza these schools now the same internationally right now internationally right now.
Ehhe must be ehhe and then you see this aje in the school you go to come out there so that you go there.
It's not the one.
It's not the whole one.
AHH is the one I agree with you all have to do this time we should know what we will do all the hard harder.
Ehhe is that we can also see until we can hear a lot of architecture or it is a degree that can come if you truly know the friends of these days are those who are paying for alcohol alcohol.
Ehhe is done that now, so that is the umenena that is the umenena now, that is the body.
Ehas if these days you get into this is the one that has been brought to you get that where these days are drinking alcohol and smoking of drugs and those are not good words good words and those are not good words good words and those are not good words.
Ehhe they have to tell him for the patriarch system also vitumbua who for us for a class msosi ehhe I see only also the friends that was told you will be told you will give you a hm mmhm.
Well, I will let you ensure that ehhe is the friends with you that they get them and they are the ones that are doing it to enter those words that are not supposed to be suitable in those words that are not supposed
Ehhe is that I have to eat at home you have to let us know what has to be emea true.
AHH always at the time like this one for so if he's mi mtungaji now for so I have ehameDaisy
Mmhm mmhm mmhm.
Ehhe on the farm, I want to go to harvesting the potatoes vyangu is not you know there is a whole which cold right tukuwe must look at the potatoes since which they have gone when I started that I can pay for other five children.
If we are well, we are well well.
That AHH, this is very good ehmi I have scored the animals that these people have helped me if they provide milk then I am selling the children to get fees of school fees for school school.
Ehtruly milk I know what you are looking for is true that you are hm.
AHH is not when you decide then again there are those cows we have a problem then again you get still a ten money until if they are fees and and so on and so on and so on and etc.
Ehfood fees and they answered I remember I remember our friend Regia what kind you have seen the second game is supporting itself to come from
Ehas I have seen in the internet wanadai, Ako
Mmhm ohh these days you have decided to get in animal husbandry.
A ehat when he's time.
The one of the hm.
Okay there is no problem we have to be embee with a bang where you will get the things that cow tribe and he is also the one that should also come out well for the life of the life, you know what life is I tell you will go with it because he is coming to ehhe.
The halo AHH so that is what we are looking for, we are looking for farms, we are looking for farms.
Ehhe is so now we ehas if this time we have to find out sa farms to cultivate other than the only animals, we are looking for those who are looking for those farms, we are putting food then and this sun is very hot, we have to use the farms to help you help.
When he is well, well.
Ehhe and I have heard how all the things of the plane has come to kunaendair who have a lot of benefits I don't know if there to you will be able to breed these birds a plane.
AHH as this time is not like even not if I haven't know the animals even we have to put about it but he still had heard that there is still those mandege that are the ones we want to pay we know is to Wagani we start that they come to come to come to come to come
He didn't have a lot of it.
Ehy these birds who can quails providing eggs is making people have alilia until it is not kabla ya aje and homework mmhm maize eat ehhe is because it has scored ehhe is the one that has scored.
Mmhm ehhe's okay ehat the moment, these animals are giving eggs then sell even this hour then again and again the other program so that I put it to Linda if that you do not even have this one suitable so much ehwell.
Ehthat is true he is very important to the farmer as well as we will have to miss you hard to pay for you to pay for other women and fees for life to continue the preparations of these days it is like the day before yesterday they said the last days have reached mmhm the day before they said the last days have reached mmhm.
Well not well) well.
AHH that money as a time like this one.
