Gender violence is still a riddle Nov 28, 2013.

On November 25th, this year, we have begun 16 days of opposing gender violence.
16 days of opposing gender violence is the international campaign that started at the first meeting of the Institute of International Women's Association (Women's Global LeaderShip), sponsored by the International Women's Association (Center for Women's Global LeaderShip), in the year 1991.
The participants chose on November 25th, International Day of protest against women, and December 10, World Human Rights Day, so that involved violence against women and human rights as well as encourage them to be cruelty as this is violation of human rights.
This period of 16 days is also looking at the other important day, including November 29, which is the Human Rights Day of Human Rights, December first, World AIDS Day and December 6, Memorial Mauaji of Montreal.
Violence against women is a violation that was prepared for human rights, it is a human disaster in the community and an obstacle to reach equality, development, security and peace.
The words "violence against women" and "gender violence" are used to mean the sequence of oppression that is taking place against women, that comes from the absence of gender equality and the status of women in the community compared to men.
In the year 1993, the resolution of the United Nations on the end of violence against women should be sexual against women like: "Any act of gender violence that causes or which is able to cause pain or physical infections, kingono or mentally for women, including threats, forced or kunyimwa freedom that happen in the community or in private life."
It is estimated that one of the three women in the world will face some kind of sexual violence in his life.
So it is clear that those who are being done gender is women, although it is not a must that this violence is done by the only men.
The aim of these 16 days is to oppose gender violence, but for many these days have been taken as challenging violence against women.
And for how long it is violence is being done by men for women.
But the real situation and the events of the day by the day and especially here Tanzania shows very different, to the point of making the issue of gender violence that is a riddle.
Even if you look at the international contracts of human rights and resolutions that were reached inside the United Nations to address violence against women and that is needed the government to take all the steps it aims at violence against women, including the agreement to end against women (DEVAW, 1993), the agreement of tokomeza Ukatili against women (DEVAW, 1993), the resolution of Beijing and Ulingo, 1993, the resolution of Beijing and Ulingo, in Beijing and Ulingo. The Hatua (1995), the contract of the International Crimes Court (Mkataba of Rome, 1998), the resolution of Milenia (2000) and the resolution of the Council of Security 1325 about women, peace and security (2000) and others.
The big wave of oppressing the workers of homes whose large percentage is the girls is changing with a sum of a t-shirt, a whole concept of gender violence.
Manyanyaso this in a big way are implemented by women.
Although for some point, these workers in the homes are caught and assaulted by men, as marginaka or selling small houses, but big afflictions against their personality and their freedom are loved by women.
Sex business, for a certain amount is run by women.
Those who collect small girls in one place and especially in big cities and using them kingono, it is a certain kind of culture in Mara province where women are marrying with the aim of having girls to use them sexually and earn children.
This culture is known as Nyumbantobu.
In this culture, a girl who is married by a woman, is becoming he does not have freedom of any kind and his body or and the children who are sitting.
This is the kind of gender violence, which although they do the women, but not the cruelty of men.
"The number of men arriving at the police station complaining to be beaten by their wives has started increasing fast in Dar es Salaam City," that was said by the acting one of the police, Adolphina Chialo, when he was speaking at a meeting of the commemoration of 16 days of opposing gender violence, that was coordinated by the women's organization in law and development (WiLDAF).
Research that was done on November 22, this year, at the Baa of Kisuma- Mwembeyanga-Temeke- Dar es Salaam, has increased the darkness on the issue of gender violence.
Six women who are among many women who work in the bar had different views and that are conflicting about gender violence.


