Mmhm ehehhe want you uzoefu.
I did not care for the team well that I was able to then I told him I'll be back from Monday I will be back from Monday.
Ehhe now when they told me I would have been jee that I would have been there.
They want the experience of three years or two years now but you see mi I don't have that big one so that ehhe then now that we should know that there will be so that there will be so that there will be
The same thing is good that is good enough.
Enyewe I will not tolerate that there you know there is no good good when you get out there you know that there is a place maybe it goes in the place
Ehhe can't come from them to stop the job as it goes where he is not where he is hhhm
Ehhe then tell me that they should not be very worried that you tell me not to feel grown up, you know that I know he's planned for a lot of children up to so far.
Until ehatc of while there is no money he will be thinking of you don't think he thinks it is like there at home when you miss the allowances and maize is so that he has not told me to come when you get to the message mandizi and ye will be aje when you will come from those messages and ye he will be aje when you will come from those messages and ye will be aje.
He is not able to take a cow and he has a home in a month when it is not like Nairobi if you do not have the money in the best month and mmhm AHH and Next in the middle, I can ask you as long as yesterday you know even I will come to the tupange that matters of the things you hm.
Ehif you cannot ehat home is not like while you know while everything is a fund ehhe is now now that you feel we will come up while when they will be able to come up while when we will be
It is not so that we have to rest the rest of the time we were told to let the rest of the time that we should take the money
When we talk there are people while they are still teaching teaching and those things I'm with and many people, we should prepare yourself and we will teach them even if we teach that money before it has not mentioned to pass that money before it has not mentioned to pass that money before it has not mentioned to pass
Chris the one I will come to the tside is not bad as a mko for the group of people who can volunteered to pay you know wrong when I get into the group you know someone being given when I get to the nyi all of the strength then other people lack them to pay the nyi and there is a lot of people I know well and there is no mi mmhm.
He didn't have a lot of it.
If we are talking about that things.
He didn't have a lot of it.
That itself is the problem now, even mi those people have been looking for those people you know even the person missing that money I am going to get to his home or where I will be living with with us a reasonable person at the house.
Ehhe because happy you will be paid and who will be
Ehatpaid and who I want someone who is I know maybe Ako her for the house has built his house or Ako for his parents on even the parents you will know if you go to get a boy to clear you as a girl if you talk to her and you can even get that of the milk where you can even get that of the milk where you can even get that
Mmhm mmhm ohh ehhe has never been surprised I am surprised when I am surprised.
Ehhe but now you go to get someone there for the road you will give where tomorrow tomorrow.
Ehhe is now that I was saying we have to prepare yourself even the Certificate is near that we know that things are going on ehhe is not and we're not good, except that the life is taking them to take that we don't have many words while it has to take care of we do not have many words while it is taking them to take a lot of
Mmhm ehhm ehhAHH is a good one that I went to every place is so mmhm.
He didn't have a lot of it.
Ehhe and not only now it is not we will talk to I tell you that way the party matters has continued to continue.
AHH will let me tell me.
