
Source of fitina North Mara III Dec 12, 2014.

The second part of this article that was published in this newspaper last Wednesday, explained the statements of different groups of people that are mentioned to contribute to the conflict of welfare that is in between the gold mine of North Mara (North Mara Gold Mine - NMGM) and residents of villages that are neighboring that mine.
Those groups include the management of the African Barrick Gold (ABG) that runs that mine, residents of those villages, political leaders and journalists.
Previously, in a special interview with Raia Mwema, the head of Tarime District where mine, John Henjewele, who is holding a finger to the groups saying that they are the source of the crisis due to put their personal interests.
However, after being questioned by this newspaper at different times recently, some people from those groups tried to evade blame and others confessed to contribute to the crisis.
This third part and the last, it explains the proposals that were given by various stakeholders about tactics and procedures that can help solve the crisis and eventually improve the relationship and enable every side to benefit from the quarry at satisfactory levels.
The stakeholders that recommend the medicine of conflict Augustino Sasi, a resident of Kewanja village that borders with NMGM, he is proposing to have a partnership of sharing benefits derived from the mining of minerals in that mine.
That, instead of an investor paying compensation for various assets of those who are transferred to pave way for mine activities, AKUBALI to pay them the amount of money they will agree every month until they will be educated in the area.
"The leadership of mine accepted to get into a partnership with us the villages we are transferred from the neighborhood and mine, that is that you have to pay the amount of money we will agree every after a month or two months," says Sasi and continue: "The procedure will avoid the complaints that are using them to the compensation of our property.
Therefore, the consistent solution for the crisis is to get into a partnership so that every side is interested in the gold that is being drilled in this mine. "
A resident of Tarime town, Samuel Magoiga, he is proposing to have the procedure of that mine to ensure that every year is sharing with the council of that district the benefits of funds resulting from drilling minerals for catering for the improvement of social services to the citizens.

Magoiga who is the executive director and Mwasisi of the Institute of creating employment in Tanzania (Tanzania House of Employment Creation - '

"That method will help to end the conflict between the two sides, and especially if the government will use those funds well by solving the problems of residents of villages that are neighboring that mine if not Tarime in general.

"You know what is happening at the moment is that people are atibu dalili (symptoms) of the disease (the crisis) rather than the essence of disease.
The investor is dealing with the conflict for its benefit, the government is dealing with the conflict for the benefit of the investor, while a villager is sidelined, that will not end the conflict.
"On the other hand, the crisis should be chefor by politicians or for not knowing, or by knowing.
I think we agree directly that the amount of income of mine in the district council to be used to solve the problems of citizens, "insists Magoiga and added:" I emphasize that, because this problem affects the residents of the villages that are neighboring that mine, the government should have a procedure of collaborating with them closely in ensuring that mine is giving them their rights.
"On the other hand, mine you ensure that you help the first of the villages, also the presence of sincere partnership of the investor, the government and the villages in transparency in issues concerning mine, they should have an agreement together, but the biggest one they are on their priorities.
"Another, I have heard that mine you want to start the Underground mining (mining of low down) so as to avoid using a huge cost to pay compensation to the citizens who are transferred from the neighborhood and mine.
I am saying that the method will not help to end the crisis, instead it will continue to grow the existing crisis.
"Therefore, I think they are the villages should be given the first opportunity.
Again I take this opportunity also to ask those who villages should use this period of local governments elections to choose the best leaders with the option and commitment to help them solve the crisis. "
The journalist representative of the Mawio newspaper in Tarime district, Igenga Mtatiro says the concrete solution for the crisis is the implementation of the promises given by the investor of that mine to those villages.
"The first thing, an investor will implement contracts or agreement that he entered with the villages as well as to build a training for vocational training college (Veta) and giving them before December 31, 2014.
"Also an investor enable small miners to get the areas of digging minerals, modern equipment of extraction and training of modern technology to run mining minerals that considers environmental conservation.
Those will help to end the conflict that is there and they are the villages they will not have hostility against an investor in that mine.
"Also an investor that ensures that he is paying for citizens reasonable compensation for a while.
But also leaders and employees of mine should have a procedure to visit the villages, to listen to the challenges they are facing and cooperate with the government searching for solutions.
"Another thing, leaders of mine and the government should stop the tradition of marginalizing journalists who are in Tarime district and Mara province in general in sensitizing investment and mining of minerals in that mine," says Mtatiro.

The head of Tarime District, Henjewele, he says the step to relocate the villages from the neighborhood and that mine is implemented successfully, it will help eliminate the conflict between those two sides.

"An investor will implement his responsibility to ensure that all people living within the distance of 300 meters from the patient are being informed.
All the people who live in the neighborhood and mine for the distance is supposed to pay compensation for their properties so as to migrame their health safety, "says Henjewele.
On their part, the head of police of Kipolisi Tarime / Rorya, the Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) BenedicMambosasa and the lawyer of NMGM, Abel Yiga, say the citizenship education to those villages about the issue of investment in the minerals mines can help solve the crisis.
"The government should cooperate with politicians to work on educating them to the villages because those sides are heard by the citizens.
That education should tell them the citizens the importance and the benefits of investment in their areas, "he explains Yiga.
"Citizens have the right to be educated the importance of foreign investors here in the country.
It is good that those villages know that the investor is legal and policy of our country to mobilize the good environment for foreign investors, "says Commander Mambosasa.
Unlike the other mines, NMGM uligunduliwa in the middle of people's homes, therefore, so as to confying the effects of health, it must be transferred to pave way for extraction of minerals that is not bughudha after paying compensation for their different properties.
However, there is a violation of regulations and procedures of paying compensation and transferred from the neighborhood and NMGM, a situation that raised the conflict of welfare between the management of that mine and those villages.

That tensions is the cause of the actions of invasion, piracy and destruction of various assets in that mine committed to some of the citizens, especially youths who don't have employment who are looking for livelihood to survive with their families.

Often the guards of that mine in collaboration with police officers have been forced to use great power that involved the bombs of tears and fire bullets to deal with people involved in crime to the extent of causing murder among them.

That mine was getting caught by the government of Tanzania for the East African Company, God Mine (AMGM), East Africa Gold Mine (EAGM) from Australia and Placer dome from Canada between the year 2000 and 2006, before ABG also from Canada that has ownership for several years now.


