A couple of viewers close to thirty database stories, we are visiting at the National Institute of Information here in Dar es Salaam where we want to check and learn it is his things that are going on in college and check on how the station can grow Tanzanian tourism.
My name I would like to read is the acting executive officer of the National Institute of Tourism, maumbo enough enough.
There is a connection between the cave and this college or other places like Temeke the history of the national tourism college starts in one hundred thousand and nine of the time where there was being started as part of the New Africa Hotel at the time to prepare the people of service in hotels at the hotel.
And it was giving a short course of three months at the reception reception.
The preparation of the food organizers in the protection of the house and the teaching of teachers teachers.
A year of one hundred and two hundred thousand, we will die in the buildings of forodhani at that time with the daresslaam Slaa Slaa.
And got changed the name of a hotel training school.
It was put up under the tourism organization of Tanzania when it was passed by Tanzania Africa which was losing it.
It is going to give tax taxes.
That's the reception AHH to the production they have a mortgage.
The uandaaji of food foods.
Continued so up to one hundred thousand year seven names during the week I have been handed over.
The ministry of natural resources and tourism tourism.
And when it will be called ehwell story well.
It will continue to provide taxes.
And the level of a certificate to the workers of the honor in the liver.
While the tourism sector continues to grow and also needs to prepare services in the hotels and maybe the father is increased also for that government, it has seen it better now that he is living in a two thousand station and only one will succeed in the center of two thousand and only one will succeed.
Temeke at the port college buildings for so half the port about the star stars.
I haven't been lost it becomes this right.
If they do not stay.
I have not been able to do it.
The buildings that will see the one side of the
The one on the other hand is
When it's not going to be).
The same two and three after seeing that there is a need to improve the government to see there is the water to improve the services of the services of the services of the services of the services to improve the services of the services of the
The same as customers at the hotel and in the restaurants and all the other places saw his legal piece of the station through his law number thirty
When you give beds to one and third station as a government agent for the purpose of providing training in the near field and help also to research and advice for that, the main aim to ensure that the training offered at this center meet the need of customers that are being given to the people who have uk skills and great experience and experience of great experience.
If they depend on the customers of the national tourism college is welcoming all those who love to join studies in the following field, the following will be registered to produce a topic in Nairobi, the picture is at the certificates and one forms of joining the children in Nairobi road, in Iringa, I have been attracted to Mwanza the wildlife college in Nairobi. Pasiansi Zanzibar university has continued tourists in Zanzibar Dar es Salaam at the national tourism college, a garden, together with shirki, then and the campuses of Temeke that is in the neighborhood of Maunda for more information visiting our website daddy.
