
Fire now when they turned into customs taxes on May 22, 2012, 2012.

The scandal of corruption in the customs unit of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) at the Dar es Salaam Port that involved the tax of billions has entered the new chapter, Raia Mwema confirmed that the steps have been taken and already some officers have been dismissed from positions and was required to explain themselves within 14 days 14 days.

In the explanation of confirmation that measures have been taken, the chairman of the Board of TRA, Doctor.
When you have taken Chijoriga, he has explained to Raia Mwema earlier this week that the former commissioner of tax tax has been engeited in that position so as the investigation procedures against accusations that involve together with other characters to be completed.

According to the news of the long term investigation of this newspaper, corruption of government revenue in Dar es Salaam Port has been involved in one company that is involved in the sale of the home equipment that began its activities in the year 2004, operated by business people with the Arab origin, mentioned to cooperate with some of the leaders and senior directors of TRA to steal the country revenue.

In his today's exhibitions at the end of May and at the beginning of June, this year, this newspaper wrote news regarding the theft of income at the port of Dar es Salaam, where one private company has been helping other businessmen to evade revenue in billions.

But in his talks with Raia Mwema, in great attention that considers the scope of the work laws, Doctor.
Chijoriga said, "we have begun to take action.

"Ukaguzi wa Ndani TRA (the audit unit of internal-TRA) did its work since April and presented his report to me about the loss of revenue.
There are those involved who are employees of TRA but employees of these board are commissioners and deputy commissioners and even managers, but there are also the other characters are employed by the management of TRA, ""

"Now for the procedures of work, I who is the chair of the board I am dealing with these whose employment contracts have been given by the board and the management is dealing with others.
The action that we were made up to now is urging the management to withdraw the commissioner of customs Bateyunga impangie another different job when the investigation is ongoing.

"But also Bateyunga, we have led to the allegations that involve him as outlined in the Ripoti ya Ndani ya Nchi, so that he will reply within 14 days as the laws of the work they want, after his answers we will know what to do.
For now, we can't say it is true that he has been involved until we find his explanation and all his colleagues, "said Doctor.
Chijoriga.

When asked for what I suspect is going to work though in different responsibilities within the previous employer and the risk that is in destroying evidence, he insisted they are focusing on the rules of work.
Part of the conversation between the Doctor.
Chijoriga and the author of this newspaper were right.

A citizen Mwema: Why a suspect is given other responsibilities with the employer the one who is accusing him and who is also investigating?

Doctor.
Chijoriga: It must follow the laws of the work they want is not my personal option or the board.
The laws of work wants not to take a stern action without being satisfied with listening to his explanation.
Remember the report with the details that he is supposed to answer is not a judgment except carrying only accusations.

Citizens Mwema, Huoni can use the loopholes to stress to disrupt the evidence and especially considering that the network of suspects is great inside and outside TRA.

Doctor.
Chijoriga: We can't get to the office suddenly we need revenue that is why we have removed when he was beginning.
But that is one part of the action that can be taken later.

In another step, he was asked about action against business people who were involved in evading legal taxes through the company of equipment at home, Doctor.
Chijoriga said the investigation will be conducted and that the characters will be required to pay the whole amount of taxes they have been wepa since they started the game until now.


