
Ruto achemsha residents Bondeni and the new party WYCLIFF KIPSANG, Barnabas BII and Leonard ONYANGO HATUA of the Governor of Bomet Isaac Ruto to form a new party has killed different feelings in the Valley areas while some of the residents saying that it is a conspiracy to be able to distribute the community polls of Wakalenj.
Those young people from the Pokot West, Elgeyo / Marakwet and Baringo under their union, who is Bonde la Bonde la Bonde (Kbelong), claimed that the new party of Mashinani Development Party of Kenya (MDPK), aims to sabotage the leadership of the Deputy President William Ruto.
Speaking at Chesoi area, the chairperson of the Joel Kimaiyo and secretary general Jackson Merinyang said that Governor Ruto is going against the requirements of the residents of Ufa Valley.
"Governor Ruto and his party is built to sabotage the leadership of the deputy president and bring down the efforts to unite the residents of Ufa Valley," said Mister Kimaiyo.
"But the governor deserves to understand that his conspiracy will not be afaulu.
Certainly Governor Ruto who is running away from the political grave, "he added the chairman.
Merinyang wanted Governor Ruto to support the deputy president who is the leader of the residents of Ufa Valley if he wants to be elected again as a governor of destruction in the coming elections.
Mister Kimaiyo denied claims that the new Jubilee Party has been faced with opposition in the Valley areas.
"The fact of things are that most of the residents of the Ufa Valley have agreed to embrace the new party after the Deputy President Mister Ruto to make us explained his home in the Sugoi area that the aim of the Jubilee Party is to unite Kenyans," said Mister Kimaiyo.
"In every community there are people who don't want unity and in the Valley Valley area that person is Governor Ruto.
And that's the democracy, "he added.
Merinyang claimed Nairobi. is that Governor Ruto is used by politicians from outside with the aim of sabotage the leadership of deputy president and to negotiate the division before the 2017 general election.
"We are unable to understand it is why our brother Governor Ruto is not able to learn anything from the former ministers Franklin Bett, Musa Sirma, Henry Kosgey, according to the Sally Kosgei who opposed the leadership of Mister William Ruto in the year 2013 then found themselves in a political cold," said Mister Kimaiyo.
However, the MDPK party has been supported by some of the residents who have not been satisfied with the party of Jubilee Party which will be used by President Kenyatta to vie for presidency next year.
"Kuvunjiliwa apart from political parties and form a new JP party is entertaining in the era of the darkness of one party," said Mathew Kosgey from the Nandi ward.
MDPK is expected to announce his member of his useneta in a small election in the county of Kericho.


