
The rights of civilians is important, they deserve to live in charge of the crimes of elephants so as to present them in the law enforcement agencies.
The operation was done by several M-four officers, the government started an operation to end the search aimed at the search of the areas and the national reserves of people who are affected, the citizens force and the special wildlife squad who were given instructions of that job.
Unfortunately, training and instructions were not able to help them, the soldiers failed not to differentiate good citizens and criminals - all were a source of poachers.
As a result of some of the soldiers not to make criminals and those who don't have criminals, not considering the rights or using the law during the operation, people found in livestock and who were running for agriculture activities in the reserve were arrested, they were notified, they had killed and some were killed.
It is not so only, the livestock that was arrested was banned for several days without being given leaves or water.
It is saddening to see despite the incident that was angered by causing four senior ministers to resign, the other police, this journey of Suma JKT have killed four people and injured five others.
Those soldiers who were forced into the forest of the government of Meru in Arumeru district, Arusha province have caused the deaths of those people after voting for fire bullets in an event to arrest their livestock and take it to the Zizi of the government.
Apart from four breeders being killed, five colleagues including a 13-year-old child who is a third class in the primary school of Kipolisi yosambu were injured in fire bullets.
The child Isaya Thomas (13) who was supposed to be in class as he was continuing with studies and his colleagues now he is fighting for his life in the hospital after being shot on her back in which is claimed to be violence between pastoralists and Suma JKT who were in the forest of the government of Meru.
Thomas asa who was admitted to the Mount Meru Hospital has been transferred to KCMC Referral Hospital after his condition being bad.
The doctor who was mentioning he says that the child started showing signs of producing, from the UNONI to the legs due to the bullet that he had seen is about the back of the back, so needed more treatment.
The situation now causes the state of the future of the child's life to be critical.
Likewise, that situation causes the government igharimie the treatment of that child.
We suggested that the cops are sent to arrest livestock or people on claims to get into the areas that should not be allowed to consider the law, caring for justice and protecting the rest so as the suspects and the law.
Soldiers are supposed to follow the law and arrest the criminals by taking them to court instead of taking care of the law and causing the deaths of civilians.
We know that the work has its own challenges, some of the criminals do good citizens or others even pretending to want to help the cops but they are turning out and caused harm to them.
If those are known then the soldiers must increase professionalism to deal with the criminals of every kind so as they are forced to use the bullets the validity of doing so.
We advise the fire rounds to be used only after the first to use the ball shot in the air and to fly the bombing of tears.
However, we advise a citizen to stop them to assume the law in hand, wanting to fight for a soldier because by doing so they can find them brought harm including death.


