
If you see him win, the secret I know I Mussa Juma, Mwananchi mjuma @ mwananchi.co.tz Alphonce Simbu, was not very known, but after holding the fifth position in the Olympic Games of Rio de Janeiro 2016, that is where its fame started to hold momentum.
That was August.
Five months later, that is in January this, won the Mumbai Standard Chartered Marathon race, the competition that involved 37,000 athletes and among them, 32 were the official invited ones who had the world standards, to participate in international competitions.
Simbu did not care for the athletes from Kenya and Ethiopia and other places in the world, he was running away and spend a period of 2 hours: 09: 32 only to arrest the championship of Yanga enya, in the international race.
Mikoti Mikiki ilizungumza with the wife of Simbu, Rehema Daudi 22, explaining what the secret of the success of her husband in the races.
The question: I understand that Alphonce Simbu is a mumeo, and he has been doing the spread in athletics, he started to be heard more in the Olympic Games 2016, what is the secret of success?
Rehema: The secret of my husband to do well in his competition, is his discipline in practice.
Simbu likes so much to practice and everything that he has been told by his coaches, he has been doing a lot of practice and I am grateful to God he is in alia.
There's nothing else of his success is practice.
The question: But many times women are restrictions, that they are hushindi at home at the end of the liver and the tranquility is getting, this is how?
Rehema: (He takes a little) no, I don't have a wivu... Simbu is very free and the fact I know his exercises schedule, he is going to exercise and coming from practice he is back home, when he is resting.
That's also caring for his exercises schedule is believed to be very good to do well.
The question: His life is generally general, why others doing well tend to life in line with their success, you should come this?
Rehema: The truth, as well as doing well, Simbu lives a normal life, my husband for sure that I thank him has no makuu, living a very common person.
The question: I always wishes to eat a lot of food?
Rehema: Simbu likes a lot of parts of maize and njugu stones.
Tend to makande and sometimes and fruits.
He doesn't have a lot of things he really care about his health, not the meat person Choma or beer, the truth is a lot of accidents.
The question: Apart from the Olympics that he held in the fifth position, how did it happen how the report was explained, Simbu has won the Mumbai Marathon?
Rehema: I was very happy because even I am going to athletics.
I remember when I was going to be a primary school I run very athletics.
I would go to athletics even this child would go to asome and he should be a good player.
The question: I understand the winner of Mumbai Marathon gets a gift of 42,000 dollars more than Sh90mil, being today, this has been eleteon, a mother this load here, will be done?
Rehema: (He's eka...) actually!
I don't know... but if getting it will help improve our lives and especially our house we are building, but aah, I can't know more what we will do since he has not yet been assigned but first, I think it is to improve our house and business since I was doing a saluni business.
After the interview with his wife, spoti Mikiki ilizungumza and Simbu in relation to the competition and says Mumbai marathon, is the biggest race and popular Asia and by the level of the International Athletics Federation and that the race have the reputation of Silver that is the second group for quality in the world.
Speaking at a special interview at his home in Ngateu area in Arumeru District, Arusha province, Simbu says that it was not easy work to defeating the athletes of Kenya and Ethiopia.
He says Kenyans were led by a renowned player, Kosua Kipkorir, who held the second position by using 2 o'clock: 09: 58, followed by another four 55: 55 and hold the fifth position.


