
The way parents, we are living with its impact in the ethics of children Mwenendo of the life of parents involve words, actions and custom of parents wan azuses in running their daily lives in their families and the community surrounding them in general.
Relations between parents, neighbors, brothers, relatives and friends and how you thank visitors, etc.
All this affects the growth and behavior of children in the main two different sectors, the positive effect and the negative effect.
We all know the kids in a big way you have learned from their parents.
Wanachokiona is doing a parent, they also do.
Various psychology research of the child's growth of the child makes him work to be the leader of the family (role model).
He should be an example to be followed by children, ajiheshimu especially when he is ahead of children by doing good deeds that are favorable to be followed by children and that is endeza the community that surrounds him.
To pick up the words of kutamka in front of his children especially when he is angry.
Children are not bothered by the msamiati of abusive and said hovyo, they get from the communities that surround them.
Everyday life, small actions and sayers make up the image of children about life, language and relationships.
Due to the words of this philosophically, then the behavior, custom and actions are the real picture of the conduct of a human life that is seen in front of the eyes of other people and this is caused by the upbringing he got in a young child.
The brain of a human being made me to receive and preserve them in all the records that you receive.
The growth experts say a young child has a lot of ability to receive information, to preserve and remember what he kept easily than even the whole person and this is because the child is thinking about the behavior and the custom of the parents wan at three times ago, that is in the past and the next.
This is taking care of akilini is used to help you to expand various challenges in life.
Unlike when it appears to take care of the child Hayaisthis in giving an important demand as food, accommodation, housing, clothing, education, and health, but you involve building the basis of life that will be fit for now and later, he should have studied or not reading the parent has a great opportunity to implement this important role in the child care.
Bear is not a job, work raising.
Walilisun earlier on our abu.
A rare legacy is getting a child from the parent is how to live and they are older.
So the parent is alo serious responsibility to implement this.
We start living as parents because there is the wind of rekujisahau, you continue to make it possible and your friend while using severe words that are not fit in the ears of children including arguing ahead of the children, by this way to destroy the whole future of the growth and spots so.
It will cost a lot of time to correct disciplinary children who are married in this environment.
These children didn't miss the answers to the adults and always have the discipline problems while they were in school.
Their relationship with teachers are usually not good and often they do not get a close support from the teachers and the end owe hushindwa to continue well.
In opinion and advice we call the phone number 116, which is special for the service of the child in the country.
This service will not ozi payments from all the networks in the country.
Likewise you can get through our Facebook page: Say Tanzania, Twitter: @ SemaTanzania and www.sematanzania.org.


