Your news will Tanzania in front we are supposed to be very high to see what is the metal they have remained as today we are questioning that others are using their children that we are losing revenue to see the mother, there are also these people after getting an opportunity to get out of if you want to get in the different stations when it comes from different stations when it comes from the different stations when it comes from different stations when it comes from the different stations when it comes from the different stations when it comes from the different stations when it
And these people the venders one of them have to get what will be able to come to the interests not to ignore what they do because you have the intent to help the money you are looking at but the one that we hope is where I am called to go for sure that I am here and my colleague is called with my colleague is called with my colleague is called with my colleague is called with my colleague is called by my colleague is called by my colleague
The mother is tired of the market will reduce the market.
If you expect things it will be today as usual our and a surprise so that our first topic we will be requested to vie for the presidency they should be able to have your time a citizen and other people are usually there.
Choose the person who you don't understand.
The meaning of the new
He is not possible for his children.
But before we started I get a little true here and this topic.
We have reported that we have come back to Masai great Diva maneke that it says to carry the presidential candidates who will ase them what time to give them the time to follow them, maybe it is true if I know this year is the election year and in every election you have a variety of results that are supposed to be done before we are not doing it before we will be doing it before we will be doing it before we are supposed to be done before we will be doing it before we will be doing it before we will be
Kibajeti for various from the parties they decided to announce their intentions for the start of the journey trip to the journey.
After what if Tanzanians will also be able to deliver the evidence of those parties so that they can get his presidential decision of those candidates who are characteristics of
The world of a lot and
Problem but only two months will be maintained so that people start voting for votes.
Of the fact that it is just mi.
In the countries that have such a lot of marugue
Now maraisi is a lot I haven't read to confusing the citizens of the citizens.
If all of the professionalism are in the city and the porini we are being advised to be what school has been a budget so that it has been a budget so that it has been a budget so that it has been a budget for
I talked to the second Adam is going to do their campaign and to know friends who will be able to come up the best easier is who but it needs to be mi I would like to still be president.
Our Swahili usemao little but these hours as usual, I was I would like to cooperate with stakeholders and walala
