
The members of parliament Yanga closed against Simba.

It was written by Grace Mkojera.

It has been published: 26 September 2016.

Members of parliament lovers of Yanga yesterday came from vifua ahead after emerging with a win of 5-2 goals against their colleagues of Simba in the game that took place at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam.

The game together with the one that was ahead of the Bongo Flavor artists against Bongo movie, was special for contributing to the victims of earthquake in Kagera province.
Previously, the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa launched the electronic tickets system to enter the National Stadium and said that you are well and you need to continue being used.
He said he was pleased with the system and you need to be used in the sports grounds, especially the nation to enable the team and the country to get more revenue.
Majaliwa said that after using the system when he gets to witness the battle of members of parliament of Yanga and those of Simba who were preceded by the competition of Bongo movie artists and those of Bongo Flavor.
In the netball game, the parliamentary team emerged with a win of 15-14 goals against TBC, while it has flown Hango of parliament scoring nine goals and Irene Elias of TBC scored 10 goals alone.
On the side of soccer, the Bongo Flavor team won by a penalty 5-4 against Bongo movie after the teams drew 1-1 in the normal time of 90 minutes of the game.
Yanga members of parliament wrote the lead goal in the third minute, that was scored by Sadifa Hamisi while Mohamed Feyerisa scored the second and third in the fifth and eight minutes.
Omary mgumba scored Simba's first goal.
Yanga walifunga the fourth and five goals in the 25th and 28 minutes through Mwigulu Nchemba.
Simba members wrote the second goal in the 39 minute that was scored by a penalty and Godfrey Mgimwa.
The members squad of Simba, William Geleja, Jaku Hashimu, Hamad Masauni, Kaizer Makame, Omari mgumba, Godfrey Mgimwa, Paschal Haonga, Cosato Chumi, Hamis Kigwangala, Aziz Aboud and Sixtus Mapunda.
Yanga's members of parliament, Hamidu Bobali, Venance Mwamoto, Gibson Meiseyeki, Mussa Sima, Ahmed Nguali, Anthony Mavunde, Sadifa Hamis, Ali King, Mohamed MY erisa, Ridhwan Kikwete and Alex Ghashaza.
The battle brought a total of 187 million shillings.


