
Whites sending the facebook to like Kikwete Nov 30, 2014, 2014.

While of Tanzania, most of Tanzania being denied using the private page of President Jakaya Kikwete in the network of facebook sending greetings, people with European origin and America have been seen to use it because of poaching actions going on in the country, it has been determined.

President Kikwete is in the United States as he continues with treatment after being operated on thyroid surgery (prostate) and has been communicating with the Tanzanian in different ways of communication through phones and social media networks.

However, at the time of Tanzania, many of Tanzania using that opportunity of communication to give him Kikwete condolences and wish him to be quick, people who their names indicated they have the natural in Europe and America, have been seen to use that opportunity to say that they are era.

For example, one person who introduced himself by the name Jeremy Gregory, wrote on that page that he will not visit again Tanzania as a tourist if the government will not pass the killing of elephants.

"I will not visit again your country until when your government will show the efforts to combat crimes.
I ask you to promise that I will inform many people to as it is possible about the brutality that is going on in the country to you so that they should not.
Until now your leadership is not really attractive, "wrote the person.

Another person, Niala Orsmond, he complained about the news that spread on social media about windaji from the Arab countries to kill animals without following procedures.

Will you not see the shame?
Therefore, the family of the kifalme of Dubai is allowed to kill any animals that wants them so that the project they pe money?
Will you not know that the elephants or Simba are ending they can't be returned to money?
Msipende money than the rest, "said the lady.

A lot of messages from people who are seen is of the United States and Europe seem more leaning towards the tourism issues, while of Tanzania showing caring about the health of their leader.

For example, one young man who introduced himself by the name of Abkary Yondani told President Kikwete the following words, "Pole so much our father of Tanzania.

President Kikwete is among the African presidents who are known for the use of time for social media networks and it is among the leaders with many friends on the web in the African Continent.

President Kikwete, according to information from the Directive of Communication of the President - State House - Dar es Salaam, is expected to return to the country on Saturday of November 29, this year, as all the medical issues he continues with in the United States will go well.


