
Tough to emulate, we have beaten what Brazil?
Jul 09, 2014, 2014.

The World Cup championship will end on July 13th in Brazil.
Historically is a tournament that has a lot of celebrations and excitement here and there.

Every time it happened after four years lovers of soccer in the whole world all their eyes and ears have been following the major soccer competition in the world when it occurred.

This year's tournament has been the challenges of here and there.
A lot have been witnessed and even what is not expected.
For example, we have witnessed players with great names unable to do because many were expected, while those who do not have names emerged and doing great things against the expectations.

For African teams, we have witnessed vituko, that is in conflicts and conflicts while other players of those teams were chased away from camp even before their teams were released in the tournament.

But the Algeria team have been able to put history because the first team from Africa to get a large number of goals when it was able to score in South Korea for a total of 4-2 goals in the group stages.

All the time occurring there are some coaches who decided to release the stairs due to their teams to do badly.

May these know that after submitting their reports there is nothing, they will continue more than the vibarua to grow leaves after getting the results against their promises.

In the quarter finals heading to the semi-finals there are several events have come out as well as getting injured to the striker of Brazil, Neymar, who is certainly interested in soccer fans in Brazil due to how they depend on him.

The defender of Colombia, Juan Zuniga, who represented Neymar came out of the media asking for forgiveness from what happened while insisting that it was not his intention to hurt the player but it was in the process of defending his nation, considering that the World Cup in the world.

He may be persuaded Zuniga, doing that is after seeing the issue of Neymar, has been a talk in every corner of the streets of Brazil.

However, analysts of soccer issues are seeing that act to be noble, saying it is a few players who can do it.

That being some of the few events out of what happened in the competition, there is a need for us Tanzanians asking what we have learned in the tournament.

Normally of Tanzania we have been tough to emulate different things and especially what's from outside the country.
This behavior especially focused on various groups including our artists who every day they are to emulate the western fashion which even sometimes it was not endani with our culture but to sell them will be sent without knowing them.

Our soccer players here in the country and other soccer stakeholders, after looking at this competition must know what there is to learn.

For our coaches who have been ving onto'anizi must know that the resignation is common in soccer and especially when your team is unable to attain goals.

But also the issue of discipline for players is the most important thing because even those players of Ghana were taken back home before their team was released in the tournament they have shown the actions of misconduct that won't be followed.

Cameroon with them were hit in various hujuma, accused that they have made a strike on an excuse to get into the tournament without being paid their money.

This is another shame for the African teams, as a player can strike to show his level in such a big competition claiming that he has not been paid is not a matter to be followed but it is absurd of the high.

After this tournament there is a need stakeholders, soccer leaders and even our players, first to be proud to witness this tournament but also to learn anything that can help uplift our soccer from the challenges that we witnessed in the competition.

I don't know if there is someone he will be able to be proud of the act of Lius Suarez, of biting his fellow player but he will emulate the behavior of some of the players as Lionel Messi, who have decided to show clean football while they serve their nation as required.

In addition, I don't have confidence if there are our players here in the country who will be voting behavior of Makonde as they did in Cameroon after being defeated.

The World Cup Championships should be the catalyst for the development of soccer in our country.
We should be tough to emulate me that disdviduku and the bread of the players.


