
Simba WAJUTA missing the Kibadeni.

Dar es Salaam.
The Head Coach of Simba, Zdavko Logarusic "Loga" has reached 10 matches of the Mainland Premier League while he has collected 12 points but he has been overwhelmed by Abdalah Kibadeni, who was marrying with the team in the first round since he collects 20 points in that number of matches.

Simba being under Loga has already lost a chance to vie for three positions after being defeated last Sunday and Azam 2-1 at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam, thus remained the fourth position with 36 points.

Azam is leading the league with 53 points, followed by Yanga (46) and Mbeya City has seized the third position and 45 points left Simba for a different number of nine points when they have three games.

Loga was given the responsibility of preparing Simba, December last year after the leadership of that club sack the Kibadeni and his assistant Jamhuri Kihwelo on claims of dissatisfaction with the results of their team.

That time Simba was holding the fourth position with 24 points.

Kibadeni alidumu in the club for a period not exceeding six months and lead to win five matches, coming in five draws in 10 games before being defeated by Azam.

The cromark who started his task with a landslide to lead Simba to win 3-1 against Yanga in a friendly match of 'Nani Mtani Jembe ", was unable to transfer those achievements in the league.

Since January 26, the year hu, Loga has led Simba to win three matches, coming from three draws together with losing four matches against Mgambo Shooting (1-0), Coastal Union SC (1-0), JKT Ruvu (2 - 3) and Azam FC 2-1.
While Logarusic said: "I am surprised we are playing us but we are being enacted, I think it is not being careful, we are playing for thinking unless Mashuti," complained the former coach of Gor Mahia of Kenya.

And the captain of Simba, Nassor Masoud "Cholo" said the bad results that got on this period is a lesson for them and now they prepare themselves for the next season.

Cholo said: "We got it, it reminds us that, in the world there is a rise and drop, we have to explain it doesn't know how, we agree only with these results."


