
A statement of CHADEMA, Kigoma province about the tour of Doctor Slaa and the threat of the safety in the province.

This is a report that was given to the media today Dec 2, 2013 being a statement of the session of the province Chadema Kigoma.

It is about a session that took place at the office of the province, Ujiji was carrying a agenda to discuss and the improvement of the tour of the secretary general (T) Dr. P. Slaa in Kigoma 5 / 12 / 2013 where he will visit all the 8 regions of Kigoma province for meetings is not less than two in every region and later at the last meeting, a meeting to take place at the headquarters of Jimb the goal being to look at the life of the party.

The main and important things were considered where security to the leader following the scandal of the decision of the main committee against Mhe.Zitto and acceptance of our members.

To give the official information to the states and receive the situation it is or appears in their areas.

After Tafakuri of the details and the Hekima and wise pevu in the coming, it was imiwa as follows, the province requested the nation to work and move forward the date of the important tour to our province so as the regional level and the nation can go to those regions and educate the members and the decisions offered by the highest level of our province and the nation and the decisions offered by the top level of our regions and the nation and the decisions offered by the top level of our regions and the nation and the decisions offered by the top level of our regions and the nation. Even if it is known, it is known as the constitution follows in solving the problem - opinions of many in the province and the leaders of the party is to be pleased with the decisions of the k / main which clearly builds Zitto - politics.

II.
The province was caught and threats after receiving information from some of the leaders of the province states that the state of security is not good for the coming of a leader Dr. Slaa arrived in Kigoma for this period when the members and lovers are meditating and with different statements that are not aimed at there.
For wisdom of the session that was satisfied with getting comments from 6 states that the situation is very bad they advised the general secretary to grant him forward to his tour to pave way for this conflict and for the safety of Chadema and its leaders nationally.

IV.
Therefore, the province through that session was seen is better to prevent than treat, already confusing, the leaders and especially the perception of perception attitude is a TARI in that situation, the province was convinced the security will not be in general even if some states are saying they are just safe.

V. HOFU / TAHADHARI - Endapo the situation will not be safe God apishe far.

The province will not avoid blame and deliberate laziness because the low level responsibility is to provide advice to the highest level, therefore, the province provides advice to the headquarters (T) Chadema to move forward that tour until the state will calm down and the province will be chosen to be satisfied with the security of its leaders and especially the nation.
The main aim, is to inform CHADEMA when we go safely at the same time with a hard U - CHADEMA, Alhaj.
Jafari KASISIKO Msafiri WAMALWA

M / term started on 1st / DEC.2013 secretary general province.


