
Imechapishwa: Tue, APR 25, 2017, 2017.

TRA gives education changes in KODI YA KODI.

If they read it.

And KOKU DAVID DAVID.

In ensuring the tax education reaches every stakeholder of taxes in the country, Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) has met with tax stakeholders with the aim of teaching various changes in taxes.

Recently at the conference hall that is in the Central Bank (BOT) in Dar es Salaam city, TRA met with leaders and staff from the department and various institutions in a one-day seminar so as to teach them change in various laws of taxes through the financial law of every year concerned.

In addition to giving them education, also the seminar was aimed at exchange ideas, experiences as well as challenges in the implementation of daily responsibilities.

In his work performance, the authority has been meeting with various challenges from the stakeholders of taxes that are currently the plan that is to make sure they remove completely.

Among those challenges include some of the business people to evade using electronic tax machines (EFDs) with the aim of kukwepa paying appropriate taxes, including smuggling businesses that are brought into the country in the ways that are not official.

However, the authority has been in collaboration with the police force to make sure that it has arrested those business people who are doing those smuggling businesses, including being confiscated their cargo so as to stop those businesses.

On the side of change of tax laws, its implementation comes from the understanding of the two sides that are involved in taxes as well as the tax accountant.

These sides each other has a responsibility to know and understand them in order to ease the performance of the TRA officers, but also of paying taxes to pay taxes that is correct and enable the government to get his taxes.

By acknowledging the importance of tax education, the seminar that they prepared aimed at through the important areas of the law of the year 2016 together with the tax of Zuio from the contractors and the suppliers of various projects as well as services.

Also, through that seminar, the stakeholders got an education in relation to the use of the collection system of the government using the electronic electronic machines (EFDs).

The commissioner of the department of Walipakodi wakubwa, Neema Mrema says that TRA recognizes the cooperation is getting from government institutions and various public organizations in fulfilling the goal of achieving the central economy.

He says that the intention of the central economy will now be reached if everyone will implement its responsibilities fully, therefore, sustainable cooperation is needed so that TRA can collect the correct income and for the time and be able to fulfill what is intended by the fifth phase government.

That Revenue Authority has made various improvements with the aim of increasing professionalism and efficiency in the collection of revenue, provision services and the whole management of law and tax systems.

The aim of those efforts is to ensure the government's revenue are increasing, as well as enabling it to do development things to its citizens.


