The past two days, people should bring him news from tabora which attendant touched to take the body of late their brother to go to block them for what they believe that their brother was killed by the police, the police was killed by police police.
But today, finally, brothers and relatives of the late hamada Msimbe who claimed to be killed by the police have agreed to take the body of the late brother ready for the funeral while continuing to wait for the results of the investigation of his death that was done by the medical investigators from the headquarters of the police, those brothers who refused the investigation of earlier conducted by the doctors of the referral hospital of the province of tabora six hours have been satisfied with the investigation that was done by the senior investigation of issues of the issues of the police in the province of tabora, six hours have been interested in the the medical care at the Doctor Ahmed Makata from the headquarters of the police force in the country on the left is kuibana he has been following the scandal.
A report of information).
Who will give the original investigation that was done by doctors in the referral hospital of the province of tabora especially they have heard the investigation that was done by the senior inspector of national issues nationally nationally.
Habibi makataa from the headquarters of the police force in the country in the country.
The late Hamadi Msimbe passed on the world, januari twenty and seven this year when he gets treatment at the referral hospital of the province of tabora, he caused commotion to the brothers and his fellow traders of the holiday claimed that he has been killed by being beaten by the police who had lived together denies those claims that he had been killed by the police of the police.
And the time we don't have to.
We have not been able to.
We are taking the body of the deceased until he achieved it.
As a result of this misunderstanding and the brother of the deceased huma to take the body of the deceased until it does not have an investigation and experts from outside the province, the general government of you requested for help from the headquarters of the police force in the country we will take appropriate measures for any one who will be revealed that he will cause death and marikebu although at the moment, I can't say it is who has caused the death and marikebu although for now, I can't say it is who has caused
He is set up by the committee of
The experts led by the deputy commissioner of the administration of the police force jonasi a guest arrived in the province of tabora and conducting investigations through and the chief physician of the province tabora doctor, the law that has described what they do.
After being satisfied that we have gone down completely.
Therefore, we will reduce what remains to maybe is only the events of the
That was sold from the chief chemist in the laboratory of the chief chemist of the chief chemist in the laboratory of the chief chemist.
A moment.
Brother can take you have already received as a pilipili after the investigation of the band brothers of the deceased came out in front of the journalists and explaining their decision that we have hidden because the body when you have been hurt, when you are not finished, I will be able to take it before you are supposed to take before you are not supposed to take before you are supposed to take before you are supposed to take before you are supposed to take before you are
When I come to Africa.
I haven't been due to the economy to happen for the second time I have been relieved.
Sure for sure you will not be able to make it.
And I have agreed to take the body of the deceased from tabora, I request with the Mwaibale staff, the staff.
A person with no one.
