The news of youth culture and sports minutes by tie Mkangara told journalists in the city of daressalaam that from two thousand October, the nation has been celebrating the memorial of the death of the father of the nation that happened in one hundred and nine hundred thousand, where the government has decided to unite those commemorations and the peak of the freedom torch races together with the peak of the youth torch week together with the peak of the youth week of the youth week together with the peak of the youth week of the youth week together with the peak of the youth week of the youth week together with the peak of the youth
That torch was established one hundred thousand year of nine hundred and one being a national mark of tanganyika as a result of the process of improving the citizens in claiming the freedom from the oloni and the importance of living in peace and harmony after freedom and tranquility after freedom of freedom and stability after independence freedom and harmony after independence freedom and harmony after independence freedom and harmony after independence freedom and harmony after
About the national week, Doctor Mkangara said that the activities of that week will start on October eight to ten years in Shinyanga province after the government set aside that day with the aim of giving them the youth an opportunity to meet and to show the public the activities they provide in developing the nation, the government decided to set aside one week.
It has not been completely surprised.
The aim of giving them to the youth.
The opportunity to meet
You have to show mercy.
The activities they are going to promote our nation our nation.
The commemoration of the youth week that was started officially in two thousand year for this year, more aiming at sensitizing the effort and strategies of the government in enabling the youth to discover themselves to volunteer and dare for the positive goals of self-employed and employ other youths who are the foundation of this nation and report from the daressalaam that you're not in a place is not a set-up for you to spen them.
The child eti chadema who is seven years old.
He has disappeared at home since September twelve this year in the daressalaam.
The aunt of that child, a resident of riverside Ubungo in the city daressalaam
He has said that the match disappeared while he plays with his colleagues in the hotel
He has requested anyone who will find a child.
Released a report to the police station or we communicate with phone number zero seven five five, five five.
Five five zero nine zero nine.
Or zero seven one five.
Three nine four of them zero zero.
