
On Tuesday, October 25, 2016, October 25, 2016.

Five things that can help you have given time to be Karibu by the child.

Many parents like to be close to children with the aim of building the environment to learn.
The challenge, however, is missing enough time to do so.

For example, it is unusual for parents from home in dawn and back at night when they have already been sleeping.
The big expectations of work has been a priority and therefore we are spending a lot of time to work that primarily are the ones that are helping to care for our children.

However, our important responsibilities are made us sometimes we lack time to help the children emotionally, the knowledge and even when it is involved as we desire.

This article will discuss five steps to take so that you help the parent to get time to invest in the upbringing of your children.

Fahamu children who are needed to be needed.

Many parents think that they are able to ensure their children have eaten well, they have slept in a safe place, they have gone well, they have good health, they have gone to the best schools and get other important needs, then have completed.

But as well as the importance of these needs, it is good to realize that the children are needed to you more.
They need to be found to listen to them to know emotions, worry, hope that you have, to talk to them to know their personal life, their secrets and others that cannot tell other people.

Think about this thing.
If you are able to get ten minutes for a day to stay with the Mwanao you listen and give him a chance to relation to you, mean between 168 hours that you have for a week, you will have managed to have a Mwanao for a period of 27 / 13 days.
It is dangerous to do the upbringing that "extra work" being done when you allows them.

While planning the priorities of the priorities.

The division of 24 hours we have every day you depend on each other and priorities that we are in.
Regulation is easy.
Raslimali that is not enough to be directed to the areas of priority.
For example, when we put a job ahead, it is clear we will direct the big part of the time in effect.
Similarly, in those circumstances we are forced to reduce the time to do things that are not important.

Yes, to say, to recognize the importance of being found by the Mwanao kunaenda as well as making efforts to make sure that you cheer your time for you to get time to have a Mwanao.
The time you are made.
Setting priority in the family, will be able to make an epuke other things that are not mandatory so that you can get a good time to have your family.

For example, instead of through the areas that bring you with your friends for a conversation that is not a must after work, you can go home directly and therefore get time to have your family.

I put the family goals.

Try to involve the children and your partner in making a procedure of that will consider the expectations of every member of the family.
When you have a family plan that is understood it helps to make children know what the family activity can be overrated.

For many children, for example, to remember the birthday ceremony, graduation, the day of parents in school and matembeuliwa is the things that put a permanent memory in their lives.
When you remember to bring in these things of those who are in your plans, it is helping children to see the accident their issues.

Meanwhile, activities with family goals is a system of accountability in the family that is helping to remind the parent to set aside time to meet the expectations of children.

You don't end the "office" at home.

This is a challenge to a lot of workers.
It is true sometimes we missed all the time to finish our responsibilities at work and thus being forced to go with it at home.
But, however, there are practice to lose time at work sometimes without fundamental reasons.

For example, a lot of workers can spend a lot of time for non-productive ones when they are not at work.
Technology has made it easy to "live" on social media without the need.
His results, we will not complete the responsibilities of work for the allocated time and the loss of this loss of time is usually overwhelmed by the lack of home.

In line with not moving to the office work at home, it is important to remember your responsibility as a parent presence at home.
Children need to stay with the parent and not the parent who is going to be the police, the manager, mwalimu or Engineer when he is at home.

Tenga a special time for the family.

Imagine using the final days of the week for your family.
In the environment that five days of the week have to put aside from home, to continue with other schedules the last day of the week is denying their children's right basis.

Dhamiria that on Saturday and Sunday is special for the purpose of staying with children and the husband / your wife instead of from friends or going to the other activities that are going to put aside from the family.
When you are at home you give your children enough time to enjoy the talks with the joint games.

Meanwhile, they can think to take the children in the outskirts and at home as well as in special areas for children's sports, beaches of the ocean, in the garden and open areas, hotelini and even areas of worship as the requirements and the love of children.

Follow the Maarifa magazine within the Mwananchi newspaper every Tuesday.

It has been written by it.

The Christian Bwawani of charge.


