I tell them Ahmed out that will take place.
Perhaps there are things that have the loneliness expect to look at the play if he can be a player player.
And even those who are going to do the test in Europe in Europe.
I did not believe that Arsene Wenger and people who regret to come to stay in the league of Tanzania the whole season to look at the player that player seems there are things that he is expected to players knows that this one can be a player to play ehball ball ball ball.
The first day every so that these people of the farms that were the farmers now have left agriculture have been called the two day bonanza no these people were being captured there where they came from where they came from where they came from where they came from where they came from where they came from where they came from where
Magolikipa ehman is called kiloko he was playing for the police team mara time.
The players that most of them did owe the first number we did is to expand it.
That we were focused on the main league in choosing players of the national team, the market came out of themselves in a source of the main league just let's go to the world.
Other areas that can produce players form the first in the evening.
Adhana cannot be on it.
People who in one way or another their daily activities is to play football for that I don't know the match was in bringing together from the soccer team soccer team.
Those who created the revealed of the provinces of the provinces.
And what I was doing is that we have got our national teams from our member one member of us.
And we have increased the scope to get to the other members who I was in
For that and the regions preparations are that it is in charge of the league there are in the provinces of the provinces there are
First, all the competition is being played true in the provinces and there is a period of Fally nifike here in Tanzania, we have the players who are coming to the unknown level are coming to play in the premier league I can't mention them to the names but you know that they are the one that we are looking for in the country not to play the combination of their teams in the provinces but the players I assure you and they are playing the ball in the country.
Thank you very much.
