
The statements of the ministry, BMT should be consistent W last, the Ministry of Information, Arts, Culture and Sports together with his instrument, the National Sports Council (BMT), vilitoa statements about the stand of those agencies in the games for this year.
Those statements were made in a special interview with this newspaper wanted to hear the voice of the government after starting the new year of 2017.
The Deputy Minister of Information Art, Culture and Sports, Anastazia Wambura said the government is giving a warning to leaders of sports parties that this is the year of implementation of sports in actions and time to bring porojo is over.
Wambura insisted that this year will be a lesson for leaders who are used to lead sports to tension and that the government will need implementation, efficiency and the goal is to hold the year to be successful.
He said 2017, you have a year for preparations for the Commonwealth Community of the year 2018, the African Games of 2019, and the Olympic Games that was scheduled to take place in 2020.
Wambura said the government wants to see every leader of the game of the game is implementing its obligations including the kalenda of the year effectively.
BMT, through his secretary general, Mohamed Kiganja has promised that 2017 will not be a year to hire a leader of any sports party that will fail to implement its responsibilities fully.
Kiganja said they have called the year of implementation for those actions, leaders wabovu them to inform them and that it will start in the district until the nation.
He said that from now on the song of preparations do not like vichwani of the leaders of sports parties and he has planned to meet with them tomorrow for the start of sharing strategies.
When we add the program especially because the government has seen the weaknesses of the year 2016 which Tanzania continued to be the head of the high speed.
Such statements are building, but for the basis that it should not end that it is the statements of the media, zigeukie on the implementation of the commitment and practical.
This minister to face parties to create and implement the kalenda by actions and BMT to capture the leaders who sell sports parties to register, it will incorporate the honor of this sector.
A citizen can ask you right, Tanzania is estimated to have 50 million people at the moment, it has come to 100 athletes who were iva in different games to represent the Olympics?
The fact is that many leaders of sports parties are not in order for sports, they are not in order to manage sports programs for their parties, more than to change stones should have to look at the funds of the international associations that are sent to the development of the concerned games, but there is no action of the meaning that is being played.
By starting, we think in the ministry and BMT to do the census of the parties that are in, the games that are in and if they are not corrupt, they should be restored, to be unable to cancel and remain with the few ones that will be able to meet the expectations of the citizens especially the lovers of the concerned game.
We believe, along with those statements, the combined power between the ministry, BMT, the director of sports development, the registrar of parties and sports clubs together with the Olympic Committee of Tanzania (TOC).


