
20 December 2012.

Mwongazo of the nation will improve on entrepreneurship-NEEC training.

Na Grace Ndossa

The executive secretary of the National Council of empowerment the citizens economically (NEEC), Dkt.leti Kashuliza has said that after the national guide of entrepreneurship training to be approved there is no college that will be allowed to provide entrepreneurship training without following the mwongo.
Dkt.Kashuliza gave that statement in Dar es Salaam yesterday during the one day workshop to get the views of stakeholders about the national education guide for entrepreneurship education.

"We want the standards that like to give a vibrant graduate since many are when they graduated from entrepreneurship training, they are not able to do their activities well," said Dkt.Kashuliza..

He said that the guide would enable the country to produce entrepreneurs because they will contain the competitive market and others to produce products that can be taken to other countries.

He insisted that after the guide passed those who do not have the ability to follow them look for other activities to do.

He urged the stakeholders to start planning for the purpose of using the guide, the action that will remove the current situation of people to provide entrepreneurship training but do not afanani and others are poor.

Previously the executive director of Tanzania Education Institute, Dkt.Paul Mushi launching the guide on behalf of the Minister of Education and Vocational Training, Doctor.
Shukuru Kawambwa said that the guide will help to ensure that the implementation of entrepreneurship education has considered important areas of national and all education providers so as to enable Tanzanians to improve themselves academically and economically.

He said that the guide has been prepared in order to provide direction in the method and results of learning testing methods, you will sign up with the features of the facilitator that is required, because those levels will help lead the training and test the results of learning effectively.

He also said that the guide has revealed and separate the formal system and that is not official in offering training about entrepreneurship education, the aim is to enable the receiver to be able to use the context and build knowledge and direction according to the environment of providing education.


