Youth: Kamjaza pregnancy, a child, a child.

It has been written by Basil stress.

It has been published: 16 October 2016.

How things, I should come there, greet stakeholders.
Before continuing to write what I intended to give her a girl who introduced himself by the name of Mercy for that caused him.

According to Mercy, his lover gave pregnant his mother (mother's mother of that girl).
Mercy also has the pregnancy of the boy.
Mother of Mercy has admitted that he is pregnant he was given by "what you were."
It is not common in our community but that is the real situation, the guys "katafuna" mother and child and visit pregnancy.
When it comes from Mercy explains that, the one that you have committed and believe it is the one who is able to betray him, to hurt him and even destroy.
After that, about the usaliti I commend the parents of the child Rashed Al Hajjawi (10) of Palestine by acknowledging the talent of that child and develop it.
I commend because it is not a lot of parents especially Tanzania who make efforts to recognize their children's talents, and some that they recognize but there are no efforts to promote them.
Baby Rashed has a talent to play soccer to an extent of being given the name of the Palestine.
That child has been born in Norway in 2006.
Lionel Messi is a soccer player of Argentina, and has been the best player of the world five times.
For that they saw a video that shows the talent of Rashed without doubt that they have accepted the ability of that child to play football to be compared to Messi.
In that video, Rashed plays soccer and his colleagues, but no one could kumzuia him to do it.
He is imbiza as he wants, he has great ability to own the ball, attacking him, when he is set up of maudhi, and the great ability to be paid for me.
Juventus club has identified the talent of that child and has already registered so after several years he may start doing his own in Seria A in Italy.
Perhaps there are Tanzanian children with different talents but it is saddening that, parents including youths have no culture of kuvitambua and kuviendeleza.
The talent of children are treasure to them and if they are advanced they can use them for years to earn money as that happened to Messi, they are tired of Christiano Ronaldo, Marta talent, da Silva, a player for basketball (retired) Michael Jordan and musician Janeth Jackson.
A good day.


