Again araining a mobile phone company, has handed over food aid and fruits for children with mental disabilities who are taken care of at the center of a good period of information that is in smoke smoke.
In the province of Kilimajaro, he got a lot of learning here here.
The donation was handed over to the management of the center and the director of the vodacom region in the northern region Mister Simon Chacha on behalf of the employees of Tanzania, whereby in smoke to participate in the race of Kilimajaro marathoni, Mister Chacha has said that the business company is responsible to help the community and use its services if returning its phone of profit lawler.
If they are not bothered by the end of the time.
It will not be hatutoi.
Totally no problem with all the time).
Before the next season.
What they are not in charge of
Wakilia children to get where the answers to the service, the general lawyer of the household says that the center is under the supervision of the gospel church of Tanzania and its various partners has fifteen branches in the municipality of smoke where more than two hundred children are getting services and various teachings and various teachings and various teachings.
It depends on the stakeholders to help you to die when we are dispassed on how we can build the ability to involve community members, we involve different friends and also because we ask the prime minister of the name is there under paying those ilo, there is not to believe that anyone is there, that he is not able to believe in the children and the community there is that that child was born completely. Regardless of it is the children of the children of the children.
He ended up from the chooni we will follow the child to learn to happen in his mouth so that it is daily schools you help the child to be independent to be independent to be independent to be independent.
And help to reduce the burden that in the family they are calling the answers that it has been when you're not even when you get it.
I am learning for it.
Said articles the cause of the katika
The problem problem.
