
Banned to go to school and draw that chanika

It was written by the Ikunda Erick, Kibiti.

It has been published: 30 September 2016.

The Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa has banned students wearing uniforms that chanika and went to school without wearing shoes and urged parents to make sure that their children are eating so that they read them.

He has directed the district commissioner of Kibiti to start a search of students' oro so that their parents should be taken action.
He made the instructions the day before yesterday in Kibiti when speaking to citizens at a public rally when he was in his tour in Pwani province.
Minister Majaliwa said the fifth term government imefuta fees at primary and secondary schools of the government as a step of raising the level of education and urged parents and guardians to fulfill their responsibility by making sure those children are learning and not to terminate their studies and get married.
"DC from now starting the search of all the children who do not go to school so that their parents are arrested and taken appropriate action.
The government has given money so that our children read and it is illegal to marry a female child, a parent when you are concerned we are able to capture and to score with you that you are in prison, we have no humor in that, "he said.
Speaking about the needs of those children in school, Majaliwa said that right now the parent has reduced the burden of paying fees and many contributions that the government has given and urged parents to use those funds to ensure that those children bought a draw, shoes and given food so as to read them well.
"The money that you used to pay for fees and contributions now will be forced to buy a draw with your children's food, it is illegal a child to go to school while he was wearing a draw that chanika," he said.
He said parents must ensure their children are learning.
He warned the parents with a habit of marrying children by kuwakatiza studies to stop immediately since starting from now, who will be known to terminate the student's studies especially female, prepare to go to prison 30 years.
In another step, the Prime Minister said three servants of the Misitu Department that he stopped working to pave way for investigations will continue to be out of work.
Also, he returned to work officer of the Forest Agency of the National Forest Agency (TFS) in Rufiji district because it is a new servant and he is not involved in the random harvesting of the forests.
However, he urged business people with licenses to harvest magogo to go to the office of the council to remove the legality of their licenses while waiting for a new procedure of harvesting forest produce.


