The market of the mbaazi laanguka.

It was written by Basil Basil.

It has been published: 14 September 2016.

The mbaazi market in the world has collapsed and affecting various countries that are facing their own including Tanzania.
However, the government has said that it is working on that situation in order to ensure that it is looking for marketing and buyers alternative so that the mbaazi which are in the country including Babati (Manyara), Lindi and Mtwara.

The Deputy Minister of Agriculture Livestock and Fisheries, William Ole Nasha admitted that the price of the mbaazi in the country has dropped by that the mbaazi market has been buried in the whole world.
He was answering a question of nyongeza the member of parliament for Babati Town, Pauline Gekul (Chadema) who said that the mbaazi have been oda in his region and business people have refused to buy including a big buyer in India, while neighboring countries of Uganda and Kenya have also been denied and wanted to know the government is making efforts to save the situation.
Responding to the question of nyongeza, Nasha said that the market of the mbaazi has been buried in the whole world and buyers have refused to buy a mbaazi for the previous price and give an example of Mtwara and Lindi that who work is bought up to 500 shillings for one kilogram.
However, Nasha said the government is making efforts to look for a big buyer that will purchase the farmers' work in the country for good.
In the primary question, the member of parliament for Lupembe, Joram Hongoli (CCM) wanted to know the government should be dealt with the conflict between the citizens and the investor who was given a Igombolo-Lupembe factory 2009.
Nasha said an investor company of Dhow Mercantile (EA) won the case with the union of cooperatives, Lupembe (MUVYULU) was ordered that compensation is estimated to be 28 billion shillings together with the cost of running cases, but MUVYULU got an appeal and thus the case is still in court.
The Minister of Agriculture Livestock and Fisheries, Doctor Charles Tizeba said the conflict has come to the end and urged MUVYLU to stop holding onto the court's decision so as to evade conflicts and enable citizens to benefit from the development that are done by the investor.


