Step teachers who are better if the procedure sa which gets to others do it comes to the
Ehin order to make a comic comic.
Are there not to be there.
The number used is one because there are groups that have already received ehhe is elected to join and with teaching training there are about a thousand youth youths.
It's not the one.
Five hundred thousand youths and the public has got the desire with those who have
They have passed only two weeks these questions that we recognize those of the first time those who were chosen by the ministry of education as they remained as the second selection but they remained as an appointment.
He will not be put in the time when your colleagues have started joining it to be announced that they will join the ninth month of nine.
And these are already their names we have made on the website they don't need to ask then there are spots.
The students who are tabora were required to join form five in the lake form five in secondary schools and enough space in a group of five hundred thousand students and we have created names on our website that any in those in those who are in those who are in those who are in those who are in those who are in those who are in those who are in those who are in those who are in those who are in those who are in those who are in
You pick up a college.
He is getting into a committee to pick up the college and will get a chance to join teaching if he wants to study the wali and the third group mi now, with me and anyone else who said the former hospitality that he wants to join teaching now, they can be able to ask through the website, there is a place where it is possible and using the post is not every part that is where it takes the important details that we need to follow the certificates because there is a place where it is happening and using the post. I will not write it will go to your coamba us we have our system that you join the system of the examinations council by if you write a number we know your results know your results.
And if another ability like to ask for one on the internet is the beats that one on the internet is that if you will go with the corrupt in the end, we have the first one that we have made the best of the internet as a network of the council I will return to the world.
Dot nine dot nine dot.
Cathbert otitis ni
Why ehhe who requested us to have told them this aguzi.
Find a lot of groups on the video videos.
When you are doing it.
It is a advantage that has not been put up for the money where we are going to give you a hm there are people who are not going to report to the stations because he is released to give you and we are not qualified to have a person of the person of the person.
Therefore, to go why it is these hours they rely on so by wanting him to pick up when we get a chance to choose where I'm going to be in the same where he can and he wouldn't say that he is in Tanga he will be able to choose in Iringa because he had a theory in Iringa, it is our brother you will have helped her help in Iringa because he had a lot of studies in Iringa.
It is in to bring a friendly service to put as mshindi a chance to choose out there where he is able to.
My question is there when it is there.
You found there is a large group chairpersons, you know that there is only when we need you to choose one and the writer is there as usual gives them three chances of elections for that if they will have been banana for me to choose the first one, maybe the team appeared to take over many students than the ability of the ability of the most of the ability.
Therefore, the other criterion that is used is that they will die from their own quality to those
For the fish to come up only if you choose then your second choice to sue them to be attributed to
Look for the original groups that we are not talking about there is a few teachers that we trust in me is the dust of it.
Now, a lot of brothers, a reporter there are three questions that have also been broken as the first group and a private diploma in the education of that Mwanao will read them for three years time for three years.
There is another group that will be studying the normal diploma of primary education education.
While not pilau.
The side of the science.
Or it is the teachers we expect with them as they will read for three years not the second group
Why those are the groups that are there and as he explained the executive secretary.
The names of the students for those and those found from TAMISEMI who were supposed to be so many king have been found in the brother of TAMISEMI.
The report has been taken again to the debts that several months women who have been given to ask them to come true and they should be able to ask for tourists from twenty-ten every month of the first month, the employees have already entered into the system to take requests in the system to take the application.
And the person of the pumzike for it.
