
They are ohodhi land to wabanwe more than

It was written by the editor editor.

It has been published: 17 October 2016.

In many areas of the country there have been a long term cry for some of the citizens to miss land for agriculture, rearing and construction of residence in areas around them, there are a few citizens have a lot of different areas among them have turned into Mapori due to not being advanced.

The cry has now been heard since the fifth term government has begun to take action as to arrest those people from the lack of developing, instead, give them with a commitment to develop including being given farmers for the purpose of agricultural activities.
If that is not enough, the day before yesterday, the Minister of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, William Lukuvi, noted the government's strategy of kuwabana more sodhi areas without developing whereby starting from July next year, to put it to the stern laws of ownership and the owners of those land will be charged a great tax.
We are increasing that decision of the government because the situation has now been bad, the rich are owning a big land without developing it, the situation they are surrounded by the citizens in those areas have no areas to cultivate and build housing.
They are using that position and turning Tanzania that of "Mabwana and they will have," since those areas are using the kuwakasing for a great money to farmers for only farming without making them to be the land owners.
Others have gone far more, they own land that they don't promote and use it for the purpose of getting loans to the bank, loans that did not go on the land that should be for agriculture, rearing or even built industries when the land could be used for the production and the country to get income and people to get jobs.
We have witnessed also those who owns more than five plots sitting with them for many years without worrying about the presence of the law that requires the fields to be advanced within three years.
Those fields are using them as a business where they are piling for more than five years, later to sell them at a higher price when the government donated and selling them so as citizens get rid of the housing problem.
As a result of that situation in new areas like Gezaulole, Kisota, Tuangoma, Mbweni, Bunju for Dar es Salaam to today, since the grounds were in 2003, they aren't advanced and turned out to be a Mapori of criminals.
There are other areas like Gezaulole and Mabwepande since the grounds should be given citizens not only three years there is no sign of starting construction.
That situation also we have seen Mbezi Beach where it is more than 30 years, since the grounds should be given citizens but it is still Mapori.
When people are spoiling those areas and kuyangua at a large price, there are many Tanzanian who have money to build housing they have no land to build, thus the aim of the government to reduce the housing problem continues to hit rock bottom.
We are asking for the government through the Minister of Land, Lukuvi, to address this issue of those feared land without developing by making sure that the law is ang off of the areas without worrying about the position of the owner in the community.
We have said so, since there are rumors that there are veterans of the past government and even traders have big areas and they have not advanced while poor citizens, getting problems of residential areas, agriculture and breed.
The action of people kuhodhi land when others don't even have a small piece of lending food, it is causing hatred.
That situation is left to continue is the same as making a bomb that rose to end many, who did not have the ones that are.
It is good that we should take precautions early before the risk happened.
The law that is in wanting people to promote land for the construction within three years, should work for actions, government iyang'anye wasioendeleza land and law of charging taxes to the owners of those areas, it will start being used to work every area.


