
Yanga, Simba's important points today today.

It was written by our writer Wetu.

It has been published: 07 September 2016.

The Tanzania Mainland Premier League continues today with the grass of three stadiums burning while the veterans of Simba soccer and Yanga are dropping in the pitch to search for three important points.

Yanga's game and Ndanda played at the Nangwanda Sijaona stadium is expected to have a tough opposition due to every team wanting to preserve its record where Yanga wanaingia on the field with only one goal to look for three points that will give them the benefit of defending their championship when Ndanda is taking care of honor for not being closed on his home ground.
Ndanda has climbed to the bridge in the year 2014 / 2015, and remaining playing for the third time in the league this season while the record showing that they have already saved a draw of without scoring twice and Yanga, kunyukwa once and inyuka Yanga 1-0.
Yanga that was facing the competition of the Federation Cup, is dropping on the pitch to play the second match after the African Lyon defeated 3-0 being the position of eight in the Premier League standings and its three points.
Ndanda has played two matches in the position of 15 in the league standings as it has lost all the matches away.
On the side of Yanga, his players who were said claiming that they moved to the level today they will play their former team while Ndanda.
The players are Kiggi Makasi, Jackson Chove and Salum Telela.
Moreover, in today's match, Yanga will miss its six stars from various reasons, those are Deogratius Munishi, Geofrey Mwashiuya, Pato Ngonyani, Haruna Niyonzima and Vicent Bosou.
Another match today will be between Simba welcoming Ruvu Shooting at the Uhuru famous stadium "farm of Mrs." being the first game being played at the stadium after being beaten by more than one year when you were renovated.
Simba is prepared to guide the defeat to the officers of Ruvu Shooting, after being forced to draw without scoring by the officers of JKT Ruvu in his second match.
The assistant coach of the reds, Jackson Mayanja told the Habaritoday that they have made adjustments at some of the weaknesses that came out in the match that pass in order to ensure they are doing well in their coming matches.
"We are prepared well in our game against Ruvu we have worked with the mistakes that came out of our matches in order to ensure we leave with all three points," said Mayanja.
Nayo Azam will be the guest of Prisons at the Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya.


