
The highest leagues in the continent for fans and sponsorship with Thomas Matiko for Glo Premier has been mentioned to be one of the most competitive leagues in Africa based on the data of the International Federation of history and Takwimu, has failed completely attract the local players and even outside.
Even in Europe, they are cheS you are interested in the league like England and Spain which have invested well, zilizo and enough money, money that you are determined through reliable sponsorship.
While Africa, the issue of sponsorship is seen to hold the pace and has already started OKA of these days has improved business and despite being the Nigerian Premier League which attracts many foreign players to join them in order to provide competition for those at home.
And this is the reason despite the utamu of the countries of East African countries that are with many players who are brought to soccer in Europe, lack of good sponsorship has made many good players outside boycotts for a player in the nations of those nations.
While with Wazelendo of those countries because they decide to escape from home so as to search for more rice elsewhere including also in South African league, Kenya and Tanzania.
1.
The Tanzania Premier League KUSINI sponsorship: Ksh17.5 billion in the South African Premier League is mentioned to be more interesting in Africa for the soccer players to be paid due to a great warranty that got it.
This is despite being one of the most young leagues in Africa being formed in 1996 after that nation to allow them to be eaten his freedom.
In 2007, the ABSA bank in that country entered into a contract that is ene to kuifadhili the central league of PSL for the sponsorship of 4 billion shillings for a period of five years.
Until today, there is no other leagues in Africa that has ever been entered into a big audience of more funding from that.
Along with the deal, PSL entered into another contract of Sh17.5 billion and SuperSport which was given all approval of flying its one match.
After the end of the contract 2012, ABSA and PSL was urefusha again for another period of five years and now it will be finished 2017.
ABSA is the one I will have to be the league that is paying well the players.
2.
The Premier League Ghana sponsorship: Ksh 903 million February 2014, the soccer federation of Ghana has agreed to the sponsorship agreement of 10 million American dollars for a period of five years and the First Capital Plus.
For every year, the bank will be giving a sum of 2 million shillings that will be divided among the clubs participating in that league.
The first Capital Plus which is the national bank entered into that agreement with Ghana FA after the kuipiku of Vodafone Vodafone Company that was proposing the sponsorship of 5 million dollars.
According to all the two culture of Ghana Allsports and Black Sports Net, several clubs had started threatening to withdraw from the league after the first sponsor of the phone services Globacom, unable to give money in 2013 / 14.
In 2008 Globacom owned by the Nigerian billionaire, Mike Adenuga agreed with Ghana FA to give an sponsorship of 23 million American dollars (Ksh2.1 billion) for a period of five years.
It is in the sponsorship period where the league was known as Glo Ghana Premier League.
However, the sponsorship of this league is estimated to be more than one billion because they are also in another contract of udhamis and the SuperSport company which has a permit for flying the tournament of that league directly.
3.
The Tanzania Premier League sponsorship: K327 million shillings according to the news of the Tanzania Citizen newspaper, on the 19th of October 2014, the intention has value the team between the team of the indi of televishi Azam Media Group that owns Azam Media Club because it gives another sponsorship of Tsh1.8 billion shillings (Ksh90.5 million) for the purpose of flying the league matches.
The Tanzania League has succeeded more in attract the players of Uganda, Kenya, Brazil, Nigeria and even Liberia.
Due to the sponsorship, every club gets a share of 160 million Tanzanian shillings (Ksh 8 million) every year.
I board a million agree every year, it's about five years ago.
Recently, it has erupted conflict between the soccer Federation in the country FKF and KPL after knowing that the board was refaining the contract of the sponsorship for another five years without being informed.
In that new deal, SuperSport who are the ones with intellectual title of flying the matches of TPL agreed to increase their sponsorship to 100 million shillings.
Along with SuperSport, the beer company EABL will be made Tusker, and give them a contribution to the sponsorship of the league cup amounting to 56 million shillings every year.
In those funds, KPL huzated crucia every club Sh7 million club that is participating in the premier league and due to the new sponsorship that might be reached 10 million shillings.
5.
The Premier League in Egypt sponsorship: Ksh100 million premier league of Egypt is moepo of the oldest league in the African Continent was founded on 1948.
However, that which is mentioned that one in the league with attraction and competition Ubwa Africa according to da ventures Africa, it got its first sponsored in 2005 da to agree with the phone service company, Vodafone has been installed for two years.
The amount of money that was given by Vodae is not unknown.
After the end of the strategy and Vodafone from 2005another phone company ALAT took the lead from 07 until 2011 the period that changed the name from Voone Egyptian Premier League, that he is currently in charge of the contract sponsored by Egypt ian TV, those who have the title title to fly its matches directly and also the title title to fly its matches directly and also the title of the television station of Egypt ian TV, those who have the title of flying its matches directly and also the title of the television station of Egypt ian TV, those who have the title of kupeperusha its matches directly and also the title of the other spreading to the other stations.
Since 2012, Egypt ian TV has been ikipampu a sum of 100 million shillings every year for the upeperbroadcast of those matches especially the popular teams like Al Ahly, Zamalek and they are dealing with them.
Therefore, the sponsorship Vodafone was back again and was sponsoring up early this year when it ended Pwasilisha Sports.
The Federation of Egypt EFA has been a lot of his own details that has to be agreed with this agreement.
However, together with all that, the league is more than that amount, including the amount is not known by the sponsors of the league at the moment Pwasilisha Sports.
Though the league is between those with great attraction to players due to the high payment, the number of foreign scientists are very small because every club is allowed to have the only three.


