Arusha, the agent of the forests services in the south regions that includes Ruvuma province, and mtwara has launched the processing exercise for the bee tanks in the village of ichesa, Namtumbo district, with the implementation of the campaign to increase the income by bee keeping, ignorance, where the launch is part of the whole country's plan for putting up a ten thousand gun and five thousand gun salute and five thousand gun. This by June this year, our writers have been praised has sent this information from
Linking it aims to loose the rank that we give, I mean again a little again.
It's encouraged who is representing the head of the head.
Before the tanks in we expected it.
The villagers are surprised by the agents of the forest services Tanzania Tanzania?
They should use the bee Wemba Mwajuma income in his greetings a famous seat by the name of Chege has said every Tanzanian is supposed to manage the implementation of the prime minister Mizengo pinda urged everyone to everyone.
By using bees to increase their income every one of these news here in a picture of owning a mzika union of not when you start with different organs must each member of the family member of the family.
He has no mzinga of bees because to come so that those who are interested in where it is possible earlier giving a report on the implementation of a gun program that the agents of the forests services Tanzania has also been lost embarrassing the manager of events in the south here Haule says that you can't have noted that you have determined the gun in Mississippi that he understood to sleep in Mississippi what he was understood to sleep in Mississippi.
The person made the news I want to be caused mercenaries will be sleeping in addition to the ambassador of the fourth and five thousand ambassador.
And the challenge members to reduce very fast speed.
Imagine more in a great weakness making a hundred gun through our project of also
Which we have been born all the talents as well as
And we got a hundred gun salute and from the
Tanzania in one hundred and ten out of them is this forty
Right on the right.
While I still work on it.
