
Grahamstown: South Africa city where the feelings of discrimination is still tight May 31, 2012, there is a big issue and open among the mix community of South African citizens, and it is the remnants of discrimination.
In everyday life, there are still that they are seeing it is Weupe reasonable or Wazungu, there are those who are proud and cry for Uafrika and also those who don't have a story and with the life of rape famous as the coloureds.
When you meet with the one who iona white upe, it is normal to be told that it is tired of Africa, especially after introducing himself that to you are Tanzania, Mozambique, Zimbabwe or any other African countries.

For them, South Africa is not a part of Africa, maybe it's a piece of Europe that would hate in this continent!
In Grahamstown, the situation can be obvious.
In this town there is a hall of disko that was given the name of the rats na parrots, (panya and Kasuku).
Here, the ones that are coming from is the empty.
His neighbor is there in Equilbrium hall which contrary to the Africans (black) and their music is the origin of this continent only.
This town which is the headquarters of the Makana Municipality, on how it is seen is the same with any other one in Europe for the weather in ubaridi and it was built.
But in the way that Wazungu seem to be most of the time, they believe that's where they are!
If you end up in the middle of this mjii and if you think it has got a real state of life in this nation that is built after through the rule of racist, you will have to reach a decision, because things are more than there.
Mr. Mbuleli Mpokola for him is Mxhosa and the host in this area, and his work is to guide the tourists.
Without the search of words he says: "If you end here you will not get the real state of life, the real situation is in the ship (uswahilini).
But before that, he is moving to the building built in the mithili of the ship being a memory of respect for those who arrived in Africa for 1800 years and their contribution and their generations in developing the nation of South Africa.
This building was opened in 1962.
Maybe in showing that the discrimination of discrimination is still being fixed, Mister Mpokola gives a different interpretation of this building.
He says: "This is a ship that came with (masetof), there is a day we will collect them to rest that return to them.
When they come to the sea and back to them, we don't know, because we're not calling! "
But he is also showing the Anglican church building which was built for 145 years, due to the fact that Africans were carrying out cement and other construction equipment by walking on foot and sometimes the bread of being pulled by animals from the Indian Ocean port.
He cursed that the current government, under the Weusi, has not been revenge and if he would have he would do that.
He is questioning why the government should give the same amount of allowances to keep life in Wazungu and Africans (Weusi), despite the fact that during the rule of racist Weusi got half of what they were given to Weupe?
In the uswahilini area of Makana, that is where the most Weusi.
Most of them are the agents helpless.
When I was there, I try to be compared to the torch area Mlalakuwa in the home in Dar es Salaam, but it is different for being while South Africa houses have been allocated.
However, life is a hohe is not better than there at home.
"Life is poor.
Most of these houses are the stage, but for now, the government is building a residence for the citizens who are not advantaged.
Tuliziita Mandela's houses, later that they will be called in Mbeki houses and I think for now, will be called the house of Zuma, because everyone gets to be baptised in his name, "says our host Mpokola.
These houses are a mix.
There are those that have been built for the support of the government and they are seen to be endeza, but also exist for iron sheets.
The popular look between all these are that almost many have electricity and they are striving to have local furniture, and sometimes even television sets.
Also this area is the one that is the indigenous alcohol, popular by the name of Umkhomboti, you are set up.
The other chapter is that, here there is no shop for Mchaga nor Mmachinga, all of them are forced to go to buy things in big shops popular as malls, even if it is the thigh of chicken and chipnot only.
The situation was reminding the move of Dar es Salaam city and Mwanza to chase them to be opposed.
I ask him, that action was for the benefit of who?
I mean that when it is held, this kind shops (malls) and they were going to take them to the country.
Mrs. J.W. Bouser is a lecturer at Nelson Mandela University, located in Port Elizaberth.
He says that in these uswahilini areas, there is no peace, and therefore it's not safe to visit.
This situation is revealed by the fact that it is rarely to find Weupe (Wazungu) in such areas.
When you go to the bar in these areas, where even the music hupigwa, you have noticed something else, it has to be a beer bottles here, it is great for more than that we used to Tanzania half liters (500 mililita).
Here is like a three-quarter of a liter (780mililita), but in Wazungu areas, a capacity is ililita 380 although the price almost is one despite the differences!
Mr. Vulkie Teyise, in charge of the Tita Memorial Center between the Waxhosa and Wazungu of April 22, 1819, is showing part of this station where the Weusi had been in the era of the administration of Kizungu.
He says there is no black one who allowed to be moved out there more than those who were arrested opposing the rulers.
He says that in those fights, that's also known as the war of Grahamastown, Weusi many were killed.
During the struggle, the leader of the Waxhosa, Nxele was arrested and later going to be defeated in the prison of Robben where he died in a sentence.
It is at the prison where Nelson Mandela has also been beaten.
In another area of this town that has been set aside, there are Wahindi and many of their houses are pinki.
Mapokela says: "I don't know what it is for these people often they are committed to, and their houses have this color.
We for us the color of pinki is usually when we want to mean that the father of the city has gone to work on the legs, therefore, the community imindie his wife!
Except them I don't know what they mean.
It's people to kujibaguabchoose only! "
But maybe that their lives are threatening in this municipality, it's those of the machotara community (Coloreds).
Their houses are of the boxes and the pieces of iron sheets, and there is the drugs that are sold and the dirt was rampant.
It is a poor life and there is nothing you're going to be followed by there for us.
Although there is one teacher of secondary school claiming that racial segregation were eliminated in the past South Africa, and that what remains is just feelings, but the real situation shows that the sin is still where he is in this country with great developments in Africa.
Maybe what to interview or ask is the administration of President Jacob Zuma has power in running this country, and to tackle well this sin?
But the other one is that when you find poor in this country, it is always hohesharp, because he does not even have a set-up to cultivate he does not.
The big land has been taken by the rich, and the more confusion is that all they bought their needs in the alls with great names.
And we of Tanzania are the development that we are rushing into?
I am asking so, why and we have begun to give land to investors, and we are also missing them sellers so as to pave way for big foreign investors.


