Yanga have not received the secretary who benefits?
Dec 04, 2014, 2014.

There is a time I have ever said through my one in this newspaper that, so as to be a leader in Simba and Yanga clubs, you are supposed to have a certain character.

When I mentioned some of those behaviors as well as the mjanjamjanja and the person to give numerous promises when you want to vie for different positions, even if you feel that there is no friendly environment to enable them to implement those promises.
But you should also be a person to withstand the fitna and the turbulence of here and there from members of the clubs.

This situation was in the old clubs in those days, there is now and will continue to be in case the whole system of leading Simba and Yanga will not be changed.

The biggest problem in these clubs are leaning towards a decision that most of the time has been done by members, or through the sessions and official meetings or no official.

There is a time it seems obvious that some of the members in these clubs are there for their interests and not to the interests of the clubs.
For example have been there groups in these clubs that all day came out during conflicts and not during the development plans.

This system of these clubs which has been recommended, there is a possibility of taking them to trouble this club more than here where they are.
History shows that Simba and Yanga clubs have lasted for a long time in the premier league and to show the old nickname that has caused those teams to have a couple of lovers.

There is no primary that took place on the investment side in the soccer of this country more than different leaders who have been getting into power to have ghost plans.

Perhaps this situation has been allocated by some of the members of those clubs with thoughts of looking around and not far.
The great reputation of these clubs are raising conflicts from time to time from members to the leadership.

At the end of the week there was reports of the former secretary general of Yanga, Beno Njovu to release the level, but more reports are saying that he has completed his time, according to the contract that he was with with the club.

No one refused that Njovu has not finished his time, but the way that was used to release the stairs to the announcement through the media is the one with the walakin.

Njovu, who came in power in January this year, taking the position of Lawrence Mwalusako, has found himself leaving power in the same routine that he came from Mwalusako.
For quick accounts, Yanga has made changes to three secretaries within 15 months.

Before Mwalusako was present, Celestine Mwesigwa, who is now the secretary general of Tanzania Football Federation (TFF).
Yanga has also ever brought the secretary general from Kenya, Patrick Nagi, eti the elders of Yanga were arrested because it is not a member of Yanga.

We are back in there that some of the members have a decision without knowing what it means.
They won't forget that that is a chance to be employed and or not the position of members to vote as they do for the chairman and other leaders.

Secretary is an important leader in any institution.
He is a leader who is supposed to be responsible for broad in his institution.
This with the meaning of that he is involved in the long-term plans and short term.
As I had previously said that previously, that brings the ball in our big clubs are members who sometimes fail to recognize their positions.

At the time, the secretaries are being chosen, they were sitting in power a long time.
And after the secretary to enter power was trying to create a certain group that if there will be no problem it should be ready to defend him.

These days things have changed after those positions are being announced by people who are employed as a result of their reputation professionally.
There are several things to consider so at least the secretaries who are employed in these clubs are able to sit for a long time in order to implement the plans they put for development.

Seems to now the position of the secretary to the Simba club and Yanga is as the registration of the player.
Because the leadership can build a difficult environment due to the personal reason that you hate his employment and he decided to release himself at the level of himself.

As of some of the leaders interfering with power of their coaches in different determination including registration, so that is the way it is now for leaders wanting to interfere with the responsibilities of their secretaries.
The current secretaries for our old clubs have turned out to be like the departments, because of the leadership of the club wanting to do everything.

For this situation that is going on in the Yanga Club to change the secretaries, they must members and leaders to take a look at afresh while being aware that the problem is in the club.
If it's not for the members it's for leadership.

There is a certain disorder for some people wanting what they are saying kipite without being opposed.
But for the position of the secretary general is supposed to be given a chance to do his work without being interrupted without a primary reason.

Perhaps Yanga were able to pay hope by depending on this style of making simena to depend on "Sterling one, so they continue to build themselves by making their plans to end in words and papers, to benefit a few cunning.

Without changing in this, things will be what they are in the club of Yanga.
His interpretation may not be as the one of the administration of dictatorship.
Or yes to say that Yanga have not gets to the secretary who benefits them until now that is why they have been employed every time after a short time?


