They have been caught up to them.

It has been written by Sophia Mwambe.

It has been published: 19 September 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda has officially launched a special program, aimed at improving the transport sector of famous motorcycles as Bodaboda as well as Bajaj, which will now be registered for their special numbers, that will have been written in uniform they will have been wearing.

The program will be known as the new sight of motorcycles and bajaji in Dar es Salaam.
When it will begin, there will be no need for police to block each other and bodaboda and it will be easy to reduce crime.
Speaking at the time of launching the program, Makonda said it will help the passengers if it happens anything, someone will be able to use his mobile phone by bringing in a special number, as of financial services and to go to the section of the Bodaboda service and Bajaj in Dar es Salaam city, then incorporate the number that is in the driver's uniform.
Makonda said after bringing out the number, he would be able to be given the real name of the driver, the registration number of his motorcycle, the area analoegesha, the leader of his area on the side of bodaboda and his phone numbers together with the leader.
Also bodaboda and drivers Bajaj all in the province, they will have a special uniform that will be distributed free as well as a hard cap.
He said he intended to improve the sector so as to be trusted as well as to evade the trouble that are facing those drivers.
He added that the launch of the program will avoid Bughudha in travel especially between drivers and police, the situation that has gained hostility.
"These improvements have also intended to remove them completely the arrest of motorcycles and Bajaj in Dar es Salaam city," he said and urged those drivers to follow the laws in place so as to avoid unnecessary accidents as well as the mistakes that can be avoided.
He ordered the police force of road safety unit in that province, to increase the number of soldiers in all roads from today to ensure that the law will be followed and profession.
In another step, Makonda has officially launched the drivers of drivers and owners Bodaboda and bajaji in that province, where he thanked the action and urged the members to use it to continue development.
Previously, the chairman of the organizing committee of Bodaboda and bajaji in that province, Daud Laurian congratulated that head of the province for the creativity and that the action will add a great honor to the transport sector which was being interpreted as a crime and uhuni.
He said, bodaboda and Bajaj for every district that is Temeke, Kinondoni, Ilala, Ubungo and Kigamboni will have their uniforms of uniform as well as their numbers.
He added that together with other things, the new perspective aims at increasing business opportunities in that transport, where a person, institutions or organization that will need to write an announcement in a difficult cap or pipiki will be forced to pay for.
"But also, this sector is now contributes in a big way in the national income, where in Dar es Salaam province for a year can bring more than two billion shillings," said Laurian.
The launch was organized in a great partnership between the Office of the Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA), Chotec Limited, the police force, Shell Advance, Clouds FM, Event Master and attended by various leaders together with the motorcycle drivers and Bajaj.


