
Studying, reading again is the life of the journalist to the journalist, the class halifted.
Libraries have not been ui Kufuli.
The students did not love the holiday.
Teachers do not tire.
Ask and to be treated is the life model.
Reading it is like a kawa!
I study in order to get a new one.
I remind myself in order to not forget.
Ask them to get the increase of knowledge.
Kufukua more in order to fill the treasure of knowledge, skills and method.
I look to stay active professional.
December 2016 was a month to help or enable the journalists of Mwananchi Communications Limited (MCL) to prepare for a lot of work and better for the year 2017.
This journey, who led the preparations of the writers was the relations manager of MCL.
In the middle of December, before many have not been divided to go to "eat holidays," what he omoa andishi important and handed him every writer.
It was right: You should receive a andishi.
You put the sign to show you have got it.
You leave it from it.
You need to be read carefully and use its content to prepare the news by considering the criteria and conditions.
This writing is a list of instructions, and at the same time the criteria for testing the author's work to write and to editor what she wants it to be news.
This list is important to the author.
He can use you asking questions, kujitafiti and it will evaluate.
It is this list that the relations manager of MCL has refused to journalists so that everyone should have the same instructions about finding information and to confirm the editor so that they can be news.
Given to instructions and evaluation during the final holidays and the beginning of the year, to aim to tell journalists not to be topea in a celebration and register them, but to remain at work in mind and measure of mental work and their hands.
Let's look around that are on the list they were entrusted to journalists.
Here we will not follow the flow of the numbers.
We will go to the opopoa.
The author wants the writer to ask him if the information he has the weight and the value of being news.
He was convinced then let him continue to collect information and prepare news.
What is that the writer has written and is called news, it is answered all the important questions - what is in or has happened, about who or what, when they are, why and how?
The author wants to show you the importance of what you are writing and give answers to the headquarters of the kimukisal, for example about the main characters, who benefit from the direction of the unachorreporting.
The writer is supposed to make sure that what he is writing in a special context and its history is understood so that the readers can connect with events even the following.
All this is about the author and the Msanifu of the news.
If there is a writer that is not set up, then Msanifu atherefore and or ayaweke or amwagize the writer ayaweke, or andishi liwekwe along waiting for the necessary information to make that news.
The list of instructions and the criteria is asking if it has shown all the information to prove that you are writing if it has shown the list of sources of information - people or vidhibiti and if it has struggled to ask the characters or all stakeholders in the issue that you have reported.
For many years there have been a problem of writers to say and believe that there are two sides in everything, every issue.
This is not true.
Neither is no four sides "as of the world."
Every issue has a lot of sides as who is looking for information he is dug.
The husband who gombana with his wife, it's not the only one who are involved in a fight.
There is a neighbor who decided, mpitanjia who witnessed a fight started, a child who remember a fight started yesterday or the day before yesterday, a delegate who remember they couldn't before him in the office of the estate and one of them and he confessed the mistake, the neighbors who had been referred to sleep by the noise of the shuffle and others.
It is not enough to ask two people and put up the hands in the pocket that work is over.
There's a lot of sides.
The list of instructions and criteria that are a special teacher, is one of the guidelines for the media that are under the Nation Media Group (NMG) including MC.
Kumbukizi is asked: You have mentioned sources of information so that you are writing to be understood and we are not believed to be trusted?
It has abandoned your news for a special hadhira and it's not used to be challenged and without a goal?
Your readers do not have an important questions that you are able to answer?
What do you have written is true?
Unwriting correctly?
Is you understood - language?
You have been reading your work and it has to be taken before I take it forward so that it should be news?
The writer is the community editor of the Mwananchi Communications Limited involved in the newspaper of Mwananchi, Mwanaspoti and this.
For questions and arguments about the agencies, communicating with him on the phone, 0713614872 or 0763670229, e-mail:


