
The commission of controlling the drugs that are not allowed to keep public veterans of the MIHADARATI.

Rashid Mkwinda

After the silence of approximately ten years since people alleged that they are the ones that are associated with transportation and importation of drugs in the country, their names are taken to the former head of Dar es Salaam Province, Yusuf Makamba, the commission of Kuratibu and Kudhibiti drugs in the country has continued to slug the names of those Vigogo.

The reports of the presence of 12 drugs in drugs were blocked in Mbeya province in the year 2014 where some of the users of those drugs popularly known as' mateja 'claims to be involved in those drugs who took the names of 12 principals for Makamba who until he is retiring, he has never mentioned those names.

Speaking at the meeting with journalists at the Office of the Provincial Commissioner of Mbeya Abbas Kandoro, about the reports of the commemoration of the drugs on drugs in the country that are taking place tomorrow in Mbeya City, an analyst from the Commission of Drugs, January Ntisi said the names of those Vigogo were presented in the commission and are going to be able to get a confirmation of their involved. "The names reached the commission, we were received but we can't mention, some of the involved. They were arrested by their cases have been brought to our courts and those outside, there are procedures that are continuing with international laws on this issue," said Ntisi.

He said that there are those who were mentioned their names who are still going to be searched and that even though their control has been difficult because of having a great network rich people with great ability to use modern equipment including Boti ziendazo speed.

"They have a lot of internet, they are using Boti ziendazo speed, we are going to look in conjunction with some foreign countries, this issue needs great attention," explained Ntisi.

About being released free for some of the suspects of drugs and discontrol of drugs on it to be brought to the court to disappear and kuoneka is fake, the Director of criminal crime and four groups, Gloria Omar said that all the reports following the chief chemist are acted based on the evidence.

"" The reports brought to the chief chemist are acted professionally and confirmed according to the evidence, "he said.

Speaking on the phone from Dar es Salaam city activist for fighting for human rights and Vita against drugs, Pastor William Mwamalanga said that the Commission for Drugs drugs does not have the ability to help this problem and instead they should be made power in the police force unit.

"The commission has failed in this, the suspects mentioned to be involved in drugs ten years ago to be returned fast and they are expressing these businesses, the Mwalimu Nyerere Airport has been the oro to pass the shadarati," he noted.

He said that between international airport in East African countries at the Mwalimu Nyerere International Airport is the weak ground than all fields where it has been used to bring in and transporting drugs without control.

He said that transportation and importation of mihadarati has increased three times for a period of ten years and that the number of deaths and increase of users has been a big threat and that the commission is unable to control the situation for the whole period since its establishment.

According to the pastor of Kipenteknashe said that until June this year based on the research that was done by the activists of the fight against drugs in the country is that a total of 6708 have died from drugs in Dar es Salaam city alone.
He said that the City of Mbeya a total of 48 youths have died in the cities of the border of Tunduma and Kyela a total of 104 youths have died and in Tanga, a total of 71 youths have died in Mwanza, a total of 36 youths have died from the use of drugs.


