Mchina is caught on claims of not enough Tanzanite October 23, 2013.

China's citizens, Li Naeng (33) has been arrested for not enough of Tanzanite minerals against the law of the country and caused the legal tension between the Tanzania Audit Agency (TMAA) and the resident magistrate court in Hai District, Kilimanjaro Province that gave a special judgment against the citizen.
In his special judgment, the Court called the Chinese citizen who was arrested at the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) and commanded how to return the minerals worth millions of money.
According to the verdict of that case that the accused admitted the mistake of finding out of minerals without having legal documents, he was sentenced to three years or pay a fine of 300,000 shillings of Tanzania.
In addition to that fine, that judgment that Raia Mwema has seen his copy is conclude that, the accitakiwa repeated the minerals because it is a valid owner.
The way he was arrested.

The investigation that was done by Raia Mwema KIA and later confirmed by some of the officers of TMAA, explains that Li Naeng, with passports number E 20203356, was arrested at the international airport on October 17, this year, 11 o'clock and the officer inspector of TMAA, where he was found by Tanzanite minerals worth 120348.80 (more than 190 million Tanzanian dollars).
The investigation explains that Li Naeng was arrested in the area of inspection machine (x-ray) when he was iapreparing to leave the PW 723 airplane, taking Nairobi in Kenya and later on China, but after inspection was found by the minerals that he did not have any documents and he was the one who transported against the law.
According to our investigation that has been confirmed by some of the officers, Li didn't have an important documents that include the big license of minerals (the dealer) and the permit for transporting minerals outside the country (Export permit), contrary to the law of minerals of the year 2010.
One of our news source, we are partnering with it in our investigation explains, "after being completed in accordance with the procedures of blocking the defendant to continue with his journey, alijaza and signing the form of the title of arresting minerals that was given by the Ministry number 000161 and those minerals were opened in front of the police officer who was at the field, Elihuruma A.Mtera, as a witness."
Those reports that are forced to be noted that after completing all the procedures on the field (KIA), a suspect was taken to the police station on the field and opened the charges of illegal smuggling in RB number KIA / RB / 359 / 2013.
Tomorrow, October 18 was brought back to the Hai District Court and opened the case number 321 / 2013 of finding out of minerals against the law after the mining inspectors from the regional office to confirm the minerals are kind of Tanzanite.
A lot of controversy.

More reports of investigation explains that, while the police station suspect was given the payment documents of TRA (number: ID.01 / Bravo / 102118510 / 100167913 / 04TZ200025 of four million shillings, as the previous payment for the company of Cultural Heritage Ltd which is the one that ignore those minerals.
Moreover, at the stage that increase the controversy of the scandal to the officers of TMAA, documents showing that it was printed (print) at 08 o'clock, 19 in the morning when I suspect had been arrested three hours ago (11 o'clock in the morning), while preparing to transport minerals.
Also, the documents did not have a Muhuri of TMAA or of the office of the northern region as the law is directed by even tourists who buy minerals in the normal stores, they are forced to take them to the offices so that their documents have taken to the Muhuri.
Another controversy in the scandal is in the title of claims (Tax Invoice) of the Cultural Heritage Company Ltd, number ch / INV.10-16 / 13 which shows that those minerals were worth 89,698,644 shillings and contrary to the real costs according to the control of minerals that was done by the officers of the mining office of the region.
However, the efforts of Raia Mwema to find the director of the Cultural Heritage Company Ltd, Seiftetemeko la Khabahai, to explain the participation of his company in the scandal did not succeed because the phone number had been closed all the time.
But reports are claimed that one of the popular business people in Arusha town who has a huge influence to the top leaders in the government is the one who follow some of the officers of TMAA, with a copy of the judgment of the court wanting to be given those minerals because the court has commanded that step that however, the officers refused.


