
The employment project need more amendments in the year yesterday the association of employers in Kenya (FKE) that mark that many of the students who are graduating from degree degree in universities can't work that they have studied when they are employed.
In the next two months more than 30,000 youths who have graduated from the level of degrees and they have not succeeded in getting employment they will have a reason for smiling because the government will give them an opportunity to get an interest required according to the profession they studied.
This is a test project run by the State House of the president for five years in the efforts of enabling young people to get jobs opportunities that these days with Leonard ONYANGO is rare and even maintain the national compatibility.
Meanwhile, most of them will be sent to FUNZA in primary schools across the country where they will be receiving 6,000 shillings every month.
Though this plan has a good intention of organizing young people for the employment market and even make the youth to be patriotic, there are a lot that should be done in order to ensure that it is successful.
First, it is impossible for someone of the level of degrees to teach students of primary school because he does not have any training about how much he is able to devface with those children and that is why the teachers of secondary schools and primary schools are getting training in different colleges.
It would make the number of teachers will rise up in primary schools, there will be no quality of education that is required.
These teachers were taken to be taken to secondary schools because they are facing the shortage of teachers.
The chances of being FUNZA by volunteering in primary schools under the new program of the new government is released on Kenyans who have graduated from education of colleges to provide teaching training of primary schools (TTC).
There are many youths who have graduated from Pili, payments that have been recommended of 6000 shillings is a little bit not enough for those teachers who have pledged to survive in life.
Most of the students who graduated from universities got funding from the board of providing art loans (Helb).
So, that money are enough to pay the house, to pay Helb and buy other needs of essentially to keep life especially during this time where the cost of life has risen?
That amount is suitable to be added in order to give them the motivation to these youths of 22 and 30 years who would like to get a interest under this new program of


