From Mwanza heading to Manyara province where the head of Mbulu district, Anatory Choya, has said that the district has begun to provide support food together with agricultural tools for the community of people who are helping the price for the purpose of starting the agricultural activities as well as the implementation of the order and President jakaya Kikwete, he urged the community to help us change the system of life by depending on the wildlife and collection of fruits on the left is benja Mwaipaja and that is his report to Mwaipaja and that is his report to Mwaipaja and that is his report to Mwaipaja and that is his report to Mwaipaja and that is
In this area of the valley of Yaeda under Mbulu district, Manyara province, I am living a small tribe and they are starting with which since several decades ago their lives are depending on wildlife and eat fruits, I eat fruits and eat fruits.
As the years is going to the community to find them faced with severe hunger every year and I have been forced to kuzikimbia this one as their daily food due to their disappearance of Mapori in their area is fruits and they put up after those words being ambushed by poaching farmers and farmers who destroyed their joy and crimes of farmers and farmers who destroyed their joy in their hearts and destroyed farmers.
Gidabuday Diamond ali on the chair of the government of our village to discuss this valley in the week, Iddi under a drought part of drought drought.
Especially when you consider the community especially the people of the people.
That they are people who don't have a lot of food that is there is no longer there.
The possibility of that.
The workshop to get that is in their ways, except that they rely on fruits and fruits make sure that there is because they want the results to eat Mbulu, Anatory Choya has told another colleague in the government they are not in charge of public suspects.
Every household should be able to get two choices of the wife and husband.
Therefore, we can't have begun that it has been divided to take them together down we expect to go to distribute again on the location in the ward.
A week.
Therefore, we thank the very government to the general secretary and we will manage to ensure that now our brothers here here.
They are turning out now they have turned along the same so that their lives of life.
From collecting fruit and uwindaji.
You farmers some of the residents of the area as well as to reflect on how to start a new farming life instead of owning Pinde and mishale as the source of earning livelihood of every day they thanked the government for that program, I am thanked the government to help us from the previous time they have understood that they will help again for the second time in the second time.
We will be grateful to have it.
A donation of food.
If not.
And the others I have been able to.
The figures that are showing that his punishment is one of the tribes with a small number of people including the number of people to reach one health where among them you will not fill three hundred hundred.
I didn't Ben Mwaipaja kibisi when it's
