
Yono wouldn't manage Manji to leave Quality Plaza.

It was written by the Ikunda Eric.

It has been published: 04 December 2016.

The Quality Group Company Limited, owned by the chairman of Yanga Club, Yusuph Manji has been removed from the power to the command of the High Court of Lands, at the building that was planned for Quality Plaza, after failing to pay the debt of 13 billion shillings, that is claimed by the owner of the building, which is the PSPF Pension Fund.

Implementing the work yesterday in Dar es Salaam city, the company of brokerage of the court of Yono who were given approval by the fund to replace those debtors after failing the case, following the verdict of the Supreme Court that was released on November 24th this year, they gave the media out after being given 24 hours to remove the volunteer.
The executive director of Yono Company, Scholastika Kevela who is the implementation of the work said, they gave a 24 hours notice that they wrote the day before yesterday at the office they wanted them to leave themselves before the legal order of the court has not ended by today morning.
"Quality Group and four colleagues are required to leave with us today (yesterday) we have come to remove and that is why they wish their things and leave, are alleged to have 601 million shillings equivalent to 13 billion shillings, which every time he was told he has been rushing to court more than 10 years now," said Kevela.
He said the PSPF Fund, unaidai the Quality Group Company funds of planning, but whenever he is required to pay he has been akigoma and ran to court to set up a petition to pay for him to continue to sit for free and that the decision of the Supreme Court given on November 24th, has wanted him to return within 24 hours and pay the debt he owes.
"We came to have written the announcement of that judgment of wanting him to return himself to the building but he became what he has with his people and we remind our people to protect and now he has begun to give his property and until tomorrow he is supposed to have to do it," said Kevela.
He said together with giving his stuff inside the building he has been given a period of 14 days legally he should have paid the debt and if he will be unable to pay his property when they are arrested and sold in order to get money to pay the debt he owes PSPF.
Other companies ordered to leave inside the building is Gaming Management Ltd, Q-cosult Ltd, International Transit investment company Limited.


