
Wetang'ula will find the immunity in court, Erick NGOBILO and WYCLIFFE MUIA Senator for Bungoma Moses Wetang'ula has ordered his lawyers to oppose the case presented by Musikari Kombo in the upper court about his election of useneta.
"The case was presented 38 days after the general election against the 28 days needed legal.
The Supreme Court has already given guidance about the case and we are hoping that the law will be followed, "said Mister Wetang'ula.
The Senator said that the decision that was given Friday and the appeal court to oppose his appeal will not affect any of his position as Senator for Bungoma.
Mister Wetang'ula has ignored the claims that the appeal court has decided that he didn't need to hold that position.
"This is the translation of the law that is not fit.
The appeal court in December was ignored my appeal and wanted the election to be repeated where I won by a lot of votes, "he said.
In his decision last Friday, Korti of the appeal in Kisumu, supported the decision of the main court that Mister Wetang'ula aliwahonga religious leaders during the meeting that took place at the Red Cross Kyi, where he gave them 260 shillings 000 on February 22, 2013.
The panel of three judges gave the main reasons for ignored the election of Mister Wetang'ula and later wanting the election to be repeated.
Mister Wetangula said that the claims of giving a bribe was reduced by the Director of Public Public Mashtaka, who is after Judge Francis Gikonyo wanting the Senator to be investigated.
"The investigation was done by the director of intelligence after the order of Mister Tobis doesn't get any wrong.
Those claim were known to miss any truth and the case was closed and that is why we did elections again December 19, "said Mister Wetangula in a session with journalists in Bungoma.
Mister Wetangula alishutumu some of the media by being used by his political enemies so as to announce that he didn't need to hear the position of useneta.
The Senator said that he would not be shocked by threats of his enemies and insisted that he will reflect on the residents of Bungoma work.
He said the bad interpretation of the law and the Referral Court has caused a state of anxiety among his followers and those of the cord union.
Mister Wetangula disclose the KCA in the city of his city is the music of music, to ratify a. that he will leave onto the other leaders in the cord union in contesting for presidency in the year 2017.
At that time, Mister Wetangula was ashifu the government of Jubilee for failing to provide an appropriate leadership to the nation.
"Special projects for the construction of railway and computers is suspicious of the ability of Jubilee to continue to lead," said Senator.


