
RC Morogoro aziita Simba, Yanga, Yanga.

It was written by John Nditi, Morogoro, Morogoro.

It has been published: 04 October 2016.

Morogoro Provincial Commissioner, Doctor Stephen Kebwe has invited Simba soccer teams and Yanga using the stadium of the Republic of Morogoro after being prevented by the government using the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam.

The Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye the day before yesterday announced the ban of the old teams to use the National Stadium due to its fans to destroy the infrastructure of that stadium including breaking the mageti and uprooting seats in the premier league match that brought together the rocks at the end of last week.
Doctor Kebwe said that when he spoke to leaders of Morogoro Football Association (MRFA), the leadership of the Stadium of the Republic and players of the Morogoro Police soccer team together with their leaders after the end of the game of the First Division League against Njombe town the day before yesterday at the stadium.
The provincial commissioner said he supports the decision of the minister Nape to prevent those teams with many fans to use the stadium.
"National Stadium has been built by our friends of China by using huge costs that are the taxes of citizens, Yanga and Simba have gone through a loss of the government and because they don't have a chance again to use the stadium, we welcome them to come to use the stadium of the Republic since there is no seats to be married," said Doctor Kebwe.
Therefore he instructed the leadership of the stadium of the Republic to start working on a major renovation of infrastructure and the area of playing with other games so as to meet the modern standards for playing for the national and international games.
"I give three months to the leaders of this field to start a renovation that should be more modern from the athletics areas, the ball of cassava, hands and netball and being on the standards, we welcome to invite Yanga and Simba to come to play for the stadium of the Republic," said Doctor Kebwe.
In addition, Doctor Kebwe praised the Morogoro Police soccer team by starting well the competition of the First Division League in his group urged them to increase efforts and more knowledge by following the directives of their teachers so as to play well in the following games of the inside and outside the province.
"I would like to see the Morogoro Police team inapanda the Premier League.
He said in order to promote soccer game and others, it's good for the field leadership to take action to repair different areas for the purpose of being used.
On his part, the chairperson of MRFA Pascal Kihanga said, the province has intended to see the police team Morogoro is returning to play the Premier League and urged players to start ume because of sports stakeholders are together with them.
The police commander of Morogoro Region Ulrich Matei, said the team belongs to the citizens of that province thus they don't have to support it since it makes it good enough to bring us a reputation in the whole province and the police force Morogoro.


