
Bil 15 / - to prepare the youth Tanzania of industries for industries.

It is written by the special writer.

It has been published: 09 December 2016.

The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said that the government has set aside 15 billion shillings for the purpose of providing training to more than 2,500 youths so as to empower them to participate as strength in industries that are expected to be built in the country.

Almeoa statement yesterday night at the award ceremony of the best employer of the year 2016 that took place at the Julius Nyerere International Conference Center (JNICC), Dar es Salaam.
The awards were organized by the Agency of Tanzania Employers (ATE).
He has said that the government has begun to believe in providing training on the priority sector by considering the national development plan like agriculture, oil, gas, tourism, transportation, sewing and skin products.
He has said that efforts are going on in other areas so that employers should have a broad range of getting employees with appropriate skills because the government acknowledges the importance of them to work with skills and great competence with the aim of increasing productivity.
In another step, the Prime Minister talked about the challenges that are being complained about by the employers of the presence of various charges provided by the different government authorities for the services that they know and already the process of identifying all the laws that seem to delay the investment as well as business environment in the country.
"Our aim is to continue improving the environment of doing business in the country so that they can attract more and this process is being dealt with by the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
We request the mvumilie and cooperate with us in continuing to identify the laws that are thinking of business so that we can also include the review, "he said.
However, he advised all employers in the country to continue to do their work according to the law in order to avoid unnecessary conflicts.
When we say here Work, we mean work on all the production sector and provision of better services in the country, whether the private sector or in public service.
I urge my brothers of Tanzania, put nadhiri that in the year 2017 you work with the effort and knowledge so as to increase productivity and prosperity in work, "he said.
And the minister of state, the office of the prime minister, policy, parliament, labor, youth, employment and people with disability, Jenista Mhagama urged employers to help put inspiration in the efforts of providing training for the experience and increase skills by giving an opportunity to the graduates to get experience in their work areas. The industrial sector by 40 percent to the year 2020, the success of the program is depending on the contribution of employers from the private sector.
He congratulated ATE by recognizing the importance of investing in human resources especially by giving an award in the area of developing talent, where he requested the next award to increase the criteria of getting the employer who sent his resources to increase skills to its employees who are the source of raising productivity and competitive business.
And the executive director of ATE, Doctor Aggrey Mlimuka said the aim of preparing those awards is to recognize members with good policies of human resource management in institutions and various companies member here in the country.
He said that the awards are following scientific techniques and technically in order to look at the importance of human resources in the big company, medium and small in order to uplift the skills of employees who work with dedication to work places.
Doctor Mlimuka said that the awards were also focused on looking at the important areas of human resources, leadership, administration, human resources, to help the community as well as being responsible in the community, quality and production.
In another step, Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) has won a total of awards for the best employer of the year 2016 provided by ATE.
This is the second year in a row for TBL to get that victory which is due to what they believe is his competence of creating a good environment and safe place through innovation being done by the human resources unit.
The second winner is to CocaCola first when the third position was weto go to AngloGold Ashanti Geita Gold Mine and the second one is Coca-Cola Kwanza Limited.


