First short in the evening as usual our second one that says it's
Be more stable I was told if we went to the Mabwana on behalf not because I had not crossed before seeing this year it means that it has got a sense that it has got it because it has got it because it has got
Now who can I come to what they come instead of but the temperature of it.
The elderly people and prepared the best youth because of their news carrying them.
Ox will be there in Somalia just watch the barabra at the time that we have to do it.
To say the word is said to be given priority.
The first one Maganga is eating you may be calling the first one that is coming up the first one is a well mapambo can be a small house but you will say they have or not said to have or not said that they are or
Of another because of the wambui he is told you will be told you will be told.
But I can also find goals like Simba, the oldest man is becoming a woman or a musician, you will be surprised they say that I say just the husband to deliver the husband can deliver.
My son because he is onda or claims for a grandfather, a long time he cannot get married but the old man does not want to get on her back when they agree of her.
Mzee is a bad woman being carried out they can't.
The one where we are from).
I can get to get it.
To musician me has a ashiki.
And then though the mi I have come to meet three in the old age in the disease and among the stakeholders can get a child and two woman means that they have missed a certain thing in another body there but others get a legacy that is still a young man. The biggest challenge we have been released from Wpaper all paper.
The appearance of hair as it appears forward due to the city but not a young child but his great life has taken him as a child if he has thirty years in prison and five years, Haule foods to understand we have said that they are two so old decisions are in the old economy here is a fetus but carelessness Mtiro when we change the ideas are great and zito that they have not been paid their own.
Awakana a lot of elders is the one that is ending the values of the values here especially the dsm Tanzania had to see you also remember all of them with a stand is people who hypocrisy who will give the Mserbia that has left the others not understand the issue of relatives is several projects and several because the ability of God but even a little bit because of God's ability but even a little bit because of God's ability but even a little bit because of God's ability but even a little bit because of God's ability but
It is a orofi actually he sees a bridge bond against them.
To put clearly what kind of you like if you look at more.
