
The Chinese teeth of elephants to defend himself himself himself.

It has been written by Flora what is supposed to have been released.

It has been published: 21 October 2016.

China's citizen, Yang Feng Glan who is faced with charges of engaging with elephants' teeth worth 5.4 billion shillings has explained the court that he will defend himself without having another witness.

Glan claimed that yesterday in front of a resident magistrate, Huruma witness of the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court, after the senior government lawyer Faraja Nchimbi assisted by Paul Kadushi to read the previous details.
Apart from Glan defendants in that case is a businessman Salvius Matembo (39) and Manase Julius (39) all are alleged between January first 2000 and May 22,2014 were engaged in the business of government trophies.
After the accused read the details, they were involved in that business and accepting their personal information, and they were asked how they will defend himself.
Glan claimed he will defend himself without having any witness and Matembo and Julius said they will defend themselves and also everyone will have two witnesses, therefore the number of defense witnesses will be seven witnesses.
Previously reading the previous details, Nchimbi claimed on April 20, 2014, the police got information on intelligence that there is a person that is involving themselves with the business of elephants' teeth by buying for the business people of the middle and distribute them in the Asian continent.
He claimed that due to that report, the police managed to catch the Julius and questioned him where he admitted to be involved in the criminal business and claimed that they took those teeth in Asia in conjunction with Matembo and Glan.
He continued to claim that Matembo admitted to collect teeth from poachers in different parts of the country and sell Glan who was the chief sponsor of that business to ensure the work is done.
Moreover, he claimed that after the investigation was completed, the other accused were arrested and they were questioned that they were involved in the criminal network.


