
Bodaboda Arusha was put up a mark.

It was written by John Mhala, Arusha, Arusha.

It has been published: 08 November 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, Mrisho Gambo has urged the business of parking passengers using motorcycle transport popularly known as Bodaboda, having a mark of the area they are working on, so as to control those who use the transport to do crime.

Gambo has given that order during the opening of the road safety week.
The speech of Gambo has been read by the head of Arusha District, Gabriel Daqarro.
He has urged the road safety committee in Arusha province to make everything possible to make sure that all motorcycle riders have a mark of the area analoworking.
Gambo has said that right now there is an increase in travel to be used to robbery in the middle of Arusha City, thus having a mark will help recognize those with bad intentions.
He said that it will help you know if the truth robbery is done by the real criminals or there are some of the business people who are partnering with criminals to do that crime.
"It is a must tupange effective strategies for all motorcycle riders to have a special mark of the area you are working so that the criminals can be known by good people known as well.
That will help to know those who are waendesha bodaboda and those who are not good and measures should be taken against those who do not have good for the community, "he said.
Apart from that, Gambo has urged the drivers in Arusha province to run cars by following the laws in place, because many accidents in the region are caused by them non-compliance with the law including running them with the pace and causing accidents and killing people without fundamental reasons.
He said the road police are supposed to manage the road laws and refused to take bribes since bribery is one of the reasons that increase accidents on the road.
In addition, he said the road accidents have been reduced the year to the year due to drivers obey the law thus it is a must for the police to be stars in charge of the law so that the situation can continue so.
He said, in the last year figures in January to October that year, accidents were 2,011 but in the period of this year in January until October, an accident has reduced up to an accident 1,692, a step that is satisfying.
The police commander of Arusha Region, Charles Mkumbo said the accidents have been reduced in the year to the year.
He said the year 2015 accident has reduced from 763 to 725 this year equivalent to five percent, normal accidents have reduced from 972 last year until 911 accidents this year and that is equivalent to 6.2 percent.
He said motorcycle accidents have reduced from 763 accidents last year until 614 accidents this year and that is equivalent to 20 percent of the motorcycle accidents.


