The Tanzania Football Federation TFF is in the process of finding a coach to coach the national soccer team popular as Twiga stars after his head coach Boniface Mkwasa to contest for how many of the time the child is currently waiting for a blessing to those competitive news that we expected to be held soon so as to ask for who is where they will get the police of the province, I can dry and full report.
All the general secretary forget that is not said after the committee to sit will be given a chance to the teachers of that game that at work although it hasn't known if they will give the opportunity out of the country abroad.
In that session he would have said that these delegates will go through the letter to resign from missing them together with the reports of the last two matches that both Twiga lost lost the stars lost lost.
The first one.
The cupboard).
The technical committee will be called to discuss the report and the report of yeah Mkwasa to study but will also discuss the report of the report of the report.
Yeah he does not want the price then you will give recommendations that he asked me again to gain their eyes, what is required to do things.
However, after losing that games, our players has been reported to be reported to play at the level that is when they got a good camp maybe than it ever happened in the past missing they have said that they have said that they are not saying that that they have said that they are not saying that that they
He rebuked has been responsible for the closure of a reason giving as a friend have played two matches, children Cosafa when we put it only when we put it just to put it.
Rostam preparations were questions than any other time any other time.
Camp a long time than any other team any other team.
Ehhe has got two international friendly matches and only a good team Zimbabwe and Africa now while we are in our young minds.
Have been looking for it.
And that date from outside the process of looking for a ticket to participate in the tournament they are esa Africa for women now, the federation has planned to go for your partner to you, I have contributed to the next.
Posta Tanzania daressalaam.
