Too much.
First at work when we are giving out there, especially those that use Swahili language in preparation because you said that it is possible that the primary problem might be the language why people can think maybe this language did not know if he is rushing to look at even me, that is why he ran to look at even me.
AHH a lot of work that he does have you have tried to hit English words so that the person at work is acceptable to be accepted.
That is the one we talk about is the issue of cutting only God in the hands and closing the head up to tumekalia you can be because if I say it was a problem under one million vegetables.
Everyone who took this pen is carrying out and completely this Karama is together.
And you see how that we want to sell it.
We are not getting a Chamazi in Chamazi.
Ourselves we are given when we see if it is normal because it is the language that we are talking about how many times when I am speaking, he says we want to sell the language that we use in the neighborhood, when we will not give you to sell the language that we will use the other nations that we will have to ignore the other nations for that is what we will ignore other nations for that is what we will ignore other nations for that is what we will ignore other nations for that is what we will ignore other nations for that is what we will ignore other nations for that is what we will ignore other we must pick us what we want to know the language
Are not all of us.
Do you want to Mnyamani for Kimbangulila in the vingunguti, he is speaking to Swahili that we are selling Swahili that should be out in the year tufariji, you think that you will think that we will be
If not saying it up to the end of it. "
We greeting the people and meaning the candidate candidate.
Of CUF to see
That Swahili of you should read school but there are also a skillful people and owners of the language language.
When we don't read it to be
We will orial that we want to invest when we want to invest that, these hours because only one is not a champions to tell you what we are doing, we are making a good one to say it is the competence of the competence of the language that provides there and the competence and the competence, why we want them to be linked to the families and the competence or what my son from here to eat ugali let go down to let us go to ugali let go down to let you go.
Something that we will see when he wants people to know what they come from?
