
NMB has to pour the Rock City Marathon money Marathon.

It has been written by Mohamed Akida.

It has been published: 01 September 2016.

NMB Bank has given 10 million shillings to sponsor the race of Rock City race that are expected to take place in Mwanza, September 25.

Speaking to journalists at the headquarters of that defender in Ohio Dar es Salaam yesterday, Mathew Kasonta who is the representative of Capital Plus International Company that is organizing the race said this year's competition will be different because it involves different ages from children, people with albinism and youth.
"We thank NMB Bank for their great support which is the one that has been accomplished to take place for this year's competition, but something great to be proud of for us that this year's competition will involve 21 different ages and race that will be avoided is 21 kilometers, 5 kilometers for the disabled people, 3 kilometers for the elderly and one kilometers for children," said Kasonta.
The representative said the aim of giving a chance to the youth is to prepare the athletes later that they will fly well the flag of Tanzania in various competitions of the sack including what the Olympics will be held in Tokyo 2020.
He said that the competition have a great history since that is the ones that raised the legendary athletes in the country including Suleiman Nyambui the winner of the financial medals in the Olympic race 5,000 at the Olympic and Felix Simbu who held the fifth position in Rio 2016 Brazil.
Sangu urged various athletes of the Lake Region to come out to fill the forms that will give them a chance to participate in this year's race and mention the areas where those forms are found to be at the Nyamagana Stadium, Saint Agustine, CBE, Isamilo International School of Mallya, Geita Gold Mine both of Mwanza and Shinyanga and on the side of Simiyu.
NMB has started sponsoring the Rock City race since the year 2009 and kunogesha the competition that every year has continued to perform well with winners won't get different prizes.


