The strike of MADAKTARI Kenya:

December 6, 2016, 2016.

Some of the mental patients who were getting treatment in Mathari Hospital concerned with giving treatment to those patients that is in Nairobi, Kenya, have run away from the hospital due to the strike of doctors.
Reports indicate that, more than 100 patients have used the opportunity for the strike to escape the hospital.
The doctors in that country, are in strike that surinikiza their government has been stripped of additional salaries and other allowances under the agreement that was signed in June, 2013 and the ideal of the year 2015 on improving the work environment.
The strike has affected all the hospitals run by the government in the states and the referral hospital including the National Hospital of Kenyatta and Moi in the city of parliament.
The senior health officers in government, the day before yesterday held an emergency meeting at night so as to prevent the strike but they did not succeed.
Health care services are standing in another step, thousands of patients in public hospitals in that country, are struggling without treatment due to the strike of doctors and other health workers.
Reports indicate that, other patients in public hospitals in the country have been forced to go back home, looking for treatment in private centers whose cost is above.
In the year 2013, the health sector in the country took some of its services under the authorities of the county, that action resulted in public hospitals to be under the management of governors.
However, the Ministry of Health is still in charge of the national national hospitals including Kenyatta that is in the West of Kenya.
Since the health sector, it has to be availed under the management of the county, health care seem to be stolen, nurses and doctors doing a migomo of every time to complain about the poor work environment.
The tension between the central government and the county about the provision of important equipment in health centers has also been threatening the health sector in that country.
That ministry has been urged health workers not to be forced to save the lives of patients, to give them time to assess the consensus but the request has been seen to be ignored.
There is no information given by Wiara about the medical condition in public hospitals where some of the governors are threatened to cancel all the work that will participate in the strike.


