Also finished this topic that when it comes to Madete first when they are saying that these long distance buses have the two drivers that will help reduce accidents considering that this year there was a need that you really have done when you start with the year that was not eleweki and those accidents were receiving soft lines in the south of the south.
For a period of two months people changed one of their lives and three hundred days were injured now all these news caused water up from other months to view what I told Tanzania, what the other drivers have told me that when I say that there is a day we are getting out and Mrs. I was known to be known dala that is not going to be understood when you are lucky when I am lucky the clothes of people to acquire it does not have the other value has been suspended but he does not get but he does not get but he does not get it but he does not get but he does not get but he does not get it but he does not have a
The permit you're panda you cannot know if this is a piece as usual as our norm I would like to cooperate with stakeholders and stakeholders.
Ramadhani when he won the power in a little year about the claim that
The message of the traffic situation continues well the drivers'.
Following the law and a large level have been near we ensure that they are made by two drivers and we have already started the procedure to share drivers a long journey for example through the daressalaam to Mwanza, a big way that they are ensuring that drivers are changing and through Dar es Salaam to go to Dar es Salaam to go to Mwanza.
In Iringa Iringa.
You ensure that the procedure will help completely reduce the accidents of the road profit is great because they are the first two drivers that fatigue the journey is not there and the passengers will be a mystery reason to go to a game that is in the game that he is in the game that he is in the game that
I'm sure more to do the end of the bigger journey of that together tomorrow a long distance he's tired of and its effects on that for sure the greatest benefit of the great profit.
And with no one.
He advised only that the drivers to ensure that they are sure they are changing where they are headed to consider the law yes but also the passengers can help them to give information when they see that the driver's passengers run more distance of the one that the government was running more distance of the one that the government had run more distance of the one that the government had run more distance of that
So much that I have been saying that we will get a little light about the claims against him to do it after looking at the ramadhani has given you the view you will have to give you the view you will be doing that you will
The father mi I get I am talking to you.
And two drivers of a long sense from Mwanza province.
From Dar es Salaam because there are out there.
There is a cold of sometimes it will benefit you will be placed in Kenya because of nusu
We will not be able to be on it.
The bad tires there are effects and holes and holes.
Remember let the end of it.
We love love you.
I was there when they are arguing.
A if I don't like it.
The team but now this party have been paid in Babati, say the biggest problem is the buses not from the right time saying that one is up to that outcome of drivers when they find themselves as prominent as they are able to read them to read them.
Reasons to surrender and the values of many people and every mpenda.
Peace I have been walking on Next mara
Earlier I left the buildings and they should be understood to leave the squad of the
