Polisi Dar es Salaam killing three robbers, pistol 2, 27 bullets

January 6, 2017, 2017.

Three robbers out of five have died on his way rushed to hospital for treatment.
Those criminals were arguing with the police and two soldiers to succeed in the run.
The commander of that region, Commissioner Simon Sirro said the incident happened on January 4th this year, 5 o'clock in the morning at the Mikocheni area, in the area of the White Star Tower with various business activities.
He said in that incident, the police managed to capture one pistol of Sig Sauer with number P 229 with four bullets inside Magazine.
He added that the pistol was arrested after an exchange of throwing bullets between police and criminals who came to the area to conduct robbery at one of the offices of that building.
Commissioner Sirro said that those criminals were trapped by police, after getting information on the presence of the police in that area, those criminals who were five were denied to surrender but they benefit the order and started shooting.
In those exchange, three robbers were injured but walifariki when they were rushed to the hospital and the two others were running down in the air.
In another step, the army has been successful with arresting two suspects in theft of the property of tourists who are politics Nassoro (28), a donation of Buyuni and Ally Omary (35), a resident of Mafia all goals are fishermen.
The suspects were arrested on January 4th this year, seven o'clock in the afternoon at Buyuni estate, were alleged to conduct piracy of various assets of tourists who are whites.
The reports of that event was issued by the chairman of Buyuni estate, Shaban Shaa that there are about eight whites with one Tanzanian, have been robbed all assets after being ambushed by criminals in Mapanya Kisiwa.
In following the event, that is where they arrested the suspects and various assets of those tourists and after the interview, they confessed involved with the incident with four colleagues so the investigation is going to look for other suspects.


