Education ijenge the image of the nation, the identity of its people Feb 05, 2015, 2015.

I have given an example of how the families of people careful are going to be determined to invest in their children's education.
Even if it is a family that brought together the father and the mother who loved the reputation in their first youth (before they didn't give birth) the couple will change when they faced the issue of nurturing their children and give them everything that will be guaranteed the best upbringing and prosperity.
This means that they will ensure that children get a good place to be on the right, clean, accommodation, good food, food with enough nutrition, prevention against diseases that are avoided, their health testing frequently, and the quality of the behavior that will make them be appropriate in their lives.
Then, education.
Education is together with good upbringing they receive children in the household they were born, in the community they were right, in the village or in the neighborhood and also in school.
School has been an agent of family and community of the village or estate in the activity of developing a child education when parents cannot longer prosper in the borders of family and the village of the village or the estate cannot longer prosper in its borders.
Parents and family members are fulfilling their responsibility until their limit.
The community members of the village and in the neighborhood are fulfilling their responsibility until they studied, and the child is going to school where the responsibility of the continuation of education and child care is received by teachers and other staff of that institution of education.
From the family, the village, the estate up to school and college, all this is the continuation of the main activity of bringing up and kumtengeneza a member of community who will be beneficial to him, for his family, to his village or its neighborhood, and to the whole nation and even the whole community with a wide variety of international and the whole world.
So that is how they found teachers who are qualified, they are philosophically, the public servants who were improved, leaders who dropped their points in the community, the defending of every good thing and the opponents of every bad thing in the world.
All of them went through the steps I have noted above.
If we read the biography (the story of life) of the people as much of those people, it Jawaharlal Nehru, Julius Nyerere, Nelson Mandela, Martin Luther King Jr and wengne, we get the image of people who were married through all those steps until their youth of doing good ones in the world.
The important is that they should be taken care of about justice, equity and personality.
Their actions were young people that are revealed that the reputation raised by the way they were early early.
(For that wants to follow up on this, there are many biography books here in the country and in neighboring countries, Europe, America and Asia that show how heads leaders were married and educated.
Now here in the country, it is found a book of a lecturer at the University of Edinburgh, Thomas Molony, who wrote about the life of childhood and the youth of Julius Nyerere, Nyerere, miaka ya mapema.
Molony is getting in deep maridhawa, the environment that he was on Nyerere, the culture that left him, training from the mother and other family members, the content of its previous education, and later on the University of Edinburgh, Uskochi.
The parents, the close sibling, the community of the village, teachers that met with them in school and in colleges, both were also one flow of knowledge, skills, education and haiba that he built Kambarage and became so used to his death).
Contrary you have not been revealed to the reputation that are contrary to those that I have mentioned.
Many children who were born with being complicated in the families of thieves and who were not lucky to have been replaced by the village communities or estate, have been right in the theft environment and ultimately, they will be corrupt, criminals and corrupt, because those are the upbringing that got it, and that's the education that they got.
Silika of the theft will make it sometimes aiiwe his own property as he has missed someone to steal him.
The same way for a child who is born and to be complicated in the environment of conflict and conflicts in the family or in the neighborhood and in the village.
Whenever he is with a fight he will hate, and without a fight he will make.
When we say that the child that you know is how you grow, that's why it does.
There are the true story of human children who were married by animals as the wild dogs and nyani, and they found with the behavior of those guardians.
Therefore, it is very important for the care of the children of any nation to be prepared, to be supervised, coordinated and controlled in order for the amount that is possible for education and training, behavior and the movements of the people of this nation in line with misigano should not be bigger in the country to make the country should not have a character that is recognized.
I have ever asked, and so far I am asking: This is what you introduced the Presidency of Tanzania?
Is the kindness?
Is the upole?
Is the defense of the weak?
Is it honesty and the truth?
Is the quality of our children's education?
Is a patriotism that is building love for the country and its people?
Is the defense of the weak and hatred against the injustice and oppression?
Or is the violence to those who are weak?
Is a false, ulaghai, tension, uzandiki and hypocrisy?


