We are the ones we are looking for even if they have a ehhe is why I forget to be that I forget the team uje mmhm.
Ehor is the jameni or the manager.
Mmhm ehin and then see you pay what is the way to be FUNin the direction but the one that is required of what is required and what is the amount of the school of Madrasa University, One
Wallahi I will be giving everything everything like the things you do, Mister mmhm
There's no thing he is not alone then ehmmhm then yeah, it is not you know the classes mi and the power has not been to worry about the side of the first day, the children are not able to see you know if you are coming to know the baby class and the nursery because children are not many of the children. You have a mzae to pray for you hope you will begin with eight then according to the child the queue itself in the neighborhood we will know because you will talk to you.
Well ohh more okay, sawasawa AHH can't be mi, it should be linked to those and then you are ripe, therefore, that is why I am not doing the noise.
Now, it is not a uje or I give you or I will give you your number
The one of the hm.
He didn't have a lot of it.
That is criticizing the mother, Zainabu is just to accept the noise there is no noise ehatsa people are only the only fee but it has been misled there is nothing else can be what he is doing.
As he is adopted to be released a release.
No that is there is nothing about things to follow up on the mother Vietnam that is we again comes with a child of the child of the child.
Ehatokay this sa a sign then I was the one that you get to the colleague, Fred
The one of the hm.
Ehhe is in ehhe called me when I have come as I was on the way I came to tell them that I'm on the way I am coming to said sa I was greeted, just a mother and another father to tell me that he is not able to come if I have come to come if I have come to come if I have come to come if I have come to come if I have come to come if I have come to come if I have come to come if I have come to come if I have come to come if I have come to come if I have come to
Well, when he does not give you any report and we are not umpate then it is not a lot of discomfort then you ask him how he has to ask him how he has to be azia right.
Ohh that is about the other things you don't know.
Those of those things you have mi you know there is a while and don't expect to see him as I used to tell him the zippy.
And involved now and to increase now let me jump.
If you tell me not to deny he will tell me what he was told and we are telling you and we have to tell me.
AHH is not mi I have been telling him also ATI I did not find him when I get him I get him.
The one of the hm.
