They refused Pajero because of the bicycle!
Jul 17, 2013, 2013.

Emmanuel Arnold Okwi, right now, is alleged to be seen as ititering in the streets of Kampala city, Uganda, while his Etoile club du Sahel is haha to want him to serve the team according to his contract.

This is the second month now Okwi katulia his only to them.
The story?
He has not paid his salary and his club.

Just four years ago, Mbwana Samatta, was irering in the streets of Mbagala, akigoma to play for Simba Club on claims that it has not bought a car as they had agreed.

Today, Samatta is one of the richest players here in Tanzania, dancing outside Tanzania at TP Mazembe Club.

I could have been able to give many other examples but that only will be posted for today.

The biggest problem that is facing many African players compared to the classics of West Africa and North, it is the way they interpretation their success.
The way they see a great picture ahead of them.

Samatta wanted to stop completely playing football because of Toyota Corolla which at that time worth it did not continue even eight million shillings.
Today, he is making that money for a bonus of the only international match.

But four years ago, Samatta was ready to play the Mchangani matches in Mbagala Kibangulile where he was paid 20,000 shillings for a match than playing for Simba.
Simba which later it took him to TP Mazembe!

The player gets the benefits when he has been held at home just a month of two months while his team is going on with the competition?
This is something that some of us we win to understand completely.

Unfortunately, the world these days has been a small place.
Others say it has been like the village.
The meaning of this is that these news of absenteeism of Okwi will travel the whole world.
There is no agent or a team that is ready to register players who don't discipline.

In Europe for our colleagues, discipline that is considered than all is the one to participate in practice and follow the instructions of the teachers.
Even if a player has bad manners to the point, if he does exercise well, he can't be kept.

The big problem of while for us discipline is being viewed at the very little things.
You will find a leader that is hate a player because you don't wamkii they meet.
Or someone is said badly because he is wearing a lot of ears.
Only small things.

Mistakes like this Okwi will come to you cost later.
This is wrong that they were given to the Tanzania soccer system and he thinks he can be able to do even Europe.

While Simba, Okwi will never even once ever come back to Tanzania whenever he was given a break.
While in them, he was not informed the phone of leaders except talking to the people he wanted only.

Luckily, he was adopted with Simba.
I doubt if this can be kept Tunisia where the issues of discipline are close to the European standards.

What of our players have to do?
Okwi is this one who came to Tanzania for the first time while wearing a lot of mine in today he comes with a kiburi of kuitending the chest by du Sahel which has stopped many good players and famous as Kader Keita Ivory Coast.

What got the kiburi Samatta to decide to stop completely the ball eti because he has not been bought Corolla?
Now, he can't buy even Range Rover wanting and don't feel like his account has reduced something?

Simba and Etoile du Sahel is not the end of life.
These are the ways of passing before someone has not arrived Liverpool and Arsenal and then have been removed to Real Madrid and Barcelona.

This nanny of our players is shocking so much.
Okwi has never participated in any big competition through his national team.
He has not played the African Cup.
He has not played the World Cup.
He has never been even the top scorer of the Tanzania Premier League.
This is supastaa of where?

Yaya Toure, who is paid almost 400 million shillings of Tanzania every week in England, right now he is in training with his team.
Okwi anagoma to practice with the Etoile.
It means the players who continue with practices in that they do not get problems if they face him?

Right, a player like this one starting to be paid at least 100 million shillings for a month will come?
Isn't he will be asking even abebwe to be taken to the mazoezini?

He lacks the opportunity to get more success by looking at the current salary.
He refuses to Pajero because a bicycle.


