The eye on this eye: The anger when you are telling the child to the child.

It was written by Stellah Nyemenohi.

It has been published: 02 October 2016.

Among the news that has been condemned in this week, it is this regarding the leader of the church in Kaseme village, Geita district, who was killed by repinyonga after he was alleged to kill his daughter by beating Bakora.

Reports indicate that the Mwinjilisti of the church of African Inland Church (AICT) gave a penalty to her daughter aged 15 years, accusing to be involved in the actions of ufuska.
It is alleged that he sent his daughter that has finished the seventh class while standing on the road speaking in that environment, he started to make him Bakora Bakora.
Witnesses claim he went to the home where he was banned inside and continued to punish by beating until he was in the soul.
The poor, when he noted that his daughter has been in the soul, he decided to run away and when he arrived at a distance of approximately one kilometers from the scene, he was moving up on the tree by using the ropes to death.
Eye has witnessed these reports in the media having been confirmed by the police commander of Geita Province, Mponjoli Rodson.
The reports of the media have misquote some of the people who know the Mwinjilisti this many who are admitted to remain with a lot of questions that are not treated about this event.
Others told him the Mwinjilisti that he was a good believer who doesn't have a crime record.
I'm sure it's sad.
God should rest in eternal peace and continue to kuifariji this family that lost two people by mkupuo.
When this religious leader has been angulia ahead of the right, the incident that caused the deaths, is a lesson to me and you.
It is a big lesson not only for parents and guardians, but anyone else with the authority to punish.
Undoubtedly, questions about this event, when led to a spiritual view, the answer is coming to be "the devil" .there is no doubt that every matter with the negative results came from the devil.
In this event, the devil came to fulfill the truth about the "anger loss."
There are many events that parents, caregivers, teachers have found themselves not to give out a penalty to the anger and its results injured or killing.
There are many news that have been reported about the events of this way.
Among the events I have ever read in the media include the parent mother in Tabora province who represented his child to the banio of the fire coal.
The four-year-old child was reduced on claims of being careless and kutotulia at home.
Mama alimwunguza feet claiming that it is what makes him to be denied hovyo.
If you look at the eye of the ulezi, there is no one who loves his child azurure hovyo.
But now, the way that was used to return, was dominated by anger, his mother's results entered the hatiani.
Another event I do remember, is one of the mother in Mtwara province who read her son of four years for the offense of eating boga.
He took the leaves, he scored in the hands, then he washa the fire.
The mother when he was interviewed, he was supervising the foundation that he took the action to warned the child.
No one who loves his child adokoe, but also, the punishment that was given was brutal.
It is not surprising it had an inspiration of the anger of the bad economic situation.
But that is not the prevention of this parent to be taken legal action.
I believe that there are parents and guardians who have found themselves giving harsh punishment for their children believing it is the right thing without knowing that they can be turned into waiting for them.
I accept that the anger is a situation that can hit anyone based on the environment of something.
But it should be understood that, regardless of the offense he did a child or anyone else or the horror of your anger, you will punish and caused him injuries or killing, there is no defense.
This is an example of the results of parents and guardians to punish children to the anger, because the past few days, the parent Elisha Sumila (35) has found himself being scored seven years in prison for a mistake of beating her child by beating him in two teeth and caused severe pain.
That judgment was given by a resident magistrate court of Ilala district, John Msafiri who said that the court has been pleased with the evidence that was given by the prosecution after bringing five witnesses including the doctor and that the judgment should be a lesson to other parents who do such actions.
The primary thing, is to learn to control the anger when to punish children regardless of various things that provoke the situation.
For example, among the events that have ever been reported of parents or killed or injured their children, you will find some suffering from psychological problems and other economic problems.
When everyone needs to control the anger in taking any decision, also the community should help in saving and save the children against severe punishment provided by the person who failed to control his anger.
The community is supposed to get away from a routine to assume the parent, the guardian or anyone who provides a stern punishment to the child, it thought that it is not involved.
For instance, for the incident of Mwinjilisti, laiti as a community including his family, it would have been involved in the time as prominent as his daughter, the deaths would have happened.
There are people in the community we live in, they are known and it is popular by giving punishment including hot language for children.
But you are taken usual without knowing that one day, those actions can cost their children's lives.
We accept the fact that, anger is hot poison in kumwadhibu child or even the whole person.
So we learn to control the anger and we have to extend when we give the punishment.


