
The harvest of the farms is taken care of switching off the dangers of lack of food, the last season was also the coalition of events while some of the areas are getting the harvest of sharp while others were unsuccessful.
This situation was contributed by climate change due to several issues, the general contribution of these changes while the destruction of the environment due to ukataji ovyo of trees, provision of dangerous gas from industries.
First, some of the areas witnessed the rains in large numbers that poured during harvesting and this situation was atiza in harvesting and contributed a lot of food being broke down on the farm.
Other areas didn't receive the heavy rains so that plants went down just after the gathering.
The Department of weather gave an announcement that there is a risk of food shortage in the African continent and the Asian continent is some of those that were mentioned.
This time I take the opportunity to give wosia for all who succeeded to get something.
This is not the time to think of things to sell the harvest.
MBURU Samuel, the scandal of such a bond is not a comic ASEMAVYO the master of the CORD about the bond of the bond that is required to be taken for a comic.
As the opposition leader, their responsibility is to be checked and criticize the ruling government.
The issue of corruption has been a song this country.
Twaweza said Mister Raila is just to blame the government of Honorable Kenyatta but he should be sure of asemas.
The government should listen to him and consider his usemi because he has not mentioned some of those who are associated with the saga.
The University of Chuka.
The University of Kisii CUE AMRI that was given by the education commission of universities in the country (CUE) is not to be taken by any institution that is getting training on the various sectors in Mizconflicts of social conflicts, it should also care for our youth the tradition of many nations of Africa to see the poor is causing corruption to continue here in the country at the moment.
These young people have been quoted claiming that they cannot stand and be stopped so without corruption.
Something that has been leaving most of them surprised.
For now, it is an idea of complicated young people with poor vision here in the country and led to didimia for the economy of the nation.
The claim that they give these young people have no stand because many of them claimed that everyone is involved so even we Twaweza.
The government when it volunteered to destroy illegal alcohol, most of the targeted were youths haswaa.
It is the government's responsibility to explain the public how the distribution of those funds run by projects implemented.
GIDRAPH Mwangi KIMC, Nairobi scholars.
Mabewa ten of the University of kisii was ordered to be defeated by the commission have every reason to follow the order.
Lack of enough resources and infrastructures dhabiti is one of the challenges that hit the colleges emerged and contribute to kudorora to the level of education in the country.
My himizo for the commission is to be izidishe investigations for every college a disaster of war between various communities in the country has continued to destroy citizens who are not guilty.
Conflicts resulting from the ownership of resources has continued to reveal every uchao.
The hard to bring these classes together have been hard that are not on fruits.
Kelvin Kihara Njoki, Thika emerged in order to ensure that our scholars are given out of my higher studies.
GIDRAPH Mwangi KIMC, Nairobi chap chap is empty words?
In every occasion there are those who benefit and certain something and others are complaining with empty hands.
In the commotion of the development of the chap who benefited from various projects are continuing to vote for Mutua atu.
However, there are a voice of cry for citizens that are opposed to the leadership of the Governor Mutua.
Some of the locals who felt that the performance of the development of the chap chap is the one of the words without actions.
Veronica MUTISYA JOHN KIRAGU, University of Chuka heko judges tackling corrupt corruption here in the country has been a chronic issue that discussed every time because it has to destroy this country and Kenyans also.
The police unit is some of the units that were affected more by this issue.
Another report that was published in the Nation newspaper show that the traffic police unit takes a bribe of three hundred thousand per day.
I take this opportunity to thank the board of the judges and the judge for their last step against the judges and the judge who are accused of corruption scandal and lack of justice.
MWANAMAONI WETU, Nairobi, Nairobi.


