Thank you very much house if you think of you Mister picture Masele, we have participated in the American army has made various activities to let our go on the same side that the soldiers will be celebrated as that day today, what the soldiers will be celebrated as that day today, what the soldiers will be celebrated by the army and their families to the phone as of today, what is you remember and what you are eating important to the soldiers and their families to the phone as of today today.
Ehhe in the day as of today.
Faces they know Shomari is often we remember the big fight that the main ones who had previously fought and won't win against winning.
There's a big struggle if that happened to come back to coast coast.
The time of the world war of the world.
Ehthere is a big struggle if the struggle have occurred
Therefore, most of the time and commission is not unakumbuka people who died in that big fight that we did not know although they died but they won't be a laboratory that if you come to the laboratory that if you come to the laboratory
Ako truly thank you very much by explaining how things were there but there is something that too many have been asking even on the internet you ask that the soldiers who have ever been accused of serving here in America, there are certain things that sponsors like the ordinary people, maybe maybe in the studies are the things that the soldiers have ever served.
He didn't have a lot of it.
We have ambo there are a lot of things but I will talk about a few things
AHH for example only and who is our span of the union they call him to do what I try to think of a fine word fine.
I should not like the bank.
The people who have retired from the military force.
Often ohh for us who commission commission we have been with the army if we go to ask for loans for example if you want to buy a house I want to buy a car it becomes very easy for us to get loans when we go to normal banks.
Okay when it is understood it is understandable well and because the sunday I see that when it's day as soon as it is forced into that there are other things and there are restaurants and restaurants in America which is giving food to those soldiers who were able to last, there are the things that you don't know when you get the meat for so, the soldiers there are traders and restaurants that are in the state of people and restaurants that are in charge of the people and restaurants that are in the state of people and restaurants that are in the state of people and restaurants that are in the state of people and restaurants he is grateful for that way to be able to provide food to the soldiers were able to last in the American army and also the picture Masele can tell you on the other side where there are different challenges in the army that you are not asking for especially in training to do your work, that is what you can't know who is facing the writers.
It's snhes that is there a lot of challenges but
I will explain to you shortly.
The first challenge.
The snhes is going to be a hours to work on it.
Many people who work in the offices are doing eight hours yet for instance, you're home at home.
But we are also when we are in the military.
Especially while you're out of the country you can't work until twenty-four hours are resting resting.
I have not been very common at the end of it.
The other challenges you have been participating in different struggles and has witnessed a lot of injured as well as deaths and deaths.
It is the people who are your fellow soldiers and soldiers on the side enemies.
There are other people that farmers are being about AHH you cannot know what is going to do well the events when they go back here at home they are as they have mental problems in mind when they go back here.
Due to the things he has witnessed and for sure to say it actually true.
