
The problem of electricity is distribution and Valentine Omainland, the government's giving a project to launch a project that will increase 140 megawatts of power in the country, it is suitable to be added, though that is not enough to guarantee the citizens better services of electricity distribution.
The service of electricity distribution H in the country sponsored by Kenya Power Company is one of the ones that hangaisha is a huge deal of citizens and investors.
While many times we have witnessed malalamishi a lot from investors about the highest cost of electricity power, a situation that you made them to raise the cost of the product otherwise they get a loss on their business.
Likewise, citizens who use electricity in their home have been witnessing the disappearance of electricity power from time to time.
This situation makes many stay with questions about whether we're on the verge of staying in competition and nations that continue, because Kenya did not deserve to witness this in the 21st century.
The sector is out of the most important ones in the efforts to specirisha the development agenda in the country and raising the state of life for the citizens.
Therefore, it is needed a lot of action though that is not enough to be taken to improve the delivery of that service.
An increase in the level of power power that is produced alone is not enough, because still those methods of the past are the ones that will be used to supply electricity.
It is a requirement for Kenya Power iinvest in the modern technology equipment if we want to see changes in providing services.
It is a shame that in this era, the residents of different streets in Nairobi, the main city of Kenya that is respected internationally, he is forced to live in darkness without power power for more than 24 hours that have been pour.
A shame that was done!
If the situation is so in the main city, you can proceed to the ahi how it is in the areas of the farms especially in areas where the rain is part of daily life.
It will be a wise thing that will be equipment to distribute electricity that can be trusted causing a bad air situation, especially the rain.
It should be remembered that the government has been set for several years now to increase the number of people who have access to electricity energy in the farms, although there is a routine of Stima to disappear from time to time.
There will be no benefit as the government will give more electricity production and forget to improve the methods of distribution of that service.
Those two issues are not depending on so then they should be dealt with together.
There have been analysts of economic issues who are proposed to be enabled to the presence of other electricity supply company which will provide competition to Kenya Power.
In any business, competition leads to the relevant company to strive more in providing services to customers.
The best example seems to be open in the phone communication sector where the existence of a lot of companies provision of those services has contributed to a great pato enable customers to pass the company that they see are more benefits.
It will be required to share or all of them to finish more about the issue of better distribution services, otherwise the efforts to increase the level of electricity that is produced will not be beneficial to the citizens.


