17 December 2012.

When they were thrown in jail 30 years for me, being raped.

Luppy Kung'al, police and Raphael Okello, Musoma.


Two people have been sentenced to 30 years in prison after being found with a mistake of kunajisi and being raped two children aged 12 years in two different incidents that were done in Dodoma and Mara provinces.
In the first event, the Kongwa District Court in Dodoma province, sentenced to 30 years imprisonment for 30 years and defeated viboko 30 years to be found with the crime of the five class child.

Aluesentenced that punishment is a resident of Liganga village, Chitego Ward, Nzoisa Division.
That judgment was given yesterday by the Magistrate of Kongwa District, Godfrey Pius, after being satisfied with the evidence that was given.

Previously it was claimed by the prosecutor, the police inspector, Maulid Manu, explained the court on how the child was stolen while he was out of being killed if he will make noise.

He claimed that the incident happened on November 1, last year two and a half hours at night in Liganga village, Chitego Ward and Nzoisa division in Kongwa District.

At that time, the Musoma District Court in Mara province has sentenced to 30 years, Adam Godfrey (27) for a mistake of raping the daughter of 12 years who is a student of Nyambono Primary School in Musoma Villages district.

Reading that judgment yesterday, the senior magistrate in Musoma district, Richard Maganga, said that decision was reached after being satisfied with the defense of the prosecution, therefore he is judgment Adam Godfrey, to use that sentence.

Previously the prosecutor of the government, Jonas Kaijage, explained the court that the suspect was committed to that offense in Sagana village in Musoma villages on May 11, this year where he had recovered from those birds contrary to the Maumbile.

Kaijage said that Godfrey was drinking alcohol alcohol for the mother of the girl, so after drinking claimed he didn't have money so he asked for his child to go with her home so as to give him money that he owes.

He claimed in a way, Godfrey alimtishia a knife that girl then sodomized.
The case was brought up and read for the first time in court on June 12, this year.


