China to build a modern field Bagamoyo in Bagamoyo.

It was written by John Gagarini, Kibaha, Kibaha.

It has been published: 13 December 2016.

Coast Province is expected to have a modern field that will help promote the youth soccer and raising sports in that province which has managed to be one of the provinces that will bring talent.
The stadium is expected to be built at the Msoga Village and the government of China, the goal being to promote the game in that province.

Speaking at a special occasion that was organized for going to visit the area which will be built at the stadium, the retired president of the fourth phase, Doctor Jakaya Kikwete who was the guest of honor at the event, said the stadium will be built by funding from the government of China.
"This stadium will be the savior of the development of soccer game in the Coastal region and the country as a whole.
It will help in raising the talents of upcoming players and used to the club and the national team for the future days, "said Doctor Kikwete.
He said the aim of the construction of the airport is to see that the Coast Province and Tanzania as a whole has wanted many talented players who will be used to the national team, different clubs and others sold out of the country.
"I have talked to our friend of China government and have agreed to build up the ground and that is the primary thing in the development of the soccer game in our nation," said Doctor Kikwete.
Doctor Kikwete said that he congratulates the government of China to see the importance of helping to build the plot, and added that when it will be completed, it will have other games that will be taking apart from the game of soccer, the goal being to give them an opportunity to youths to show the talent they are in.
And the representative of China ambassador in the country, Yang Tong promised to continue to cooperate with the government of Tanzania especially in the sports sector.
On his part, the member of parliament for Chalinze region, Ridhiwani Kikwete said that his main aim is to ensure he grow sports in his region and completion of the construction of the stadium may help the youth to promote their talents.


