
Makonda: Police force the land officers who came out of documents documents.

It has been written by Sophia Mwambe.

It has been published: 29 November 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda has ordered the police force, special region of Dar es Salaam, arrest the officers of all the land who participated to obtain land documents, including changing the judgment and instructions of the court.

Moreover, he has directed the land officer of that province, Edger Msolla, to present the names of those officers to the commissioner and police in Dar es Salaam region, Simon Sirro, so that action can be taken.
He has also urged the institution of combating corruption (Takukuru) to reduce the Nakoroa Investment Company Limited, so as to check its legitimacy due to he was accused of being involved in land disputes and if it was found concerned about it.
Makonda gave those instructions at his last meeting in his 10 days tour in that province, that took place at Mabwepande grounds, Kinondoni District.
Makonda reached that decision after the resident of Mlalakua, Joyce Machange to explain that he was brought down four houses of late his father who was alleged to 200,000 shillings.
The resident claimed that the houses was brought down 35 days after his father died and the complainant of Nakoroa Investment Limited.
He said, the order of the land court lilimtaka the debtor change to pay the cost so as to prevent the house sold.
He added that after the incident presented the issue at the Provincial Commissioner's office, and Makonda handed over to the officers of land so as to listen to them.
Msolla said, on the side of the mlalamikaji, the Nakoroa Investment company when he presented his documents, they realized the court, he was appointed to change some of the court orders and he refused to also be signed.
Msolla mentioned the lands officer of Kinondoni, Artinius Rugemalila that he is concerned to change the license of residence without satisfied with the mlalamikiwa when he arrived at a conference, he was arrested by police.


