AHH is what we have to vote for you and when you are calling you and you have not refused I have to tell you what I am calling you and you have decided to go ehhe.
Ehhe said he ehhe is.
I haven't cut them ehhe I decided to give me up in the morning I should go back to when I go to go.
In the morning he did it like how many hours this time.
I want I will be able to when I can be there at ten and two hours I have reached there for the style of cars cars.
Ten hours and two is not a early early.
I want it to go with the one that and the msamaria.
Ohh and I was writing Nelson was found.
He was not found until today when he was referred to him only so that he was going to go.
Ehatdamaged it is also when he was only when he had gone and that's the money since he got a lot of hours an hour.
Maybe you know the money take for different people different different people.
Ohh was as if the venye Jane did to take it to take the ehehanohh wakimpehhm Hhm Hhm.
Then it is so that he took another one that was taken to the m _ money themselves in the other way he was asking for people to get them to the women's groups, he was going to Ako he is taking the loan, so it is only one money that I don't know he was registered to pray together and he was gone and it is like he had gone to open a place something.
Now ohh debt has been many likely.
Ehhe does not know if he has never been found then he is hidden so much ohh do with me and he is coming to MOI or that is the one he is getting into getting into the same way.
He has gone to open a place.
I went on twenty-eight in the month of this month this month.
Ehhe is suitable for it, it is suitable to be on twenty and eight years ago but up to kujikaza themselves.
Ehthat his game has given his mother, he has said that the close people are lending first because it was still known now ATI has used there is no way he is and even in school ehhe.
This sides of their area with people who are wanga of a person reading they have a lot of theft even soma again there is no way again to do a ehhe God has to go to the rest of the ticket he knows the rest of the ticket he knows the person is completely written quickly, the other one will be written quickly in the past.
Mmhm enyewe, he will strive to finish even when his mother had only invited me to go there before he has not gone to me that I have gone to me that I have to sit because it is a person that can't sit because it reduces a problem with a problem but yesterday with the help it is also because he reduced it because he reduced it because he reduced it because he reduced it because he reduced it because he reduced it because he reduced it because he reduced it because he reduced it because he reduced it because he reduced it because he reduced it because he reduced it because he reduced it because he
Umpe maidha maidha several ye about with people who are sitting on staying ehhe is now naval and a problem ehhe is good or how you do it will not have helped ehhe.
Ehhe day he reduced to get out now that you feel like he could be locked up was a long time ago.
I am not surprised he will calm down I am surprised again they did not get to the baby class when the person is back up to ehhe form three still ehhe.
He didn't come and did not entertain the problem is the mother that he was saying that we can't pay someone I don't know what that is a lot of money they Kenyatta University is to be vied for I don't know where I tell him this hour is not paying for where I am not paying for
Then with us has given it because it means that the teachers had been transporting him to go to do the things that he is praying for you, who is the one who can go to me.
Ehhe Mhandisi rinda tell me what I told me to think I told me I see it told me I see it told me.
