
Acharaza wife for not preparing steoja that happened in this area, when he attacked his wife and jeruhi when he was unable to start a family meal in the year despite giving him money to buy food.
Due to that incident, the mother started in the year while the old man was banned from the police's cells waiting to be opened charges of attacking.
It is said that the mother got the money he had forgotten his children and planted to his parents.
According to the circle, he was selling his only cow so that his family should celebrate the new year because he missed the money to buy mapochopocho on Christmas.
For this reason, when he got the money he decided to give him all his wife to buy food so as to celebrate the year when you start.
"Polo alijuta so much his family was missing out of the Christmas.
For this reason, he decided to sell the ndama of the only one so that he's turned to his children a new year.
He gave his wife all the money to buy mapochopocho enough, "said the circle.
But the rumors of informing them that instead of fulfilling the requirements of the elder, the mother, the children fululiza up to them and handed him to his mother to a certain amount of those money.
It is said that he sat for them for one day and he returned home to carrying the meat of a quarter kilograms, tomatoes and oil to test and find her husband while he has given me.
According to the circle, the old man who has resigned and he didn't want his wife where he had gone and after lack of giving him a reasonable answer, a fight and tension between them and that is when a mother was wangwa for a piece of wood and got injured.
Neighbors were involved in the middle and kuwatenganisha.
Mama was rushed to the hospital to receive treatment and old man was caught up with pumped stem waiting for him to be sentenced to his wife.
Amazing is that the parents of that mother refused to go to see their daughter when they knew what caused him and they decided to visit her husband's soul.
And the CORNELIUS MUTISYA SWA


