
The wall of the house wajeruhi

It was written by Peti Siyame, Sumbawanga Sumbawanga.

It has been published: 13 December 2016.

Four children of one family and residents of the Mwevillage village located in the Lake Rukwa Valley in Sumbawanga District, Rukwa Province have been injured after falling with the wall of the house they had been temporary.

The wall of that house fell due to heavy rains accompanied by the winds that poured last night.
In addition, 23 houses have been destroyed by the storm that lasted for two hours while in front of several families having no shelter.
Speaking to this newspaper on the phone, the head of Sumbawanga District, Doctor Halfani Haule said the storm began to rain in two hours from four o'clock last night that was killed confusion by residents to the village.
While clarifying he said that in the incident, the storm had been put up in 10 houses, while seven houses found her have collapsed and six found that the number of livestock including chicken and bata did not immediately immediately.
"All four children of one family have been injured after falling with the wall of the house they had been sleeping and all were admitted in the health center for treatment and they have been allowed," said Doctor Haule.
He added that 22 families had more than one house in the village where they have now moved to their houses that were not affected by the storm while continuing to repair the zilizaribika.
"Except that he is a widow one whose house of hey has been brought down by the storm, he lives to the neighbors, also as the government should give us the support of one of the maize and debe one and beans," he explained.
He said he arrived at the village and witnessed the damage caused by the storm while the experts team continues with an evaluation so as to sign the losses was caused by the storm.
The police commander of Rukwa Province, George Kyando has confirmed the occurrence of that disaster, but he said there is no one who lost life in the event.


