
Parents fear the safety of their children in the dormitories and journalists WETU

The parents have been afraid about the safety of their children who have already reported in the schools of hostels during this time the teachers' strike when you go on four days.
Through the parents party in KNAP, parents who wants the government to ensure that those students who came to the dormitories and others are protected as required.
The secretary general of that party, Mister Musor Ndunda, said parents have a great fear that maybe children who are in school this time where there are no teachers, they were faced with the effects of every kind if the government will not be responsible and give them enough protection.
"We encouraged the ministry of education to harakishe and conduct inspections in all high schools of hostels so as to ensure that the heads teachers are there.
It is niia this which will assure our children security, "said Mister Ndunda when he spoke to the National Leo on the phone yesterday.
The parents also fears that the students who are alone in school started getting into the movements that is not conducive ethics.
Miss Evelyne Magige, who is a student of a student at the high school of Ahero. is one of the parents who wanted the government to do every wezalo to protect students who are at the dormitories and who have not been returned home.
"I hope that this strike will be finished quickly because I took my daughter in a boarding school.
Now, I don't sure it is who she is taking care of me in school or if he is in a safe hands or of, "he said.
On his part, Miss Patricia Oduor says he didn't take him to her daughter in school yesterday because of fear of his safety.
"I feel that he will not be safe there in school without the existence of enough supervision from teachers.
I decided that let him continue to stay at home until things will be safe and teachers to finish their strike, "said yesterday when he spoke to Taifa Leo.
The parents also said that they are worried about the system of teachers and officials of the teachers who are on strike, who enter the schools and to evict students and teachers who benefit the strike and who are continuing with studies.


