
CHADEMA yaibwaga CCM Igunga Aug 22, 2012.

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) has lost the parliamentary seat for another time, after the member of parliament of Igunga, Tabora Province, Doctor.
Dalali Kafumu, stripped from that position by the Supreme Court of Tabora Region.
Doctor.
Dalali has been stripped of parliament after the case filed to oppose his victory yesterday Tuesday and the judge who was listening to the case, Mary Nsimbo Shangali.
The case against the Doctor.
Kafumu was opened by the former parliamentary candidate for CHADEMA ticket, mwalimu Joseph Kashindye, in the charges to oppose the parliamentary seat of Kafumu, aliwaunganisha also the attorney general together with the former supervisor of that small elections, Protace Magayane.
However, despite the case depressing the parliamentary seat Doctor.
Kafumu, all the time of the process of listening to the case Kafumu showed fears against Judge Shangali, who also captured the fears against him.
In the results of that small election which was held after the former member of parliament of Igunga, Rostam Aziz, resignation, Kafumu was announced as the winner of the seat by getting approximately 26,484 votes which are equivalent to 50 percent of all the votes cast.
The close opponent of the Doctor.
Kafumu was mwalimu Kashindye who acquired 23,260 votes which are 44 percent of all votes cast.
Voting in that small election that had a political tension was held on October 2nd, last year.
Due to the decision of the Court, Doctor.
Dalali has quoted saying that for now he is waiting for his party's decision as they will even appeal to oppose the results or of.
He explained that for some time that he is not a member of parliament he will return to his work of expertise of minerals.
Kutenguliwa to the parliamentary seat of the Doctor.
Kafumu is a second blow to the Revolutionary Party.
The first blow was to be depending on the parliamentary member of parliament for Sumbawanga Town, Aeshi Hilaly.
The case of opposing the parliamentary seat of Aeshi was opened by his close opponent, mwalimu Norbert Yamelse (CHADEMA) and the verdict of that case that had 68 pages that was read by the judge of the High Court of Mbeya, Betwell Mmila.
That judgment of Sumbawanga Town has been preceded by another judgment to oppose the results of the parliamentary seat for the former member of parliament of Arusha town, Godbless Lema.
In the judgment of the parliamentary seat of Arusha town, Lema alikwisdidn't appeal to oppose that judgment, an appeal that is still in the process.
On the side of the judgment of Sumbawanga Town, yet CCM has not cut an appeal and there is a report that a small election in the region can be announced a few months from now.
It has not yet been put up clearly about the following decision of CCM as an appeal to oppose the results of the judgment of Igunga or of.
The secretary of ideology and propagation of CCM, Nape Nnauye has talked about the issue saying he is waiting to read the verdict of that case and then give a stand of his party.
In another step, until we're going to the press, CHADEMA leaders were not able to be found to talk about that judgment.
Tundu Lissu who is the lawyer of that party, when he called the phone was called without answers and later completely tested.


