
Bishop amfananisha President Magufuli and Jesus Christ, the retired bishop of the church of the Pentek.ore (FPCT) Singida town, Doctor.
Paul Samweli, has said the issue of the government of Doctor.
John Magufuli insisted on tax payment and tax is the implementation of the directives of Jesus Christ, so believers and of Tanzania in general, they are required to obey and consider their responsibility.
While creating their own power, he has said according to the holy book of God of the biblia Warumi 13 (msitari 1-14), shows openly Jesus Christ, he voted for the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA).
Bishop Paul said that in Warumi 13 has aligned that they will charge taxes and tax, it is the workers of God that wapeni their rights, a tax person, tax, tax, tax, tax.
Doctor.
Paul said that the day before yesterday when he was preachat the normal service which was also attended the commander of the police force in the province, ACP Debora Daudi Magiligimba.
Insisting, he said because paying taxes has been given all the blessings by the Almighty God, believers of various religious denominations, are supposed to be on the front line in obeying the order of God to pay the tax set legally.
"The government of President Magufuli in this of the uhimizaji of tax payment and tax, is doing well in front of our believers of religion and of Tanzania in general, is to pay taxes and tax for a while, so that our country can move forward development.
These things to evade paying tax or tax, yakomeshwe, "he said.
Regarding taxes and tax, Dk.Paul, said that in the Bible (Luka Holy 3-12-17) says they will charge taxes / taxes were ordered to obey the great ones that will be contrary to the law required.
He explained, he said that the employees of TRA, in the implementation of their responsibilities, are required to tax tax and tax according to the law, regulations and procedures in place and not otherwise.
"Wakitoza tax or a huge tax that is against the law, they will be forced to trust the accountant, the action is not only a human being with good values doesn't love them, but also, it will not please the Almighty God," he said.
Bye on the side of the police force, Doctor.
Paul has said that in the Warumi book 3 on the line of 14, has urged the police officers in implementing their responsibilities, they should be exploited or not caused people in false cases.
They will also be oshed with the salary they are paid.
"Commander words that were an event for by the servant of God Yohana, yanamtaka every police officers, assured him and his salary.
It means that he should not have given up to ask for bribes and also to serve a citizen case, but he will implement his duty according to his work contract, "he said.
Doctor.
Paul used that opportunity to commend the police force in Singida province for its efforts to control criminal acts that can produce peace and stability where you are.
"I should put more effort to the commander Magiligimba for the new culture of speaking to the believers of religious denominations in their houses worship.
Also for your decision to control the crime before it happens.
In short, you want signs of the crime, they should be addressed early before they have not brought the damage.
We the church we are supporting in this.
God aangulie, "said Dk.Paul.


