When it is ours.
But the teachers who are the most call have lost lost.
Instead they are looking for that teaching is a job.
Because someone while he was graduated in form four training.
He found that he has not attained the level c the success of going to join form five and six months he decides that because I have failed in grade five and six that I am able to go to the teaching college to learn so that I can get to work since he is not the one that has the call of that mi nasoma but when I'm going to get to him in this call of teaching teaching.
You have also left.
The call of the teachers of the teachers.
Fourth.
I am tired of some people of that teaching is hard work for so that it has remained to be some of the people who are not involved in it in the present.
Famso that it's been their great job but those people who actually come from within their hearts if mi I need to go to become a teacher for sure they have remained a very few teachers for so, so they have remained a very few teachers for so, therefore, they have remained a very few teachers for
I am asking only to say that the work of teaching is a call as other phone calls but only one calls.
People are the ones that change yesterday of that teaching is a job as much as other jobs even to push a lot of interests that he can get his interests and instead not that he sought the call of the teachers to teach the children and the group of people who do not know how to work so that he can get his personal interests. Earlier in addition to the preparation of the students themselves through the birthday of the birth of that, to teach a lot of things but you are getting into work in the years as the curriculum has changed for example the teachers who started work for the past eight years will not teach again but it is true that there is a place you said that it is very difficult to prepare the students that were registered to do the national examinations of again, I think that is why they are given they are given to the national examinations of the
And we know now what should be done by holding back that the level of education is not enough enough.
What I saw the government is required.
It should be understood because I give permission to a few ones so every writer is needed he can start his book as one book textbooks to be used to be used the whole country can be used to the whole country.
And not that every school has his own book that can use because if you look at the examination is released, it is the whole nation they are doing one exam and it is tired of the book that one of the students are eli due to change for the books I have used to the number of textbooks. The one in public should be used and something is with something that is not the whole one then so that you should be understood.
I see it here to happen the government that it will make a environment that is a friend friend.
A lot of the one.
The environment that is a friend to a teacher and a student.
So what purpose is to be able to overcome this problem is good for the government if it looks like it.
The problem is there in
The environment for example what I assume there is a lot of primary schools in there that you find out maybe the day has launched and wind the wind.
The one with me the class remains is open for a long time, the government has not done a renovation when and the students and when it reaches seven o'clock that is required in the period and they are unable to stay in the classroom a student needs to come from home to go home to go home.
So that ehmatumbo is now tabora our kifuatthat has to be done should be done.
The first thing.
The government of the government.
You should not have a good plan about the education sector.
The first thing.
A if there is a lot.
The minister that is heard power power.
I must take a look at the first back when he is following I don't even get it when they get changed for example now, there is a procedure for a procedure now, there is a procedure.
Ehin the afternoon up to seven o'clock their lovers by hiding ba.
It's not does it does not build it.
The profession profession because how it will be like the phone mahesabu.
Now while we are AHH hatutoi, the way seems to be doing so that the answer is not now, they are told to just answer the money they pay the interest is the student who is being standardized when he is learning what he is learning from the scholars that are alleged to be the teachers here in the country and to be able to increase education here under the country and to be able to increase education here under the country and to be able to increase education here under the country and to be able to increase education here under the
This is now an opportunity for my analysts you will know what to be realized what should be done to raise the level of the standard of the
I will see her see her.
