
Conservation of cereals is important to tackle our writer, Mwananchi article @ tz.nationamedia.com Central blood of nafaka after the harvest is important for the safety of food because they are un the possibility of getting bacterial infections or fungus who causes different diseases including sumukuvu.
Sumukuvu is the type of poison that is being constructed by cassava or fungus who grow in different crops especially cereals like maize, mtama, ngano, rice, rice and ulezi.
Kuvu those when they grow appears as long as ukungu.
Maize is the cereals that are being recognized more and the pollution of sumukuvu compared to other cereals.
Other crops that can be attacked by these fungus despite cereals are together for oil, an example of nuts, cotton, sunflower and korosho, borrowed or cassava mix, food organs, an example of food and fruits, vegetables and fruits that were shocked.
The animals that are eating suvu has always had the possibility of affecting their crops, an example of milk or meat.
The pollution of sumukuvu in cereals can occur before and after the harvest and can't be removed through normal by cooking for a long time.
There are health effects of eating food that was being resolved which includes the death of the food consumer.
Normally the dangers depend on the level of poison in the food that was squandered, last time since it should be used, age and the health of the consumer in general.
August, several people were reported to lose life in Dodoma province after eating food that is believed to have an infection of sumukuvu while others were filled with its effects.
The short-term effects include the pain of the stomach, vomiting, fever, degebirds, not for many blood, yellow for eyes and parts of the body an example viganja.
Someone showing these symptoms to be taken to the health center that is near a hurry.
For a long time, sumukuvu can cause cancer cancer, kid and throat, affecting the immune system of the body and parenting, affecting the growth of children especially under five years.
The damage to the economy people get sick from the infection of sumukuvu cause kudorora for the activities of production production.
The burden of treatment costs also affects the economy of one person, family and the nation as a whole.
In addition, the business of harvest out of the country which is important in promoting the national income can lose the market if it has known that they have a great amount of sumukuvu.
A good example is a loss that Tanzania got in the year 2008 after selling 15,000 tons of nuts for 424 American dollars for tons and it was revealed to have a huge waste of sumukuvu of the kind of latoxin.
The price was small from the errors compared to the income that the other in the other were getting.
South Africa for example, the year was selling its nuts to 1,473 dollars for tons.
This is because it didn't have a huge amount of sumukuvu that would be able to endanger the health of consumers.
The advice of the officers at the ugani is important and farmers should give priority to ensure the produce are taken and taken care of by following international standards so as to avoid losses like this one that came out nearly one decade ago.
Control sumukuvu, there are many ways to deal with sumukuvu spread and affecting the produce.
Most of these ways are done after the harvest of cereals involved.
To make sure the maize or cereals have failed well before the shelter is one of those ways.
Before the shelter, it is advisable for them to recognize the cereals involved in order to get rid of the dirt and to build those poor ones that have been marred or being attacked by wadudu.
But the farmer can avoid reveal the maize or any other cereals in the soil.
Experts advise you to use the kichanja, a hit, turubai or a clean afu that does not have any kind of any kind.
Caution is supposed to be taken even time to consider the issues several important issues for food safety.
The location of store it's supposed to be clean and with a good weather cycle at all times.
Another important thing is to avoid mixed cereals of the past and the new ones.
Haishauriwi mix the produce from the harvest of different seasons for the safety of the food involved.
This helps not to distribute infections, if you are on one of the harvest.
Conservation and it is important to be looked at the attention.
Experts when they recommend cereals that are ready to be discussed in the new sacks and be angwe in a place where he is uka and it's not a theist.
The drugs for kunyunyiza in order to increase the life nafaka that you have is important too.
If it depends on the shelter for more than three months, you are advised to get advice from the agricultural expert in your area about a good storage medicine and how to use it.
It is blessed with ghala or storage room, it is another priority of priority during preservation to avoid the infection of sumukuvu.
The room or ghala it's supposed to be destroyed as well as the amount of removing the possibility of cereals to have been rained.
Caution that as a result of mobilization offered by health stakeholders, there have been a huge awareness of people to love to eat ugali of cereals that are not looking at or dona.
The organizers of these cereals are supposed to be careful during the usagaji time so as to remove the possibility of there for the fungus of sumukuvu.
There are several important things to recognize.
Analysis and protecting themselves in cereals, so as to remove waste and cereals that were attacked and wadudu are among those ways.
Another step is to be enough for maize or any cereals that you want to lay and to reveal it up to it so well.
This helps to ensure the vijidudu all have been removed before grinding.
There is a need to reveal the cereals that you have on the time of the time, a hit or turubai so as to prevent the pollution of fungus that are in the ground if you will be believed down.
Even after grinding unga uhifadhiwe in the body of afi, avu and kisochallows you yedvu.
If possible the tool with flour in a place without unyevyevu.
However, scientific information show that oboa nafaka is reducing the pollution of sumukuvu in a big way, therefore advised a diet for a stable health.
For being maize and cereals in general it is the main food for many citizens in the country it is better for all stakeholders in the chain value of food to comply with health regulations to avoid sumukuvu.
By considering the best regulations of agriculture, starting the conservation, distribution and processing of maize and its products to reduce the effects that can affect the community by eating food that was resolved and sumukuvu thus increasing the assurance of a safe life.


