The great report is the president of the United Republic of Tanzania docta jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, he says the government needs to enable economically women whereby for the research data of its two economy and ten that shows it clear that twenty percent and three of women have an income that is against thinking of the income of men in the country, addressing the summit of the commemoration of the world women in the world, took place in Morogoro province, Kikwete has said that the empowerment is together with helping the start of the commemoration of the women's women in the world. The women's bank bank which has given out twenty billion shillings and four billion shillings, it is entertaining and eight percent of women in the country, like a visitor without a report on summer.
President Kikwete says that as well as bringing them to his establishment, it is also helping in the start of the parties to put and borrow the vicoba that helps to create a good environment in various institutions of small loans, this country will help eight percent of women to participate in a small business, I want to maybe and so as to overcome your poverty and family in general.
There are help.
In the beginning to be up to wapeni women in two thousand and nine thousand women.
I have since he was found first because it wasn't the capital money from starting from the capital.
I said I will give you the money is three billion
And it's why every year and because that's
We will be welcoming they love they love you.
To help the citizens.
Sometimes don't when they need them when they are required and
And I mean the answers you have and the activities of doing we are cutting all but I urge you to urge them.
President Kikwete has added that the government has increased the number of women in leadership positions as a step of recovering their rights which have given for a long time due to the male system that is present in a long time due to the male system that is in the present.
When we are doing this right.
We are not doing a favourite women for what to be entertaining.
A lot of fun.
We get them without it.
Then we are fulfilling our responsibility.
I would not be able to NACTE as a citizen.
It is going to also women their right.
And their deserve that the community has given us to drink for a long time.
And they don't kill the nations, they have said that you will continue to support the efforts of the government in enabling the women economically economically to enable women economically
The United Nations sponsors and development stakeholders will continue to help the improvement of gender equality and the rights of women Tanzania Tanzania?
They are planning to choose it.
Deciding is confident and fulfill the dream they go when I arrive to build up to the government that lead it hurts, I see women empowered through the loans given by the financial savings while women together with the minister of development of the community, also to align the success of a hundred billion shillings for a total of two billion demonstrations to zero two zero to two consecutive demonstrations. Nine of the elderly men yet that five with a total of women and one you get everything ehand enabling women economically and to increase their participation in the level of the decision of the accounts that were opened from ujepu ahead is the fourth one, Martha dust passes until they are now, that we have a translation of the war saying the number two and four in the province, this year is the empowerment of the woman being explained at the time now, the women's empowerment in Morogoro province this year is the empowerment of the woman being explained at the time now, the women's empowerment in Morogoro province this year
I have not yet.
Well not well) well.
