What is TRA there?
The government will give me the information Nov 24, 2016 by Njonjo Mfaume katika Makala Makala.

Last Sunday the President of the United Republic of Tanzania, Doctor.
John Magufuli dismissed the appointment of the chairman of the board of directors of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Bernard Mchomvu.
In addition to the chairman, the whole board of TRA was also violated.

This step has come when there are rumors that are spread that the state of income is not safe in TRA.
Rumors indicate that the revenue of the government have been dropped, contrary to the reports provided by the government that threatens the citizens that the state of the economy is good.
The place that is affected is at the port.

Depending on the appointment of Mchomvu and has been broken by the board has brought debates in various platforms especially in social media networks.
People are questioning as the state of income is good and TRA has been crossing goals, what changes are of?

Rumors, worried about the debates gets more power because it is not the procedure of President Magufuli to provide details and reasons to take any decision he is taking.
But, for whatever, the board was not broken right just.
There's a reason.
What is going on TRA?

The announcement of the broken board of TRA has been issued on Sunday, something that announced many.
Is there security there?
Or that is the substitute has reduced a lot in the cubu and now the leaders are getting to you and look for a witch doctor?
What is exactly what is going on in the jikoni?

A lot of Kibano!

The rearrangement of the board of TRA is being viewed by many in the context of the state of affairs that turned out since President Magufuli came to power, where he has taken many steps to kubana use and sealed loopholes of evading taxes.

We remember the great Mshindo that was caused by being discovered by thousands of containers that were passed at the port without paying for tax.
The president held the business people who were involved in evading taxes and was forcing them to pay.
That step of collecting debts of those who had wepa paying taxes was going along with the steps of preventing the new tax evasion.

On the second part of the fifth term government of President Magufuli has taken strict measures to kubana use in government.
This step is believed that it has affected a lot of private sector which has been depending on the government as a general customer of its services.

Among the steps of kubana use which are causing to be falling down to the private sector is the random use of public funds through the workshop, seminars, forums, meetings, celebrations, celebrations and foreign trips.
In these use you will see that money were going to binafi.

There are business reports in the private sector to donify, especially those that are depending on the government.
Some of the media reported that some of the entrepreneurs have lost their bond they put to pray for loans including fields and buildings.

While hundreds of buildings and fields have been sold to compensate the debts of loans, many people have also changed the lifestyle style.
Now, people have reduced drinking beer, and increasing drinking viroba and michgence has reduced!

The government says now everyone should be filled with a legitimate income and there is no longer depending on the deal of town.
Reports indicate that some of the entrepreneurs have found themselves followed after their businesses rolling and fail to pay loans they received from the bank and other financial institutions.

Already, one bank has been beaten by each other, and reports show that the benefits in other banks has dropped.
So, this bad condition of the private sector has a relationship with shake up TRA that led to the board to be broken?

Online debates is going on but the biggest is the feelings: Maybe right, maybe the same.
First mchangiaji of the social network Forum wrote: "Things are not moving (Magufuli) where he ran to disturb people so that the problem is for himself, is growing tough until your leaders are unable to make a decision everything is standing up to look at you, that is why he is onda.
Things didn't love them. "

Another one he wrote: "This one guys is very harmful.
I have never seen a leader with nongwa like this one.
Now, if TRA is crossing the goals that collapse the board?
You want them to do what they are now more than to cross the goal? "

Another akatabiri: "And that work to choose and undo will make it up to 2020 then he will come again" pushup "during the campaign instead of talking about industries.
Even they change every month it will not help.
What is required is the government to give back money to the circulation so that people started the business and they get buyers to pay taxes.
Incredible he can be appointed the chairman of CCM who has no even profession. "

The Mdication one said: "Kashitukia those data to be buried?
We told them every day they have already killed music he wouldn't want to hear and they don't change the music themselves but they add only a voice.
There is no revenue.
It's data just a lot. "

Another citizen said: "I expected the mvuka goals will not be able to be fired now, I don't know what has happened?
JPM will not be agi ignorance of being data.
He does not ask for the burden to increase in the Bombardier I was told they don't have the money that is the anger if they are unable to disturb him. "


