

And Hamisa Maganga, who was in Nairobi to grow in technology has contributed to a large extent to improve the lives of one person and different nations in the world.
But sometimes that I can destroy the business of people who are still living in the ki-analogia something that contributes to kudumaza development.
The International vehicles of the source of a source is not (Uber), recently found itself great popularity in Africa after causing a tough conflict between them and the source drivers are not in Nairobi, Kenya.
When I was in the city for a working tour that was sponsored by Fastjet Airways, I found myself encouraged to interview with two rivals - the drivers of the source are not common and those who are used by Uber.
In that interview I noted a lot of things but the biggest one is the way Uber they are wepa to pay taxes in that country.
Another is how they are crucanyatizing drivers, the source is not normal claiming that they are wachafu and their vehicles are to quote.

The opposition against Uber and the source is not common Kenya company of Uber has continued to improve due to attract customers to what they claim that they are oza affordable fare.
The issue has made the drivers of the source not ordinary in the capital city of Kenya, Nairobi, complaining and opposing strongly Uber to enter the market.
The risk of running those vehicles has been great to the police and the Ministry of Transport in the country was forced to intervene in the ongoing conflict between the drivers of Uber and source not normal.
While that went on, Uber continues to open branches in Mombasa town.

The concerns of the drivers source is not common Dereva of the source is not, Leornad Kurof, says they can't say that Uber is bad because they cannot compete with digital change.
He says that the business is good because those employed are Kenyans, for that if there was a young man who had no job to do, Uber imempati opportunities.
"You know the change within the country is good, the Uber vehicles are focusing on the safety of the customer and the driver also.
"If people feel Uber they are set up hindances, it is not bad when they are planning other methods of using customers, they started their website that will help them get customers easily, but if we continue to kuwapiga them then we should know that we continue to announce the business without us to know," says Kurof.
He says that Uber came with great power since their business of many days has been thrown away from their vehicles and has been known quickly than other companies that are in that country.
He says there are many companies in Kenya that conduct that work but have not received popularity as it is in Uber.
He demonstrates that as a result of the business competition that is in that country, now, Kenya there are no drivers who are not faithful because he is coming from who he is haribia business it makes a stern action.
Speaking about the income he gets to the day through the job says it is good though it is not so much.
"This business is good and inalipa different from staying Kijiweni without work.
I can for a week I get a 12,000 shillings (equivalent to 240,000 Tanzanian shillings), "he says.
And Joseph Wamarof, says Uber are working without having a special center which is causing the country revenue because they will not be taxed.
He says that the business has also built classes in that country because it choose the rich and the wasionacho.
"These Uber is good except what they are wrong is to choose, the elderly who want to do this work fail because they cannot use smartphones (modern phones).
"But they also choose cars, that is a car like this (he is showing his car) didn't need to work with a Uber because his numbers are A," says Wamarof.
He insists that the old vehicles will not be discouraged and that they want new cars with number C and D.
He says 50 percent of the owners of vehicles especially the drivers have not borrowed their vehicles, something that remembers it difficult for others to borrow because the criteria and conditions that is needed is difficult.
On his side, Morrison the kamor, he says that they are the ones that are working on the right because they pay a different tax and Uber that they don't know something in government.
He says that the government is supposed to come up with a special strategies to ensure that it improves these two businesses.
"If the government wants peace is supposed to stay with us all in order for us to be convinced one language, otherwise things must be affected by poverty and crime will not end.
"We pay our colleagues, they are not paying them, they are working without any restrictions thus they are messed up business," says Kamor.
"He says," when they came for the first time we caught a little surprised, they can't do business easily as they expect, we must expect them to know that they have misudhi, but that they should not fear this hostility.
He insists that the other companies that conduct work as a Uber including Mundo, easy tax themselves have stickers from the council on their different vehicles and it is in Uber.
Speaking about the issue of relief says that Uber have no relief because they are oza for the distance while looking at the kilometers they use, and that if the road there is a queue is a must cost ande.
He says that they agree with the client before they haven't started the journey, so if it is far, almost or the road has a queue, a loss is always a client.
"There is no convenience, again you can discover that they are on top of us.
When I get the customer it must I will find out the mkato way so I can ever return to I will be ute to another customer, but he can take a routine again through so far so that the project has to pay a lot of money, that is our difference, "says Kamor.


