He didn't have a lot of it.
We have been overwhelmed where by this region of East Africa in the East
The performance in the soccer in soccer.
A person along along with me.
It has not been released.
A thing.
A lot of a difference with us.
I don't think we're back yet yet.
In schools of three soccer schools against the meaning in being expected to be difficult for the punishment we are supposed to open investors who are the belief that people are not there in investing but now that you know many of the time that the accers are able to invest in mind after ten years I see it is coming out of knowing its fruits, there is a chance to invest in the age, there is a chance for them to invest in mind and think that they will not be able to invest in the age. The abu but still bibilia is the government government with the bus and it has went to call them to help me.
Where then it seems that they have a good direction as a country of Uganda four one helps a lot and its government in the soccer schools for that it can be now because he will not be acceptance then the government will help you so that it is still based on grunk and the sports here here and the sports here here.
But the judgment if I hear people to invest in soccer soccer.
I also know investing that you will give and if you receive it not to end you get in this time ehhe was provides in plenty at this time now, it needs a tough spirit and solutions to the solution and solutions to the solution.
However, the things I need to education if you are not willing to invest for investment in soccer, you need to actually exit from Resurrection and Resurrection and Resurrection and Resurrection.
We give us an education of people.
We should know there are so many who are capable of
But now they must get when they are educated and faith will not be contested for them.
They will not be able to.
Surely, we are a coach and we believe that you are wrong that you have a lot of responsibility then Thika players here under it ever so much.
Here, if you are talking about a very good example there is still a very big problem of the attacking position we see our league to live when you know that he comes from the country of the country to make a lot of good nuclear experts.
Here about something conor when we reached the international coach I want players not in the head ehany of these children to start the process, it should start not a partnership that was how to grow the talent I have almost like five months like five months like five months like five months like five months like five months like five months like five months like five months like five months like five
We as teachers is that we are responsible for our self-term that we are responsible but the activities is coming to that young man yesterday can be with her matplaced in the campaign is free of charge and if you asked what has understood what you understand has understood.
But what is to make the field becomes different from what you have to be understood by a great Chance coming up to a young man to themselves.
First, give them to be taught there is not working on them yet to be emphasizing on the youth
