
When we are planning we can improve our towns yesterday we published news about the Kinondoni Municipality program in Dar es Salaam city to demolish all unplanned settlements and then they build for a modern look.
Speaking to Mwananchi in a special interview, the mayor of that Municipality, Benjamin Sitta said that the plan is expected to start in 2018, is part of the development strategies of the municipality.
By starting, he said they have planned to beat the famous village in Tandale and rebuild in a special modern system.
This is a step to be added because that is what is in Kinondoni is a sign of the situation in many areas in the country.
Basically, many areas in the country are hobelahobela and this is the result of not planning cities early or not the existence of effective management in areas where at least those about the existence of urban planning.
The side effects of having a towns that was built careless we are seeing.
For example, areas where the map of cities shows have been targeted or for the grounds of sports or the rest, the expansion of the school or hospitals or the government buildings, we have witnessed yakivamiwa and built houses to live and others for business activities.
Also, we have witnessed with the money wakipora and building houses in the areas of the road reserves and probably about the pipes for water and fuel.
The worst, there are those who for the nanny of funds have been contested even to fill the mifereji that is passing dirty water and thus causing a huge trouble for other residents because the sewerage spread especially at rainy times.
We are added in Kinondoni Municipality for the ka between this one that is supposed to be followed by various other areas in the country.
However, we want to ensure that this program becomes sustainable and prepare himself to serve its ability.
We have said so especially considering that our country has built the fees for the years go back to having many plans, but only a few is implemented and many are threatening to the mashubaka in the office of executives.
We have a good example of developing the garden that is in the neighborhood with the Kinondoni District offices.
Since it was announced that the area will be improved and have an attraction of its own several years ago, so far there is nothing going on.
Outside Kinondoni, there are many examples of strategies to develop cities, but so far it did not eleweki.
A good example is the modern towns of Kigamboni and Luguruni.
We don't believe that if the mayor Sitta wants to make the popularity, it should be noted this is a big project and if you will succeed you will put in Kinondoni in a unique shape in the country, so it is a must for the municipality to prepare themselves because its process will need a lot of resources.
Planning is to choose, if we have chosen to improve our cities, we must have a consistent commitment and for sure, while we plan for our local resources.
We will not arrive anywhere if every day we will be advising plans and strategies while we rely on a huge amount of resources especially money from sponsors or partners outside.
In addition to that, we have said the plan of Kinondoni Municipality, should be raised other areas in the country.
The tanzania want to see the best and modern cities, it's not Kinondoni alone, but every corner of the country.
When we are planning that well, the era of our areas to be built careless, will have reached an end.


