
Interests, the ranks of the natives were prompted uasi jeshini, 1964 May 31, 2012, 2012, 2012.

In the first part of this article last week, we saw how the minister of foreign affairs and defense of that time, Oscar Kambona, he managed to convince the soldiers who were asi on January 21, 1964, to return to camp, for the promise to address their complaints.
We saw also the way the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius K. Nyerere, was able to flee the State House to evade the rebels who went to look for him, he went to kujificha the place without being known.
The teacher came out suddenly two days later, he holds power again.
However, four days later, the police were asi again.
Why?
Follow this second part and the last to get an answer.
The second day after getting back to camp, the rebels seemed to be happy to see the English officers leaving as they were promised by Kambona.
But one person among them was not happy as others: Sergeant Francis Higo Ilogi.
During the funeral of two soldiers that day, those were killed in the neighborhood and one Mwarabu during a rebellion, Sajini Ilogi left to speak and Kambona, or to watch the near future.
Is it because the Kambona could not be able to implement all that he promised?
Is it because he is not promoted to the rank after leading a rebellion?
That day was received reports that the second squad of the force that was in Tabora and had been asi, after getting news that their colleagues of Colito had been asi.
It is possible or they had not received information that the Colito had returned to camp, or they knew, but they wanted them to be condemned several things on their squad.
While the squad of Tabora continues with a rebellion, it was received a text phone from Kambona, that he had appointed Captain Mirisho Sam Hagai Sarakikya, to be the head of the squad.
At that time, Sarakikof and other officers were arrested and put in prison.
Sarakikla was married in prison, he requested that phone to voice, then he removed the order they should stand up "the same leg," the rest of bents and giving bullets.
They have to be arrested.
That night, Sarakikof made plans to transport the English officers to go to Dar es Salaam and finally their homes.
The event of January 21, and the one of Tabora together with the situation was in Kenya, Uganda and Zanzibar, made the government of England to take additional precaution by taking more 2,000 to East Africa.
Therefore, manowari called Rhy, it has not been signed in the dock of Dar es Salaam, and the other one has been killed, that was carrying a plane, arrived by 600 soldiers.
The third day after the rebellion of the first squad, on Wednesday, January 23 in the morning, suddenly Nyerere happens he has climbed to open car with Mama Nyerere and the Minister of Internal Affairs, Job Lusinde, was visiting every part of the city that was affected by rebellion.
Thursday, January 24, was calm, but Friday, January 25, talks between the government and the rebels were seen to start broke, they just failed again.
Who was the leader of a rebellion in the second phase?
Sajini Higo Ilogi again?
Unlike the rebellion of January 21, which does not involve politicians, nor have a political goal, this new rebellion were adopted by the filimbi of political.
Security reports showed that, leaders of workers workers were as they meet with the soldiers who were asi at the Colito camp, and that those parties were still organized on strike at the end of the week to join those policemen.
This second rebellion could be infectious in the army of Kenya and Uganda, and it will also affect the same way, that day, at that time, and to the same routine.
Jomo Kenyatta and Milton Obote they shouldn't read the points of times, they were preparing to call the British Force to shut down a rebellion.
Nyerere did not want to.
He didn't believe that his own force would be able to sabotage, he and his government.
He started believing when the security officers show him a list of potential ministers, that was organized by the rebels.
One of his close people went far more to tell him that, he had been requested AKUBALI to be the Vice President after the revolution.
The teacher that he did, he wouldn't believe those words, that his government was at risk.
That is, about 11 o'clock, 30 days that day, the teacher called the State House, Deputy Ambassador of England, Mister F. Stephen Mills, requested the military support.
And without delay, Mills when he took information in London and to be treated that the application were being accepted.
And Oscar Kambona, he went to race at the England Embassy to look for Bregedia Douglas who had hidden that for a whole week, asked for help.
The night of that day, Douglas and the other officer, walinyatia up to the manowari of them that was followed in the coast.
On Saturday, January 26, 12 o'clock in the morning, six HELIKOPTA from manowari, ur ur took 60 soldiers (including Bregedia Douglas) up to the area near the Colito camp.
10 minutes later, 12 hours: 30, manowari, and another war ship, that was waiting for Coast, started attacks by making a gun salute to the rebels.
From the distance of 20 meters right, and with a lot of courage, Douglas he announced to the microphone, that he had held his power again, he removed the command all the soldiers will oke to camp and "weapons on the floor.
After 10 minutes without seeing something, he started counting, "one, two.....
Rebels started to surrender.
The other 10 minutes followed, 150 police officers surrendered, and 150 others after one hour.
By 1 o'clock: 30 in the morning, all of them have surrendered, a rebellion have been tested in an exercise that the police who had five were killed, and five others injured.
There is no English police among 60 who led the struggle, who was affected.
And for the whole week of rebellion, a citizen who should not be less than 17 were killed.
When they are determined by the British Force as controlling the rebels of Tanganyika, there in Uganda and Kenya and in Kenya, that force was taking action like that, time, an hour and in that style to the police who placed Jinja (Uganda), and in the 11th squad of the bark-Lanet (Kenya).
Haielezwi is how the Sajini Higo Ilogi was able to be straight, he appeared in the city in the morning at the international external phone exhibition (Exteles.), sending a phone of writing to the secretary general of the United Nations (UN), U Thant, asking for help.
That phone was captured: "The Tanganyika forces have been abducted by unknown soldiers.
He helped him quickly to bring the United Nations Army.
Lieutenant Colonel ILOGI, the head of the army. "
We should register on our primary question, who will stimulate the rebellion of our army in 1964?
Oscar Kambona?
John Okello?
Kambona was the minister responsible for security at that time, where the army was under his ministry.
For this reason, to participate in him in kutuliza rebellion of the first phase, could not be taken that he had a stock or that he was knows the program.
It is only his courage that you send to deal with the situation.
If they truly would have bad intentions for the government, and by considering how he was controlling the situation and the soldiers were not accepted, he would have come to undo the country which was in the army for two consecutive days.
Is it "Field Marshal" John Okello?
No, he did not have that time, because for the whole period since the revolution of Zanzibar, he was in hati documents to protect and strengthen its administration in the island due to the threat of being excluded from his rival which claimed they did not participate in the revolution.
Okello led to the Revolutionary Government in Zanzibar for two months in a row before he was excluded.
Nor haishangazi that, the rebellion of these soldiers were able to be infected by their colleagues of Kenya and Uganda considering that the army of these three countries have been born by the English colonies of English who ruled those countries.
Therefore, for the period, and for the working environment of that time, their complaints were like to make the creditors of their rights in a way and to a routine that looks like.
I agree with the opinion of Ambassador Abbas Kleist Sykes (if he was quoted in a certain place in 2001), that "the rebellion of the Tanganyika Force Rifles (TR) earlier in 1964, resulted in a big way and delay of Kizungu and kuwapandisha Africans," as it happened to the police force and other servants in the government.
And that is how it was for the rebellion of Kenya and Uganda.
Nor haishangazi that, leaders of the parties of workers joined by the rebels this second phase wanting to bring down the government, due to the fact that, since the teacher when he stopped the exercise of "Africans," January 1963, they were given to not sleeping sleep until it is over. "
Due to that rebellion, the teacher removed the whole squad (Colito Barracks) and chasing the work of 100 soldiers of the second squad, Tabora.
He died also 10 percent of the police officers 5,000 who were in a failure to implement their duties.
More than 400 people were arrested and questioned, including leaders of the workers' parties, and the 500 others were affected under the law of preventing danger, but many were released.
It will also be the Federation of Workers Association in the country (TFF) was canceled, rather than being made up of the Party of NUTA as the community of the ruling party - TANU.
The teacher appointed Mirisho Sam Hagai Sarakikon to be the new head of the force, and got promoted to be Bregedia.
At the beginning of April 1964, the British forces were left, and his position was taken by the third squad of the Nigerian Army, under Lieutenant Colonel James Pam.
Sajini Francis Higo Ilogi was found guilty of the forces of the force and closed 15 years, its 13 partners were closed to a sentence between five to ten years.
Swahili they said, "every bad has to be his blessing."
The teacher added a minimum of salary for soldiers, from 105 / = to 240 / = per month.
But the most important than all is that the rebellion were helping us to interview and know the type of force that is needed for the country like ours.
It enabled us to build a fresh force at all, we get "the Defence Force of Tanzania" (JWT), for the real meaning of the citizens force and for the citizens.


