
The treatment is beneficial to be given to the chronic diseases.

It was written by Grace Mkojera.

It has been published: 18 September 2016.

Hospitals in the country are supposed to start providing treatment to benefit patients with chronic diseases.
That advice was given by various stakeholders including the Ocean Road Cancer Institute, Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, Elderly and Children and stakeholders after the government passing guidance on April this year, which is directed how to serve those patients.

Speaking the day before yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the executive director of that institution, Doctor Julius Mwaiselage said, the treatment is beneficial to be provided to patients with diseases that were at the hospital so as to allow a patient to live a life with comfort and death in death.
"Patients with chronic diseases including AIDS, diabetes, cancer and diseases of selimundu even received a motorcycle accident, they have been believing that they are people of dying, believing there are no people to give treatment to benefit, but by approved, it will help to provide education from the level of their families," he said.
Coordinator of non-communicable diseases from the Ministry of Health, Doctor Sarah Maongezi said that his ministry saw the importance to stay with stakeholders and create guidance of policy that directed all the health stakeholders to do what they are able to help the patients who got up to live.
He said they will start providing education to stakeholders so as to reach those who can't get to the Ocean Road Hospital, they get that service in it.
The Director of the Medical Institute Shufaa Tanzania (TPCA), Doctor Elias Muganyizi said, there is a need for the district to start setting aside the budget for providing education to people about that treatment.
The planning officer of the International Health Organization (ICAP), Doctor Hussein Mtiro said that, the service is not expensive, but it is an act of someone to change his negative view and to go patient so as to add them a day to live in the world.


