I will get the unk that's the way that's the best.
Cultivate the nyamisisi or the computer were to reach two to this hour to rise in the middle have been stolen from the middle.
The one that child I doubt kibanda and Saed kubenea have done very well in America we started as well, I have been able to
Yangenitdepending on the same goalkeeper in the middle are ready to be ready.
He has managed to be successful.
Kuwapiku quarrel up to these hours they have already lost the ball here is that it has created the market is one of the fifth members of parliament that increase the other together will be faced with a problem until these hours that bricks try Simba and also two, there was also called Kevin jino is a lot of important pregnancy is important for pregnancy is important for pregnancy is important for pregnancy is important for pregnancy is important for pregnancy is important for pregnancy is important for pregnancy is important for pregnancy is important for pregnancy is important for pregnancy is important to
To know the second side cannot mind Madimba.
I was saying this.
What is doing it.
It doesn't think that's the presentation of the Kigamboni to ease if here we see it until today, two other leaders, one two leaders.
He had been carrying Betty Betty.
We don't believe but the Simba match today has met.
The results regardless of our religion must be made.
It couldn't have been done with it.
Name name.
Of the heart remember that Diamond African fact has prepared us and what we are seeing here is a certain ignorance that they have played a ball that is supposed to be truly tofauti played in the middle, there is no one that is called to buy their vehicles. That is what is that meaning that is that that is that I mean that is that
We can't say what they are disrupting as men every day they will share them.
He will come out that it is not possible even one barrel there is the rich that is not possible for our players who will say that they are requested that our team has only weaknesses that we have to stop saying that Simba bought a match I don't know what we are charged with the potential solution we should not be able to wachane them.
You will be faced with Simba since I was Pima we can't why we can't
He has been delayed as well, we have agreed that we have been closed, we have been closed by therefore, it is their luck when it failed today, the red card is valid because compared to the hands of the hands, he did not want to hear that, but he didn't want to hear the hearing but he didn't want to hear the hearing but didn't want to
And that German ehana a very young child and he really talk about something he has come here to do not know anything that he has to tell us the child of the small vegete when I have lost the application today when I have lost three points to get three points.
I am called what I wish and I have come to look at the ball Simba and yanga that is a great lover of how many that I have really hate today to be defeated if we are playing football completely, but with the Dowans leaders have requested to come to this position because when we live when we find out there is not two.
Ngassa, the coach wanting to crush early it will be water until the end you know evil because even when they do many yourself what he hate people from finishing the mud matongotongo until he was congratulating the players players' players.
I was not when I met Simba and yanga Simba their own as their interests are being taken as they are the day of their harvest since they enter when they don't know that they will be
The ball before has not started Simba coming up with something like a coffin, you can think of these people maybe they have killed someone or you have faith in witchcraft, but it is still a thing that you make yanga to trust that they are being supported but it has still written the words of God's god.
A good way.
