
Unfortunately the MWENZAKO USIILALIE door to disappear from electricity from time to time at the poor neighborhoods in the city and rural areas is not a matter of staishing.
Residents of these places are forced to stay in the dark for a long time before seeing again you would fill.
Miss Susan Wendy Shihemi is among the residents of Kinyago village that is in Eastleigh in Nairobi city, who have been affected by that electricity situation.
Last year, Miss Shihemi had been employed at saluni one in that area and every time the power of electricity were lost for the whole day, returned home without bread despite having children who depend on him.
If you are employed in saluni, unpaid based on your work, if you work to go back home without even one cents, "he explains.
"Life were difficult to the extent that paying the house tax was a problem," he added Miss Shihemi who is now the chairperson of 15 women group, what is known as Twinklers.
50,000 shillings, this group owns a hotel which they started from the award of 50,000 shillings that they received after emerging winners in the competition of kuokota pakiti of Ariel's washing soap.
Apart from hiring five youths, members of this group who did not have a job they have also earned jobs in the hotel.
"Most of us who we don't have a job now we have employed in our group hotel and even start our personal businesses," he says.
This group was started last year the designers of Ariel soap when they visited the area and urged women who were close to form groups for the competition of the collection of paciti of that soap.
"Luckily the day the electricity had been lost and I was playing only one and my colleagues in the neighborhood because I did not go to work," he says.
He continued, "we were told to be divided into groups so that we started the competition to collect pakiti of Ariel.
We assume that a comic but we should be refunded that the competition was true and the winners would receive 50,000 shillings. "
After collecting those paper for nearly one month, this group members were shocked by the good news that they were okota lucky by collecting more packets more than other groups in the area of Kamkunji, in Nairobi.
Miss Shihemi says that the members decided to start a project that would have improved their own life in the near future instead of sharing those funds and then the group kusambaratika.
"We started a hotel business because it would have employed many of us who we were doing the vibarua that are not productive," he explains.
Profits every day after the sales members of this group usually sat down and make accounts in order to identify the benefits they received.
Three quarters of profits that are available wanakopesha members who are required to restore those funds together with the interest of 10 percent every time after one month.
"A quarter that is remaining we reserve at the bank," says Miss Julia Muthoni who is the secretary of the Twinklers group.
Miss Muthoni explains that the difference from the past where he was doing the workers of washing clothes in order to survive life, now his life have changed in a big way.
"You can walk at all the houses in the neighborhood without getting someone to make it fulia clothes.
Likewise, water gets lost in this village, work hukwama, "says Miss Muthoni who is the mother of two children.
According to Irene Mwathi who is a good relationship officer of the Manunuzi Company & gamble (P & G) which is making a Ariel soap, more than 140 groups across the country have benefited from that competition to collect pakiti which are thrown after the soap end.
"Groups that have managed to get those funds involved in various activities like, rearing of chicken, coal business among others," explains Miss Mwathi while being shown that the competition is still ongoing.
Twinklers are among the groups based on the Minister of Planning and Ugatuzi, Miss Anne Waiguru, already a total of 5 billion shillings have been admitted in all the areas 290 to the country. The data in the country (KNBS).
The Mandera parliament area is the one that has gotten a huge amount of money for Mrs. Shihemi Sh31.8 million while Lamu East being received a low amount of 2 million shillings.
Women groups, youth and walewhich have already presented requests to benefit from the Treasury of the ability.
"When we succeed to get those funds for the ability we aim to open a big hotel in the middle of Nairobi city," says the chairperson Shihemi. the burial which have fulfilled the criteria that are required can take a loan of between 50,000 shillings and 500,000 shillings without being charged with interest.
The group is supposed to have nine people and wasiozidi 15 of the age of 18 and 35 years.
Meanwhile, the group is a must be done by the bank account with the name of the group that group.


