Close to the period of the magazine maridthese and I don't want this today if you look at the cotton sector where we will bring together with various stakeholders of this sector which together you are trying to come up with the answers of the questions of various challenges facing the evidence of the evidence yet, I can second for a bring of foreign funds for foreign funds.
On behalf of all those who will participate to make sure that you care about the average
The stakeholders of the small cotton sector gathered so as to come and the answers to the challenges facing the sector that are facing the sector.
It is at the conference that took place in Dar es Salaam city, including the heads of the district heads of farmers, processors of the cotton board to do business and sponsors of various agricultural programs of the cotton agricultural programs.
Nearly twenty years ago, the cotton farming was used as one of the major revenue sources to the residents of the lake region and other places here in the country in the country in the country in the country in the country.
Two farmers who painted the hope of agriculture as the best light in their lives in the near future.
We this went hand in hand with the start of the industrial production and different products that come from cotton cotton.
Inakadiliwa more than one million people and five hundred thousand between one hundred and eight hundred thousand of nine hundred and nine hundred thousand, they were benefiting from two including farmers, food and oil producers that resulted in cotton and cotton farmers that resulted in cotton and cotton farmers that resulted in cotton and cotton farmers that resulted in cotton and cotton farmers that resulted in cotton and cotton farmers that resulted in cotton
On one hundred thousand year and ninety cotton got into the market for the hopes of improving more in the whole issue of production production in the whole issue of production production.
Zao la cotton started to witness the conflict that closely was caused by politics and tension of power within the corporate parties and Putin in general, in general.
According to the agricultural law of the contract to be able to run for the major milk if cotton coffee
On the periphery of the conference of the stakeholders of the small cotton sector that took place in Dar es Salaam city, the minister of agriculture food and corporate in the government of the United Republic of Tanzania Engineer Christopher Chiza will speak about agriculture of the contract contract of the contract of Tanzania, Engineer Christopher Chiza will speak about
I haven't said agriculture of the contract as agriculture of the contract that it has not been a kibaya bad.
What is required there, you know I have been ahead in my talks when any progress process
That starting the farming of a contract there are things that we expect to be traveling to the contract is between the kulu of someone between groups between groups between groups of groups between groups of groups between groups of groups between groups of groups between groups
It has been shown to be stopped.
The one who is given to you.
Now the biggest one here is what is required is all these to understand the mi is done for example.
The contracts must be in the language that all the two understand mi
When it doesn't.
Yet what he gave you this unamklending must be loyal to Mister mkopesha this at the end of the day I will have to take care of it which is their valid one of them which is their legal.
If you watch the system is good.
Because you can enable farmers to get input to what we need sa sa
I didn't have my thoughts that I believe names names.
It is to look at how things are in the agricultural of the contract
Which has not yet been pleased to farmers we have corrected than saying the procedure of a contract from people here in the world because if we implement well we will enable farmers to get loans loans.
And then these others are giving loans loans.
Providing loans must enable them to get their money that they have been given now that is the existing challenges that are available.
It is said that the small cotton sector in the country has the ability to empowering the cotton farmers in the dimbwi of poverty if the government in collaboration with other stakeholders can help in the presence of a contract to resolve the challenges facing the farming facing that farming.
The agriculture of the first contract is not that you have to come to suddenly we should be tested for the past three years in a row in a row.
If you accept what it is suitable and that is the sixth meaning six.
The stakeholders decided to be arrested in ten tribes and one that the money because it is suitable and if you see the whole country, if you see the whole country.
Ehhe is a problem here about its implementation there are some stakeholders having different goals and planned others who are not faithful who lacked integrity but agriculture of the contract is the only way that ITA itainua
Amepatikana and buyers will get the cotton to buy so that they are required to work at night do not miss the cotton of selling and eventually they can sell and also the district councils will get the tax that the tax
That farming of a contract mi for my opinion will know the only one in charge of the well will be able to save the farmer's farmer.
We have succeeded in great because the first one we have started with a bed groups will be more than we are told each other has joined the group because the first one I think yet to have joined in the group because the first one I
Thirty and between and still two hundred seven hundred.
Therefore, with the sides that you measured in says that this class has four divisions but the time in the ward we can better in different wards for that every village we have to take care of sure every thirty group who ye himself.
Sango tulime when they are rising and they are
The fruits to see the sun will be available for that last day is good people who are increasing even while they are getting the last day they are ready to say we have got to the point of this one and also the company that has lending drugs, what others will see that he will not be walking.
When I do not like it, I will not be able to.
We are telling his citizens we were asked for by
To enter the market earlier so that the citizens should not get they want to go to look for another maranya because it helps the citizens to take money at the time that we can't be able to sell it at the time that we can't be one of the time in the commission we can make a great success for the production of the cotton. The one from the year until the year comment your body is then there are two thousand money in the year piuma ten and three that will be able to unite fifteen million shillings which will be looked at according to the end of the ten million.
Kanumba was a Western Magharibi.
A four hundred grams drop down to one acre.
A new system without seeing three of them
Ehana expectations we had based on the status of those sides, there are insulting abusive which are conflicting with the issues that are conflicting with them.
May they fail to shut down the fire is only six Simba Simba seven Simba.
It has been bought an average that maybe to produce it.
What is from five hundred up to look for you.
One for us the foundation we have seen is due to you know we are the one that has been struggling the price has been not good.
I then produce based on the texts one acre that I will be better to continue what it is doing either it is doing it will be about to us it will be about to us.
We would like a lot of you ue in Europe and groups that are
The devil to go when our names hope I have been doing well and among them there are youths who we have to take young people who we have to get tired of and Kariakoo chapanda, a special commission and we know from the style by going to Singida Singida.
The youth who deserves to be sold to that house more than two hundred hectares and ninety in Mbutu ward, a village of buas they have told me that the youth has benefited from walking it is very well known by the meetings that has brought us out of it.
The agricultural travel to refuse that is a very big problem because there are people getting there there is there.
Ehhe is getting there out and they are mixed up.
Are there not to be there.
Wasemaji of truth at the very fast pace actually.
Because to cultivate their crop on the farm on the farm.
You cannot talk about the person that is on the farm about this hour to speak in the topic ulipata in the topic
Because you need to be in a group-quickly arusha that Monday.
Therefore, we are very trying in bringing a big problem is not that cultivate it doesn't come to inform me here to give you a good hundred
Five Days than the coffee coffee.
But then for seems to be not true mi misleading.
The real mission of the government sometimes it is translated.
If you will be provided.
The farming of a contract is good because you're sure to sell your produce and the price that is at the same time because I am going with the price in the world market to know that the past was selling you don't know because you said we will get to sell our cotton at the world market and information to the public, maybe let's wait for them to sell our cotton.
On a certain date then we will begin with him to buy so that we will check the benefits of the
Anza when I was alima without agriculture of a contract contract.
I was in the past that I had lost in the farming of the first contract we had the sun I was assigned to be stopped when he was stopped.
That is what you need to need.
First, it was me I was alima a small farm after getting into the farming of a contract after making sure everything everything was to make sure everything.
I bought it was cut by twelve heka but in the past it was a must for two hectares depending on the ability of agriculture of contract together with my fellow farmers because agriculture of the contract were very needed by education they get a lot through our sponsors who visit their sponsors who visit the ones who visit that they visit and they are visiting a lot of our sponsors who visit the ones who visit
That is up to now, the farmers were very much needed agriculture of the contract that they are very committed to because it brings the person he gets profit through the loans that are brought to them.
And destruction is also one of the challenges in their cotton farming, different techniques are used as well as agriculture and control
I have not been able to see it.
