
Members who are not faithful is dangerous to the welfare of the CCM party employees participating in the launch of the general elections campaign at the Jangwani Grounds in Dar es Salaam city last year.
A picture of one of the ways that bring success in any matter so that the existence of honesty in the concerned people deal with the matter is to make it sincerely.
Human beings who becomes a M contribution to the community to bring development is a must to have five major issues.
Those things are skills, the truth, right, legal and integrity.
The person with those five things can be counted that is the person who was completed and he can give a contribution to progress in his community.
The person missing those things, the issue of bringing development even to her personally will be a dream do not have to help the community that surrounds him.
In political parties integrity of members is the most basic thing because it is that that is being able to goalkeeper the development party involved, even the one can hold the power to lead the government.
Members were not integrity they can bring the misleading image you think that you have followers who can be your party keeper, but when you get an election you have been unsuccessful.
Therefore, lack of integrity in the party is a dangerous thing because the party can't think it has many followers whereas the real situation is not available.
It is a primary thing for members to be integrity in their party and to make sure they didn't like him in any way even in the secret ways.
Integrity to the party chairman of the Union of Parents of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Abdallah Bulembo said recently that there are members who are incumakuwili in that party.
Bulembo who is a member of the executive committee of CCM speaking with students of universities who are followers of that party in Zanzibar, said that there are members who night are turning out to be CUF.
The leader who led the campaign to achieve the victory of President John Magufuli in the general elections of Tanzania that took place on October 25, 2015 said that the thing is evil.
Bulembo urged them to have CCM to be truthful and should not be in order to sabotage the party and the disorotesha in his responsibilities.
It is possible that he explained Bulembo can be there because of whatever the leader would not be able to say something that he has not heard of.
Indeed the issue of ndumila reswili is not a matter geni in politics, but it is evil and which is not supposed to be in all the community activities.
In addition to that Bulembo talked about his CCM party, but that matter of not having credibility to the party is not supposed to the follower of any party.
Therefore, it is good for people who have decided to come out to support a certain party to do so sincerely of their hearts and they should not be vigeugeu.
That behavior is supposed to be avoided in order to bring the welfare of political parties and to make sure there is peace and stability in the country.
The actions of violating the directives of the party or used by other party and sabotage your party is impossible and it must be found because it can endanger peace.
It is good if anyone discovers cannot be honest in his party that he decided to join to be withdrawn and remain without having any political party since there is no mistake that.
However, the state of being in the afternoon becomes such a sheep, but the night you're wearing a skin skin thing is a dangerous thing and can even lose your life.
Politics have on the sidelines of high and there are other people can persevere if you will do the actions of kukihujumu their party and they noticed that matter.
In the environment of any kind that can happen and the involved is found affected by something that can be avoided.
Kuifuta CUF in the recent days it has always been with words of some of the people who want the Civic United Front (CUF) on the claims that what is being used and endanger the peace of the country.
Those who give those claims some of the politicians claim that CUF has been persuade the citizens to oppose the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (SMZ) and not relating with it.
Before the general elections of Zanzibar which was canceled CUF was partnered with CCM to form the United Nations Government (SUK) that led Zanzibar for five years since 2010.
However, that government of the national Union broke up after being passed by a repeat election in Zanzibar that was boycotted by CUF and his results put in power to the government of CCM.
Apart from taking the SUK election that was broken the right time that was reached by CCM and CUF which returning the state of peace in the country and cancelled the hostility that existed between the followers of those parties.
The right of Zanzibar between CCM and CUF was reached after an agreement between the former president of Zanzibar and the Vice Chairperson of CCM Zanzibar, Doctor Amani Abeid Karume and the secretary general of CUF, Maalim Seif Shariff Hamad.
The breaking of SUK and the right has caused political division in Zanzibar and the state of hostility for the citizens is back afresh where some of the people of Zanzibar wanabaguana in providing community services like selling each other products.
In the state it is now, the thoughts of wanting to cancel the CUF is not the solution to the problems that are in Zanzibar.
In any way, even it will happen Msaimed at political parties would decide to cancel the CUF does not mean that the situation will make Zanzibar it should be safe.
There is no possibility even a bit that CUF followers if their party will be wanted to join the party that is ruled in CCM.
However, without doubt those followers can support the other party or they formed a new party and the situation continued as usual and they picked the opposition to the ruling party.
For that view, it is good for all those who are thoughts of wanting CUF to look for those ideas because they aren't any contribution in removing the political division that is in Zanzibar.
If there is a true intention it is good for the politicians of Zanzibar to reflect afresh and find alternative ways to end the political crisis in Zanzibar.
The true democracy that can bring peace and stability in the country is to ensure that everything is done by considering the basis of justice.
It is a must every event in the country should be held responsible without having the injustice to some of the people or give privileged to some people.
In other words the country is supposed to have a true democracy where every citizen will be denied his right without any conditions.
The writer is a senior journalist and the issues of politics and communities, he is found by email sanani07 @ hoo. com and opinion @ mwananchi.co.tz.


