I am not able to notice it.
While Tanzania joined other nations in Africa today to commemorate the African Child's day some of the children in commemorating this day have requested politicians who are competing for the leadership positions this year when they stopped their plans to help and see the Tanzanian child, David ramadhani has organized a report on summer.
Also, they have asked the government to review the law of the marriage of one year wonders with one name which allows the female children aged ten years than the court and five years to get married to the ridha of their parents, the traditional laws of some of the tribes to make a marriage decision according to the traditional laws of some of the tribes.
No one even one.
There is a candidate saying that mi I will go through women mi, I answered bad people that will see it happen in the past easy time he was not in the city not the other ones have the same buses but not yet, that is the others that are others.
Still we haven't been able to have the school bus for that so it is shrink my person if you are in a pose now that is what is happening.
The justice of the protection of the defense.
You don't even know.
It should come and especially politicians.
An example that we have to make it.
A lot of politicians politicians.
Janet Mengi especially in the international arena something the secret and human rights is an organization that has been if I was prepared for human rights reports for ten and three years now now.
Tanzanian child has been touched by those reports especially due to being tested against rape and rape rape and rape.
The executive director of that station gives rai to stop those events in the country.
We have the systems I have said the legal system prevails its course.
Of our colleagues of the police.
Which they have a duty to take action to those people who are doing the kijinai actions then take a chance and good luck these hours we have a gender desk in many police stations but also the ministry concerned as the ministry of health and social welfare who have been given a very big responsibility for legal and being able to manage the rights of those children children.
A ten hundred thousand year which was a union of free African countries, Pope you adopted a matter of kishirikina one members of that union about to remember the children in Soweto village that is in South Africa who were killed ruthlessly and that was the government of the makaburu Nansio on twelve June, one hundred and six hundred thousand, seventy-six.
Those children were claiming the right to not be reviewed by other human rights.
David ramadhani chaneli kumi.
A panel of doctors doctors.
