
MARAPA NOMA WANAOIGIZA and Tomas Matiko in the vilima of Hollywood, housing in the film sector, a very common issue of music that has succeeded in the entertainment industry, by kung'aa pia. and, Cher, David Ubaya ie as the one of the last one in the past industry, the industry Dadi as a big way for acting in the music.
Let us know what those who placed music is not because they will not be considered and the love of wanting not to be different, and yet they end up shining.
While he was expected that he would have started as i or with a little involved to give enough interest in the very different sector because in 8 mile films (that he acted as Jimmy B-raba the chief involved.
Interestingly it is a film that his first, that he also helped him to be nominated for contesting for the Oscars.
That o of Eminem to act and up to the more than 50 films including w, Mradi X, Southpaw between the first time, this rapper to act was lamu of the belly of 1998.
That period to be still doing music and his or her in acting does not attract them.
But on the 2000 when the Romeo must die that is for the time he started his ability in acting that was forgotten and put him in one bridge akali of Hollywood.
On the film o along with acting as a bandber, he was involved in the soundtrack, the song that he sang by the late Aaliyah.
The producer of that film, Andrzej owiak was impressed by the level with Romeo, must die the amount of umuse again in the film known by Cradle 2. Uffy) iaka for the nineties where he also was w.
Many stakeholders believe that w where the death of the rapper late T, while akijitosa in acting very much as his colleagues being chukul an assistant actress at the Fi where that made him will be appointed by doing music but it doesn't be involved if you are not involved in the Sun greek film, he was involved in the film of e greek and then he got his face, Hawaii, Hawaii, Hawaii. A Five-0 Five and its delphia. a very difficult way for you to believe in the film more than 25 films.
I am the quality that could be able to be a professional to act is Half Bak aby Boy that he acted along with the beauty Taraji P Henhivyo a role of cookie in MS ruru of the Empire period.
Snoop has also proven to the other film Training Day that he acted together with the genius Denzel in Washington, the cinema that helped him be appointed to vie for the Oscars.
It is also good to remember his involved Snoop at a joke in Old School that he jigeuza zuzu in his acting and make sure that everyone of them are struggling with mbavu.
Tyrese Gibson for the English language if you ask me, Jomba this I can call him to CockTail 'of entertainment.
This is because he lied to everything and still just comes from a pipeline.
He has the ability to kurapu well only, he has the ability to sing in a theme that is RnB and also followed by acting, eeh.
Tyrese he was focusing on doing more than something else until the year 2000 when he decided to kujitosa in the ugizaji consequently.
His first film of confidence is a Baby Boy of 2001 that gave him well.
That ukawa his beginning on the ulingo of acting where he placed music on the outskirts and considering the film.
He acted as the main involved in 2 Fast 2 Furious and then called again on the Fast and Furious 1 to 7 while he acted together with the Death race, Transformers, all the Take of 2007, legion, while this year while on the ride along 2.
Last year he announced to leave the music completely so that he would send more to the acting.
Ludacris, the years of 2000 started a zahamzaha from the film of ugizaji dancing in a small position of involved.
The period was doing a reliable music not a game.
But when he participated in a joke in Wash 2001, that is the one that opened the way and got the face of drama on 2 Fast 2 Furious together with his great friend Tyrese.
The biggest work that was tanged even more are the ones of 2005 crash and Hustle & Flow that was appointed to compete for the Oscars of that year.
There found himself a lot of bize and leave the music completely last time he has never been able to give the kibao being 2004.
Ludacris is continuing to eat Michongo in film among the actors who will be involved in the Fast and Furious 8 that will come from 2017.
Cool LL J Umri has moved so much while he is fulfilling 48 years.
LL Cool J Sea, S.W.A of the film that is so much since 2000.
Ice Cube O'Shea Jac last of the group later ak Wni Attitu 1989 and that's the Almighty a lot of uka Outta Compton between them.


