
The referees should not continue to take care of the Premier League.

It was written by the editor editor.

It has been published: 12 November 2016.

The first round of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League season 2016 / 17 has been completed Thursday after Yanga finished his recap against Ruvu Shooting team of Pwani.

The game that took place at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, earlier it was done on Wednesday together with other matches including Simba and Prisons, but was pushed forward after JKT asked.
The National Service Army team requested the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) through the league board wanted to be sacked in front of one day their game after being tired of a long journey from Bukoba, Kagera where I had a match at the end of last week.
In addition to the results of their game against Yanga who lost 2-1, the big one is the end of the first round of the league that involves a total of 16 teams.
That league ends, we will have gotten representatives of Tanzania Mainland in the international competition of the Champions League together with the ones of the African Federation.
The first round has finished and the worst had a lot of challenges, which are supposed to be amended otherwise we will continue to be wasindikizaji in the national soccer for the club and even our national teams.
All day when you have a national league legelege, without a doubt you will get a national team weak because its players are attributed to the club, which are participating in that league poor without competition.
On the part of the club, they are the same way because the teams will get the championship without using the brain, the power or their efforts, so he will be found a champion who doesn't have the ability, who is participating in the international competition he will be married earlier at all.
The first round of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League have witnessed a huge tension in terms of referees, which some of them have failed completely considering the 17 soccer laws by creating them.
It is possible that other referees were created by bad luck and others did so deliberate after being pumped by pressure from certain side or others did not want to do so but because of not knowing well those laws, that is why they find themselves.
To know the law is one issue and to implement it is another issue, so that can also be the presence of our referees, which they have failed to do well.
On the side of TFF themselves, they are required to be very careful because we have seen the mistakes of the referees have ever caused the events of breach of peace as there at the National Stadium where Simba fans broke seats.
The referees failed to follow procedures or laws of soccer not only to cause lovers who don't have a variety of wisdom and destroy the infrastructure, they can also harm those referees.
It is the expectation of soccer stakeholders that TFF in the second round of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League, will take a big step to ensure the referees that are scheduled to officiate soccer for justice without any privileged.


