
How to kubana oil in the car in Dar es Salaam.
They are thinking about getting their vehicles due to a huge burden of used to used them, and especially the price of oil that continues to rise, while the income continues to be done.
Some can get into the trying to buy petrol at a simple price on the streets when its quality has been reduced after the buyers will be killed by mixed with the oil of lights and thus that the danger of the engines.
While the state of economic being continued to be difficult for the most of Tanzania, who feel the government's strategy of kubana use has affected, the Mwananchi newspaper is a solution to enable us to continue using your vehicle in those circumstances.
The experts who talked with our reporter have explained several methods of enabling the user a vehicle to avoid using a lot of oil when he is running and therefore, to reduce the burden of the cost of oil.
Walking when there is no queue, "Magari yanapokuwa at the queue are visiting the big gia, therefore the vehicle will be competed at the bottom and therefore use a lot of oil," said lecturer of the National Transport (NIT), Engineer Michael Kyando.
Kyando said the queue is one of the biggest reasons that conduct oil should be used in large numbers and therefore it is important people to walk when there is no many vehicles on the road.
He said apart from using great gia, vehicles also use a lot of oil in queue due to the use of air conditioning.
He said it is important to shut down the air conditioning in the queue so as to preserve oil, "If there is a big queue and vehicles have been standing is good for you to wish AC and vehicle.
If the queue goes slowly then you will not use AC, fungua vioo vyako hewa because in the queue you use more fuel if you will stop AC as they have to share. "
Opinions like that were made by a source driver is not the one who egesha his car Buguruni in Dar es Salaam city, Issa Minister Burhan who is keen in using oil to make sure he gets profit.
"AC is something I am looking at so much because it uses a lot of oil when you are standing in the queue.
The air conditioning cause the search engines to use the bigger power, but being on the speed it does not use a lot of oil, it is the same as if you don't start it.
My benefit is due to the protection of oil, "said Burhan who made that work for eight years now.
For a long journey, use the air conditioning when it causes fuel to disappear a lot in the queue, the air conditioning is important for a long journey.
Engineer Kyando said that vioo which are open causes the wind to be filled inside and there were pushing back and therefore causing the vehicle to use the bigger power to go ahead, something that causes to use a lot of oil.
Many drivers tend to stop vioo open during a long journey, believing that sleep is lost when the wind comes in the near future.
The character of drivers Sababu other than the loss of oil is the behavior of drivers to run a car fast without a reason and to step in oil without an order.
"If you add a speed at the volerator, it's going to step based on the needs of your car at the time," said Hussein Khalfan, the senior director of the AMC company which is the Nissan agents.
He said that the competition vehicles use a lot of fuel from the drivers to step in oil for violence so as to ensure they use a short time.
"The competition vehicles can use a lot of fuel up to the whole tank for two hours when the fuel can be used for a 700-kilometer trip," he said and advised the drivers to step up on oil as a journey continues instead of going through the chaos.
He said that in areas like the scarf, the driver has no need to step in oil.
The care of the vehicle experts also said that the care of the car, which includes the service to avoid the greatest use of oil.
"The producer or the owner is supposed to do the car to look at the engines every period that was classified by the kilometer.
He is required to change the filta of the weather because if the ghost does not obey the disaster by the engines because it will miss the power and it will force you to welcome him, "said Engineer Kyando.
Khalfan said the inspection from time to time helps to make it a car to use a lot of oil.
"Due to the vehicle engines to use oxygen (oxygen) in order to burned oil, it is important to inspect oxygen or, the air filter that can be destroyed and causing dirty ghost to get into the combustion Chamber (place where petrol is burnt in order to produce the power that is crack shaft which is the one that runs the car).
The clean ghost is very important.
Kagua usafi wa anga, "said Khalfan.
He said that the old vehicles were using a lot of theories tor, but modern are using Fuel that is expected to be good to be elected.
The structure of the car Umbile of the vehicle is also important in dealing with the problem of the use of oil, but that is not being held before the owner bought it.
"The first must be the owner to consider the election of a non-wide vehicle ahead so as to avoid mgandamizo of the wind that causes a lot of power to go ahead," said Engineer Kyando.
"It is required the car is running the wind upite back without being prevented by the vehicle of the vehicle because it prevent it, he forced to use great strength to go ahead and thus use a lot of oil."
Heavy cargo Ubebaji cargo also causes a vehicle to use great strength to walk and thus using a lot of oil.
Also, not adding oil until they ishe it is another reason that makes a car will use a lot of oil without a reason.


