
Zanzibar is not a Mageni, even if you don't kochi are in Jun 1st, 2012, 2012.

Last week, the first minister (First Waziri, the position that is as the Prime Minister) of Uskochi, Alex Salmond, launched the campaign of his Scottish Nationalist Party (SNP) to encourage the vote of "no" in the referendum (the referendum) of the freedom of this country that is expected to take place in the future.
The motion of Uskochi kujitenga and England (because of what is called the United Kingdom of Great Uingereza-England, Uskochi and Wales- and Northern Ireland) has been ivuma for a long time and has gotten more power after Salmond and SNP to enter power in 2007.
Basically, the main policy of that politician and his party was to make sure that eventually Uskochi is building from England.
When they got into power only, SNP explained clearly that they have a plan to do the referendum to hear the views of Waskochi about that idea of kujitenga.
However, an obstacle that they have been facing with it since the beginning is the fact that as well as different from here and there, it is hard to bloora the line that can divide the Waskochi and the other British.
Mwingiliano in nearly every aspect of life that makes these people to be more united than different.
And when I prepare this article, Salmond has got a "bad news" from the prosecutor's opinion (pollster) famous here in England, Peter Kellner, the president of the opinion institutions of YouGov.
According to Kellner, the opinion polls run by YouGov last Friday shows that when it is only 33 percent of the Waskochi want "freedom" (kujitenga), 57 percent want Uskochi to continue to remain part of England.
The prosecutor of that opinion has warned Salmond as "he has a long mountain to climb" to change the upeo of many of the Waskochi about their country kujitenga and England.
Meanwhile, he explained that there are "threats" several that can contribute to Waskochi many to oppose the idea of kujitenga, and he removed the example of an argument as investors to withdraw from Uskochi (for not being sure if you don't kochi will manage "to stand itself"), to lose the grant given by the British Government (which is the biggest of taxes that is paid by Uskochi), the use of the English pounds (which is the biggest of the tax of English pounds (which is the biggest of the tax of English pounds (which), the use of the British Pound Council) where if you don't kochi will decide to use that currency after kujitenga, England can start a crime action (austerity measures) that will affect the economy of Uskochi.
Meanwhile, Salmond has appointed the public that the other fear that can threaten Waskochi to support the idea of kujitenga is together with the high cost of running a full country (especially in this period where the world's economy that you create) like to afford to have a full army, the office of the embassy in foreign countries and the cost of operations of public service institutions (civil service).
Basically, in any other exercise of voting, the state of not being sure or fear of "there in front of the situation how it will be enough," it is enough to make many voters decide to remain with the party that is in or the existing structure (if it is referendum for a certain thing).
This method is being used by the ruling parties (as well as CCM) in the elections where the message is always mithso that "the Russians should not be answered." (Because of the party you don't know is better than what you promise just without having the active examples of the leadership of the country).
However, Salmond and SNP are continuing with their efforts while they give them faith that the big wealth that is in Uskochi (there is oil in the northern sea) will enable them to afford the cost of running the country if Waskochi will agree with the idea of kujitenga and England.
When it was happening here in Uskochi, at the end of the week at home has been faced with sad news where demonstrations to oppose the union in Zanzibar turned out to be a huge chaos.
As I explained in my message of the article of Sauti (Audio messages, that can hear here http: / / goo.gl / 6ngT), chaos in Zanzibar and the whole issue of the coalition are required to be looked at a broad range.
Personally, I see that the origin of the coalition problem of Tanganyika and Zanzibar is its founders, that is the late father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Abeid Karume.
Here I ask you to be understood well.
The idea of the union was good to consider the various reasons, the biggest one being the closeness of the traditional people of the mainland and the island.
But the problem that maybe was contributed more by the political environment at that time, Nyerere and Karume thought that their consent was representing the consent of Watanganyika and all Zanzibar people.
There is "wise" one of the English that says that "good thing is not a must it should be beneficial.
For example, when giving him a lot of food, someone who is hungry is a good thing but its results can lead even death in that person with severe hunger who threatened to be given a lot of food. "
Yes, eating a lot of food with severe hunger is dangerous, and that is why people are supporting or they have not been ala for a long time begins at a fire drink (uji or tea).
Now, the idea of the union was good but not seeking the consent of many that is where it has enabled us here where we are now.
For a long time there has been manung'unis about the union, particularly among the people of Zanzibar.
The main concern has been that they are being violated, they are oppressed and others are going far more and claimed the aim of the coalition was "to Zanzibar."
Unfortunately, the politics of Zanzibar have different to a certain amount and of the mainland.
In the island, religion has a unique opportunity in politics.
Therefore, most of the political issues can also carry out religious feelings, something that without a lot of delays can negotiate a big disaster.
I'm going to insist that together with the risk that can come out with mixed religion and politics, experience and history have shown that laiti wise and the interests of the community were placed in front of personal feelings, religion may not have effects in politics.
In America, for example, religion still has a unique opportunity.
Maybe a good example of how religion can not destroy politics is Germany where the Chancellor party Angela Merkel (Christian Democratic Union-CDU) is a Christian.
CDU is the biggest political party in that nation rich.
Meanwhile, the party that is ruled in Turkey, Katiba na Maendeleo Party AKP, is a Muslim party.
However, the party has managed to make Turkey continued to be a nation that does not affect the politics that are being led by religion.
Even here in England, the queen who is the head of the country (more respect than the performance) is also the head (honor) of the Anglican Church, and though Christianity is like "the national religion" but this country is run for the laws of "the sack" and not religious.
However, the religious problem is the fact that despite touching the personal feelings of a believer, religious things do not need scientific confirmation (or the sack).
Unlike religion, politics is an issue of more ideology than faith (although faith in ideology can make the followers of the party to see the importance as a religion).
Meanwhile, religious issues are involve "life of later after this world" state politics is focused on the current issues or not being here in the world.
Disaster is coming in a religious believer when he is starting to believe that when he opposed the coalition, for example, he is doing spiritual work and it is endeza the creator.
It is very difficult to control someone of this kind because even his movements that endangers his life, or he threatened to die, he believes that he will be paid by his creator.
Basically the chaos that happened in Zanzibar have been contributed more by our politicians who largely have been lying to what is required as "fear the curse of the founders of the coalition when that union is solved in their hands."
Instead of dealing with the concerns of the union and to get a permanent solution, our leaders have been striving more on trying to make us believe that they are dealing with the issue sincerely they are refusing about it.
We have had the Commission of the coalition nuisances for the years go back but its effectiveness has been more easily than the reality.
If we leave hypocrisy, "noise" to claim to change the structure of the union (and even those of the breaking of their violations) can expire by reviewing them or have "the eternal commission" to address those problems without coming up with a solution.
But the other one is a sucamazia mafashists who wish the hatred against their colleagues on an excuse of the troubles of the coalition.
In Zanzibar, some of the politicians have dared to claim it is a Wabara who are causing the people of Zanzibar to miss employment.
But that is just a sequel of the accusations of that kind, because in the past Wabara had never been accused of that they were heading to the AIDS in the islands.
Because until this time I am preparing this article yet, the situation in the island has not yet been done, I request for them to keep them by giving a proposal of the importance of having an opinion poll that will be compensated that was carried out in the past of searching for the consent of citizens about the coalition.
If the referendum will decide we should have three governments, then that should be respected.
If it will be decided that the coalition violations, then and should be so (by the way, broke by the union does not mean to die for Tanzania Mainland or Zanzibar, as the breaking of marriage does not show the death of the husband or wife who was divorced with the colleague).
At the end, when I urge our leaders to speed up the referendum I believe it will help to bring a permanent solution to the problems of our union, it is very important for both governments (of the union and of Zanzibar) to take strict action against the terrorists who sell "the legal claims about the coalition" because of attacking Wabara and kuchoma fire churches and its property.
They do this criminals doesn't build a solution for the coalition but to like the seeds of religious tensions between Christians and Muslims.
God bless Tanzania.


