While in the province, Honorable President jakaya Kikwete launching the institutions of science and technology of Nelson mandela, the tour President Kikwete was accompanied by the Vice President Doctor Gharib Bilali who is the head of that institution of science and technology of Nelson mandela giving information to the president Kikwete, how those doing research research and professional technology can be used to make it and if so much so far as so much as so far as so much so far.
The meaning of that in the last fire.
The one who will not know.
A religion but a lot of religion.
I also can ask and it seems to capture the bombs bombs.
With the authority.
After being given information by technology, Honorable President Kikwete and the vice president, Bilali
And for us, he put them to know good for rough researchers to supervise the calm of the discovery of the people where there is no tugeuzie mandela various issues for good entertainment entertaining entertainment.
The Deputy Head of the college, the money but manila asked Kikwete to remind me that is happening by the institution, it is based on the postgraduate market and degree in the degree and degree in the degree and degree in the degree and
I will be able to finish this problem.
At the end of the other time).
Some of the fifty houses have started to ungulia still has started research
Ago with us and the activities of research and writing and deliberate vice president and the head of the science institution and the technology of Nelson mandela dokta Mohamed Gharib Bilali can the expectations of the two university using that project when the father will take place to follow and follow the makofi after clapping clapping.
The results involved that the time supplies to be grateful to the father of what you were putting up in physical who borako the guidance that are accused of participating in the fear of comes back to fear he comes back to fear.
Makofi martin Kadinda identity and welcoming the last one he was not the news I ask many will be in groups that has come after God here and three until the end AHH does not have a mistake, you are understood, seeking markets and seven thus we need events I have come along to be associated with and ahead of the main reasons for the main two reasons.
