
Wife ASHIRIKIANA NA his son killing her husband her husband.

Rashid Mkwinda

And Esther Macha, Mbeya, Mbeya.

Mother and child residents of Iseche Ward, Mwambani division of Kwimba district in Mbeya province are canceled by the police force in the province on allegations of killing her husband called, Silvester Alphonce Chikondo (55) after being attacked by malungu and his wife in conjunction with his son's child.

According to the police force report to the press that was given by the police commander of Mbeya Province, Mbeya Province, Diwani Athuman said that the incident happened on November 12th this year at 2.00 o'clock at night in Iseche village in the district.

Commander Athuman said that the late was found by his death when he was coming from a person that was supposed to drink alcohol that is where the mother in collaboration with his son started attacking him with malungu for what is alleged to be wivu in love.

However, Commander Athuman said that the wife of the deceased and his male child attacked the late by beating with malungu head, utosini together with boxing and his wife known by the name Husulinakornel (42) with her child Kondo Alphonce Chikondo (19) with her child Kondo Alphonce Chikondo (19) with her child Kondo Alphonce Chikondo (19) with her child Kondo Alphonce Chikondo (19) with her child Kondo Alphonce Chikondo

Speaking about the environment of that event, Commander Athuman said that the method that was used is attacked by beating him after getting out of the house who was supposed to drink indigenous alcohol.

He said that the cause of the conflict is a romantic wivu following the late to talk to another woman when they were impressed by his wife when they were drinking alcohol that is when the wife of the deceased when he was afraid and started to bring a request that they were supposed to.

After that beating from his wife and his son late fell then died on the spot.

That mother with her child were running away and ran to where he had never been told after knowing her husband has died and that the body of the late was tested and revealed the brain to be done by the blood thus causing his death.

However, the police commander of Mbeya Province, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Diwani Athumani has called on a community especially a couple to solve problems in a way to sit at the table of talks and to build a point instead of taking care of the law and use force because it is against the contrary to them.

Law and also to avoid problems that can be avoided.

Moreover, Commander said that anyone with information about the place where the suspects should give in the relevant authorities so as to be arrested by the law prevails, otherwise they should surrender themselves.


