
Translation has the main liability is an act of hawilisha certain information from the origin that was given information involved up to the language lengwa.
Translation has always had the aim of trying to transfer a message, meaning and all the taathira of communication and artones from the language Chanzi going to the language.
This issue is not easy even a little, and the evidence that is it is ithibati that a few translations that are available today in the world, particularly misahafu, it is with the uhalisi especially of the natural information.
Therefore, it is led to that so that the interpretation can be done in his uhalisi, several things must be noted: First, a secret must be able to manage all the two languages, that is the language and the language lengwa, it is not in the capacity of the kisarufi and ability to communication only, but also the ability of emotions, it will use and cultural ability.
The ability of the kisarufi is to make good sentensi which is correct and are accepted in the use of the language itself.
With the ability to kimawasiliano is the person to be able to present his idea and be understood.
However, sometimes someone can't be known in communication although his statement is not right kisarufi, it will use and cultural.
The ability to use is that you make sure you use the language that he is using a certain structure of language according to traditions and various custom that are acceptable in certain languages.
Secondly, a secret if possible, is reached he should be charged with this interpretation of translation in the basis of the ismons and especially the theory of translation.
In addition, a secret has no choice but to have been through and heard that are in various theory of translation and to know what method, in which way and interpretation of which is suitable in to tackle a certain translation work.
Third, the secret is supposed to understand especially the aim of translating certain work so that he can choose the kind of interpretation needed in the implementation of his work.
Four, a secret also to be able to test the loopholes of cultural and society that is in between two languages that will be used in.
This is important because there is a lot of loopholes between the two culture of those languages, that's when it becomes difficult to get a good interpretation and real as required.
The language as the communication tool is due to the source and a certain culture and that is also an illustration of that community.
Because different communities are made each other and therefore kilugha, it must be the difficulty of interpret one information to another.
Watch for example how it would be difficult to inspire these statements from Swahili to go to English: "Lila and fila won't peace," Mgalla muue and his right umpe, "the" lady who bugia a lot of salt "and" he has broken a lot of salt "and" he has broken us. "
In this situation, the article or the report of the philosopurged it becomes hard to translate, because he urged me very close to the culture of people and therefore, it is asking a lot of statements with explaining the faces of that culture.
II won't be, fasihi with it as any art, it has a direction of creativity and emphasis on usanii.
The language of kising aghalabu has always been made openly, therefore, it makes a lesson.
First, a secret is forced to cause a trap of a trap and cholera has been beaten by the author of the work of fasihi, and then he will be ute the word or the right saying that is close and based on cholera.
That is why we add a good translation of Fortunatus Kaancers of animal Farm-farm and the translation of Julius Nyerere of Julius Ceaser - Julius Kaelf and Merchants of Venice's economy of Venisi.
Art is clear that the translation of the work of kistic needs requires a secret to a certain amount, to be afraid or closely as he was also an artist when he was writing.
But maybe the question would be asked: How, the translation has the importance?
Why people wajitabishe looking for a word or a certain statement from one language until without doubt the importance of interpretation was revealed in the past.
Imagine the issue of spreading and sharing information in today's world that has been like a village from globalization.
Also, mabadilishano of the thoughts, culture, science, technology and various solutions that require translation.
But maybe the most important here is a translation in education.
Swahili language will be the language of studies in our education systems one day.
Then it will be forced to interpret the education books from different languages that are conserving the knowledge and various professions of education.
Undoubtedly, there will be a need for the presence of champions to interpret well in order to prosper the language of Swahili iende in line with the language that is set up for Kiswahal.ngure @ yahoo.com com.


