
Do you meet the challenges of nurturing and you don't know of it from?
J uma this has been a lot of great events in the plateau of children's care in our country.
Great was the event of the launch of the five-year-old government plan in the protection of mothers and children.
This plan shows how it is very interested in helping each other and parents in implementing their responsibility of bringing up and give them their children.
In this article we will focus on how you can use the government agencies to help you if you meet the challenges of nurturing.
If the co-parent has abandoned the child and refused to provide service to a child though the ability has.
This is a criminal crime and if you face the other go to the social welfare office, gender desk and children, the police station or give information in the local government office / village.
The child's law is paying the authority of 'ulezi' of all the children's councils in the district, cities and cities.
This means that health care, education and welfare of children in general are under the management of these councils.
This includes taking appropriate measures to parents who do not want to fulfill their responsibilities of providing primary services to children including food, accommodation and fashion.
Orphaned children pass the support of family members to organize.
District councils, cities and cities are supposed to set aside money for?
The law of the child being read together with the law of education they provide instructions following the viboko.
Although the strokes in school is allowed to be prosecuted here in Tanzania, the purpose of viboko (according to the law) is not kumtesa a child but to help them make corrections.
That during the delivery of these penalties, the child achapor in kiganja (most of the time girls) or matakoni and dressed in his clothes.
Now if the child has printed in the head, on her back and other places unless those mentioned (mobile and part of the past), it is criminal.
The reality of things in helping children living in difficult environments including orphans, children with disabilities, etc.
Therefore, mwanajamii when you meet with the orphaned child and become getting the primary services for lack of support from the brothers and his family relatives.
You can provide information in the local government offices or to the social welfare officer so that the child should get his own stahiki.
If your child has been done brutal acts at home, in school or elsewhere.
Statistics show that one girl out of three girls here in Tanzania are operated on kingono before attaining 18 years.
In seven male children, one of them are done to the kingono actions before attaining 18 years.
Worse actions this happens more on our houses and in school where it is expected to be a safe place for a child to live.
If you have discovered a child that is impacted on the information to the social welfare officer, gender desk and children or phone number 116 without payments that you get professional advice.
If it is viboko in school many parts of our country is different from the requirements of the law and guidelines that are in.
We don't have the option of obeying the law without being forced by many of us we have not given time to understand the law and procedures that are facing the interest of our children.
These reports are there every corner and especially in the internet network.
Start slowly by read the law of a child that is now available in Swahili language so that you should be in a good position to bring your child.
A good Sunday!
In opinion and advice we call the phone number 116, which is special for the service of the child in the country.
This service will not ozi payments from all the networks in the country.
Likewise you can get through our Facebook page: Say Tanzania, Twitter: @ SemaTanzania and www.sematanzania.org.


