Now, the government is coming out of a hand-warned and they will oppose the destruction of destruction in the national stadium which have been done by fans during various sports events and held at the stadium especially football report on Moses football information.
He not Mtenga.
It is clarified on it.
Giving a statement on behalf of the minister of information, youth culture and sports games.
The director of sports development in the country Leonard Thadeo.
He has said that the behavior cannot be kept and kulitaka the Federation of soccer in the country TFF to investigate and take action to stop the end of it.
However, he has said that those acts despite destroying the stadium that was built by the government for the help of the government of China it has spoilt the name of Tanzania through the stadium to be banned or sports to take the channel of fans to the fans.
We have a responsibility to control those violence.
Let's continue and avoid our stadium being prevented by the international associations and those will change to officiate the game at the stadium without children children.
Moreover you will be you remember that the destruction of the forests has been taking place during many games ago last games ago.
For all the time to write it came out of the ministry to take the repairs without writing to involve stakeholders in the stakeholders.
Right now, it seems to be the destruction of seats at the National Stadium to be brought to be a habit among some of the artists artists.
According to the statement he will not recognize all of the destruction that will be found at the stadium from now, it will be ten million shillings instead of five million shillings which have been charged the statement of the government has come after two incidents of destruction are interested in the stadium and caused the destruction of how and the first one of Yanga's fans and Kiyovu of Rwanda and the second event the amount of Yanga fans and Kiyovu of Rwanda and the second event the amount of Yanga fans and Kiyovu of Rwanda and the second event the amount of Yanga's fans and Kiyovu of Rwanda and the second event of Yanga's their game in their game against the azam Messi Messi Messi Messi.
From the daressalaam games and will be
The one we are building at the same time.
