
Azam, Stand in the harsh war in the Premier League.

It was written by Grace Mkojera.

It has been published: 02 October 2016.

Azam FC soccer team and Stand United today will reduce the pitch in different stadiums to look for victory in the premier league tournaments in Tanzania mainland.

Azam and Stand is among the teams that are competing for the top positions on the stand.
Before yesterday's match between Simba and Yanga, Stand United was the second position with 12 points, and Azam FC was holding the fourth position at 10 points behind Yanga.
Azam FC may today if the pain of losing two games in a row in the game against Ruvu Shooting at the Azam Complex stadium, Chamazi.
It is coming out to lose against Simba bao 1-0 and against Ndanda FC 2-1.
In six games that played, it has won three, is coming out of one draw and lost two.
On the side of Ruvu, holds the position of 10 with eight points after winning two games, from two draws and lost two games.
Stand United is the second team after Simba, playing six games without losing, it won three and got three uniform.
Mtibwa Sugar will play against African Lyon at the Manungu stadium, Morogoro.
Holds the fifth position with 10 points after winning three out of six games, to get one draw and lost two.
It's meeting with African Lyon which will take the position of 12 with six points, won one game, got a three draw and lost two.
Both teams need to win staying in a safe place.
Kagera Sugar is meeting with Prisons zikifanana with nine points, both of them won two games, lost one game and got three draws.
I also need to win their points and get into the process of vying for the top positions.
Majimaji will be at his home at the Majimaji Songea stadium to welcome Stand United.
That team is coming out to lose all six games, may come back to their coach Kalimangonga Ongalla to bring a new hope to restore faith in his fans.
Unlike Stand United which also, it can't fill in getting a good vocabulary and continue to be involved in the second position.
Mbao will be the host of JKT Ruvu at the CCM stadium, Kirumba Mwanza.
Holds the seventh position with eight points after playing seven games, to win two, to get two draws, and lost three.


