
The reproduction rights in the law of work in Tanzania here on reproductive rights is the right that enables the woman to fulfill its responsibilities of selling H to fulfill his responsibilities of reproductive planning and to work or produce without being discriminated or lost employment.
The genre holiday being one of the reproduction rights, it makes the mother and the father time to give care of important to the child in the day / months of the beginning of his life, as well as to show you.
Likewise, the birth holiday makes a mother to the rest of the time to rest and thus help his body back in health and normal condition after giving birth.
On the logic, it is important the employer and the mwajiriwa to know well these rights and responsibility in the implementation of the law.
Give a report.
The woman is supposed to let him know his employer is willing to take a birth holiday at least three months before the date of the estimates of giving birth while attached to the illustration of the doctor about pregnancy.
The genre holiday can be taken four weeks before giving birth or earlier more if there is a confirmation of the doctor that it is important to do so for the health of the mother or child.
Mother has the right to be given birth holiday not less than 84 days with payments.
Likewise, for the one who gave birth to more than one child (twins or more) is supposed to be given birth on a 100-day vacation with payments.
If a child has died.
A woman has a right to be given again on the birth of 84 days with payments if his child will die in one year since birth.
However, legally, the employer is responsible to give him a woman to a four holiday vacation in the whole period of employment.
When they go back to work.
Mama mwajiriwa is not allowed to go back to work in the past six weeks since giving birth except when he will be allowed to do so with the doctor.
Also when he comes back to work, the mother whoever has shown has a right to be given a period of two hours a day at work time to go lisha / to show her child.
To work at night.
A pregnant woman and a mother, whoever is not supposed to be scheduled for the night from two months before and after giving birth, or any time when it will show up to the employer a doctor's certificate that explains that his condition does not allow me to work at night.
The birth holiday to the father's father.
The employment law gives the holiday of at least three days with a child's father who was born.
That those days should be taken in during the first one week since the birth of the child.
Normally the 3 days holiday is given only once in the annual holiday cycle regardless of the number of children who will be born in that period.
That is this holiday you came from once every year even if the father has children they will get more than once in the concerned year.
Holiday gives the father the opportunity to serve the mother and the child, to help the mother to build a good foundation to make a child and also look for the needs of the family.
The father of the child who was born can also be given a holiday that is not reduced 4 days with payments, at the time of ugugated by the child, the death of the child or the death of his partner.
The 4 day holiday is given immediately in the period of the year's holiday regardless of the number of events encountered in that period.
However, the employer can approve the mwajiriwa to take more days without payments depending on the problem he got.


