
Korea has changed China the market of its culture mar 21, 2014, 2014.

Last week, my Kikorea teaser to visit together with them part of the city of Shanghai called Korea Town in Guprices here Shanghai.
This area has been in the name of Korea Mjini because a large percentage of Wakorea present here Shanghai live in this place, and so on, there are a lot of Kikorea.
In the zungukazunguka in the streets of Koreatown, they will be surprised by the majority of the Chinese who came out for getting different luxury including food, drinks and different attractions for the culture of Kikorea.

The Jumuisho of what I saw is to be the culture of Korea sell China.
A long queue in the restaurants of food, big shops and scaparfs of the Chinese wanting to make pictures on the edge of the famous artists of Kikorea is enough evidence.

I returned home when I get the desire to know more related to this influence of South Korea's culture.

The little research that I did showed that, not only China, the whole Asian continent in the recent years has been blessed by the wave of art and culture from Korea: I'm talking about the exact games of television (famous as K-dramas), film, music (popular as K-pop) food, fashion and fashion.

Visit the Asian countries from China to Hong Kong and Taiwan.
Japan, India to Turkey.
Meanwhile, South Asia countries including Malaysia, Indonesia, Ufilipino, Singapore, Cambodia, Thailand - washa television or radio and is sure that you will meet with television literature and Kikorea.

It is this sports games that are also involved in other aspects of the culture of Kikorea point that now has been a fasheni eating Kikorea which famous actors seem to be found in theater, wearing them like them, to follow the styles of hair as well as cosmetics.

I have been told in Thailand, in their city of Bangkong, cosmetics shops have filled with products and beauty services where in the slogan they are promised to be dropped to the Kikorea.

The impact has spread also in the computer games.
It is a success that we are not doing that cultural and art are trigging with the pace of tourists wanting to visit the country.
I have heard even learning Kikorea has also been fasheni now.
While the language of Mandarin (Chinese) is spread and spread because of economic and businesses, Kikorea chenyewe is cut off for cultural and art.
It's like there at home young people when they learned the English so they go along with the movements of Europe.

The wave of the spread and raised in the influence of art and the culture of Kikorea did not start soon.
In the year 2001, the media of China vilishabatiza the wave by passing it "Hallyu" (or Hallyu-wood).


