
Waziri Mwakyembe ACHANGAMKIWA NA JUMUIYA YA British NA WATANZANIA LOLICN Novemba 12, 2012 2012.

Minister of Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has assured Tanzania and visitors that efforts will continue to be done by the government to improve transport in Bongo.

Speaking in London the day before yesterday in the "meeting of the year" of the Tanzania Union of Tanzania and British (Uingereza-Tanzania Society) and the sponsorship fund of development (Tanzania Development Trust), said it still wide a lot of doing since he was appointed four months ago.
Minister Mwakyembe consequently explained about the discussion of the new constitution that is expected to be mentioned in the year 2015.

Responding to questions from Wazungu and of Tanzania who attended the session, Westminster, a few steps closer to the British House (Whitehall), Mwakyembe who is the member of parliament for Kyela, he informed that one of the problem that tried to be solved as soon as the deterioration of the port of Dar es Salaam.
He said the ministry had to change the management of the port after the international report that was hidden in Dar to be one of the worst port in the world that do not implement its work in sawasawa.
"Dar es Salaam Port has the ability to change the whole country's economy operated well," explained to the meeting that left him keenly.
"We have been surrounded by many countries that are not in the ocean that are depending on transporting its cargo.
Therefore, the ministry of transport is ilala and the whole nation that is in charge. "

Giving several examples of the bad transport in the country, Doctor Mwakyembe spoke about inspiration and hope about the construction of roads and different rail.
"We have a lot yet to do.
Our big rail is very old.
From Dar to Kigoma and Mwanza for instance it was built in the era of the Germans in which they were made afresh. "

He gave an example of a solution to the problem of vehicles congestion in Dar es Salaam city where the money planned to correct other ways in the provinces have been used to ease transportation between Ubungo to the city and Makanga to Kurasini (for an affordable fare for 500 shillings) and a short period of twenty minutes.
Akiwaelemisha who were present about the political development in Tanzania, Minister said that debate that is being released in the country now, it is about the constitution changes that "it needs to start with the life of the 21st century."

While explaining the history of the constitution in Tanzania for the language of fasaha in English, this minister who is an expert in law, mentioned the important years to be 1961 (after Uhuru), 1963 (construction of the new nation), 1965 (union), 1977 (birth CCM) then 1983 and approved the policies of many parties in 1992.
A lot of questions were asked about transport and eating bribes that contributed to a lot of selling that is going to cause a big accident and frightening continent and islands.

And even after the official speech, at the time of getting tea, citizens and visitors continued to prevent him and moved to the minister selling him on fire questions.
The leader did not show any signs of tired of that enthusiasm.

Thanking Minister, one of the officers of the British community and of Tanzania, Miss.
Valerie Leach (runs the educational activities in Bongo) said it gives visitors to the heart that Tanzania has leaders who are contradicts with corruption and corruption as it was the era of Mwalimu Nyerere.
Earlier Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe welcomed on the details of how he shaokoka died twice (a car accident and skin diseases) due to his stand to try to develop the community.
Earlier the meeting was explained to various projects that are advanced by the sponsorship fund of development (Tanzania Development Trust).
Among those projects are being renovated by the elderly house of Tanga, developing small industries 37 in the continent and the islands, the development of youths that do not have a job and equipment of employees of Lindi hospital to avoid cholera.

Explaining his love to help development in Tanzania, the strategy of the BTS community, Julian Marcus said the efforts of members attached to private contributions and volunteer without any payments.
This Saturday activity also witnessed by our British ambassador, Honorable Peter Kallaghe and the director of the business center in London, Yusufu Kashangwa.

The BTS community was founded in the year 1975 and British and of Tanzania to continue relationships between these two countries.
It is headed by the former President, Ali Hassan Mwinyi.

The future session of BTS will be held at the University of African languages and Asia (School of Oriental and African Studies-SOAS) in London to discuss democracy and media stations in Tanzania, on 6th December.
Every citizen and a friend of Tanzania is welcome.


