A maybe one.
I would have said that I would have said it.
And that's what ATI didn't you am.
They have come to mi I could have continued that all the people of the
To choose the other people where to
Then the county should continue with the ile
The same right now then that is the lost
For now warudishe that the role of the
The end of the end.
In the one they were offered if not to be
Even when I was able to loose a leader I would ask him a question when and I know that I have to get it again on the lines but asante so much is in explaining about payments and other things that have been the questions to disturb other people that they ask now when I go back to violation of doing it so that the other people are asking me to come back because of violating it.
The people of it is running and when you work journalists in the country kenya say what he heard of us has explained about the payment he has explained there when they went and they could be eating in the jikoni people have gone to the international athletics in the citizens say what they are doing in the international athletics.
Thank you very much if you don't you are first to say congratulations to listen to him so that he's e in the voice of the American voice and I congratulate them because he has won a lot of times then those problems that came up there have been following up so much to start india ten kumi and two in London is fifteen.
He has proved that he has proved that it has to be said.
He has put better in his ways.
Tomorrow because also his avu and those of the other athletes have heard here saying they have made these mistakes as insurance through buses is called I don't want all of them.
When they go back to many kenya they have an opinion like that first if you look at the social network of us, we have to participate here to feel people explain to the pain citizens have explained different feelings and another thing that many have said that the payments had not increased when it has come up with those payments.
It would not say with me this side that the fresh scholars who is leading the committee of them for many years for many years.
He is among the place he has been chosen by the ministers who are
Ehhe to investigate everything was held fake.
Ehhe officials who manage the offense kenya this means that the bchogo seems like a doctor is an elder who has been appointed by the Olympic Committee of the Olympic Olympic committee.
When you don't have to.
If he's up to it.
Ahmad two things that the committee can be congratulations together with the fact that they have helped a lot of young people to get studies in universities as in Scotland and elsewhere, the regions of Makamba has emerged there is a good one that actually enya even we cast away quickly because of the reasons that they have left even tupilia mbali quickly because of the reasons that they have left even tupilia mbali quickly because of the reasons that they have lost even tupilia mbali quickly because
Most young people like to promote that games.
I am not impressed honestly and I am sure that I would have wanted to say before we will
The first part of thinking that tomorrow at live talk at one and a half hours of East Africa and also in the East Coast.
Facebook, we will be discussing with this issue of Olympic sports and member of parliament from African areas and especially East Africa are participating in sports games all over the world and is why they fail and other times failing with different problems also management but before we finish in short media page. The husband's like this husband's relatives says a lot of commission formed up can find the ways of eating money mi, I did not believe that any good arise will be proven to the commission of Warioba, Karen dambui says that it is a must to change so that you can't bike here more than the pocket of the pocket.
Sawasawa completely certainly this issue we will look for it in detail tomorrow at the line from one and a half hours of East Africa through Swahili Swahili and now we have to prepare to go to the second place in deep to the deep in the deep section of the deep undani.
