Members of the primary party of corporate production of Mnolela in the council lindi have explained their disappointment with the action officer, the council of frank difficult to fail to pay those members of the second payments of cashew nuts through the payment system through documents of documents in the documents of documents in the documents of documents.
Those complaints have been presented at an emergency meeting where it was also attended by the corporate officer, have been advised that the aim being to get an explanation about being stuck on the second payment of cashews where the chairman of that party Hamisi and boxing has admitted the existence of money for the second phase of that payment, our writer martin ulumbi has organized a summer report from the lindi.
Starting to members of the association of cooperative, agriculture, a marriage lela, asking questions by not the organization of the council of lindi fake and buy a
He pays it up to the home home.
When they ask me what things are doing.
I can't say even even when I can't say it.
The same.
It from today today.
When not up to the end of it.
While a time when not).
The practice for what the organization to run for a reason on top of the
It has asked a question question.
Answer the root is the truth you encounter.
I have not been able to pay the second payment.
But due to the real state of the loan session that was given to his chairman was sad and to reach the decision that the payment is doing the Bana of great to be done by the parties.
The answers to choose that didn't start the members of selling them in a difficult time.
Previously those members who were led to the lindi province by stopping their two payments until other parties can be korosho and fail to be taken there to know what you see that there is now that you are unable to take care of them in school schools and even the old man decided to be registered by the meeting so that the members decided to be registered by the meeting therefore, the members decided to be registered by the meeting thus therefore, the members decided to be registered by the meeting thus therefore, the members decided to be registered by that meeting for so, therefore, the members decided to be registered by the meeting so that the manager of the manager, they won't ep with the leadership of the province walindi so that their payments can be done as soon as possible as possible as
The Head of waridi has joined the primary parties of the agricultural produce more than eighty agriculture where seven years are the ones that have the ability to pay the second payment for sure that the names of Chumbuni is many of the names.
