Buriani Mohamed Kingolile "boxing" APR 09, 2015.

When I was saying that the spokesperson and finally the secretary general of Simba Club, there is no branch that I was letting close as the strongest and development.
There was two main reasons, first one was his closeness with my office and secondly the creativity was with them.
The closeness I am talking about is the one that often they were doing their activities at the headquarters of Msimbazi Club in Dar es Salaam city.
It was not easy to pass one day of work without meeting at least one member of the branch.
Innovation I am talking about is the one of the branch to create things like the kalenda and pictures that later they sell and get money to run their activities.
It is in that job environment, that is when I met with someone who was called Mohamed Kingolile popularly known by the nickname "boxing stone," who died in the bus accident last week in Morogoro town when he and his colleagues were way to Shinyanga province to view the match between Simba and Kagera Sugar.
Six members died in the jail.
He is the one who was the secretary of the branch and in the way more than one, the leader of the branch.
Most of the Simba leaders, and other clubs here in the country, at the branches have died and I have never been able to write to Tanzia.
Today, I have been forced to write a boxing stone because of honor all the people of its kind who had previously ahead of justice without kufahamika nationally although they had a huge contribution to the soccer game.
Kingolile and his colleagues in the group, were making sure they have arrived in the club from 12 and a half hours in the morning to two o'clock in the morning for the purpose of taking part of soccer game.
This debates was important for people who did not go to view the last match of Simba or they don't understand about the new news that concern the club.
For the workers of the town who are forced to arrive in the city before their offices have not been opened, Msimbazi is "foolish" to be lost time before people have not gone on their activities.
Many people do not know but in a group of volleyball and development there is a person when it is called Chinga due to that he comes from South provinces of Tanzania but his colleagues call Shafih Dauda.
He has been given the name because of his ability to explain the game.
That is, there are people who give me money so he will go to watch the match on the field so after the game, whether tomorrow or any day, I can tell them that they should not go about what happened.
If there is a new player standing up with Simba and he has done exercises for only one day and Chinga akamuona, ask him only and he will wamba if a player is good or bad.
Boxing stone without having financial ability, they were ready to travel at any cost to go anywhere where Simba will be playing.
Often arriving at the concerned province the day ileile of the match and turning back to Dar es Salaam just after the match.
Boxing stone is among the people who were ready to do anything to help Simba get victory.
There are a lot of things to find the club a win was made that for a special reason I will not be named in this article.
Often Kingolile was sits in the front seat on the second side of the driver when they travel.
The goal was to be able to be heard easily when he wants to give a report while in the car but also while in front of people who see them then they know the boxing stone is.
In Tanzanian football that has not yet acted major strategies to be announced, the buses of fans are one part of the inspiration that we announced this game.
Even if someone had no plan to go to mpitions, those exciting stuff on the road makes people to change the ideas and come to the field.
All day I believe that people like Kingolile are the ones who do the football supporters continue to go to the field in the country when in the neighboring country, a number is decreasing every day.
I worked to view the English Premier League match last two years at Mandela Stadium in Kampala city, and I was disappointed to see people under 400 while they have gone to view the match.
When you reduce keenly, together with other reasons that are mentioned including the power of the English Premier League, you will sign that one of the reasons is that country not again with the Kingolile and the branches of clubs like the ball and development, volleyball, the Wekundu wa Terminal, Yanga Bomba and others.
The people who do this game is forced to attract, as the Kingolile, the one Yamungu of Morogoro and others, are supposed to be recognized as part of the people that are supposed to profession.
These are people who all their lives have given up because of this game.


