
If Mzazi: Do not get the eyes of the father's property, look for your father.

It was written by Nicodemus Ikonko Ikonko.

It has been published: 10 October 2016.

You walk free is not the same as a free coal because in a walk to her may be okota.
In that context, Waswahili also said that it's spread in the spread and thrown the state wali.

These semi means that who is involved most of the time you gain a different livelihood from a person who has not been involved.
As a Mzazi, this week has been referred to give our youth to these maidha that when we start the year can help them in front of the journey.
This column has ever been able to write about the potofu that is built for some of the youths during various education levels that they are studying for the parents or guardians and others reach to boycott them to school as well as studying for them is for the benefit of parents or guardians.
The truth is that you read for your own life and your family will be started and it is not otherwise.
The following issue that can give you a light on those things.
It was at times in the evening, in one of the rest areas in the end of the week in the city of Dar es Salaam when I got stuck this story.
I was mesmerized by the story that he had given my neighbor that I had changed with ideas from the neighboring country of Kenya.
He narrated that the two parents who were working and live in a good house in Nairobi, found themselves being forced to take action that they did not expect after bringing their son to every state until the age of 35 years while under their empire.
According to the masimulizi, during the same life, the young man was getting all the services to the parents and he every was told the news of certain work refuses to the claims that it is not good.
The father was not enjoys the situation but because he loves his son and because the ability of the money allowed him to take any action.
Finally, it comes to the age of 35 years and so his parents will not end up in the house of living a servant home.
The new couple, they got the first child, then the second and later they were born of three while all of them and their children getting all the services of life from their parents to the point of being given even a car for their personal transport and their family.
Here I would like to remind you of the famous usemeo, "the child mleas is the one you know."
That boy when he saw his family continues to expand and his parents still live in a big house, he requested his father that it is good for him to ahamie a big house with his parents, because they are only two, then they should live a small servant house.
According to the Msimbazi ulizi that, there is where his father when he gutuka and take action.
What he did is to pay her child's house to plan for six months and promised that in that period he will renovate the big house together with the sleeping house of a servant and then they will return to those houses to live.
For harakaharaka a boy he accepted as he said his elder.
In that period, the father is forced to reduce the use for her child and sent him to open business so as to continue being dependent on everything.
Before the six months ended, the father will sell his house and moving to another place without his son to know.
When it came to come back to their house he found with another house and remained midomo open.
The efforts to repeat for his father to tell him that he does not even have money to pay for the house were moving rock after being told it is his responsibility to take care of his family and it's not otherwise.
He followed him a cry and grinding teeth by experiencing the darkness nene of life.
This story is an example enough for young people who arising from the authority and power of their parents found themselves as well as they have ranks and power like that.
There are children of directors, heads of provinces and district and even famous businessmen who have seen that they don't need to be performing in search of their lives because only you have seen them have power and those assets as they were their parents.
They think that they don't need to register themselves to take care of their property.
This is a concept potofu and young people don't have to change.
This was possible that we leave to be deceived by the property that it's not yours.
Your look for you since wahenga say "Mtegemea of nduguye you die."


