AHH is just a little but not so much.
A reason for me.
Aai is not the medicine you know now if you get a chance I can go to the treat right and this in the neighborhood short thing like that now ehhe and you know it's not the bad school of the bad thing that I am doing to talk to just a bit not with whom I tell you not the things to talk to the first one I am going for months of the one I am going for months in the months.
Ehehhe is the first one.
Ehhe but now mi I'm out of the same mi I was put in the same time I was told by the doctor you will know Mister my brother baada I want to give it that we should have a lot of trouble with ohh you want to request you to the weekend sunday.
That let me think it is not going to church up to what he ehhe is.
Okay that we will know we will know if you put up there now, we will have to ask you even if it is not mmhm you want to request even mi, even mi I
Mmhm no you know that I ask for you to ask for any day the one at the time of serious I want to talk to I ask you to ask I ask you to ask for me.
Now, I have invited you to do it Sunday mmhm I will come to church AHH on Sunday the day of people falling very much it has not been found in it.
Mmhm ehatanialika where they are
This is now and being found now that you get that day will be
Ohh and yacobo but now you know it is not you know the toughest now you can get it has called a certain place and you have run away from the ehhe is now there maybe it will be mi a little when it will be a little when it will be mi.
Ehhe since we have placed a job ahead than God's Lord ehhe ehhe is hatehe.
It is not so wwingu mawingu always we have to ask when we get a chance we are going to and we have we are partnered with our colleagues in the AHH, the murio have said the truth the truth.
But it is set up to set aside one day in a week inside worship mmhm even comes with a family I will be tired of and his mother yeah, I am concerned with your colleagues and your colleagues, I am concerned with your colleagues.
He ehhe ehhe.
