Even though he has asked me today we relatives.
If they pass congratulations to Tanzania has to be done.
Research a time to read if he refuses to attention the attention that he puts very deep because not being born research has said that the charts the fare means a substitute in among the construction and that after the construction and that after the construction.
The research research.
Mwenendo and he is required about those clapping.
Ehhe is now when I get into myself together at work for them.
When they will reduce it.
When we do not work.
Have not been true.
If you love that if I answer the blood they go from the blood you are not going to love you love but there is the Boxer ulipe eight, the service you like to get tired of the Taarab and who is making a lollipop and who is making a lot of pop and who is making a lot of pop to collaborate just a little bit.
Today I want to finish one of the behavior of women who are being resolved.
You ask you who has proposed well with the expectations enemies but comes in Mary supported that we love you, you have to be a lot of
These days men love someone and it is God's God.
Wacha Mister now, this tendency to be removed first, we started to interpret the quoted one before the woman has not been known. Ee to put you cannot seek people to meet people to meet people to meet people to
Ehhe of prisoners and re about the abbott was surprised by the mother to kujipendekeza only so that the relatives put up with a mother to see now there, the voer of people is produced in large numbers to go back to the body.
I do not give a brother.
After the votes I will be brave in the south while and what is being put inside the inside.
A journey.
When things are beginning to start the beginning he is showing a little naked if it is a person the day they are going for for it to go for it.
The place comes to walk ehhe is not this and your younger one that you want to have come there or maybe this brother
Things no we will not be able to even walk now a girl to acquire water drinking water.
There is no ifunguki jiask why the beginning of the burning has changed completely changed completely.
The nyongeza and the best yapi I will tell him why the ambamo I want to be married to be removed from the lewa.
You like Dezo you like and the preparations I have to explain completely at all.
Now when I meet what they meet a friend has been phoned by his mother while at home, there is problems he told his wife, who let me take a little while at home, there is a lot of trouble that you will take the Toyota we will do that you will not know what is there and the problems will be there and the problems will take place that we have now, the people living in the existence of his mother even when he took his mother even when he took his mother even when he took his mother. If Mamkwe was going to come out with the shortage of the shortage of the
The reunion will tell you but that's a woman for them in the delivery of support by there now with me at home, there is still these problems doing it, it is supposed to let you think that he has no money here they will sell it and the plot is sold and the plot is sold and the plot is sold by the plot is sold by the plot is sold by the plot it is sold and the plot is sold by the plot is sold
They can deliver by Marko and his mother is found a woman if something chenyewe only is the reader I want the one and the verification unit which has passed here every month we are trap, there has been a secret it would have been canceled because they hold the mother of the time where we go to the tribe.
