Majaliwa- Monduli jengeni classes, msiozeshe children.

It was written by Veronica Mheta, Monduli Monduli.

It has been published: 06 December 2016.

The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed the leadership of Monduli District Council to set aside money for the construction of classrooms and teachers houses in the primary school Laibon that is in the district so as to uplift the level of success for students of breeders.

Moreover, that community of breeders have emphasized to leave the habit of oza female children, instead, it should read so that later they can be able to escape economically and that community to get development.
Majaliwa gave those instructions after visiting the founder of that school, Meshock ole Mapii, an old man who previously took the decision to build that school as a previous class and elect one of his children who had a primary education to teach her younger children after one child colliding with a car and died when he was going to school more than six kilometers.
Majaliwa said that school with few rooms have to be discussed by building other classrooms, so that the children and the top of the old man together with those in the neighborhood and that school can study and pass well.
He said that he had seen the shortage of classes together with the teachers' houses and ordered the leadership of Monduli District Council to set aside money in their local income for the purpose of building teachers houses together with classrooms in school.
He congratulated the old man for seeing the importance of education to his children, wajukuu together with the neighboring children who are studying in the school and called the parents and guardians to stop the habit of marrying the female children, instead they go to school.
The head teacher of that school, Rogate Mbuya said that the school started in 2007 under the tree of mbuyu with 30 previous students later to get sponsors where until now it has five classrooms and nine teachers while students are 167 among 102 being children and the elder of that old man.


