Standing with the magufuli and the magufuli.
I don't think I am just a story just a story.
Because I think that Tanzanians had really forget me even
The book of leadership for the
There was something I called down the floor.
Everyone who is defending us can be his department is his clean-up.
It's good for yourself.
For the magufuli to come here with the ku
Doing what he is doing to say the truth I was needed to the day Tanzanians we don't know when you are going to eat I was eating the dark in the dark.
They will calm down where we are going to be where
Although these hours we still have no Deo but at least we will make a foundation for knowing we're going to where we are going to where we are going to
There is not we don't have a system
Number of that.
To operate as true as the government has to be made.
Everyone is doing it for him.
And if you look at a lot you will see a lot of people it seems to people and the ability to the government that you cannot cannot.
Something that seems many years the news of answers to the answers.
He will not be in charge of it.
That of the event like yesterday has started this he has not finished, he has not finished he does not mean that if we haven't started they have already arrested certain what makes it right if the Presidents who pass or usually when we call it, you will leave this sector. They have been searching for someone and he ran out of my opinion for Mister john alcohol mourning, I think that it has been listening to them if it is out to relax because those money that they are collecting for us to see if they are not beneficial because of the foods with bad prices when you come to the sugar. Those funds are collecting responsibility for the sake of teemed to take another one we see that they have benefits because we need the primary things for the day even though they are made to live in everything including food diseases and otherwise, leave the magufuli well as well as leave the magufuli well.
By there are people you know when they are doing things like this there are little people who will be irika.
As a result of a situation that they were used to but in general for the low-level people are satisfied with the performance of our president john alcohol magufuli for a little reason even if you look at the government attitude has been different from the previous period of the previous.
People are working with dedication and for these hundred days one hundred days.
It has seen many things on both sides every aspect of the tax side in terms of the hospital in terms of schools in schools on the side of schools in schools.
There are challenges here and there but an eye when they continue after time.
We believe that things will be more impressive.
The rule of the time we could have been anyanyated so much entrepreneurs entrepreneurs.
We had peace.
And even our economy had been dropping relied on that there is no Tanzanian that he desires for his match and every Tanzanian has a right to live in his country and if akivunja the law of the country in the country and if akivunja the law of the country in the country and if akivunja the law of
Now, or his status spoke that the site or the city police look for the work of doing mi I say we support it means that those six of the city soldiers look for a job to make corrections and the father of the nation to make corrections and the father of the nation to make corrections and the father of the nation. The ones that we want the citizens to stop praising shows that he is well and half is not present well because it has said that he is repeating the performance is still poor for example as a hospital who knew if the performance is still in less than the performance.
