
2016 was the year of fedheha sports Imani Makongoro, Mwananchi imarrived @ mwananchi.co.tz today is 366 days for the year 2016, while we are goodbye and to welcome the new year 2017.
The end of that year is to welcome the new year 2017 which everyone, the people, the organization, the organization, the company are planning based on the procedure and what they have planned to achieve goals.
During the year 2016 ending, we can say it wasn't successful in sports, and the only success is to win the championship of the Confederation Cup of women who Kili Queens.
Kili Queens iliifunga Kenya 2-1 in the final match that was played in Kampala city, Uganda.
The year of the loss in the year 2016 was at a loss, because between 50 games that were played in the country is the women's soccer to win the Challenge Cup and Mbwana Samatta took the award for the best player in Africa for a player who plays soccer in Africa.
Samatta's award in Africa, Samatta announced Tanzania internationally after winning the award on January 7, defeating Baghdad Bounders, striker of Etoile du Sahel of Algeria and goalkeeper, Robert Kadiaba of TP Mazembe of Congo that is the one that was playing for the year at that time before he has joined Genk of Belgium.
"There is no doubt, in the year 2016, Samatta is the only logo in Tanzania soccer, is the only player who was able to play the Europa League, this is the example to be followed in our soccer and our man of 2016," explains the soccer analyst, Ally Mayay.
The championship of Kili Queens Chalenji despite several challenges of several, still the football squad of Tanzania Mainland Tanzania (Kilimanjaro Queens), was struggling with putting the record of being the only team that won the championship of CECAFA afa this year.
He was once the coach of that team, Rogasian Kaijage said that team despite kuiletea the country in the year 2016, but it has missed support and inspiration because it has been understood as' the child of the neighborhood '.
"Laiti Kilimanjaro Queens or Twiga Stars being given support, every day I said this is the team that can take it to Tanzania at the World Cup, look at 2016 if it's not itself, Tanzania would have scored a year without a cup," he says.
Serengeti Boys, Alphonce Felix tried 2016, Serengeti Boys tried 'kunusa' success 2016 after kujitumua in the process of searching for the tickets to qualify for the African finals for youths under 17 years despite being released in the final match with Congo.
Serengeti was stuck in sports stages in the end after being defeated by Congo Brazzaville 1-0 away, thus doing the results that 3-3 and Congo Brazzaville to qualify for a goal away after Serengeti scoring 3-2 goals in Dar es Salaam city.
This year also, the shareholder, Alphonce Felix tried to return Tanzania in the Olympic map despite not taking the medals he ended up the fifth position in the marathon race.
The president of the Tanzania Athletics Federation (RT), Anthony Mtaka spoke about the opportunity to be the beginning of success in the game and insisted it has never happened in the past several years.
The secretary general of Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC), Filbert Bayi explained that the results are the catalyst for long term preparations and insisted as parties and the government are investing in preparation, Tanzania will perform well in the coming games.
Alphonce came in a list of five best athletes of the Olympic Games of Rio 2016 in Brazil, having run for 2 o'clock, 11: 15 being left for 2 minutes, 71 and the champion of those races, Eliud Kipchoge from Kenya.
The year of shame, Taifa Stars, Ngorongoro Heroes and Yanga Taifa Stars was eliminated early in the process of searching for the tickets to qualify for the finals of Africa when the Heroes which were the world's expectation of soccer in the Olympic Games unable to fair the opportunity to not participate.
The secretary general of Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC), Filbert Bayi said that they don't understand what caused the TFF not to pay the position Ngorongoro Heroes in the process of looking for the Olympic standards.
"We told them TFF about the participation of Ngorongoro, those reports that they know but themselves are not to concentrate on them, you cannot be forcing them," said Bayi.
Others were trying 2016 is Yanga and Azam.
Yanga was given to the African Champions League and entered the Federation Cup where the water were long distance as well as Azam was given earlier in the Federation Cup.
Other games was in the ICU 2016 in a year that was difficult for sports as boxing, swimming, tennis, handvu, basket, golf, golf, crash, the ball of tables, netball, lifting up the ball, the ball, netball, lifting up things to combat other 30 games that have been played in the country is 2016.
The boxing team of Ridhaa has finished the year for the theme of 'they are here' without participating in any international competition in tandem with the national netball team.
Other games like cassava, the hands, lifting up the big things, Magongo, crriketi and the bicycle was taking place by killing Sua while it ended up being unsuccessful in the international aspect.
The former chairperson of BMT, Colonel Iddi Kipingu admits 2016 that a bad year in the family of athletes.
"There was no emphasis on the awareness of leaders in search of success, this has contributed to international eli, but I'm sure that it ends of Tanzania, I am starting a journey to look for the success of the games by preparing the youth, that wants to join me and the doors are open," he said.
MO, Manji buying Simba and Yanga this year is also threatened by leaving the memorial of business people, Mohamed Dewji (MO) and Yusuf Manji wanting to buy Simba and Yanga clubs.
However, they faced with various challenges, it explained that their decision was not followed the constitution before the National Sports Council (BMT) to prevent and want every step to start afresh and it should be collaborative.


