He didn't have a lot of it.
Ehatair now, your news does not know you talk to who know how you know has advanced, but he has not done an application or it has only been a job.
Halo ehhe is very good maybe yours today and I know ehhe is the one that I won't be well, maybe we
Please repeat ohh ohh the same has also been mi I won't be good than you are safe
Mmhm the news of others ehas a mother Ako safe, also the mother Ako safely also ohh I was when I was looking at the information that I saw as shebesh Elizabeth krequest, Elizabeth krequest.
It is very easy that you are hm ehand and with the news of the honeymmhm was a school because it is released how many hours a lot of hours.
It was a lot of surprises.
Ehhe Regina Ako safe but at this time, Ako at school ehanaAko in school ehvery much ohh from ten and a half years well, we haven't been given to wait for the things they want to keep there is a plan for certainly not suitable for you, why you eka ohh today today.
Ohh was calling by the office or yet.
Why since they told him there's a problem he ehhe is.
Ohh the day he has rectified that day.
Ohh usijali wacha will correct because it is because I had another girl and he told me when they were regarded so that is not the problem why they are unable to be told they will go and they will go to go tomorrow the news must be given to them.
They called me ehohh they were told to come to come.
Ohh ohh wacha nitangoja nisikie venye ka watafunga so, therefore, so he eheyeah to look for him to repeat repeat
I also mi I hope they will make it and now the leso of my mother read it I will take the day what I will be doing.
Tomorrow is not I don't think maybe it is to look for what should I look for hours to come good then I tell them that the hour I will come to I will come to I will come to them.
Ehohh the fare read it so that it was the color that Margaret ehanohh is very beautiful.
I am hoping it will be entertaining the mother and now and now you know he is selling television or you are doing what they are focusing on television or you are doing what you are looking for at television.
I did not know that no one is prepared too dadangu hauji ehhe loves uji is the biggest one AHH to be in front of the wave, we should know we like uji ehohh sawasawa I will have to cook for cooking.
I want him to keep the uje.
The wave of the wave or any other ohh mi I didn't like _ g so much but you will hear I can drink ehhe is now that I want to go to the car I should go home but there is still no car to go home but there is still no car.
He didn't have a lot of it.
Ohh Uki if you start traveling Straveled well, ehtoday ohh ohh while Mgani Mgani.
Mmhm ehhe but I see if I will go through it to you today mmhm
Ohh has been welcomed very much ohh ehhe.
Ohh sawasawa will find you only ten ehhana I am not annoyed I'm happy with the tele ehhe I'm just and excited about I don't have something to remind me this time yet, I haven't finished it.
Ehin and why you talk about it when you have been annoyed that you have hm mi to be entertaining.
And the cinema that you see me will be able to give you now that you will give me a long time when I want to see them when I want to see them.
This ehviolation if you go through I will be giving a hehhe, I have remained a little minutes then I finish ATI ehhm
The mmhm I can get a lot of confusion if you are finishing up the confusion that we are putting up to the confusion.
Then there are others that I can ask there are others that I can help with nazo then.
Please look at what I'm in and sure you're with you then.
Sawasawa I will be looking for ehehhe later ehhe's five minutes right then I start to look for the ehhe.
How many hours on the mi I want to know how these hours I know that I know how I came to take it.
Okay and sawasawa then ehmi I want you to ask you, I have forgotten what I was, I want to know what I want to know the ones that are the ones keys to the keys to take the ones that we have to use the money for the technician is still where they are also committed to where they are doing where they are doing where they are going to do where they are doing where they are doing where they are doing where they are doing where they are doing where they are doing where they are going to
The ATI.
Ehhow those ehehehhehehateno keys to the mkunjho which is not the one that is enough that other than that other is not the one that does not remember where he is in the right is ehanohh wacha we will be looking for the bus.
We have been asked for it.
The date and no one carrying one I read two hours tomorrow of tumfuate ehhe is looking for because because of my reasons are not my one I don't think I really don't know.
Ohh then and what is another and the one to hold on a hhm you are in the top were so many now, it is a car you are with it.
Ohh the one to hold him to open I think I'm with the one with the hhm ehhe is we will find out too ehwords words.
We will find the ohh tell me how to bring words mi I have been mi and I have been asked questions here even hunialiki just to be married.
AHH is not a lome I vote for you the one that is looking for another question then the words will come to come.
Ehhe even if it's not too ulete words words.
Even the questions I have asked a lot is a month many questions even when I have finished the questions that I am followed up doesn't listen to what the market talks with who is there, and a person that is there in your vision, there is also a vision in your opinion on that all words of so there is a hm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmhm mmh@@
Then I give the story they're saying his own.
Ehhe, I feel halo Ako and a lot of insults he is encouraged to make my words halh
Ehhe is not the one I am saying that he is encouraged to make the snes and also should know that public servants are not supposed to give things like those mmhm without fees to be understood that he is asking only the normal questions.
It was not so bad but it should stay either if you stay more than women have mna
Mmhm mmhm mmhm.
