The one.
When it is told that the writing of the news art art.
The writing of the news Sophia Simba are doing faustina
While they end up I will be staying in yourself and keeping them how your mwalimu did not teach you to teach them.
Artist, I think the end of you or though this person who talked about where he comes from where he comes from the same time.
When I do not like it, I will not be able to.
You can deliver the message but I see them convey a message to how and those that were brought down the usual writing that I request for journalists to follow it so that he can be fit in your life so that I can be fit.
They are able to stand on how the journalists there are a writer of books as many thousand until two days wrote a book he showed a difference between the author who comes from the police and the author can do things to go well now now.
In writing who have a mother of a mother copy, a list of people who are using a lot of words can take me a copy we're together together.
I am not hida this have been hitting two weeks have been hit by a long time.
The writer who wrote the severe words
He is a writer who is what I've been looking at kofi now I get a lot of anxiety and asante.
So I assume he has come from home in the morning to tell the kids.
Animals has gone a lot of Baraza la Mawaziri because the child told her ten father to tell the father is earlier on the word that the word will be able to cook the theft will reach the situation that you can only have a request because of a lot of words to convey but maybe the child would be given that the father failed to be married because of these words and right and these things were going on the same way and right and these things were going on the same way and right and these things were going on the same way and right and these things were going on the same way and right and these things were going his writer's parents and journalists who are unique and journalists who want to do the report to you today but I hear I have to understand what I have to understand but I hear I have to understand what I have to understand.
