Fidel Castro: Was David or Golith?
Dec 06, 2016, 2016.

Grave when he was buried Fidel Castro Castro.

In the year 1959, Fidel Castro leaving Santiago de Cuba for a long convoy of vehicles towards Havana.
Almost 60 years in the future, his remains have been carried out through the same way, by going back.

Hiba that will continue to remain the leader is like the Daudi and Goliati of the biblia.
He was a young man, a musician with a lot of Ndevu from a little island who was struggling with the size of the bealist and the power of the United States.

That is the issue of the ndotoni.
But it's not a dream of everyone.
And, for sure, not everyone can accept that Fidel was a Daudi or Golipedia.

The picture of the administration of Castro that as David started showing during the invasion of Wacuba living outside the country that are funded by the United States of the year 1961 in which came to be known as Bay of Pigs.
This picture was seen again and again when Fidel was throwing stones and words against his neighbor, a big nation of America while being supported by his close ally in Russia and later Venezuela.

And it is a picture that some of the Wacuba - those who were interested in attraction together with his ability to speak which he used to show that they suffer for now is important as a anzio to get a better life in future - they trust them, at least for that time.
That was more for those who benefited from the initial development of the revolution and those who lived in Cuba of the development of civilians.

Wacuba who are fighting against the dictatorship of Fulgats Batista in 1950 years and that endangers their lives in that war, they continued to defend the revolution.
They lived in joy when the forceful was shocked and they continued to follow Fidel.

For many who have benefited from the expansion of education and public health services, Castro continued to be respected.
And these development didn't need to be forgotten, because they were the fruits of the commitment where Wacuba were doing every day.

Most of those who were not knowing reading or writing previously they were able to learn to study in the campaign that took place after the revolution.
Wacuba poor more in rural areas, and those who had the history of working in the city, their status rose suddenly due to now to know how to read.

But for many Wacuba, the one Daudi of the past turned out and became a Golith with a look of frightening.
While Castro taking the accusations of the economic problems of his country to the United States instead of working on those problems by using his policies, some of the Wacuba started leaving the country and went to look for new life in America.
Among his policies that fail is the attempt of Castro urged all citizens of his country to enter the cane farms and start cut.
He wanted all of them, including doctors and farmers without caring for someone's job, to go to the villages to cut cane with the aim of reaching the harvest of 10 million tons of miwa, and that time insisting that the honor of Cuba was in danger.
The issue was impossible to achieve his goal, and leaving Wacuba while they are tired of being heed.

Obviously for many people of Cuba who today live in the United States - and many others who have spread in different parts of the world, especially in Spain, South America, and Canada - Fidel wasn't Daudi.
But this was also open for many Wacuba who were in that country and started a low movement in the bottom which they were endangering their lives every day in the secret struggle to try to restore democracy in Cuba, even under the suppression of the government.

The movement was among the youths in the middle of the year 1980, including those who went to study in Russia and other European nations, after seeing them due to them close to their trials in glasnost and perestroika in order to make corrections to be challenged by starting to the inside.

Today, the movement involve groups like Movimiirs Cristiano Liberacion and the one that is known more than Damas de Blanco, mothers who are walking every Sunday in Havana streets, wearing a white clothes, and carry out on their husbands, children, or their brother, which they were lost due to ordhed and the presence of one party, a community of imimimimed. The members of the, and Patriotic Union of Cuba.


