The secretary of the ministry of health dokta Mpoki Mpoki.
I wait for it.
It was waiting for the minister, he has said that the government is planning to increase the distribution of medicine in health centers, let us listen to the journalists last month after the rumors emerged that lack of medicine and medical equipment for treatment equipment.
If it has been rampant.
A moment for a moment.
The real situation access to the medicine were waiting for is the same as fifty percent and three percent.
Since between the most important drugs and five that is required, there is no drugs and one of those drugs and others are in providing services stations and others are at the stations for providing services services.
The state of the availability of medicine will improve more in October this year this year.
A now due to the moment.
And the sea of medicine to use the long-term contacts.
And the hitiri that is the framework mkataba
In order to strengthen the availability of medicine quickly quickly.
They are required based on the money they are available when they are available.
We would like to insist on it.
That ehimbi has already received approximately twenty billion shillings.
Which will help in ensuring that we are going to have these drugs as
Now that is the minister or secretary in the Ministry of Health, Doctor Mpoki Ulisubisya on the right.
Speaking about the issue and how the government of the president john alcohol magufuli.
It is dealing with the last year the sea of medicine in Tanzania popularly known as Hemed this Hemed this.
It was reported by various media houses in that country, he threatened to suspend the delivery of medicine drugs.
Which is important to the government's health institutions until the debt of ninety billion shillings would have been paid by those institutions but the spokesperson of the ocean medicine in the country, Etty Kusiluka, Kusiluka Kusiluka has Kusiluka.
Holding that despite the complaints of lack of medicine bukhari has enough drugs, Etty Kusiluka, let me tell them now that lack of them at some of the hospital stations is going to be caused by what is caused by what is caused by what is caused by what is being caused by what is caused by what
The medicine absence of the hospital is not mean to conclude the medicine there is no medicine
The medicine stores there are drugs have started to enter and requested medicine for health centers when you start using the video
And it will take some time to reach all the hospitals and institutions that require you.
Work four hours three hours to buy medicine to preserve and distribute for hosi when we are spreading medicine from the application that he is calling for which is drugs.
To get an application all the hospitals that have brought applications to request.
They are contacted the drugs that are being circulated and taken to those who are
We have been rumors that if one year when it passes the place it said that those who maybe they have to have not paid pay for them.
The money that they were.
They are supposed to pay they won't get the drugs there is the fact that the rumors work who is being waited for is to ensure that the citizens of Tanzania gets treatment and that is why even when you hear those who have no weapons were given medicine for that exercise and take medicine for that exercise and take medicine for those drugs and take medicine for the medicine and take medicine for the medicine
It is going as usual, other issues of paying the debts I have made of our mistakes, we are doing with them communication.
They pay those minerals from the time and they get who the money who say that they do not get medicine, maybe it is only for a period of time but this issue will be appointed here on the recent days when you are going to the hospital concerned there is no medicine and ask them that is where they are asked and they returned that they gave medicine to the medicine.
It's unless vinginevyo.
If it has been forced when you are forced to see it when it's unde he gets to take them when they arrive at the end.
The hospital not to have medicine does not mean that for the bohari of medicine there is no medicine in place that maybe the government or the hospitals don't have the money to bring for some of the drugs they are able to be given by the minister, maybe the situation is now those who are now the ones that are now those who are now the ones that are the ones that are
War as a hospital haileti medicine has continued every health center of the government and the government hospital is suitable to be condemned condemned.
Which has continued it gets money from the serekation where the college is being viewed as their accounts have the money that is where they are given medicine but not that they are bringing the money it has been buried on getting the medicine that comes from it is that the government's budget and it was divided and put in their accounts they will add to them where it is heading to where it is heading to where it is heading to where it is heading to where it is heading to where it is heading to where it is heading to where it is heading to where it is heading to where it is heading to where it
Other than income that include the one on the spot on the motorcycle riders fund.
Basket Mfuko items if so they can't add them when they feel that they have more than medicine needs but the hospital if the hospital doesn't direct them to buy medicine has continued more than using money that they are defended by the government government.
Therefore, the money that they get extra that from other sources of income can go on with them and bought extra drugs.
We are going to give them the medicine they are appointed for medicine not to bring that their accounts would not be like enough to like enough like enough.
That's why I tell you that we are looking at more.
Health citizens, a reason for human health is not equal to something else or food water or what is the health that is why even the people wakileta requests we are urging them together and that even his account is missing a bit, maybe so that you are missing a little of the person.
