
Our engagement to worry I have had a fiancé for two years now and when we planned to live together as a husband and wife.
The problem is that he does not want to know their people nor does not want to be known to us.
Is it possible that he is playing for?
Through SMS I feel your partner is playing in mind and maybe he wants to use it or he doesn't have any plan about your life together.
It is about your decision if you will accept so if you will leave you will let you know the other one who seem to care about.
He does not want to stir the aunt I have to marry and we have one child.
The problem is that when we go into a room at home my colleague does not want us to take a time to stimulate the fire before starting the dish.
Instead, you will not want one job at one.
I advise him.
Through SMS I understand the meaning and the importance of kurutubisha the farm before starting to cultivate them.
Maybe your partner has no skills and that's the reason he doesn't see the importance.
Mweleze his benefit and convince him to try because you will be the sweetest of the dance is to play.
He HAFURAHII the forest I have a lover we are very loving.
My colleague has been used to slyeka my farm when I have been ala and used to ask him saying that he didn't speak to see the farm has turned into the forest.
The truth is that I am going to be so.
What should I do?
Through SMS you have very lucky to have someone who cares about the cleaning of your body.
I did not understand it because you like to promote the forest in your farm because you can bring a waste of every kind and pest that should not be required.
Mrallow your partner to continue with the responsibility.
KACHUKUA another Ninamiaka 16.
There is a young man I ayempenda but I have noticed he has a relationship with a girl my close friend.
Through SMS Umri are very little not supposed to be involved in issues as he does not know if you love him and respect that girl your friend, you do not try completely to break their relationship so that you take the young man.


