We are to remember the era the child is spreading who is causing me to tell you for your information that I tell you that it has maintained all I have and should know what I tell you, I tell you that I do not tell you that I will have to tell you that if we have to tell you that I will have to tell you that we will have to tell you that I will have to tell you that I will have to tell you that I will have to tell you that I will have to tell you that I will have to tell you that I will have to tell you that they will tell you the special position of the message that had been written in completely competence but your clothes and the one does not reply to the one that Mister you have to come to remind me that is now the estate that I will have given to the chairperson of the village, that I will have to ask for the chairmanship of the village we will have to ask for the chairperson of the village, we will have to ask for the chairmanship of the village we will meet today. The beds to take over the forms when they arrive, they heard it is ka in the nominations and without even one cents in Rukwa and I will tell them to listen to my policies and citizens they will choose without even hearing them there.
With me I'm talking to who I am talking about think of mi ehhow you will tell me when he will tell me the accents I will not mention and he will come to an old man, a camp outside the person.
The children really mean that the famous ones from I have finished that drink your partner.
Unaharaka we have received to come to another team where they are looking at where they are wrong and
On this world of Idi, the second world talked about you, it is also looking for you to send me about you to give me your way to our brothers, just the monotheism, where the other people are directed by the one who has no problem even a little, that is still the chairperson there is no problem even a bit that is still the chairperson there is nothing to get that leader.
The ones who are called who attended me to tell them that they are facing the farm in the premier league Mister
The wedding or names.
Surely we're very together they have a JF today in joy everyone is happy together we are eating what we are given what I am given.
At the end of the other time).
It's all today today.
As usual as usual.
Mother adam remember your father's skills in a fast speed for life in life.
The best has been bought for you will also require that child.
While carrying out again msabato is lucky to many of us that we thought of us.
Has been given.
They should return to tell you to tell you.
It is spoiling even we will not be different.
And our us.
We all know this people do not know if it is required as required as required.
