
Cord will demonstrate to demonstrate to Mike Kalama of cord has been planning to prepare for peace demonstrations across the country so as to oppose the step of the government to pay debts that are linked to the scandal of Anglo Leasing while President Uhuru Kenyatta insisting that Kenya did not have to pay that amount of 1.4 billion shillings.
One day after President Kenyatta to command the Ministry of Finance that pays the debt, the leaders of that opposition union came out of the action while they stopped "taking all the steps they could defend the constitution as well as the public interest."
The acting leader of that union, Professor Anyang "Nyong'o together with the deputy leader, Mister Kalonzo Musyoka said that the cord will not hesitate to go to court or to do demonstrations all over the country to oppose those payments that they mentioned if that is affecting the constitution.
"The contracts of Anglo Leasing was illegal and will never be able to be fired.
The international community is insisting about accountability and never can accusing Kenya to conclude the contracts that was marred by cheating, "said Professor Nyong'o.
"The demonstration of peace is the right of every mkenya, that is one step that we can take.
We will do what again as the government has refused to listen to his people, "added Mister Musyoka.
The two others who had protested with other leaders of that union said that the action is a big blow in efforts to fight with corruption in the country.
Professor Nyong'o said that President Kenyatta in 2006 that he proposed that the debts of Anglo Leasing wouldn't when he was the chairman of inspecting the government accounts.
But President Kenyatta at the Nairobi House said that although his stand is not changed by the previous one, he has been forced to ordered the money they were because Kenya will not be able to ask for funds to fund projects.
"I could have stood up with my previous statement but now as a leader of the country I have been forced to pay these debts after Kenya lost cases in foreign countries.
I am advised the Department of Rights ensures that we will not be indwi again in case like these which evidence is a lot of time, "said President Kenyatta.
The transparency International organization will also be given a payment of those payments that mentioned as "compensation to the corrupt and robbed Kenyans."
The executive director of that organization Mister Samuel Kimei, wanted President Kenyatta to stop the perpetrators of the scandal before the payment was done.
About the step of President Kenyatta to give them more energy commissioners, the cord union mentioned as opposed to the constitution while Mister Kalonzo saying that the president is not supposed to make a decision that was permitted alone but the parliament is with the authority to pass the laws of selling the administration which was removed by the new constitution.
"Returned to the administration of the province through the door back it goes against the constitution and we will use all the legal ways to change him," said Mister Nyong'o.
Akiully, President Kenyatta said that he followed the constitution fully in the transformation.


