
Karume "mpuuzi," but its painful truth Nov 29, 2012.

This article will conclude my evaluation about the 8 general meeting of CCM that took place in Dodoma since November 11 to November 14th this year.

Because the Revolutionary Party (CCM) is a party, vimbwanga its usually lied to people and believe that every after the general meeting, CCM is usually born afresh.

This faith has been built due to the fact that before the general meeting, there are always signs of the legs that is associated with several groups of groups wanting their agenda to win.

Due to the control of state agencies together with the sidelines that was listening to them, that plans are usually stuck and making many people believing that CCM has themselves, and those themselves will always make it better after the general meeting!

The history of this concept is long, and victims (victims) of this strategy for the recent years is Salmin Amour (Komandoo), Mzee John Malecela, Doctor.
Gharib Bilal, Samuel Sitta and now Edward Lowassa.

For the past years that Mzee Aboud Jumbe and Sharif Hamad.
Because those vacant, this strategy to give the new life to CCM is usually affected by the people of Zanzibar than Watanganyika.

President Karume and "nonsense" If the vice chairperson is completing his term, retired president Amani Karume where he was welcomed to give his counsel on the day of closing a meeting.
He gave a speech, which is now called for the kipuuzi in Magogoni and Lumumba estate.

There is no expected that Karume would say that the words that he said that day to the point of chairman Jakaya Kikwete to acknowledge that he has never seen that he is happy that way "if he had seen him that day.

Several times his speech was notified by the people that had been studied and wanted him to finish and stay.
This was reminding the era of the chairmanship of Benjamin Mkapa when they were using Kikwete when they were studying everyone who wanted to question the use of bribes in that meeting.

Mzee Joseph Butiku is remembering this and he wrote a letter officially to the chairman Mkapa.
This will remember that they are omea it did not start with CHADEMA in meetings.

When he was read so much, President Karume will comparing the omeaji and the provers of the fish!
They are claiming, President Karume was the one that had been converted so much to be made that day.
He should be given or he didn't get married, it's a mpuuzi or not a mpuuzi, to me that I am not news.
The important news is what he said for the minutes he had been given.

Karume talked about his card of ASP (Afro Shiraz), he explained the purpose of ASP, akamwuliza Doctor.
Shein as he has his card to ASP.
One of the purpose of ASP he reminded me that it is to protect the freedom of Zanzibar and its people.
That's when he interviewed those who are preventing their colleagues to give their views about the coalition.

He reminded President Kikwete that he gave permission everyone to say what he wants during the process of giving opinions of the new constitution.
He interviewed how far others are being arrested by giving their views.
Karume will remind me how CCM has lost some states because of ignoring the views of the citizens.
He reminded me the issue of turn out of the member of parliament and representative in a certain region.
Wazomeaji did not want to hear this following the Taarab music that decision. "

I say clearly even if I get tired I stay out of the hall when he is speaking, Karume said things of the means than the speeches of hours given by other honorable.
For a short time, Karume aliuzodoa dictatorship that is being contested inside CCM, noted the risk that faces the coalition, reminded the news of the turn to lead this country caused by two countries, and more so he said from his heart that ASP has not died because of his members, they would still be alive.
CCM we have to ze or we will say, that is the truth from Karume, which is now called is absurd and the women Nape Nnauye.

Kulialia and drove talking about a lot for three days, of Tanzania they witnessed more than 2000 members left with complaining inside the hall.
Chairman launched that one and was received by delegates at the sessions that are not official in the houses of sleep visitors and in vehicles.
The shadow of the Association of Denerers and Development (CHADEMA), it was frustrated a lot of delegates and making leaders to lose direction and start insulting careless.

It was not expected to be the chairman and he would get into the trap, when he found himself he is insulting the opponents and especially CHADEMA for calling "adults," or when in NEC when he found himself he is using a lot of time to overset up Nape Nnauye because he knows that he knows each other and CHADEMA.
Even when he was reminded by his friend to be insulting CHADEMA, it is not a must for filling CCM, he threatened to say "they have grown up to Nape, they should be dealt with."
The work that you won, he sees it better to make Nape.
As Mzee Rashidi Kawawa used to the teacher, Nape is the way for Kikwete!

Mzee mkorofi from the southern Nyanda asked, how come CHADEMA should be a threat to CCM than corruption and bribery you have a threat?
CHADEMA how come a threat than "unduguneizesheni" that is interested in the position of being recognized in our party's constitution?

He said, how come the senior advisers of our party chairman about the issues of the party, not the sessions but they are security who filled with disputes?
This one with him was the only same mark and many who were complaining for three days of the meeting.

Membe: Alimzamisha Mangula, has raised him again.

The position of Bernard Membe for politics of this nation in the near future was in a very difficult exam.
His former friend, Edward Lowassa got to kumzamisha but he was rescued by Kikwete and his family.

Kikwete helped him by changing the voting schedule, when his family (his wife and his child) were haha every corner to seek votes Bernard Membe.
This nation one day will be claimed to know the truth of hostility and friendship of these three people - Membe, Kikwete and Lowassa.
Name Kikwete has sat in the middle intentionally.
He is the key to this riddle.
This we leave for now on.

Mzee Philip Mangula, came out suddenly to be the vice chairman of CCM-mainland.
This is this one who a group of Internet that brought in the State House Kikwete claiming that it was very frustrated during the kampeini and decided to be thrown out immediately after Kikwete being sworn in.

Yassaid, Benard Membe, unachero an experienced and the essence of strategies of the natural network, told Kikwete that Mangula gave them a lot of abu thus he left to be withdrawn from the position of the secretary general of the party.
It did not end up there, Mzee Mangula tried to kuibukia Iringa as the chairman of the province he was dealt with and was lost by a person who doesn't like CCM with all the criteria.

Mzee Mangula admits later that inside CCM leadership is an auction and voters don't want to return to the candidates' leaflets, but they want "viaired."
Mzee Mangula, whenever he reminded the process of they have a network, he is always wishing that he was charged with "faso special."

There is news that Mzee Mangula came out with the hand of Membe.
That, several sessions were held in Makambako between these two.
Whether for Membe to be willing or to be sent, it is that they met the agenda was an election at the 8 general meeting.

He was asked for forgiveness or he didn't have been requested, that is now not news.
The news is that, the general meeting has passed Mzee Mangula as the vice chairman of CCM but the chief accenga was Membe.
If ushenga this was for the benefit of the party or for the benefit of his network he is created for the 2015, it is an issue of time.

If it is true, then it will be difficult to condemn the networks within this party in the ongwe.
As the internet of Membe is legal, of Lowassa cannot be illegal.
If Kikwete came to the internet, it is hard to think about CCM and the presidency without the internet.
And we have learned in pain that the internet does not do this in the election because, after their person being elected, what is required to be benefiting from the sweat and fruits of the work.

For the failed, there is a job to assess is where they are stuck and resolved to the mabara.
It is a dream Kuambiana to break groups when the whoever wins and enter the State continues with his group.

Only one thing Mzee Mangula to consider.
Membe alleged to bear the transfer after the 2005 elections in front of Kikwete, cannot be turned out today and defend him to be a good person who device a party.
Why did not follow in 2005 under the chairman huythis?
Membe is the one that is the one, the chairman is the one that is the one, the party is what and Mangula is the one that!
What is the thing has changed to make him Mangula who doesn't fit in 2005, afae in 2012?

Seems but if you are not allowed openly, it is a fact that Kikwete and Membe see a companion / hasimu Lowassa that is now more than the presidential candidate of CCM 2015.
For them, Lowassa has turned to be a party, has hit CCM in front of their eyes and thinking Mangula will help them to save CCM that is hostage in the hands of Lowassa.
Kikwete and Membe hawajiulizi is what has been building Lowassa and made him to hit CCM.

The act of asking for the former "enemy" and their party that he should come to help them to rebuild the party that they get to their hands, it does not eleweki.
Many we thought, the general meeting would get a chance to assess this situation, instead we got ended up with arguing that are not an order.
Let's wait for another special general meeting or that of 2017.


