
70 houses to be demolished Dodoma Dodoma.

It was written by Sifa Lubasi, Dodoma, Dodoma.

It has been published: 09 November 2016.

The campaign to demolish houses so that the road zipite, has been accepted well by the residents of Sechelela and Amani neighborhoods that is in Dodoma Municipality.

That response that was received by words and actions, would enable approximately 70 houses that are in the road areas, to be demolished and thus to pave way for the construction of those roads.
The councilor of that ward, Juma Mazengo (CCM) said, 70 houses with 2,000 families that were built in Sechelela and Amani neighborhoods have agreed to pave way for the construction of roads so that citizens can get social services.
Mazengo said all the people that were brought down their houses, have been interested in other areas so as to allow them to create good roads so that the residents of those areas can be given services that are brought by the presence of roads without a problem.
The services include the sport cars, patients and even buses.
"When the mother being pregnant and the vehicle is required to go up to the goal, it should be a big problem.
For sure social services to arrive in these areas it was hard, we sat with the sessions and agree it has to demolish these houses so that we can get the road, "said Mazengo.
The majority of women in the streets when they picked the action that they said that they are liberation for the community because the lack of roads was one of the troubles that deny fun especially when it arrives at the delivery time.
While talking to journalists yesterday during the demolish houses so that the road has been built, the mother said they have been given a lesson during giving birth from the vehicle unable to enter the areas where they live.
One of those women, Amina Issa said when he was pregnant for a second child, it was bustle due to a vehicle failure to get into that area, a situation that forced her husband to carry up to the main highway in order to get transportation.
The chairperson of Sechelela, Norbat Pangasero said that they have used more education to educate citizens the importance of getting social services so that they can get development.


