Defense to be strengthened Bugando Hospital mar 08, 2013.

While the efforts of searching for the killers of Padre Evaristus Mushi in Zanzibar, in Mwanza town, the leadership of Bugando Referral Hospital has strengthened security for people that are in the hospital for various activities and especially to see patients, Raia Mwema, has witnessed.
The foundation of that decision is rumored to be the response of the threats provided by some people about the state of calmness in Mwanza city and especially in the big religious institutions regardless of it is beneficial for all of Tanzania.
That state of inspecting that coming in the hospital is different from it was previously where the patients were getting only without being tested for any inspection of bags and bags at the time of from.
For now, the procedure has been kukaguliwa for a special plant to discover the materials of metal and electronic cards so as to defensive and the kind of visitors with bad intent.
Several sources of news of this newspaper have explained that the step has been caused by several cases that are not normal, for example, to be sent to a short phone message to explain the threat to revenge for the hospital.
The message is rumored to be sent to some of the leaders of Bugando Referral Hospital, and therefore the leaders to pay attention to the information through strengthening security.
The director of that hospital, Dk.Charles Mjinge, has explained to one of our journalists of that, although the administration of the hospital has not signed the reasons especially why the person would decide to give him a place as a hospital where they are filled with treated people of all kinds, have decided to be warning because the issue of security is not something to assume.
"We have been receiving messages (short messages of the phone) about the conspiracy of people to come to kulipua the hospital for gas, in the mood it was a must to take action to strengthen the security as usual, although for sure that we do not see the reason why the person aje when we kill the hospital," explained Doctor.
Majinge Pamoja with the short message there have been several events of people to visit in the hospital in which inayotia doubt, including the reports of people who are believed to have a natural background to go to the areas where they live in Bugando University and the hospital that are near the hospital.
The guests are alleged to arrive there and ask for the houses where they live (mapadri) without having the primary reasons for wanting to know and even mention of the re they are looking for.
It is said that the situation started to be suspicious in the hospital after injuries of violence that happened in Buseresere, Geita province to be taken to the hospital where some of the guests who started to come out to visit the sick of the sick had been kept by others as well as I ondo the situation that indicates the needs to strengthen security.
"It is true after those injured being brought here, our guards started to see visitors who were kept doubt, there are others were arrested and nondo, now the issue like that is not very common for someone who comes to the hospital to be treated or greet patients, we think it is important for the safety of our patients to improve security," he says.
A citizen Mwema wanted to know from her as the situation means that Bugando Hospital is now in danger and what his advice to patients, brothers and relatives of patients who must go to the hospital for service.
"First, I assure citizens that we are treating all kinds of citizens, our guide is to answer the patient regardless of other things of his faith, tribe or anything, for us a patient is a patient.
About the safety of this hospital, we're safe these are just normal steps to strengthen security, nor people should not fear or fear anything that is no danger of that level, it is steps to strengthen security only, people should not worry, "explained the director.
Sure of security in the hospital is supported by the police commander of Mwanza Province, Ernest Mangu, who said if it is an issue of security to enhance the hospital is in the normal stages.
"They take over the normal steps of defense and we are communicating with the partner with them if there will be anything that will require the power of the police, we're strong not to Bugando only but also all areas we have imairsha protection and we don't have to worry with that," explained Commander Mangu.


