When compared to last year's
December since the ninth month up to December December.
Because we are using the system of using dollars because the dollar is the money that is fulfilling the eternal dollars if you use six hundred thousand dollars.
Those six hundred thousand last year, a person to get to the website of one hundred nine hundred days which is sawasawa and three hundred thousand dollars and seven shillings followed by the ilala at one rate of the moment you get three hundred and five dollars for so far from December until today in the middle.
Because of the Tanzanian money if you are looking for someone that has not finished the kulima and harvesting it is the money that has not increased when it is there when it has not increased when it is there.
If you're looking for a lot of this anywhere right.
You cannot be a lot of ministers business people.
It even if the government itself.
In Israel, they are still in bed and planting to Bono as our moment has risen so much as a businessman there has been bought your stuff for a dollar then now, you sell you cannot sell the price whatsoever because it was unpaid a five hundred million dollars.
Of the Tanzanians.
In December they were receiving eight hundred thousand and twenty thousand, but now, it is unpaid nine hundred thousand and livestock we see how those things affects many people that let us read many people read that many people.
We Tanzanians do not have our industries.
There is nothing we sell out but instead of the little dollars available while in the city is bought by employees without permission and going to bring them out there in Tanzania for that one must be furniture or how we can sell outside we do not have a lot of industries and we can sell things for those things that are doing things like those doing things that are doing things like those doing things that are doing things like those doing things that are doing things like those doing things that are doing things like those doing things are doing things like those doing things are doing things like those things are doing things like those doing things are doing
These money sheets by the fish are very sorry for them.
I didn't on my side it's us Tanzanians that we are supposed to think more than
