Restrictions travel to the road they are withdrawn quickly quickly.

It was written by Basil Basil.

It has been published: 27 September 2016.

The report that between January and August this year have happened 6,971 accidents and lost the lives of 2,217 people and others left injured and vilema, don't have to be taken to the weight that is eligible.

We agree with the statement of the deputy minister of internal affairs of the country, Hamad Yussuf Masauni when he woke up when he launched a week of Nenda for road safety yesterday in Geita province that it is good for the traffic issue that might be the national agenda.
We have said that any step that will help our nation to be killed in this matter that is caused security and lives of our people should be supported by one statement and every one who will be happy our nation.
Masauni, in his speech instructed the Tanzania Roads Agency (Tanroads) to remove the matuta on the highway which he has said that it has been seen as part of the causes of road accidents.
The ability to remove the race on the road we have and if we see that it is brings us more dangerous instead of the initial aim of reducing the speed of buses and other vehicles are on the road especially in danger areas and security ferry for citizens, then we should withdraw so as to pave way for the risk that we facing.
Also called given by the deputy minister of wanting all the road users to follow the rules and regulations of the road keenly that is appropriate, you do not have to be considered by each one of us.
Those principles include to stop supporting speed, cross the pedestrians ferry and bicycle riders and the children to cross the road at the bottom of supervision.
But the report that was released at the event yesterday by the deputy minister of the Ministry of Works Transport and Communication, who is also the deputy chairperson of the National Council of Road Safety, Edwin Ngonyani, that human offenses contributes to 80 percent of accidents and following speed with the speed which also contributes 12 percent of those accidents, it doesn't have to be worked on.
What is the wrong that the human being that we can't work on deliberately for the aim of controlling them in order to save the lives of our people?
Why are those who are missing out of human beings what is required as required as well as being taken to the law enforcement agencies to get appropriate deeds for the concerned crime?
We still believe that the phrase of the wahenga of us that 'unity is Nguvu and separation is weak' is still beneficial to resolve this disaster so as to control it together to deal with those who are causing human mistakes and continue to lose the lives of our people and to create vilema.
The passengers involved, the police of road safety and the government in general, if we were worn to act, we will be able to defeat the accident of the accident and the ability we have.
We should not accept to let a few people who intentionally regardless of the law and regulations should continue to be finished.
We should not accept the asnotice.


