
The drivers who increase the fare this season of prominent days should be proven.

It was written by Lucy Ngowi.

It has been published: 07 December 2016.

December every year is a month that many families are joining, because many employees tend to take holiday and students are closed to school for long holidays.

Due to that reason, many families tend to travel to different areas for changing the environment.
In the past the host of Kilimanjaro Province, they had a culture that by this month it must go to them for celebrating Christmas holidays and the new year.
But, in recent years, this situation has spread in all provinces of Tanzania, where the family may celebrate those holidays and parents or their brothers in the villages.
Due to this culture, which was built for many families in the country for this month of December, the owners of the buses that go in the provinces, have been seeing that is the only area of gathering quickly by increasing a lot of buses.
Those fares are panda every year from the 15th of this month, due to people traveling in plenty.
That period the owners of buses reduces fares every day based on the number of people continues to increase.
With buses that call the season to be of grace or of the harvest because they are totofare, because they understand it is a must they will get passengers.
Those fares for sure have been a huge pain for many passengers, especially those with low income.
For example years ago, the fare for going to Kilimanjaro or Arusha was between 20,000 shillings and 30,000 shillings, but when it reaches this period of "harvest," you panda up to 50,000 shillings to 70,000 shillings.
For those traveling this month of December, they will agree with me about those fares, because if I explain above now, it has been a tradition for people of all provinces going to celebrate the holidays in where they were born.
A good example is in the main stand of the bus buses in Ubungo in Dar es Salaam city, where in the period of December 15 to 24, most of the time buses have already gone down, that is the passengers they have already cut tickets early.
But there has also been a dirty game for some people who call the bus agents.
They have been buying those tickets early with the aim of selling them at a higher price.
And this period passengers are usually many in that bus station because they miss the travel to go out there are headed.
This issue we have been witnessed for all years, although three years ago, the Surface and Marine Transport Authority (Sumatra) has led to act in charge of all fine that increase the price, a step that has reduced a bit of trouble.
I say Sumatra has reduced a bit of trouble because they choose the fare books for those buses, they are usually showing they have sold at the normal price, but many citizens are complaining to block themselves with the agents the fare at the highest price.
My request to Sumatra is to ensure it is controlling this situation to stop this year.
Itumie all the tactics to arrest a few clever who hurt the citizens by bringing them a ticket in this festive season, which they call the season of the harvest.
In order to stop this situation, it's good for passengers to give information early when they meet with the trouble, though others feel it is okay because they have already prepared to travel and they have the ability to pay any fare.
I am sure if citizens will partner well with the dollar, there will be no random increase of fare in this Christmas season and the new year.


