
Makamba visits the factory that produces energy using waste, Tabora Minister of State Office of the Vice President who is in charge of the issues of the union and environment, Honorable.
Jaary Makamba has congratulated Mister.
Leordard Kushoka to invent a factory that makes alternative energy for the environment.
While in Tabora Province, Minister Makamba got an opportunity to visit the factory and said that the government values a lot of creativity and uvumbuzi especially that saved the environment.
"Mister Kushoka I am very grateful, I saw your efforts through the television period and decided to call and help you" insisted Minister Makamba.
In appreciating the contribution of the factory of "Kuja and Kushoka" the office of the Vice President has helped him Mister.
Kushoka to get the intellectual property of the factory.
Earlier Mister.
Leonard Kushoka, the Director of Kuja and Kushoka Tools Manufacture Group has said that his factory has managed to give employment to 13 youths and managed to invent different technology friendly to the environment where so far, they have managed to reach more than 50 youths in Tabora municipality, Urambo, Kaliua, Mlele, also Katavi and managed to teach the manufacturing of the stoves that are investigating the use of wood and coal by 50 percent.
Also the factory has succeeded to invent a machine that has a great potential to produce 160 kilograms for an hour using diesel 5 liters and producing an average of Kilo 1000 of the alternative coal and also that factory has succeeded to design a plant by drying tobacco using dry land or all the remains of nuts, randa of timber and the ones of timber and rice of rice.
Mister.
Kushoka has said that "Mtambo this has provided good results in ukaushaji tobacco because the average of the use of waste 3 kilograms of tobacco by using modern modern words," Mister.
Khoka has asked the minister to help the company to get different teachings of the best way to design and to develop the production of alternative energy especially in the country that conduct well better.
"Come up with the Kushoka" was officially started in 2000 and got registration in the year 2013 and given documents (TMC / CO / CBO / 48).
Minister Makamba in Tabora province has also got an opportunity to visit Nzega District and Igunga, concluding his tour of 10 provinces in the country with environmental challenges.
And Lulu Mussa, Tabora, Tabora.


