
Doctor.
Possi added that UNESCO is reduced to violence against albinos, the Deputy Minister (Office of the Prime Minister) Policy, Parliament, Labor, Employment, Youth and Disabled, Doctor.
Abdallah Possi has commended the United Nations Educational Scientific Cultural Organization (UNESCO) for helping to provide education to citizens about people with albinism as well as to evaluate how citizens they were and understanding about those people.
Doctor.
Possi said that in a meeting to explain an evaluation that has been done by UNESCO to the citizens of four districts that assessment was done and said that it is a good thing that has helped to show the situation how it is and it is the way that the government can use in order to end violence to people with albinism.
"People with albinism have been suffering for a long period, they missed the opportunity to study, to do business and many things are facing, the people of organizations are not the solution is the community itself, many people still do not have enough education about albinism," we have to reach the point of people with albinism and the government has been doing an effort to end the actions, but we have to realize that this is not the responsibility of the government alone is important to the government alone is important to the government. Everyone gets involved in stopping against violence, UNESCO has shown a way to enable the government to make his interest in order, "said Doctor.
Possi.
The head of the office and the representative of UNESCO in the country, Zulmira Rodrigues speaking briefly before welcoming the guest of honor deputy minister office of the prime minister, policy, coordination, parliament, labor, employment and disabled Honorable.
Doctor Abdallah Possi giving a speech at the UNESCO meeting that is looking at the evaluation of people with albinism that took place today at the Protea Courtyard Hotel in Dar es Salaam city.
On the side of UNESCO through the head of the office and the representative of UNESCO in the country, Zulmira Rodrigues said UNESCO imnatambua every human being has a right to live as other human beings and through their research which was accompanied by providing education they believe that it is time for the community to cooperate in order to eradicate brutality in albinos.
"UNESCO has decided to be very involved with this matter and strive to provide education to the community, we have begun to work on this matter of brutal in albino and attacks that have been meeting with the reason for superstitious faith which are contrary to human rights," this research will be able to compensate them to finish brutal actions for people with albinism, everyone has the rights of essentially and that is the one that UNESCO is in charge of, and in achieving this one, and that is the one that UNESCO is in charge of it, and in achieving this one and that is the one that UNESCO is in charge of everyone in the community for his position has a responsibility to participate in finishing actions right, it must partner to finish this matter, "said Rodrigues.
That evaluation has taken place in four districts which are Misungwi and Sengerema for Mwanza, Msalala that is in Shinyanga and Bariadi in Simiyu province.


