O halo halo halo.
Ho yeah yeah.
Halo is getting yeah ehhe and said I am putting up to do not loose sa nyongesa we are telling them then how a thousand is not then I am mentioning a question or mmhm.
He doesn't feel he wants to talk to me.
Especially speaking to talk to talk ehmmhm ohh is not a question today you talk about the girls we feel unheard of just a lot of fun about the ship in front of the ship ahead of the ship.
And it should be ulia at nine o'clock now now.
Hours about what you are in the bodies about the bodies.
The bodies.
I can't say I don't know that.
This is about the beauty of this.
On the beauty of it.
Ehhe went to where he went to where he was not the same as the most beautiful guys rather than he ehhe has decided who he is.
We don't know what money they do.
The beautiful man, Ako him I can't be any of the time.
He was the room now they had a month of eight this year AHH to do the wedding will be mmhm.
He did the wedding to do the ehhe and and now we want him to come to the wrote yet why ATI ehhe ehhe.
I haven't yet to begin a must for you to be a second thing of life but well so you must think that it is not something it will give birth to just one day MOI just see that you must prepare mentally yeah and everything yeah yeah and everything yeah yeah and everything yeah yeah and everything yeah yeah and everything yeah yeah and everything yeah yeah and everything yeah yeah and everything yeah yeah and everything yeah yeah and everything yeah yeah and everything yeah yeah and everything yeah
Mmhm ehanohh and now you have to hear this adenike you want to do Botswana many years you want to do so with how many years ehATI has gone to do with how many years.
Ehhe I don't have ATI what is there.
When you planned to come there.
He is creating up twenty saba in the same time.
Ehin then I ask him the questions that I told him has been mi a week a week.
Okay so in life you have continued to see the baby of what kind yeah yeah.
Mmhm of what kind is the one that I can do is the one with the one who does not have everything that I want and everything that I want and everything that I want and everything.
No one that I saw okay with or ehhe and Stella so I want him so that he would have considered the first one buses that he didn't think will be focusing on the first buses.
Ai mi I did not love to consider those things I am looking for now to keep in six ways to consider those things to comply with those things to consider those things.
Okay notre you like mchamungu or who like to be sad and he must be God's God's okay okay and we're getting it if we are at another point and your fiancée will be easy to change the religion and it has to be a good one to change the first before you do not have a good one to change the first before you do not have a good one to change the first before you do not have a good one to change the first before you do not have a good one to change the first before
Aai uchamungu mmhm and the truth is not them I think of the truth also lies you hm ehhe is hatm.
Ehhe cannot depend on with religion, maybe maybe the Muslim, maybe the Muslim blood Sabato, but if not Christians are going to go to a different church if we reach those that will be able to change or or any other story I can't
He didn't have a lot of it.
It is AHH.
I have not been able to do it.
Ohh talks here at the church now mi is Mkatoliki we are the moon is the one that gets we feel and our ideology like Catholics mi also, there are things you are focusing on if the people can see it, that we can't be able to change the first one or the first one to change the first or later the first one has to change the first or later first.
It depends on whether I'm ready to change life or when you get one hundred
Okay so we believe we have to maybe we are still in particular especially when we are looking for a religious man's religion now now.
You know it depends on them and of them, maybe my parents of the way I have said we are the one we change or your children are the one who wants pregnancy to change and ehehehehhm and hhhhm to understand that they are going to church the church of that woman's church, a woman's church.
This well.
It is okay then it is okay then taught you to be changed later but mi is a good opinion he has to go to another profession, you will make the wedding that you will do that you will do that you will decide to go through the afternoon early now, the things that you are putting in and welcome to go to one church in the same church to go to one church to go to one church to go to one church to go to one church.
Sa we have to make it if he is the one that I wrote saved will have to go to him for the year is the same when he would have let him know we will have to give us to our church in our church.
I can accept with a huge woman halo you cannot sell to specalia didn't see the halo okay with the fish and I recognize the _ I was taking him completely and he has refused to change the religion I will be doing, what will you tell you to consider is what you will consider is what you will consider is what you will consider is what you will consider is what you will consider is what you will consider is what you will consider is what you will consider is what you will consider is what you will consider is what
It is not depends so if he will accept you to let you know what mi you will decide if I say mi I have been the church that is estimated when it is estimated when it is estimated when it is estimated when it is estimated
That is hard you must now be able to e our church is the second one that know it is the same thing that I know it is the same as it is the same.
If he does not love us, we must continue then we have to go to my religion if we go together because if we love people to agree with the teacher to agree, it needs to be an elewane so that it is a love I must do to give us to us to come to us.
Ehreligious religion is coming up there is a habit that you cannot change later but this trina it contributes a great pami considers also a habit and then if you must understand the same way. I could have continued to have a stand with likes Days okay so that he would have been concentrating on the first behavior then this behavior has also been considered to have a short time for a period of time in a time or it takes time for us to face the mother yeah, so long time to play it is important to each other.
Halo where you will consider what the habit of behavior seven behavior
Ehommhm ehehehehhe ehhe ehhe.
Mmhm and three ehbefore.
