I should continue to provide pole to the citizens of the province of kagera and Tanzanians in general.
For this earthquake that has hit the provinces of the Lake Region and respected President was supposed to be on Zambia Zambia.
Since the activities of swearing in the honorable president of Zambia.
The lower one who finished for that is to show that the government has to take this matter this matter.
And a great opportunity if your thing will appeal to the lake then we like the parliamentarians and we should be changie though our post of this today's session today.
At least it should be part of the attacking our colleagues in the province of kagera especially in the municipality of bukoba hands as part of the efforts of the government's efforts are not funny as far here are expected to be expected.
It seems the government has not yet place more place.
And the government earlier on the foreign stakeholders and the industry to continue to contribute to a good thing but the government has not told us the challenges that they face our young children victims and injuries a secret when he was placed in place.
So that it's supposed to make us connect with a great respect completely.
I urge you to give my condolences to me.
Babati for all the citizens with me that I thinks if he said my colleague Masudi,
This is the tool of the citizens.
And we were supposed to show all the respect to the citizens we are in the whole day of today, we discuss and also give them to the government is what to do we have seen the prime minister he has gone to there but we have not seen it, where he is going on with it that we will depend on the prime minister of the embe and tents and food. If we cannot be saying that is not a commitment here in parliament to Parliament in parliament
You talk to create a fumba after talking to the media mi I see that it's not okay with me to support the giver, Honorable shangazi
To contribute to our allowance today.
For the victims of this event, it touches the feelings that touch the life has touched even the state of our colleagues in the province and neighboring provinces in the neighborhood and neighboring provinces.
But it is wasiri some people do not take this area as an area of wanting to get a skillful in politics in politics politics in politics.
He was touched as a human being Swahili we have our sayers wewees if you give a hand on the left then the right hand you don't want to let me know that if the nation should thank God that the whites things are saying to change our people say that our things are saying to change our
He would have been able to be worse but still the hand of God and you have to be there blocking him again again.
In the disaster, people want comfort.
I haven't arrived to school girls of Rugambwa to mashua government is still continuing with an evaluation when three houses of teachers have collapsed.
I have to go to the hostel even mi has a crack and so on and so there is no house bukoba municipality between ten houses, seven steps have a crack mi napthrough that if the nation is now, we are looking for an international aid so as to be helping the parliament, I ask you to give an argument to the winners of the mashina that are involved in the concerned.
The argument has been supported honorable members of parliament now, I am questioning of those who agree with that point to Waseme that is what they are saying that they
We don't agree with that argument Waseme will not be
Those not.
Those who said that they have won by so the allowance of today's honorable parliamentarians will contribute to the deaths of our brothers bukoba.
Honorable Lukuvi this issue is seeing great and the government is considered because this night has done the honorable prime minister to not be here today in parliament to remain darisalaam in hundreds or hundreds of them.
You have done the honorable president should not go the sin of there to stop the bush started there while it started.
If you look at two sorry you can't found that this matter as the government we have to take for a month in a month.
Today we cannot first build the houses of the victims we need the expertise we are getting out of that even the area where they are being built again to be built again.
Then if you decide to join today we will take another way for that, there are so many things happening down by the bottom, Honorable Simbachawene would not be able to bring all the mattresses that the government is thinking and he would not be able to be able to be able to.
I ask Honorable Speaker honorable members of parliament and Tanzanians to trust only that the government to think that the government to think that the government to think.
It has a lot of shortage.
In the way that it has been caring for his people and this thing will go well let us continue to cooperate that we vie for injuries so that those who were previously ahead of the right to vie for the Almighty God to rest their soul in peace in peace.
