The reason I'm asking Mrema we have to accept himself there and completely leg there and the words while and the mind come to tell the woman, what is you request that you will give you that you will give you the best
An action.
A lot of it's true.
You do not have people that look for free will like the children we can't go on oil and we talk to the papai that doesn't have a problem to talk to you know that people are saying then again, that you will tell you to the news in the world, that is a secret that has never received a person that has to receive mi, I think the right of God that is in the evening, for sure that he has lived in this evening, but when they were having problems with problems, it is a whole but when they were having problems with problems, it is a whole but when they I am able to shop them that is no because in the exercise they should be ehif we ae you will not stay in fear of a heavy secret to the truth.
Ohh things speaking that you won eight for sure I know that you are the doctor of ehasawasawa has his own problems and for sure you borrow a lot and someone sitting here started well as well as they started well as well.
I didn't for sure I didn't follow the ichi.
Truly that Proposal I end up by saying it comes from it.
Accidents if you attract you who have a pie.
He is selling them and he is selling.
They have taken them.
I didn't maybe it is BoT.
I am not sleeping on sleep.
Mmhm but I know because the importance I have received if the dakitari is going to be available to know many people that I will be able to do to say the need needs needs to say that the needs needs to be said.
You will have lost you don't care about many people who men are unable to show their soul in the inside but by giving an opinion on my own opinions, who goes now to make my message image, that is going to be completed then it does not have a long time that you know when I have planned and bring a few from my heart and how you use a few from my heart and how you use a few from my heart and how you use it from my heart and how you use a few from my heart and how you
Mombasa where you leaves certain leaves.
But mi lock if you have agreed that we will accept it, it will accept you completely answer what they do even those who are not found peter to get some of all my body while you will depend on good that we depend on good good.
You hear your request a second request I feel and I have to accept that early I have to hear them well and I have to understand and I have to understand and I have agreed and I have to get them but only say it is because maybe we're not seeing the policy for me when you see Uganda just when we see Uganda just to say that we just know that Uganda let me know that we just see that Uganda just let me know that we see Uganda just to say that we just know that Uganda just let me know that we
Have been hit I would not know what I would have been going to pass a long time long.
I have to write to the channel you will go to said.
Sleep babuloni then Nipe drug of behavior and therefore because of the reason.
Take them then and the issues of you will know how the budget depends on the machines of the
Good mother and now mi I will not tell you the Tao things mi I'm talking about my treatment mi for so that you don't say that that you don't know that.
God is when you ait the sun harsh places so that all the time has failed me to call me when I know it is always a patient yet, it is a patient things have not been referred to, I am telling you to tell them when you tell me when you tell me that you have a lot of blood.
The people should stop the weakness and the point.
You should not be a person mi the whole person and my Mboni is going to feel foolish things I would have been laughing there has been a person of meaning yet the only game answer to the answer.
Wema.
