Katavi with the information that says that the leadership of the province of katavi has finished arrest of people who were involved in the county of sumi to investigate the resident of that neighborhood with albinism speaking soon after officially visiting him at the district commissioner of mpanda district, and ensure that all the penis that were involved with violence are arrested once I get more information from our reporter when they get more information from our reporter when they get more information from our reporter when they get more information from our reporter when they get more information from our reporter when they get more information from our reporter when they get more information from our reporter when up to this hour and this is called shortly after visiting the light at the mpanda District Hospital where he has said that everyone is responsible to protect the disabled of skin and want to disclose all those who were involved but for sure, but you know that according to the truth, but you know that according to the truth, but you know that according to the truth, but you know that according to the truth, but you know that according to the truth, but you know that according to the truth, but you know that when I know
Provided do I do the things you have their courage to go down at the bottom
Those things and for sure to stand cannot he insisted that he does not want to be disappointed when he does not want to be disappointed.
When I don't get it.
Legal they take action from also when he understood will not make such a brutal actions against our colleagues in the use but our province of katavi hope that the province was not having any other Saula of this way, this person has been an uncle today together with her mother and he has talked about how he was attacked by people that were attacked by the people who had talked about the way he was attacked by people that were attacked by the people that was attacked by the people and the mother have talked about how he was attacked by people that
Work we are prepared to stakeholders what we were getting to get.
The theft of the theft.
You see it and you see it.
Read Zaid okay you also believe that Mister I help ehhe will prepare himself and the life of those who excluded himself with the life of those who excluded himself.
I will try your only day.
I have esha opened the headquarters today I am unable to be unable to something.
The one that is leaving me to come to us to open up.
Ehhe also the leadership of the province of katavi has provided a sum of contribution to the disabled money and asked for other people to do so that the hospital doctors have said until now let me continue well despite being a piece of his hand, it has not been found from itself even young people put bricks.
Those have been taken to these hours he is going well, he has to wake up there is a partnership.
The one.
I will not meet it.
Why why well.
And all the things has got to read you have written forgiveness.
Soccer stakeholders for that there is nothing that has been damaged and even the blood we are grateful there are people who volunteered if there is I will not be able to volunteer because if it is to come and ye Ako here to contribute to blood ado and Chidi si katavi.
