Several days following one building of the twelve floor I woke up in the middle of the daressin Dar es Salaam city, the organization of the National mentors, I have given an explanation about which alleging to be involved in the building in the middle of the city of daslamu where caused the deaths of thirty people and four and four others to come if we find a full report on the full report.
Speaking to journalists in the city while the building of a partnership between Apex
The managing director of the organization as part of our country.
He said the agreement of the two sides is a partner who is being used to cater for any construction and with the Almighty you are responsible to give land that is the relevant plot in that project that is involved in that project.
He has said that according to the contract, a partner with the responsibility of managing all the work access to the money and employ the relevant experts and that following that commotion, the army has created a special unit to speed up the inspection of all projects of construction to identify the quality and challenges in the concerned projects and that for this that happened lets to allow experts to the professionals and that for this happened to allow experts to allow experts to the experts.
We get to do their investigation so that later measures deserve to be taken to all those who were involved and laziness who were involved with negligence and laziness.
A maybe one.
It is the beginning to make sure that in front they won't be informed the problems actually.
In another step Mister Mchechu said following the directives of the government of two thousand year and ten thousand government wants the organization through afresh the partnership policy so as to bring productivity to the concerned sides and the nation in general, it is to cancel sixty contacts and others that are being tricated by them where ten and eight went to court.
But we shouldn't say it.
Even his decision will arrive when he was told
There is a wamsikie if they come to secrets.
Which is needed Catherine projects and I tell you one thing.
The only projects.
It was the one with the contract.
If you get into the neighborhood of a partnership, they were selling a dollar but a long time ago.
From the safe rate, Fredy Mwanjala of chaneli kumi kumi.
A laboratory but that's the laboratory.
