
23 October 2013, 2013.

PAC wants the ministry of education IKAGULIWE, the standing committee of the government accounts (PAC) has directed the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG), to do inspection of accounts as soon as possible in the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training so as to remove the uncertainty of his accounts, reporting Anneth Kagenda.

That order was issued in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the acting chairman of that committee, Mister.
Gaudence Kayombo, when he met with the officials of that ministry including the secretary general, Professor Sifuni Mchome. "Hatusemi money has been squandered no but we have ordered inspection to take place immediately so as to identify the truth of your accounts.
Kayombo and added, it has to be said.

"Example the ministry has given several million to Mkwawa or in colleges and education institutions, what we want to if you are looking for information about there that we are not benefiting from their opponents but we believe after the CAG doing his audit, we will sign the problem is where he is," he said.

He added that, relocating the money to go to the institution has not been understood and unakinzana and give an example that the ministry has taken money ADEM Bagamoyo which show a million shillings but the concerned institutions will say that received more or fewer.

Mister.
Kayombo said that it has come during the directors in that ministry, to make sure that they help the ministry that can do its activities well instead they have been opposed to the secretary general who seems to have no confidence answers when he is required to do so.

He said that those directors, in the year 2012 were given five things to do but surprisingly they have done one thing that is to visit the Miono Secondary School, located in Bagamoyo town, Coast Province and the report has shown that school needs a fence.

"This school is near the Mbuga thus we advised how to report the fence, only that they were doing but we asked them that they look for the students fees for higher colleges, that issue has not yet been done," he said, he added that the Loans Board was also given to give loans to the students, to look at the possibility of kujiendesha itself instead of depending on the government instead of depending on the government instead of that board went on with its strategy.

Professor Mchome, when he was asked about the confusion of the money he said, "I think this let me do not work but I know that there is no money that was squandered," he said.
Speaking about the issue of collecting loans, he admitted still a great effort is needed in the collection.


