Minister: There is a shortage of vaccination vaccine.

It was written by Angela Semaya, Dodoma Dodoma.

It has been published: 16 September 2016.

The government has confessed to be a shortage of some vaccines in some centers for health care centers.

The Minister of Health, Social Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu has said that today when he was talking with journalists in Dodoma town about the state of vaccination in the country.
He has mentioned the vaccine that have reduced that it is meant to prevent the disease of surua and rubella (Mr), tuberculosis (BCG), polio (OPV) and pepopunda (TT).
According to Ummy, the vaccinations are being used for children when they are born up to two years and pregnant women according to the guidelines of vaccination, given by ministries so as opposed to those diseases.
He said, in order to deal with the shortage, the ministry has been bought and it depends on receiving the polio vaccine, two million doses that will arrive on September 19, this year, the pepopunda shots 1, 240, 000, which will arrive on September 26th, this year and the vaccine of opposing tuberculosis amounting to two million shots that will arrive on September 28, this year.
He has said that when they arrive, the vaccinations will be distributed quickly the whole country by using medical stores (MSD).
He mentioned the vaccine that don't have a shortage that is the vaccine of pneumonia, cervical vaccine, diarrhea (Iloarix) and the vaccine that is kinga, kifaduro, fever fever and are going to be released as usual in providing health services in the country.
Minister Ummy said that the Treasury had given out to the ministry of 1.6 billion shillings for the previous three months, which are expected to reach but the Treasury has given up to 6.1 billion shillings for the purchase of other vaccination vaccine and rubella and are expected to be sent by the International Organization for Children Children (UNICEF), who are both buyers of the vaccine on behalf of the government of Tanzania.
In this financial year, the government has set aside 60 billion shillings for those vaccines.
He has said that despite the shortage of vaccination, there are some district vaccine vaccine is not present when other districts are there.
He has wanted the senior physicians of all provinces, reviewing the vaccination data and it will wanya the district to the district to ensure the stations get the vaccination available.
He has urged the citizens especially parents and guardians with the children of age to get vaccination, when they get information of the presence of vaccination that were missing to take them once the children who did not get or have not completed the vaccine based on the schedule so as to complete their vaccines.
Likewise, for injuries who went to the stations and lack of vaccination, and they go to the stations around them to get their vaccinations depending on how they were given by doctors.
He has assured citizens that health services including vaccination, are continuing to be released in the country and are given free, they should continue using those services at all times, because the vaccination is the fundamental right of every child.


