
Traders will be able to attend a conference conference.

November 17, 2016, 2016.

More than 50 companies is expected to participate in a business conference that is called Tanzania, Comoros, Forum which will be held on November 19th this year in Zanzibar Islands.
In that conference which is the second in the country and which mgenasmi will be President of Zanzibar, Doctor.
Ali Mohammed Shein, there will be a debate about the increase in business, investment opportunities and cooperation between the two countries.
Speaking in Dar es Salaam city yesterday, Anna Msonsa who is the coordinator of that conference from the business and agriculture association of Tanzania (TCCIA) said, this conference will give an opportunity to business people both sides to know the opportunities that are available for these countries and how to cooperate in the issue of investment.
He said the conference will take place in Zanzibar, is also aiming at business empowerment for private companies from Tanzania and Comoros.
"It is good for all stakeholders and business people who arrived in large numbers to attend the conference because, their presence will help to get an opportunity to discuss investment opportunities in both countries that are Tanzania and Comoros," said Anna.
He said, all business people from those two countries, who will attend the conference will get an opportunity to showcase their businesses in order to get markets easily.
The Embassy Officer of Tanzania in Comoros, Mudrick Eoragha urged traders to arrive in large numbers so as to meet their fellow business people of Comoros.
He said that the conference has had a great benefit since its inception being the second, the first one took place in Comoros on April 2015.
The conference has been organized by the government of the United Republic of Tanzania through the Tanzanian Embassy in Comoros, unity of Comoros (Unec), TCCIA and 361 Degrees in conjunction with the business people of Zanzibar / Industry and Agriculture (Zposal IA).


