AHH we since that was prepared to say how I'm good and we are where he is going to work today or you are where they abogota.
Halo three bags still in the third month I have no words Mister
Today I haven't been going to work today I won the other work here, I was in charge of another
Ehata question ehohh is the same when I'm bass I have been ulia ehhe does not have a lot of good words that I have lost in your people's fees for a difficult head and a tough head.
We have said how to come then and a month has been ulia.
Ehehhe is a difficult thing when you know can happen anytime but of hatusemi to let us know that he can't happen this hour then you know the station happened this hour but you know that the people should sit down.
Ehhe why ehana these people to see the rada there is a company say Ako Area Area Area.
It is not you know that you must build firm that is suitable for Exam, is the one we can see if he can Shhadarati and in the neighborhood to come out how to come.
Mmhm since that in the neighborhood of Mister America or where they are in your place, I have been unable to go but because it has not come from vitenge I see it, I see it is a ka there is no words that I see is ka to the same time as well as the same time as well as the same time while the same way.
Mmhm for a period of time there is a hm.
He didn't have a lot of it.
AHH there but how to be cultivated but I know he is fit at all that he is eating I can't completely know I can't.
AHH still must go and you will not hold it not you know those that even even the phone you are going to have been able to find out a lot of holes to these people who will join I can't when he is
Mmhm ehhsuper now that you will get to the exercise he gets to the exercise.
Ehhe is suitable so that it becomes so and we also have no exercise or that you let us ask each other in the month of the month.
Where is it to come to it.
Ehif you make sure that the exercise you know who is the best one player Mister you know sa that you will let you down if you have left UPE UPE.
EhAHH I can't ATI first even even the first one should start the people yeah, we do not now know that you love sleep too we are still in the same time when we have given up to Six right if we have gone, he has gone up to us.
Ehhe but it is not you know I can't now be a person to cast away so and you know you have filled with you and others when I have to gea too.
And now mi you get that hour, maybe that is the sleep that has been taken but you make sure that it is surprising that he is surprising that I can something starts when tomorrow or I will start tomorrow tomorrow.
Ehhe doesn't have the words now tupange when we don't know.
All the day we have to be surprised tua.
We can't be the same strath everything I bought I'm up with until all the boots of the exercise, what is to be played only when we start only the small little tuute ghost.
He didn't have a lot of it.
It is not that that even when we grow up, you will be patient, these patient is a little patient that will also be released from the judge projects.
I can go I will have to make it a lot of kumi minutes.
