The government should ban plastic packaging, January 12, 2017 by Gideon Shoo.

Drugs are the topic that has been there in the media for a long time.
Debate about the problem of drug abuse has been rising and resting for several decades now.

They were held various research about the effects of drug abuse.
Research has aimed at looking at the loopholes that used in bringing into the arhadarati in the country, the size of the business of mihadarati, the use of mihadarati and the manufacturing of shadarati within the country.

However, along with many research and various recommendations of various researchers about the steps to take so as to get away from the problem of the use of mihadarati in the country, yet every time we are witnessing how the problem progresses.

It is a fact that mihadarati causes the biggest problem of a very dangerous disease known as a shame that is uteja.
Shame is a very dangerous disease that makes a patient should be dependent on those drugs and it is removed from the group of people with mental minds.

The person who is ashamed are unable to think as another gentleman and you live in his own world which makes it removed from a strong group of work in the community.

But when we are looking for ways to fight with the importation of mihadarati in the country, it is important when we are looking at humu here in the country because there are a group of people who are affected by the shame that comes from what we are going to be referred to that is not produced in alcohol.

It is very true that the trhadarati of the family of kokeni and heroin is a big business that is forbidden to war all over the world.
In addition, the mihadarati is a very big business that makes billions of billions of money.
Those who are adhili the businesses are usually the big rich ones who are capable of buying anything as well as their freedom.

But when we persist a lot of noise about the mihadarati from outside the country, there is a problem that cannot be deaf accordingly and discussed it is that I said above the shame that comes from alcohol.

I have ever wrote last year that in the village I am living in Wari Sinde, Machame North there is a disease that is called vabresheni.
This is the disease that comes from the shame of alcohol.

The shame of alcohol liquor has been a big problem in our community.
This is not a secret issue because the leaders knew that and instead of looking at them and to find medicine they are doing as well as there is no problem.

Statistics of researchers are indicating that they are in Tanzania with a shame approximately 300,000.
However, those statistics I doubt if they involve the alcohol of alcohol, the problem that currently has spread all over the country.

The business of the toughest alcohol with a percentage from 35 to 45 is done without following the law, regulations and procedures.
Every one with kigrosari or the salt shop and oil is selling alcohol liquor.

As a result of that sale of unplanned alcohol, the vichochoro all are being sold to be a bar due to ease of alcohol availability every time and therefore, then do with its drinking, you should not have plans or the procedure that is understood.

The government is required to take quick action to fight this problem by looking at the issue of packaging.

Currently, there are different alcohol sold in plastic packaging, a capacity for 100 to 500 shillings.
Packaging, it is easy to carry them and therefore you can't found one person as well as packaging that enables us to carry up until the 1000 which is one liter of radical alcohol.

Strict alcohol is not inywewi as a beer.
These alcohol have its approach to use.
Our people who use those alcohol are not following the procedure and for sure they drink as long as they drink alcohol alcohol as a iba, to be left, it has gone, and others.

The act of drinking alcohol such as it is normal alcohol is very dangerous and can cause it is not a shame but even the deaths.
But this is something that for a certain amount of government can contribute to it to reduce its pace.

The government is responsible through afresh the permission that gave the packaging that plasitiki as one of the steps to reduce the ease of being found by the alcohol.

In addition, the availability easily has done even groups that are prohibited drinking pomba to get it easily.
Right now, there is alcohol with a taste of milk, a taste of the nanasi and other fruits and that is making them even the children of the school to get them and use it.
This is a high risk.
The nation is angrated while we see them.

Eliminate plastic packaging will help in a big way to reduce the availability of radical alcohol.
In addition, that step will help a lot in reducing the pollution that are currently rampant from the city to the villages.


