
Confusion the case of "Mpemba"

It has been written by the penalty in Emmanuel.

It has been published: 16 December 2016.

The case of engaging in the elephants' teeth involving six people including the businessman Yusuf Yusuf (34) famous "Mpemba," has continued to bring confusion in court after the prosecution failed to explain it is the steps that will follow after the investigation of the case is completed.

That case which came out for the mention, the government's lawyer, Elizabeth Mkunde claimed in front of the senior resident magistrate Thomas Simba that the investigation of that case has been completed and that the file is on the head of investigation in the special region of Dar es Salaam for the purpose of being taken to the director of Mashitaka in the country (DPP).
Due to that point, the prosecution lawyers claimed that the case came to November 16 this year, prosecution claimed that the investigation has been completed and that the file is being waited to be taken to DPP.
However, Judge Simba said that the file whenever it comes to court that brings confusion so he urged the prosecution to ensure that in another date when the case comes, they should have reasonable answers that after the investigation end is the action will follow.
"It is true that this court does not have the authority to listen to the case, but the prosecution is supposed to explain why so far as the investigation has been completed no explanation is what action will be followed," said Judge Simba.
Magistrate was postponed the case until December 29 this year, the case will come up for the mention.
Previously, the case was taken for the first time in the side of the Republic claimed that it is expected to take those accused in the Supreme Court of the criminal crime and economic oppressive economy, popular as "the corrupt court" for the purpose of starting to be heard.
The defendants apart from Yusuf is Charles Mrutu (37) a resident of Mlimba, Morogoro, Benedict kungwa (40) a resident of Mbagala Chamazi, Tuesday Chima (30) a resident of Mbezi, Ahmed Nyagongo (33), a driver and Pius Kulagwa (46) are faced with four charges of engaging with elephants' teeth worth 785.6 million shillings.
It is alleged in the different date between January, 2014 and October, this year in Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Iringa and Mtwara, were engaged in poaching network by collecting and selling government trophies which are 50 pieces of elephants' teeth worth American Dollars equivalent to 392.8 million shillings without having a permit for the wildlife director.
In charge of the second, it is alleged that, October 26th, this year, while Mbagala Zakhem, were found by 10 pieces of elephants' teeth VA weight of 13.85 kilograms of the value of American dollars 30,000 (65.4 million shillings).
In other charges, it is alleged on October 27 this year, while Tabata Kisukuru were found with four pieces of those teeth of weight of 11.1 kilograms and the value of 15,000 American dollars (32.7 million shillings).
In addition, October 29, this year were found by 36 pieces of the value of 294.6 million shillings without having a permit for wildlife director.
Judge Simba said the accused were not supposed to answer their charges because the court does not have the ability to listen to the case, so he postponed until December first this year.


