
Mother, his son wachinjwa Bagamoyo Mauaji is rumored to be done by her husband to the wivu of love, Julieth Ngarabali, Mwananchi jngarabali @ mwananchi.co.tz Bagamoyo.
A resident of Makongo in Dar es Salaam city, Oliver Erasto (22) and his child, Emmanuel Frowin (3) have been killed ruthlessly by slaughtered and their bodies have been abandoned in the Kaole which is in the district of Coast Province.
Her husband Oliver, Frowin Mbwale (26) a resident of Kawe Dar es Salaam, is accused of doing those killings after conning his wife and they go to check the development of the construction of the house in the Kaole area with their child.
The police commander in that province, Boniveture Mushongi said they have the family they went to a motorcycle that was run by Mbwale.
Previously reports are claimed that Mbwale collaborated with his friend called Rajabu Jumanne (20), a resident of Makongo in that event of the murder.
Commander Mushongi said the bodies of the deceased has been reserved at Bagamoyo District Hospital to wait for the doctor's investigation and to be identified by brothers.
"The initial investigation has revealed the killings resulted from the wivu of love.
The husband was accusing his wife a long time to have sexual relations outside their marriage and one resident of Kawe, "he said.
He said in the area where he held the killings, it has found a bag, two mobile phones having two line with the motorcycle that was used for their journey from Dar es Salaam.
The police officer of the Coastal Police Force, Hassan Mtengefu explained later that the suspects were arrested the day before yesterday at three o'clock at the Zinga area, Bagamoyo while on the way they ran away.
"In the footsteps they were seen as a result of tope led to the bush, we collect the power of soldiers and citizens started a search and we managed to arrest him at 3.30 o'clock at night," he said.
Talk to Bagamoyo Town, groups of people especially women were discussing that event while many wakilaani and wanted the police force and the court to give a stern punishment dhid of those suspects.
"It hurts a lot of especially this child a lot of this child.
This is not a romantic wivu, but it is just evil, wivu to us, which is there for your human beings, "he asked Doris in Baton.


