The citizens of Ruvuma province have been encouraged to build a practice of drinking milk from time to time instead of using that drink during the governor of Ruvuma province, Said Thabit Mwambungu, has said that during the launch of the commemoration of the milk week that took place nationally in Ruvuma province, adam
The Provincial Commissioner of ruvuma, Honorable saidi consistent Mwambungu has said that in the school drinking nationally took place in that province due to small awareness, you know milk that the citizens of Ruvuma province, Ruvuma province.
When it has not been said.
I have given this help.
Of the milk and twenty-sufficient projects that are expected to be removed from
The forecast is one and the elements as for us to us.
Okay they are rushing to look for milk milk.
That is where he is expanded cards raised by the poison.
He was struggling with the milk, Wednesday.
And I have written this one to come milk.
But ye himself his culture and milk has no need.
You need to be affected professionally.
For a year of six human beings of the milk production party in Tanzania, Hamisi old has said that in order to build a nation with a good mind requires small children to drink milk early but their brain being finished after protecting the records we should lie that the family at home is when it will not obey the growth of children that is what the growth of children in the family in the family.
But also the ability to mentally
In making a child, it should be dealt with in the activities of the school ehbrain doesn't want you to do more from the processing center of milk in Tanzania, Tanzania is enough to make sure that the cause of getting milk to get a lot of milk in Tanzania to be called enugu, has said that the milk business is not required to get success due to lack of good equipment for processing the chairperson of the milk board, uji Warioba has urged the citizens of the hard province boiling. The milk before used them to find a lot of produce found a lot during the rain but the drought time is not found and this is a result that many people have not been sensitized on the way to preserve him through modern ways, but it becomes a challenge even for instance and for instance and for instance and for instance and for instance and for instance and for instance and for instance and for
His mother Shamsa with it as what happened to the past and the former one of the
The women of the women.
The purpose of the customers.
Pray for brothers, the school provision of milk in Ruvuma province has to be done so as to give milk in prison prison to speak to the province of ruvuma primary school students known by the name of the answer lets have a week of drinking milk on one month of six thousand and three and three in the third and three of the three and three of the three.
And with no one).
