
Lema akstuck again to get a bond.

It was written by Veronica Mheta, Arusha Arusha.

It has been published: 29 November 2016.

Thirst for the member of parliament for Arusha Town, Gobless Lema to get a bond and stuck on the law of the law after languishing prisoners for four weeks now, continues to be praised after lawyers on the government's appeal to present the appeal of the member of parliament to be heard at the High Court of Arusha region.

Lema was unable to put in the court room for him to listen to his case, instead of all the time since 2 o'clock in the morning to 6 o'clock in the morning, he was the only prison waiting for him to be taken to court and that's after time, he went to the prison of Kisongo where he has been there for more than 26 days now due to being stuck on legal.
That appeal has been opposed by the lawyers of the government which is Paulo Kadushi and Matereus Marandu claiming that the appeal that was cut by the lawyers of Lema has not met the legal requirements because those lawyers bought an appeal instead of showing the intention of appeal.
Materu said that they have submitted their petition in front of the judge Fatma Masengi to oppose the Supreme Court not listening to a bond case because the lawyers who advocated Lema who are Peter Kibatala and Sheck Mfinanga, they have wronged appeal instead of presenting a notice of the intention to appeal within 10 days after the judge throwing request to be heard for the appeal.
"We today we have put a petition to be heard of this case because these colleagues have wronged them instead of presenting the appeal to appeal to appeal and the law did not state so that the first must make the appeal to appeal that is when bread appeal," explained Materu.
Therefore the intention of the intention of appeal will be presented to text tomorrow on November 30th, this year at 2 o'clock in the morning, the government's side will submit to text their arguments and six hours in the afternoon that day, and the side of the lawyers of Lema will answer the concerns of those lawyers in text and Judge, Masengi will go through those arguments at nine o'clock in the afternoon.
Then Judge Masengi will provide a decision against the petition on December 2nd this year and if he will agree with the side of the government on the side of Lema you will have failed and if the motion of Lema won against the government's objection, the primary case of being heard by the request of the bond of the member of parliament will be heard and made a decision.
The lawyers of that member of parliament led by Kibatala, they said they had previously waited for an appeal number 112 / 113 of the year 2016, the high court of Arusha region so as to claim the right of the bond of Lema who was tested due to the legal mistakes that were done by the resident magistrate of Arusha.


