The Tanzania Football Federation TFF has said that it does not recognize the change of leadership within the Coastal Union of Tanga that is claimed to be done by the last members meeting that took place recently, the UEFA reports sent by his spokesperson Boniface Wambura has been on the conflict of the Coastal Union that will be chosen by this election meeting of that club that will continue working on the work of that club's election that will continue working on the work of the club that will continue working on work.
The report has explained that it is going to monitor the issue in detail and realizing that the leadership is involved in the revolution will be presented in the concerned agencies, more people will be involved in the concerned agencies.
The competition to go but he is not supposed to be launched in Rwanda where the Kampala team is not for all of us have been sent to Mister winning one goal for zero against we are from the country burundi from the country burundi from the country burundi from the country burundi from the country burundi
The one.
The one in front still I am not more than
Looking at the anakuta metal than some of the things things.
It's important without a team of Uganda.
And the second game was between Rwanda that I played a match was new in that region.
That is when you are beaten to reply to me.
If they don't.
Three where the first game at eight o'clock in the afternoon.
I am playing with the people of the mainland game between the
Someone else is between the police and Mister the world.
Ehas a total of twenty beauties is expected to rise up on stage in the race to find the model of Kinondoni, ten tribes and four in the competition that will be held on Friday at the conference to escape the competition, then those competitions, innocent Melleck, and the representative of the company that is organizing the beauty competition of Lino Agencies, finest talking about the competition that will give the beauties who will participate in the competition have said that the competition will participate in the competition have said that the competition will have said that the competition
I believe this year after doing well last year the last year was taken to the year so Kinondoni, we should expect the history that there is going to go years more than the most important time is that it has fees Tanzania in large numbers in competition competition in the competition.
The Tusker children.
Who has prepared himself for a long time in ensuring that he gives various entertainment through joining which in Swahili, the ladies of the ladies are prepared to not be fighting that it will stop history in the eyes and ears Tanzanians, there is good when we went to washing different talents, where they are also going to get a lot of different talents, whereby Tanzanians and in that competition has a child and has announced a child and has announced that it has a child and has announced a child and has announced a child and has announced a child and has
I maintain discipline in these two that were remaining but something else we accept the results results.
The judges of the judges.
Judges of this competition is the committee of miss Tanzania only three numbers is the one he will go to the sweater they scored for sex and four
The ladies who will participate in the race I won with that and they had this to say.
Ehable to help my anzania to help with pregnant women and children to help with the skills of using drugs or email drugs or email.
My young people who are fifteen and eight women don't understand if you are not interested in the competition like this, where he is interested in you know that people in faith he has gone out there because of which or himself personally so as to help the mwanamama children in order to kuificha icha.
The reason he showed the talent to sing singing.
It is a home for us.
And I have been studying.
It is the kalenda of the nyika even produce the world studies.
In the pregnancy and AIDS.
We began with this a disaster disaster.
Not this one.
Of the course of course.
The games from the drink of the park showed, has volunteered to build a modern field of sports in Chunya district which will be the game of that state has provided when it has a plan for the construction of six stadiums that are expected to be built in a disease that the value of construction is estimated to be more than twenty million and five million shillings which will be ready for the position of twelve.
If you are not saying the designer construction of the modern sports ground in Chunya district, Deodatus Kinawiro that the stadium will be built by the citizens of Chunya District, has continued to be seen now the farmer has come out to build a field of cassava football, a bonus and they are using it. The gender of gender diseases of the game of Chunya, Deodatus Kinawiro has continued to urge them they are using the heart of volunteering this stadium, its cost of eight billion but you know and the citizens themselves there is no money for the government, the government has no money for the government.
We are here we are building by volunteering the citizens themselves, that action we see has reached it has reached.
