
We give them sorry to the residents of Kagera, Mwanza, Mara, Mara.

It was written by Basil Basil.

It has been published: 12 September 2016.

The day before yesterday the biggest earthquake, it happened in the country and affect the provinces of Kagera, Mwanza and Mara.
Also that earthquake affected the cities of Kampala and Rakai in Uganda and shook the neighboring countries of Kenya, Rwanda and Burundi.

In the country, the earthquake has left sorrow due to kill 16 people, injured 120 others and destroyed a lot of buildings.
We are giving all the condolences that they were charged with brothers and their relatives and we are also giving them all the injured who were injured by falling with buildings, wall, vifusi and local organs.
Likewise, we are giving their condolences to those who got a shock that caused the blood pressure together with those affected by a panic, that caused them to stop careless here and there after that earthquake happened.
We send to condolences to the residents of that provinces of Kagera, Mwanza and Mara for the eclipse of the big disaster, which is not expected by anyone.
We join President John Magufuli in his greetings to the head of Kagera province, Major General Salim Kijuu that of Tanzania all have been shocked by the reports of that earthquake that caused several people to lose life, injured others and destroy the property.
In that province of Kagera, has killed the residents of Bukoba Municipality and Karagwe district and injured many, including 15 students of Wavulana Secondary School, continuing to be treated at the provincial hospital.
In general, we request the heads of that provinces of Kagera, Mwanza and Mara, to deliver their condolences to the family, brothers and all the relatives that were affected by the earthquake, we are asking for the Almighty God, give the heart of patience and patience in this difficult period of grief.
Also, we all pray for all who used it in that earthquake, to be quick.
We encourage the rescue forces, including the police force and fire, to continue and rescue them in all areas that were marred by that earthquake and security agencies, continue to look for all information about the earthquake and all the destruction that took place.
The stations for measuring an earthquake in the country, to control the disasters and the agency of geology Tanzania (GST), continue to collect more data of that earthquake the day before yesterday.
We want citizens who were injured in that earthquake, they go quickly to the clinic, health centers and hospitals, treated because the government has taken enough drugs in those areas.
In order to avoid more damage, it comes from an earthquake, we request from outside the house and to sit apart from trees on the open field, and the ones who drive cars, leave them immediately.
Citizens should continue to provide more information about an earthquake and we request the relevant agencies to continue providing education to deal with various disasters, including an earthquake.


