Ehhe work is many but I will be voting at twelve o'clock and two hours will be the same when let's go to a place ehhe and you know the halo and the oldest man will bring a problem cause I want to let you go to a certain celebration of my friend alone birthday. A neighbor ohh neighborhood neighbor ohh neighborhood in the neighborhood neighborhood.
Ten o'clock and the first one that is taking care of ten and two hours to inform you because you know what I will be fit for the person to leave the children, it's me to prepare yourself to meet and we let go to be educated.
Ehhana plan cannot bring a problem because he has gone and I have gone to say my old man cannot bring a problem because he has gone and his family there I was grateful now that I have remained my best and now I want you to know the person I'm going to know when they are safe and I know that I know they are safe and I know that they are safe
The work girl I gave him a little holiday to go to visit his parents then he will be back as a season of christmas you have arrived.
It is okay then I try to be
Okay I tell you the other words when the studies are going to come.
And I try it is going to do that your exam when they are
For I start on Tuesday ehhe and I pray for it.
On Tuesday ehhow I told him he also studied hard to pass the exam and very much ask for it.
I will tell you that I tell you the air every day you know we are my sincere friend I must tell you every day when I ask you to remember them to remember them to remember them to remember to remember them to remember to remember
Maybe I'm thankful to AHH it is not to pray for office at work, but even I had to think about what to change when I get in another place now, he can change you
This almost my friend now I tell you this hour what you are doing?
It's mmhm ehhe does not.
Ohh mmhm.
Mmhm and now and now if you are looking for another and if you get it with you want to maybe many people get a chance for two people not you can I call it.
Ehhe I will inform you of the
Ehhe to inform me because he also mi you know that other hours to stay for the house or these work to walk in especially especially during the rain like this one can get and a lot of diseases like these hours I have been very tired of what I was working on to walk to sell things here in those products in my products.
He didn't have a lot of it.
Ehhe since it was doing ehhe by the way this work is going to come aje.
And the work is not available but the benefits I don't know if it is good
Now and if you get it I have to be ukaa this hour you are doing or
Ehhe looked for another one I have left this and then we will find out but if the income will be good enough.
