
The committee on the constitution should consider the opinion of citizens APR 03, 2014, 2014.

The special assembly of the constitution is in its seventh week out of 10 that was given previously, and it is this week that has been getting the opportunity to officially open the draft constitution, the important document and the only one that was assured of the members of the parliament, to use them to write a new constitution.

The days that are remaining in order to discuss the document is very few than used in making the regulations that will lead the debates of the historic Parliament, and even if they will be added 20 other, according to the law, they may not be stopped to complete that hard work.

It is not our goal being lasted for a long time that was used to make laws to lead them to delegates, because we are aware of the importance of the existence of a stable regulations, even if they are in which have already been violated before even they have not started being used and we don't want to say that the time that uliosalia is not enough.

We believe that it is more important in this period of discussing the draft, it is for delegates to consider the views of the citizens, that is what the citizens are wanted to do in their constitution, for their benefit in daily life and future generations.

We are not the first to call this and or will not be the last to do so, but we must continue to ask the delegates to consider the views of the citizens because in many debates that was witnessed from Dodoma, many delegates seem to be pumped by the attitude and views of their parties.

Examples are many, but big and open is the one to decide the type of votes that is fit to be used in passing sections of the draft constitution, a small issue but that spread the delegates in the political ideology without caring about what the citizens wanted from them.

Even when the rules were hidden intentionally about it is between the President and the chairperson of the Constitutional Review Commission is supposed to be the first to address the parliament, political ideology and the attitude of kivyor ilitawala even if the ordinary citizens issue was great.

And now there are indications of the existence of pressure from outside the parliament after leaders of the political parties who are outside Dodoma to start the journey to visit the entire country to encourage citizens to support the system of the coalition that is required by the concerned party.

We asked them, this meaning?
These visits will help us the assembly of the Constitution?
The government has to stand in this?
Therefore, the parliament has no ability to kukataza and command being left immediately for these foolish tours can affect the feelings and violence among the Tanzanian of Tanzania.

We are aware of and many know that the time to give opinions about the change of the constitution was given and was already finished.
For now, it is turn to the delegates of the Constitutional Assembly to discuss Dodoma, when they finish those, that is when it comes to turn the citizens to vote for the draft that will be made in Dodoma.

Now, "upupu" that is taken to the citizens this time where their views are not corrupt in the draft that is in Dodoma is of what is not confusing for the Tanzanian of Tanzania who work the only one that their bele is voting for the referendum?

That is why we would like to witness delegates discussing the draft without pressure from outside Dodoma or their parties, but by considering the opinion of the citizens and especially what is in the documents they will be used during this debate, among these documents being the draft, Randama of the draft constitution, the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania and the Zanzibar.


