
Prisons, PPF to invest in the Karanga factory.

It was written by Regina Kumba

It has been published: 05 October 2016.

In supporting the commitment of the fifth phase government to make the country of industries, the prison force has entered a contract of investment and pension fund of PPF in the factory of Karanga prison factory in Kilimanjaro Province.

The agreement was signed in Dar es Salaam yesterday between the Director General of PPF, William Erio and Commissioner General of Prisons Force, John Minja through the organization of that army of production wealth.
Commissioner Minja said that the army is supporting the efforts of President John Magufuli in making the country to be industrialized, therefore the contract will involve the construction of a new processing factory and the installation of modern machines of making leather products in the factory.
Also, the factory will make other leather products.
"Investment in the factory will help our force to achieve the desire to produce leather products with high quality and chochea competition in the local market and outside, thus accomplish the goals of our nation in achieving the economy of industries by the year 2025," said Minja.
Commissioner Minja said that investment will enable all security and security agencies in the country, to buy shoes and other products of skin products produced in that factory that will be improved and lost a new machine.
In addition, Commissioner Minja said the factory will also be able to create the school shoes of students who currently access is a problem.
"The strategy of the prison forces right now is continuing to improve various areas together with take advantage of opportunities that are available in order to ensure that it is expected to reach the success that is expected in the implementation of its responsibilities," said Commissioner Minja.
On his part, Erio said the experts are organizing the upbuzi yakinifu which within 30 days will be complete so as to find money for the project, which is expected to start within one year and a half up to two.


