The husband's husband.
Who doesn't have HIV infections with a woman with an infection to be able to do sex for women women.
They can't get AIDS asante to your question but that's sentensi doesn't have a fact because a man when he meets a woman who has HIV virus.
It depends on the act of marriage will make him come with him while there is a possibility that he gets HIV virus but not because of a quick moment as soon as possible.
Except if they do that the act of a woman being ready for her parts of uke has been revealed well and they do not know that they are doing a lot of Taarab backTaarab.
To say the michubuko anyone is able to say.
Even if he is doing and there is also a man he can't get the infection but that is there as soon as they will have met physical and he has got a lot of michubuko has come up even if five so far there is still a great possibility of getting an infection of the infection of the infection of the infection of the infection of the infection of infection of the infection
The HIV virus for that news of that if you make love and you decide.
Others who come out that when you're not driving quickly after doing the act that they can't get problems with problems that they can get problems.
Or that is what you quickly can do not get this infection is not true.
It depends on the act of marriage I have done that they are called out of the doctors I want to ask this is what it is causing the stomach decisions during the Eddy of Eddy.
Thank you for your question.
The pain pain.
Happening during menstruation time, many researchers have done research and they found out there are different things that can cause but the real situation of the person to hear pain when it cannot be caused by what is yet to be known as well and this often when it is happening that people are getting pain when they are in places when they are in place places when they are in places.
The crop.
In a month without having any error in the way of parenting or you can't you find out there are others get it.
The pain pain.
During their menstrual days with any problem in the reproductive system for that can it happens to others who are hearing pain to the extent that until the border.
The whole body and you have got an error someone is usually heard of the chechefu he can be able to raise experts say especially in their age, those girls who little men have little men.
Sometimes it may not be because of the
The only psychological problem they think if I get into my month of the month I can hear the pain for that when it is heading to the truth when he is in his month's days he heard of the other pain that you found are having a problem in the generation side of the generation.
The Mishipa that are moving blood.
It has to be filled with it.
It has filled a lot of blood there is true there is a lot of Competition in the blood vessels.
The way I have not been able to.
This person is ikia a lot of pain and others also you can't find him, maybe he has a ambukizo in
His reproductive system can lead to problems like this I hear two so much when he comes into
Days of the beginning of the month of the month.
But most of the time I'm not being advised.
The person when he was in severe pain while in his month of the month he could be resting and you are not required or the food if you are given a lot of joy and it can contribute to the problems of the increase in the increase.
For a short while I can, I was able to answer like those now the actual reason why the person is having the pain known others are involve with the horror of the body as well as we call the post Gladys having grown so much can cause problems in your days of your days of your days.
Waitwe stars a lot of time I was asking to know the doctor this accident coming from the coming.
There is the bodies of the person affected the ability to get HIV infections, an accident when a person is committed to providing support and you find out there are other people who have been killed but they were infected with the virus.
The AIDS comes to the blood, the one who has died there is a great possibility of getting the infection of viruses.
If you are not using the prevention of an example to wear gloves in the hands because people are advised you like to donate in an accident even if it is the bodies he has died, you will still have a mistake that you think of the person I would like to save the people in the accident makes a lot of diseases infections. That is also the HIV virus of this AIDS.
No one to wake up there.
I don't have the extra extra.
In this section of the person ask the doctor.
You have to be with me.
The match of the evening.
