
In Dar es Salaam, they need doctors of broupa.

Majaliwa leads hundreds to bid farewell to Captain Mhaiki.

300 girls to run away to be entertained.

Aua wife and a child to be told he has a 'dual'. "

The rain of 30 minutes of killing a child, yabomoa behind 20.

DC orders arrest the officer 'mchonganishi... "

Five wanusurika an accident on the plane.

The Prime Minister warned the random construction in Kigamboni municipality.

The service institution of the heart JKCI zavutia many...

Adakwa followed the grave of albino.

Yanga semi-finals clean up.

45,000 they come to the board of loans to pay.

Simba in the hands of URA.

Three of them were killed and exchanged bullets by police in Dar es Salaam.

The electronic cigarette at risk.

Martini mentioned the reason to land Yanga.

CBE will set up if you are playing the soccer of ufukweni.

JKT will set up against Mlandizi Queens.

Human activities is a threat to the life of Duma...

Pneumonia is sumbua children.

Tajtetemeko la assistant coach Ndanda.

Anna Senkoro died.

With fistula they are going to be treated Zambia...

They are opposed to Rombo being relocated.

Trafiki Morogoro wakusanya Bil 3.4 / -...

CCM Arusha has launched a campaign...

The courts will be using technology to give justice...

"Acacia ipe those who were approved."

"Acacia ipe those who were approved."

CCM- Limeni produce that currency drought.

You are here in the police to the elephants' teeth 32 kilograms of 32 kilograms.

Being held a police to the elephants of 32 kilograms of 32 kilograms of 32.

It was written by Kareny Masasy, Simiyu, Simiyu.

It has been published: 17 November 2016.

The police in Simiyu Province, Oliver Paschal (39), a resident of Ipililo village in Mwagala Ward, Maswa District, on allegations of finding out of elephants' teeth with weight of 32 kilograms while he has hidden it down from his bed.

Speaking to journalists in his office yesterday, the police commander of the province, Onesmo Lyanga said the police after getting information on intelensex, they arrested the woman with two corners of ivory that he had hidden under the uvungu in the room that he was living in.
Commander Lyanga said that the woman was arrested on November 11, this year at nine o'clock in the afternoon and explained that he was arrested with those teeth with weight of 32 kilograms in the room that he had planned for Edward Malanda.
Moreover, the commander has said that more than 86 cases concerning crimes have been reported from January to September 2015, when 69 cases have been reported to the police from January to September this year.
In another step, the army is holding eight people for the mistake of taking them against the law by beating and killing him for stones and marungu, Manoni Elisha (38), a resident of Ngasamo village, accusing him to be a thief.
Lyanga said at 3 o'clock at the night in the bar of Manchester that is in Ngasamo in Busega district, the suspects had killed that person on charges of different crimes, including the theft of the sheep on the case number NGAS / malarial / 49 / 2016 which was being wanted by the police force.


