The Nokia phone of one one.
When you put it one day.
You will get another day free on his part, the director of Nokia Tanzania company, Samson Majwala has said that those phones are targeting people of every income and easy to use the two running that is running two ways it has to use two.
On July two to be sold on the phone lines every time that there is a must that has been put in and the other is outside time to customers who and two lines will be able to use the phone is more open from the daressalaam person died.
The serengeti Company, has announced two winners of the jenereta and motorcycles in its twelve drawer and one of the vumbua don't have less than kizibo.
Those winners have been found through the draw that was played yesterday, the serengeti beer manager, Allan chonjo in front of the representative from the gaming board in the country in the country.
An Mwita.
Manyara is going to a twenty-year-old and three a resident of one I am not in Mwanza, who is a student of teaching
And how to participate is that all more than ten years old projects is opening up in the problem
Sends those procedures to go to number one five seven seven and he can win a win.
The cash.
The same should build me provided.
In that draw, a small entrepreneur from Morogoro province, innocent, a three-year-old statement is lucky to win a gift of motorbikes a motorcycle.
Speaking soon after the draw chonjo has called upon the citizens of age for more than ten years to continue to participate in the promotion because it can uplift economically economically.
I reported from the daressalaam love Msuya
And the Airtel mobile phone company has launched a new service known as the balance of the balance being its efforts in fulfilling the intention of continuing to provide freedom to talk to its customers in the country, alisema Kilumanga is informing more information to the customers in the country.
Meneja uhusiano wa Airtel Jackson Bana Bana
He told journalists in the daressalaam to be a balance service that will enable all the Airtel customers to borrow a small balance and pay for a small cost by sending a word daka balance to go to five five four nine.
The service that enables any client of EPA is a bad routine for the nation balance balance.
You are going on a bit.
It pays a little you talked about more different from others as it is that you borrow a lot of money you pay most of the time you are talking to kigocho, that we were not in the same service through its Airtel Money service, enables entrepreneurs invested for its agents in the country by getting two times against all the transaction that will make that service.
A film.
Said Kilumanga.
If you are your party.
