
The inspection of the buses to be done with attention to the attention.

It was written by the Ikunda Eric.

It has been published: 03 November 2016.

The transport service of buses to go to different provinces in the country has increased from the needs of the service.

However, those needs are required to be fired because of the travel agencies that meets the criteria of traffic.
As a result of the presence of buses that make a long journey and short, is needed inspection of the press on fire frequently, so as to be satisfied about the ability of those agencies especially buses to carry passengers and travel especially long distance.
For several years now, we have witnessed an increase in road accidents that are caused or negligence of drivers or poor conditions of fire organs, the situation that ligharimu the nation by losing the work and also to leave the families with orphans and with disabilities of permanent organs.
Despite the traffic rules there, some of the drivers have been breaking up intentionally.
In addition, in ensuring that those buses are traveling safe, the audit authorities including the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (Sumatra), should inspect them because it is given approval of doing a trip.
I believe that inspection will enable the removal of buses that are going to a long way, the situation being able to go through a short way, therefore, to avoid passengers and accidents or different turbulence that can find them when they are in transit, for example to be destroyed by vehicles every time and being forced to entertain on the way.
There are buses that are allowed to travel for a long distance, an example from Arusha to Dar es Salaam which is a distance of 600 kilometers, its ability is to travel a few more kilometers of those.
There are some buses are traveling to various provinces while it seems to be obvious that they aren't able to, a situation that is staishing and causing others to ask ourselves if the authorities concerned with the audit of quality and the ability of those buses are responsible as required.
It does not mean that those buses have not been able to make any trips, certainly not to manage a short journey, therefore, was required to be given permits for them to make those trips and not long like those 600 kilometers or more.
The thing is important, that is why I am insisting on the inspection of it.
Other buses outside have a good color but the ability to make the journey blocked they aren't, due to uchakavu.
It is obvious that the travelers who use those buses gets a lot of trouble especially when it should welcome, their lives to be mashakani and their properties also to be in danger, because a lot of them are destroyed in areas that are not safe.
It has been unusual to see the passenger bus that is supposed to travel for two or three hours taking six hours because of spoiled every after a certain distance.
The situation indicates that other buses or do not deny it well or are approved to do a long journey wouldn't contain it.
This is a danger.
I am advised the passenger buses that are doing a comprehensive inspection so that they are not fit to make a long journey to be short.
Let her continue to provide services to the distance that doesn't deserve it to endanger the lives of passengers for accidents that can be avoided.
The traffic police are doing their job well, passengers have a good opportunity to warned drivers who are dangerous to their lives by running badly and also have a duty to give information about the whole trend of the bus concerned, including informing the concerned authorities about poor conditions of buses that are using them to travel being destroyed on the way from time to time.
The goal is to convince the authorities of inspection ziague well before they allow them to make a short journey or long.
When I'm going to be understood that, the inspection of the ability and the attention of the drivers alone is not enough to be a passenger security ticket on the journey, but even the quality of the buses itself should be verified.


