

Today, Dar es Salaam, Dar es Salaam, there are many challenges that cancer patients are meeting especially for women who have breast cancer.
Those challenges have caused those patients to cut off and treatment and decided to terminate the shots and return to their homes.
That situation happens after getting tired of kuhangaika looking for money to sustain the cost of medicine while wakizidi stigmatization while being away from coming to the Ocean Road Hospital (ORCI) which is dealing with the treatment and investigation of the disease.
A big challenge that many victims are asking to be assisted is together with access to Chemotherapy type which is given as treatment in the hospital.
Speaking recently during the launch of the Hope Party of the woman, one of those patients, Biaccident Shaiza, says that they are usually told those drugs are free but when they are asking for many times they are told to have been forced to buy them in foreign stores where they are sold expensive.
"I have paid the dose the first round for a lot of trouble for the cost of 200,000 shillings after being told the drug is not available in the hospital, here I present I don't know the second and third shots I'll get to how," says Shaiza.
He explains that he went out of Tanga province to follow the service in Dar es Salaam city after the brother who was helping him unable to afford the distance cost because it was hard to serve him in there.
Another patient Mwajuma Mohamed, says that the community has not yet learned enough in relation to the disease and many women do not love the hospital to believe that they can be operated on and died.
He claims that the current community in some areas and especially in the villages don't believe in the breast cancer patient can be operated on and recover.
He explains that even when he found that with the disease in the year 2013 he got stuttering to tell his brothers, believing they will not accept the surgery to remove the breasts.
"I feared telling them since there are others who are known that they had been operated on were involved with bad condition and they are those who believe that even the treatment of radiation has effects.
"But after time to go, I saw the swelling that had come out is going to grow, I made decisions to go to the hospital and they advised them to cut I saw the same because they are the ones I know who have refused to cut and their condition is bad, so I was involved in the brothers and agreed to help me," he says.
Mwajuma says there is still superstitious faith in the disease and also there are people who believe that you are mosquitoes like AIDS, therefore, they will build cancer victims as they can be infected.
And the Director of Tanzania Cancer support and Hope Faual (TCS-HOPE), Halima Kasungu, says many patients have come back to the villages after failing to afford the cost of buying that drug to all the shots as well as other problems that they get there.
"The chemo medicine is sold very expensive of Tanzania with low income are unable to afford.
Another one is sold 300,000 shillings so that patients who came to follow the services are greed, to atiza a dose and decided to go back to where they came from, "says Kasungu.


