Many areas when you want to make this game continue many areas to be the contribution of teachers themselves as these people who get the opportunity to go to serve the game the card that was taught is the first thing that was taught is the first thing.
But it is the government's position as for his position when it is one.
I make sure that the infrastructure means that we have to make it possible.
A play for the game is there to be there.
At a special school because the games are not chezi all the merit they are playing for special schools that others have given their games to play for that first one is for something that from a special school government of the village that it is put in the area and unfortunately luck the area of playing this game is a small meters that is not twenty-sufficient to set aside the first amount of the first time that is a small meters that don't have grown than twenty to set aside the first amount of the first time.
But I say just that the balls that are being played right.
Too expensive.
That's the preparations is that it is that
A deliberate decision to take place in order to ensure that the good equipment for the mess are available here in the country and sometimes we ask the government is a favor because they are played for people with disabilities then then are being played for people with disabilities then then it is a chance for the people who are being played
The procedure of tax then would be able to reduce because something that makes me a lot in the country and the tax of sports equipment that are now added now iron sheets and the pain and so that you will find talent they go to go out and so if you find talent.
On a lot of the same ball being sold almost one hundred thousand and eighty thousand shillings starts to set up the iron sheets that you can sell for two hundred thousand shillings and the book sometimes another time sometimes.
The availability of money in our activities is not great to the same
But you know it again.
It is to continue to put him in the competition competition.
Mmhm ombe the government that when you go to this competition and be there.
Then we do the procedure to communicate with other countries or and other organizations or other communities of the world.
We see now young people are able to choose and I don't know if we went to play the first one that we play in East Africa but similarly, the scope of going to the games of the killing, that we will be doing justice to the people with disabilities with disabilities.
But the end of which is better to request the government will continue to provide training for teachers to feel a problem with their children at different levels so as to grow awareness and and two children now will get to wear and play but playing for knowing that now they are going to the international competition in international competitions.
Even a lot of sense is stanja.
That stood up the chief sports officer from the office of the prime minister TAMISEMI completed to give a decision and a lot of asking him that he loves him to ask him because he ehes that many game. What is something but I have no doubt to explain a lot from the experts who contribute to this topic which they have been taught in the middle of the week will please the games here in the place he was ready to speak to contribute to the topic again so that you thank you to contribute to the topic again so
My challenge.
The mayor.
Asking the citizens of an accident, blind children and that their needs are important together sports is one of the treatment
Games are one of the treatment to children.
The one with the disability then then.
As the delegates who were chosen that
Factory is very important and our talents ehhe is.
The cost but we ask that it should be found.
They have to be able to participate in order to participate.
The people are able to participate in the competition to give it to the
Broad stakeholders who are concerned with the children and the means that the sports officers we came from together with the education officers.
The accident of disabled children blind and find out needs because there is a lot of bobo player that there are those glasses and what are required to be fired by the money that is depending on a lot of schools will not be able to get things like therefore, that we depend on that the great stakeholders in these children are a great job of education asante so much in a routine of a routine of education, very happy for the style of education asante so much in a routine style of education asante so much in a routine style of education asante so much in a routine style of education asante so
