The children of several will be shared with their normal class and then the money baada ya kumaliza mmhm the service we have had a meeting that we met after work work that we met after work.
It's also ehhe.
He ehhe ehhe.
It's snhes that we have talked about a few words that are of the parents we are trying to meet and what all parents ehbecause there is a parent that lost her parent and we do not know what we are doing well now, if you are told a certain parent we will not be able to meet and we have to come together with a lot more than because ye is a phone then a child can be found and something then a child can be found and something then a child can be found and something then a child can be found and something then a child can be found and something then a child anything that is not bad even good and ake that we cooperate so it will be very difficult to participate with someone who will not turn to know what we want and we should participate together with one of us.
Ehhalo halo.
Ohh ehhm when I do a thousand okay out that is the hhm ehm how many hours work okay because it does not get to the big charles. The rest of us referred to when the new six kenya as halo.
I did not get to England ehhe today the children were many and they were the ones who invented me would not be able to enter the ehhe.
Now that you come when I am calling that the parents' meetings I will do?
Ehmy ehhe and truly mmhm.
The third month we want to refer to the third month because of that there is AHH will be mi mmhm a meeting of the children also of the fourth month where children go to the high school insurance.
Now, we must know the children of parents know what they are going to know and know what it is going on and we also want to give it there to you when I give money to you even if not many money but the money that will be able to give you a photocopy copy, we will be providing Photocopy. We will be providing Photocopy. We will be providing Photocopy. We will be providing Photocopy.
Okay but the enyewe ehhe is the same malaria.
I will not be in charge of it.
Sawasawa now and now has said that it has planned it has organized itself based on the pastor says Kanisa mi I will not be kuangusha three hours from an hour he does not want to be done until five o'clock when I will be doing this day.
He didn't have a lot of it.
We haven't heard of it but there is a meeting who is doing c _ p _ p, Wednesday at ten o'clock and I think I was that you will explain as if the leaders of what fitina different from the church ehhe said so and from the third month of the third month.
He didn't have a lot of it.
Okay okay he says from march ehhe will be three o'clock until five and a half hours or then people are going to go home now, it is not a moment I don't know how to sande on how it will be taken, even if you're using them, I will not be able to announce it.
And then later later.
The church will be at least five hours.
He didn't iya it.
It is just fine.
Now, we must sit down we talk to us because there are these children who come alone in the church and there are those who are coming from the parents now are not a different group that they are coming from and they are coming up with their parents and they are able to come at any time from five o'clock and those are coming from five hours and those are coming from five hours and those are coming from five hours and those are coming from five hours and those are coming from five hours and those are coming from five hours and those are coming from five hours and those are coming from five hours and those are coming and a half hours six hours if we AHH you will get if the doors has been closed down as the doors has been closed down.
Ehhe and ehhe does it.
Okay ATI.
Names mmhm halo mmhm kibaba as the door has been closed now how we will place in place, you will plan on the cannot
Now, we will have to ask ourselves this year even different from that other years like those are the pastor, he has said that mmhm is the one that is the pastor.
This work ehhe will be when I wake up early then I am back to sleep sleep.
We are tired without ehhe those who like to sleep are back to travel to travel to travel to travel to travel to travel to travel.
I will get out of six hours itself but it is hard to sleep sunday is very difficult that I have heard of the origin, I have heard of the background.
Hard for others as they talk to them.
I've heard that news.
Who should take a look at that news.
Ask him if he has decided he has heard that they will be getting two hours from five o'clock of five hours.
And because he is planned for a house at six o'clock he will plan to stay in an order on whether we will not be able to have a charger has been closed down by people who come from but maybe he will be getting precedent washing there that they are left with the illness of hm hm hm.
Mmhm AHH I will make the whole
And ehhe I get because he ehtruly true.
Ehhe but now is not they will be maybe they will be back later at eight seven o'clock old and even and there will be another service after that will be from two hours until the hour as it will be after one, it will be after one.
Ehhe I don't know now if there will be a kwanza sa I don't know.
