Simba is alia "and the referee's referee.

It was written by Vicky Kimaro.

It has been published: 03 October 2016.

The leadership of Simba Club today is expected to present officially complaints to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and the league board (TLB) so that it has to take a lie to the referee of their match against Yanga, Martin Saanya.
Simba and Yanga met at the National Stadium at the end of the week and from a 1-1 draw in that match that was filled with violence.

The violence were attributed to the leading goal of Yanga, that was scored by Amisi Tambwe which was complained about because before he had not scored, that player was standing in the ball on a matter that caused violence to Simba fans because earlier Ibrahim Ajibu scored Simba a goal that was born with the referee on claims he had been lost.
Those fans went far to uprooting the seats of the stadium and to be destroyed on the field.
"With great disappointment the Simba club has been disappointed by the actions that were done by some of our fans to break part of the national stadium chairs, act that happened yesterday (the day before yesterday) in our premier league match against Yanga team." Sisi we believe that evil actions that were done by our fans were caused by the decision of hovyo to pass the amount that was caused by those referees especially Martin Saanya, "said Manara.
"It was not eleweki is the criterion that the referee used to accept the goal of 'football' football 'striker, Amisi Tambwe and inspected a legitimate goal of our striker Ibrahim Ajibu.
In that game, the biggest violence that broke down and caused the police to use extra energy using bombs to relax those violence which some people were injured.
Moreover, Manara asked for forgiveness for the act of their fans uprooting seats and said they will communicate with the relevant authorities so that they pe.
"We are asking for forgiveness for this commotion and the club has agreed to pay for the cost of this destruction.
The club will speak with the owners of this field to see how it comes to those costs, mi our expectations to see this matter will not come out again. "
"However, we have been surprised by the act of giving him a red card to our captain Jonas Mkude, this situation as the captain followed him to give him about his act of accepting the goal of 'hovyo' of Tambwe and all of us, we have seen Saanya alijikwaa when he is coming back and brought a red card to the Mkude." We believe this journey TFF and the league board will give a stern punishment to these referees so that it should be a stern punishment for these referees so that it should be a stern punishment for these referees so that it should be a stern punishment for these referees so a lesson to the lesson for the decision of the hovyo of this kind.
"Also, the club has complained to the act of our rooms replacing clothes that were meant to affect our players before the match started, we are requesting the authorities to make investigations to identify this act that is not believed to be done by our opponents.
"We know their mission is to make our players wachoke, but our team of physicians took the right steps to make our players to finish the ninety minutes of the game for the ability and professionalism," he said.
That is the second match for the referee Saanya complained about the goal of that kind which last season in the FA match between Yanga and Coast Union that took place at Mkwakwani Tanga Stadium and Yanga won 2-1, a game collapsed after the big violence broke out.
In that game, Saanya was forced to break the game after Yanga goalkeeper Deogratius Munish (Dida), being attacked by the Coast fans while Beki Oscar Joshua being beaten by head bottles.
In that game, Tambwe came to take the position of Donald Ngoma delivered Yanga the second goal in the style of Simba's goal the day before yesterday and the Coast to complain about that goal to be a hand.


