The next one.
Which you can I speak when doing the television those
The rest of the players.
We are not hard on the director manson walishangaa because they came to the equipment that he had since
If not like it.
If they run there must be a certain sound right, a player is running to be fired when you start a refugee, especially when he came out with those equipment and ties in his car, he claims that they were removed because you cannot get a good result, but Mercy came and therefore, the equipment I helped a lot of making a team that was very good and therefore, the equipment I helped a lot to create a team that was very good and therefore, the equipment I helped a lot to create a team that was very good and therefore, the equipment I helped a lot to create a team that was very good
For sure to the people who have to go through his hands to be taught the coach coach to be taught.
They have benefited so much because it is in people.
Actually he was getting principal but he told the coach you must use your mind in mind.
There is nothing to be interpreted has been written in the book book.
Sometimes use your mind you will be able to get a win or your team does not make it better what they have to be doing mwalimu mash to that machine in the machine.
We have lost a person who was a very good axis in soccer look since two thousand year and three when he was the assistant coach of the youth team to help Abdallah king Kibaden players who has providers who providers who have providers.
Especially these have come up we miss a fever to stand up to make a mistake they have benefited from this terms as a result of this reason he was calling the player he is telling him not to make it true to make sure that he is not doing it for sure that he is not doing it for sure that he is not doing it for sure that he is not doing it for sure
The players themselves the witnesses the way that he has helped in a very big way to make the soccer of Tanzania that we can achieve here that is because there is a reason why it is possible. "
I can speak it is it.
At the end of the five, I am talking to the lipi now while we are using our value to tell Tanzanians and we should withdraw it as well as we should not like it.
Ehcontinuity together with that the nation will be some of the stakeholders they will appear looking at but you know how many times often.
When you are our host.
Actually the station scheme now remains to be Ahmad Ahmad.
Ahmad is a very young boy or what would you see him yesterday while he was questioned when he was interviewed when he was at the daressalaam.
The coach I told him that he is looking at the players and the late competition was giving back his money to the money he got out that he took it to the purpose of the team, the team was players of soccer and men and different ages of young children and different young children.
Chonde Chonde a long time old stakeholders of soccer people cheering a check at this center is the tanuru of this station is the tanuru.
Kutoka the near future players who are left out of those players who are not now in the squad in wasomi, they will go to where its results will produce that we will produce.
Thugs people ito kers for not being productive but these players were buried as well as they explained to the near future.
This center will be a lot of support for soccer Tanzanians a long time stakeholders of soccer Hemed that they do everything that they are able to look at the station to continue because the young boy is helping he is supposed to be able to develop anywhere else in the right now so that he has previously been able to make the phone that we are able to develop this is where this young man is able to develop this.
Let me think about it again ehhe is very grateful for your message here in the studio you know this hours he is at the press, I am grateful to thank you so much thank you so much thank you very much thanks.
And where the water controversy was talking about a few including the coach Sylvester Marsh who has previously ahead of justice and his body at nine o'clock in the afternoon will have a trip to return to Mwanza city ready for the burial ehwithin the next two days.
I come back again that we for the sponsors then later we will be going on and soon we will be able to.
