There is a function of n _ i _ c _ c _ c _
Ohh is while it will come I have been grateful for the whole or not I thought the day I was told it has been postponed since it is so that it's better than it is easy that it is easy that it is easy
Ehhe is in it will come to come.
You huh it will be i think we won't be settled.
The one of the hm.
ATI was the Talent of what his mother's mother's virtual virtual property we were given then that they are unable to believe in the lowlands that we are selling, when we are unable to defence easy at this time it was Competition like it was like Competition like it.
ATI of doing the mmhm there ehhow did you get to the school mmhm ATI went on the same day in which year.
That's when you get into the stations but we must be able to come from it, it will feed while the rest of the colle or those that are correct to you to reach tomorrow tomorrow.
It is not going to crush the price of around that may cause it is defeated the Competition of miezi mitatu of Last when we enter the day before July and AHH we got on the day on it.
Mmhm ehhe is now if you come up with a university while I am coming to compete or for these hours that comes to do what you have hm halo then now let us say it is anyone who can come in the same person.
The one of the hm.
Mhuh is not the Competition it has done it.
Ohh was told it is we forward now that we should know the other ones and the ka there are people these people
Ehehhe anyone can get it is not a must ATI for security to change ATI must be the subjects of that Mahakama ehhe even if you haven't read that, but it hurts you to know that those, the aunt's trade that we are able to enter now.
He didn't have a lot of it.
Mmhm then now, I wanted to get that I didn't get that, what I'm not saying I should let him know when I was forced to let me know if you vote for me to vote for me, where you hm that one is being eaten that I will be a religion to show that what was done ehehthan of that he was held ehatehe of the hehe of the hehe of the hehe of the hehe of the hehe of
It will not be mmhm.
Now, it is not in the k _ u they have ever started a scandal at the moment, it is not only knowing your phone and m _ money, a cash pay that you pay for their own account, then they are using it not to feel that someone wants to use the m _ money that cord while Cthere is the one that wants to use m _ money on the cord while Cthere's Chapo.
About it has paid the one that is not there is the one that will stay is a transaction number it is defeated by barua manumber now that is the best you have to go to the internet for that also the Kitale I have has to register and that's the things that will be i think this is the password I doubt you are more than your number.
Ehehin Jerusalem maybe the number then they use it as a password mmhm.
Ehhe is not my own umenusing here in Sweden unaction I will be able to use that you will use that your will now if you are in the group or not you know what you will choose the first one with the group so that you can't want them to know ohh you will get up with the name of the group so you can if you don't want to know ohh you will get to you and the name of the group so you can't if you don't want to know ohh you will get to you and the name of the group so you can't want to tayari go back and create if you will fill the TIN
Ehohh someone can come as a group group.
Ehhe and mmhm ehanohh then now that the case for this week is coming up if you come up with a person I can be in mi
The one of the hm.
That SA is only defeated by Jane with Competition Competition.
Therefore, that is up to that other year then now ATI you will not be Ako the school day if you ask me then what is the person you benefit from what is you benefit from what you have benefited from what is you benefit from what you have benefited from what you have benefited from what is the person
Ehmakofi you can't reduce me I can ask for it is a kianda I don't have.
It's okay when it's okay.
SA you know that it becomes Pwani when I have been looking at it but Swahili today as that you are supposed to travel to the ball Stephen and you understand the reason and you understand the Market I am going to and then there is a discussion that they are asking for and you are not sufficient to buy it as a salon and you will be able to buy it as a salon. Apply to move ehhe he is not able to ask him to move.
I may not have been able to.
Ohh ohh to those, those things have been hm for so your wife ATI there is a hhm and mmhm ehhe ehhe.
Mmhm ehin for so that it becomes something you give a good thing ATI has been taken for six hours ehehehe is a must for someone to be opposed to it and it is a person to be opposed to it.
Ehhe tried to try I heard I will tell them close to them.
It is not the moment I will tell you that I also use it on the top ehhe.
I will not be in charge of it.
