Kiganja wants TFF to change it.

January 13, 2017, 2017.

The secretary general of the National Sports Council (BMT) has wanted the Federation of Football in the country (TFF) to change and stop using a lot of time to discuss the issues of the coach they expect to stop instead of discussing how they can help the development of Tanzania soccer.
That issue has not been letting a lot of stakeholders because the federation officials have been discussing the salary issues of the former coach of the national squad, Charles Mkwasa instead of let you know the plans they have through the coach of the time to take it forward to the national team.
He said, TFF should stop continuing to discuss the news of the coach who was left and instead he has urged them to focus on watching the right way to run Tanzania soccer and eventually do well international levels.
He said that many leaders have been running things in practice and find them working on the sidelines situation that makes the Tanzanian soccer to be down as the days will continue to move forward.
"I don't see if there is a need to call the media and register to pay the coach because there is no benefit in the world of sports because there is no matter they are able to learn the lower football leaders to continue to promote conflicts," said Kiganja.
On his side, Lucas Mponela said TFF have been active to talk about the issue of the salary of Mkwasa and to stop the important issues of the players and find solutions for the problem that bothers them.
He said that there are many charges that were taken by different clubs and complain about their rights but TFF have been letting them without being worked on their problems and find them getting trouble every day due to follow up on their rights for a long time.
He added that the issue of paying the salary Mkwasa was a secret of two sides thus there was no reason for TFF to openly open those issues, something that shows losing time on doing a lot of things that are not primary.
Mkwasa remained his contract with TFF a few days ago while his contract had been alia three months to train the national team and his position was taken by the coach of the time, Salum Mayanga who has already started his work.


