
The agricultural institution of Agro For Help Foundation has been launched officially in the country of Agro For Help Foundation in Dar es Salaam city that is involved in issues of lifting up with the agricultural sector in the country today 31 January 2017, has been launched officially in front of agriculture stakeholders and government leaders the event held in Dar es Salaam today.
Previously at the launch, the provincial commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Honorable.
Paul Makonda who was represented by the head of Kigamboni District, Honorable.
Hashim Mgandilwa has congratulated Agro For Help Foundation, for coming up with their plan because it is among the sectors that uplifting the economy of Tanzania while urging them more to focus on providing farming education and also the issue of information to farmers on agriculture and marketing.
The guest of honor, the head of Kigamboni District, requested various stakeholders to come out to support the efforts that were started by the institution because they have benefits to Tanzania and will be refuge to farmers and stakeholders of that sector, Mother in the growth of the country's economy.
On his part, the executive director of that institution of Agro For Help Foundation, Miss.
The year Shukuru has thanked the government for continuing supporting the agricultural sector in the country including private stakeholders involved in those issues, therefore they believe they will collaborate with all stakeholders including the government in developing agriculture and farmers in general.
"Through this institution, it will help to distribute the agricultural education of business and modern farming.
We have noted many challenges including the changes of tabiachi because it has been a challenge so that our presence we have to see that and great is to see how to take appropriate measures including providing education and encourage them in different ways including modern farming of umwagiaji. "
He has explained Miss.
The year Shukuru.
Miss.
The year Shukuru added that, so far to officially launch it has been more than one year in the country where it is prepared for sawasawa in helping small farmers to go through agriculture and agriculture is employment because they believe this will lead to the growth of the economy through that farming sector and reduce poverty while providing employment to many Tanzanians.
On his part, one of the stakeholders of agriculture here in the country who is engaged in fruits including Mapapai, the lady Angella Kavishe has commended the institution because he believes it will be more help to farmers who all times have been focused on the practice of practice alone or what is indigenous.


