
The receipt of the receipt TRA ZAFUNGA Dar shops Dar es Salaam.

July 31, 2013, some of the traders with shops in Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam, yesterday walifunga their shops opposing the use of electronic machines that are used to provide sales receipts as required by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA).
Those shops were scored from the morning and made demonstrations in the estates claiming those machines are a burden to business people with the aim of kuwakandamiza.
Speaking of Majira, a businessman Mister.
Samson Ngowi, who owns the clothes shop in Aggrey, said that their stand is stopping the business they are undertaking until TRA will listen to their cry to not use those machines.
"Due to the existing business cycle, the machines are a burden to us business people, a big part of the profit, is used to pay taxes thus to delay our goals.
"We ever did talks with TRA and agreed to agree until November 15 this year, we do not continue using these machines now, an act of staying silent is a sign that there is no what we have decided to score stores," he said.
He insisted that it is important that the government will recognize the real environment that the business people who are using and the influx of taxes collected and caused the washindwe to continue.
Another businessman, Mister.
Juma Tinyango who owns three shops located in Kongo- Aggrey, Mwananyamala, said the machines will not obey the procedure of bridges business between a great trader, medium and below.
He said the cost of those machines is great without considering the income of the businessman therefore if the government has an interest in reaching an agreement, to give those machines for free people.
"There are small business people (machinga) who have spread different streets of Karikaoo against the law, guards who have been given the job of kuwaondoa they are given bribes and leaving so our businesses will not tire because they sell products outside our shops," said Mister.
Tinyango.
He said the government has been unable to remove those opposed to those who their businesses are planning outside their shops and they don't pay taxes, something that contributes to the use of those machines.
With Mister.
Winston Hemba said it has come during the government to speed up the discussion between them and TRA as well as to get a jawabu to make sure that machinga, they are removed quickly.
Some of the business people in that area seemed to not know anything after getting to their business areas and found a lot of shops have been closed and they are forced to get into strike fearing violence as they will open and seen the traitors.
Different people who came to Kariakoo looking for different needs and found many shops have been closed, they asked the government through TRA, to see the importance of doing a joint session with business people so as to finish the difference that are available.
Mister.
Lucas Matata, a resident of Kibaha, Coast Province, said the closure of some of those shops especially medicine is a violation of human rights.
On his side, the acting director of services and education to the taxpayer of TRA, Diana Masalla said they have had talks between them and the leaders of the government thus any time they will give a statement on the government stand.
The police force Kikosi cha Kutuliza Ghasia (FFU), strengthened security in many estates of Kariakoo with firearms and bombs in tears to strengthen security.
The police commander of Kipolisi Ilala Province were looking for them from the morning to speak about the whole issue of security in Kariakoo streets, his phone was being received by his assistant who claims the commander talking with other phones.
October this year, traders in Mbeya Province have made demonstrations to be studied for those machines where the situation caused the big violence.
The police force in that province, that was forced to ban tears in order to prevent those businessmen who should not make a meeting that aimed at opposing the use of those machines.
Violence like those have also happened the day before yesterday in Songea province in Ruvuma province where traders have been opposed to those machines and claimed that they bothers them and sold them at a great price.
Those businessmen said they weren't ready to use those machines because they are aiming to suppress them, kuwakomesha them without fundamental reasons and wants the old system to continue the country.


