
Etihad "beats the" Sokoine

On September 18, 2016, 2016.

Etihad Airways, with its headquarters in the United Arab Emirates at the end of the week has helped the Sokoine jogging center, Tanzania located in Temeke District, Dar es Salaam city.
Etihad has won three awards for the quality of air services for this year, has given sports equipment, after some of its employees participating in friendly matches and different games that took place at Uhuru Stadium, Dar es Salaam.
More than 90 children of that center, many of them from age between 10 to 14 years they attended the friendly match involving football games for boys and netball for girls.
The Bonanza that was built to strengthen unity and health to the youth.
The Sokoine sports center of Sokoine Club was started on August 20, 2014 with the aim of helping youths of 7 years to 15 to benefit from sports and exercises to run away.
While thanking the organization, the founder of the center, Felix Kauta Massawe said, "we are grateful for receiving this great support from Etihad.
These devices will help us in our daily activities here at the station.
He added, our sports station has approximately 120 students who need important equipment in the training we give, this is not only how we help them to get sports education but also improve health through sports and exercise they are paid. "
Speaking about the donation, the coordinator of marketing and sales of Etihad Airways in the country, Grace Kijo said, we believe that by helping these youths we are preparing the nation of youths with power and we are expected to help and sponsor more on sports stations and other events like this for the foreseeable future.
He said that organization, limedhamiria to help and bring change to the community where makes its activities.
"Our sincere contribution to shirikia this is to ensure that it helps the efforts that were started to bring sustainable development in the community and improve the lives of the community, including education to children and enable their lives, he said.


