
Madaba has ordered the audit shops of medicine drugs.

It was written by Muhidin Amri, Madaba Madaba.

It has been published: 14 December 2016.

The executive director of the Madaba District Council in Songea district, Songera Mpenda has directed the chief physician of that council, Doctor Mustafa Minister to conduct a regular inspection in the shops of private people in order to identify the shops that sell government medicine.

Moreover, he has urged them to ban all the shops that will be known to sell drugs that have been given time for use and take action against its owners so as to stop the behavior of those businessmen who are collaborating with the staff of the health department to steal government medicine.
Mpenda has given that order when he was inspecting various cargo of drugs which are bought by the health department, that will be distributed to the clinic and all health centers together with the renovation of a special room for storage medicine at Madaba Health Center.
According to her, health department has a legal responsibility to ensure that every owner of the medicine shop is focusing on the law, regulations and procedures that are available by selling medicine right for human consumption and to avoid selling drugs that are supposed to be in the clinic, health centers and government hospitals.
He said that action will help save the lives of citizens who are a major economic pillar, because without good health there is no job of production that can be done, something that is dangerous to the economy of that council.
He said, some owners of shops have a dirty game to sell drugs that were expired, something that can contribute to poverty because the citizens buy those drugs are unable to be warned and causing a citizen to use another amount of money to buy medicine that could take them in another service.
The chief physician of that council, Doctor Mustafa Minister said that for now, he is proud to see in the clinic and all health centers in Madaba region there is no huge shortage of medicine.
Madaba District Council has 14 clinics, of 10 governments and four of the religious institutions together with three health centers, among those two houses of Madaba and relationships have been owned by the government and one is owned by the Catholic Church.


