TANESCO holds the theft of the phone Sep 12, 2013, 2013.

The government is losing billions of shillings every month due to rigging being done through mobile phones across the country, Raia Mwema has been informed.

The investigation that was done by Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) for the towers used by the Tigo phone company alone in Dar es Salaam city has revealed a loss of approximately four billion shillings.

The towers at the moment is run by the international company known by Helios Towers Tanzania (HTT) which was sold to the towers by TIGO, in 2010.

According to the documents that this newspaper got from TANESCO, due to the success that is getting in the initial investigations, now the organization will make the audit of the towers of all the phone companies that conduct its work here in the country.

The investigation that was done by TANESCO was due to the news that was found earlier that a lot of phone companies are stealing electricity through the towers and thus evade paying the real expenses required.

A citizen Mwema has seen the documents from the team that performed the investigation from July 10 this year due to the order of doing so released one day before and the acting director general of TANESCO, Felchesm Mramba.

In addition to other things, Raia Mwema has been told that the team of experts was ordered to investigate if there is that theft, it is happening, in which way and cost that TANESCO has lost due to the theft.

"The investigation of TANESCO revealed that although the record that were shown that there are 259 of Tigo, we noted that there are 363 towers which are 104 towers of the record that we have.

"15 percent of all towers inspected the problems.
That is the same as the number of 56 towers.
There was the towers that you killed the real price, the poor towers and the one that is not even in our record.

"The towers that were inspected is the one that the electricity meters have been suspended that do not read the real costs, which is closed as a governor speed so that they shouldn't read the procedures and other things.
Indeed, it is a situation that we really encouraged considering that the phone companies and its partners are international, "said one source of this newspaper which participated in the investigation.

According to the report of the investigation, the towers that was closed in Temeke district is the one that was affected by rigging more whereby a loss caused is more than shillings.
1.5. while Ilala follows by causing a loss of one billion shillings and followed by two districts of kimkoa of TANESCO in Dar es Salaam which are South Kinondoni and Kinondoni North which caused a loss of shillings.
425 million and 720 million shillings.

Speaking to this newspaper about the report of TANESCO, the relations officer of Tigo Tanzania, Amani Nkurlu said their company is not involved in anything about the towers because it is run by HTT and they are using only communication.

"We have not been given information by TANESCO about that but I think that they needed to answer is HTT who basically the ones who drive.
We, we gave them that work to run the towers so we have to take force in other areas, "he said.

According to the internet reports on internet, HTT paid Tigo an amount of 80 million American dollars in December 2010 for selling the towers.

HTT is part of the Helios Towers company, Africa (HTA) which is doing business to run the phone towers in three African countries which are Tanzania, Ghana and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).

July this year, the mobile phone company Vodacom, selling its communication towers to the company of HTT where his payments were being given 24.5 percent of the Helios shares.

Vodacom is the biggest communications company in Tanzania and it was owning its towers 1149 in the whole country.

The Helios Towers website, Africa explains that the company owns 4700 phones in Africa and has officially started work in 2009.

However, Helios is opposed to the allegations of TANESCO.
Through his spokesperson, Michael Magambo, HTT has denied doing any actions of stealing or kuchakachua electricity of TANESCO.

"We have information and the investigation of TANESCO.
However, we have told them that there are things they do not watch well.
They have done again inspection and I think they have a different report now.
It is possible to nyie you have a report of the past, "he said.

According to Magambo, bso for the payment of electricity that is paid by HTT for TANESCO every month reaches one billion shillings every month and that it has been paid without problems.


