These are the one who represented Simba and Yanga October 06, 2016 by our writer, entertainment & sports.

The game of the old rivals teams in the country - Simba and Yanga has ended at the end of the week with a draw of 1-1, while the game with confusion many outside and inside the stadium.

The battle that was played at the National Stadium, was witnessed various things occurring and doing those teams now to be locked up using that stadium for some time due to the destruction of infrastructure that was done by the fans of those teams.

Despite the game that in the state of violence, but Raia Mwema, it went on the field for the sake of serving the game and you earn a mix squad of the players of those teams that did well.

Vincent Angban (Simba) - Mlinda this door a citizen of Ivory Coast showed the great stability on his goal by being able to air well on his defense column all the time of the game.
Despite Simba, playing with nine people on the field after their captain Jonas Mkude being given a red card, but Angban was able to ask the team and make sure it gets a 1-1 draw.

Janvier Bokongu (Simba) - before the game this former defender of TP Mazembe Club, seemed he will be waya in that area due to the pace of Yanga players, but Bokongu showed his ongwe and stand up well.

The guard was able to face Yanga striker, Juma Mahadhi who was scheduled on his side and there was a while planting forward to raise the attacks.

Mohamed Hussein "Tshabalala - (Simba) - every time comes from one game to another defender kinda is showing maturity when it comes to big games.

Tshabalala, whoever is involved in the strength and the defender of Yanga, Haji Mwinyi Mngwali, was able to make the whole of Yanga striker, Deus Kaseke who is among the dangerous players of Yanga who also made a lot of opportunities for strikers Donald Ngoma and Ammis Tambe.

Andrew Vicent "Dante - (Yanga) - Dante who entered the second half to take the position of Kelvin Yondani" Vidic, "who had one yellow card came to strengthen security together with Vicent Bossou.

Dante, who signed up from Mtibwa Sugar, came to make great revolution on the second half ka to save the top ball to fill the lower balls.

Method Mwanjali (Simba) - this guard king onto the old man with old Siha, attained well his responsibilities by standing well by Donald Ngoma of Yanga, which all times bothers Simba's guards.
Despite Mwanjali having the responsibility to protect, but the other time he went ahead to help the attacks.

Mbuyu Twite (Yanga) - Twite who is a kiraka squad that he played the Portuguese mid-fielder for stopping the front of four defenders and to protect.
I gave him this opportunity because of the way it had to manage his duties and pass that he made by Amissi Tambwe.
The one was the pass of its kind.

Mwinyi Kazimoto (Simba) - Kazimoto who played the mid-fielder and there is a time when he comes to the middle to help the attacks, he is the Simba player who led by the madhambi in the match.

After Mkude being given a red card, Kazimoto came out of officially helping each other and Muzamiru Yasin and were able to control the location of the middle of the stadium.

Thaban Kamusoko (Yanga) - this citizen of Zimbabwe has been one of the waringiti of Simba to get victory on his recent games against Yanga.

The former mid-fielder of FC Platnum of Zimbabwe was in his best by joining the team well in the area of the mid-fielder and attacking them.

Ammis Tambwe (Yanga) - there is one thing of the foundation about the skillful attackers.
They don't have mercy and it is individuals.

People can say about Tambwe to touch the ball before the closing.
But, if it was in Thierry Henry in the past and the washambualiji others, Tambwe was not able to stop fasting because he was in touch the ball before.

The way he asked the ball and gave the net on the right, the Angban showed the way he was vibrant in finishing.
This is the ninth number of obsolete.

Ibrahim Ajib (Simba) - If there is a player whose talent doesn't have a doubt here in the country at the moment then that is Ajib.
By comparing with Donald Ngoma of Yanga, Ajib at least beat himself.

He scored a goal that was rejected by the referee and all the times he tried to do things that were put on the defense column of Yanga in a difficult time.

Shiza Kichuya (Simba) - you cannot want this game without mentioning this name of this mid-fielder who signed up at the beginning of this season coming from Mtibwa Sugar.


