I will still make you know of a marriage period of a marriage he is thinking especially especially.
It is a woman who today is proud of great success as it was able to observe quickly, this mother has succeeded and had a house to face two to get the need to get the need to get the need to get the need to
He knows which has been surrounded by the great Garden
But likewise he has livestock.
Ng'ombe cows).
A goat.
And the bata is eating it.
And moreover, he has blessed us that he was being uga pigs, but only workers have recovered.
And he has a great children to make sure that one of these houses are made
It has to be done.
In our country of Tanzania?
Great success, maybe I should be reminded to deny that it is a woman who started ungetulia but the very common one is a mother who had been employed.
Posta and phone as he said and after eating a salary income is not sufficient to start performing with entrepreneurship Mdogomdogo, he started putting up the house of his normal house that he was living in his life.
Today.
Even a plot and he has succeeded in a big way we are waiting for what is we wait for.
Ye has two headlines he does not have many more legs for you that he does not have many more legs.
But it is a very common human being if you have talked about the very basic stuff that you have talked about.
We said if it is a topic.
Which is a place that many of us when we ignore but that is how
The things that they need to change in the business displine business.
Discipline in the business if you make sure that there is nothing to ask the one to monitor starts you can work today, tomorrow fans, a sister didn't do that at work in the morning when he woke up on the morning at the stalls and you are ever at work, another thing discipline in use that you are not getting a little thing that you use is to be that you can never be.
He has listed a lot of things I think and you were keen to listen to them so that you will be able to work on your side and you will be able to move forward we are very proud of a lot of the sister ale that we believe in a few years in the future, we will be able to have a lot of luck in all that which I have heard of so that I have heard of them in order for all those that I have not heard in order for all those that I have not heard in order for all those that I have not heard in order for all those that I have heard so it will be able to take a step now, it will not only be able to reach it to the right and on the left yakatoka here he is taking action so that you can bring change to our economic change, that is why we have said that we will have to help those who will help those who will be able to help those who are very much possible for looking for our past and as we say now we will help those who will help those who will be able to help those who are very happy for looking for our
Want to try and we want us to try for a bit that we will give them if you know our first place is for the small business people and we know if you can't I will not be able to attain that we should be able to attain that we should
And you will serve the analysis you will use in our number
Then these we will contact us for you will be on the side of writing the analysis of what is understood to be understood.
I was confused that would be our by kuipiga down because our aim is to help people cannot move forward and he struggled to write your good analysis was the mark you can't now come to try and we believe that you can't believe that you will be able to give you that you can't give you that you can't give you that you can't give you that you will give you to you.
Procedures that have been placed in means to write the process your analysis and be able to use them praise the reputation.
The criteria and conditions to be considered very thank you to meet next week to meet the next week.
