AHH again directly at the work that he has risen to the family can come to the family.
So much every time that I can remember is impossible and we also do the first thing to do and we like it is with a car spokesperson but David at all and you work together I have seen your number of every phrase number of every phrase.
It is very true to come to the beginhes that is what I can say the first clean up is not mi I do that I started and he remembered it and he remembered it and he remembered it.
We have done on a movie practice in groups in the mouth, a goalkeeper we live as but we cannot succeed that you love and remember one day there is one brother called Adam to form a lot of cassava and not get to the squad and if you get to the squad and the squad and you don't know how to change the squad and the squad and you don't know how to
He told me to say they have done shooting and we like things you want to go to see him I told him torati to eat so that he will go through we went to get them and we found it was different from where we
Of the other one they were doing.
Every mpalestina Mwakifamba Mwakifamba.
Peace, I heard that there is a secret that it is possible that it does not have a person every time they choose a bad person does not have a lot of fans because they should not have a request that sunday against them to persevere there is how to come.
I didn't every first time to play I was like support support.
The support was a doctor was called Regina
The Job is done, he has made the vilinifanya I would like to participate from starting from the
I will be in the December.
The first and then the one that comes to not be able to rise up with a problem when I did work.
Several which is the law, the mother still don't know the debt or sa is a hundred
They don't make it then is there and they are not.
Nelly we are engaged in and when it happened there.
There only to be able to sit kukusudia.
He's not going to be able to install it.
The journey there is a period we have done two and the second one to take place at the state house at work at the same time sister's sister.
A sister I am a writer and instead of
If you find a inopa I was I want to cook like that a circle when I mentioned it was my because it is people who have noticed while wakijiita the fees of fees that as a sister and I read I see that here is a little bit of that car kind of car.
The same news for that is the same when I give him the first one that I am writing and I write this movie but the first one you are looking for sadly I have been looking for him to watch the music he does not speak to when he hadn't been able to do it.
Then I finished sauri uri.
We have been preparing out between them.
I will be grateful for them tomorrow we will be grateful.
From home because of going until he was recognized as I don't want to know.
What is the challenge you face with you face.
That because he was sick that is determined that you ask if it is a sister of work, a company is still his sister has not put me what he wants you to do because he is writing.
How it is supposed to read it read.
Kitatu passing it is required to know that if you add one of you then I have told him if we have seen this too, the oldest bongo movie, there are different words and previously exactly as well as it is where I am calling you, you know that the other people have been used to let me know that the other people of Bongo movie, who are used to let me know the person is coming to you said that the other people of the movie of Bongo, who are used to let me know the person is coming to you said that the other people of Bongo movie who are used to let me know it is but he cannot get a charger for praising only the way we should not be able to destroy the words when we go to the boy and to compete with the number of the neighborhood to come and tell them they want another one who did not have a number of the neighborhood to come and tell them they want another one who did not have a number of neighbors to come.
Now, if you want to have a good person and here you should not be taken care of at the title if you want to inspire ehhe is a lot of brave.
It is good if you get what has been written on at the
Because in making it to understand the title they are using is not much easier that is, maybe the one that he has and he is prepared he is facing himself when we are doing that we are in the ICU right then and they came to increase their words now, that we are not being able to register this thing. I do not say yet because and I should do it because he wrote it to be one thing that right as everyone else but he had already written that he would be running for several steps and then he would not be able to do that one week now as a lot of the house so far as I could have been tired of such a good payment.
But at the end of the day, I remember that you wanted the best thing to embee the cities of us hii ni they said chupa to be like our company Task force of umauti because we won't go back to the brother we should have heard it was after that everything was going to be just like that everything was going to be just like that everything was going just like that everything was going to be just like that everything was going to be like
We urge others who were here inside I am told pakajimmy baada ya
