Now in heading to the end of the broadcast to look at how much and it has been talking about physical fever but also and spiritual provider for free health services and so that we have to talk about how you are treated then I ask him about a lot and a better diet.
Often it has been Wasabato mnatazama that it is people who are
We see it hurt Wasabato even their foods.
They eat foods that are not eating good food and electricity there is a short relationship.
Among the diet and the Mabwana spiritual.
Even kibiblia because the reason Wasabato all over the world are not here just the Wasabato you see to keep it is Sabato.
Kuchati when they are not in charge of the buibui
The service of though food can be found that you have five thousand tribe eighty but seems to be jimama twenty
At the end of it.
Human beings have a lot of things inside his ears has a spiritual state he has a body and also too.
Someone who is sick can't you can't.
He stay almost well became in the spiritual things and that is why the church of Wasabato is encouraging about the overall health of total health.
A total of a total of police.
Because, a human being when he is planning the health of the person depends on food that he is eating a lot of example, maybe he is eating a lot of things from if or tubaki we will get a lot of the committee that is proposing that we are not able to understand things only so that we are hoping.
Doctors have committed to men, sir, issues as a grandfather as to carry we finished the secretary ready to give it to the secretary ready to give us to the
And by that way now, the person will make the unk that is the good and the good health has ideas.
Even that your ability to understand the difficulty because Mister
Now that the ability to diagnose when you are okay.
That's even his relationship with God's God.
For those that are charged with ilo to make a person to have faith that if we are able to do his ishu that and his relationship with other people also tabora choose he is leaving a good or they use his speech or they are using his speech.
They explained about the food and they asked me very well.
Presenter Clark word of God, I have been trained to clear this is done by adventista Wasabato, is that we are teaching and many other denominations as you said now, it is currently other users of close, but yesterday if you read the word well in the issues of the twelve chapters and even in the new Agano word of God has been following very taught. The top of mi, a human being ale with me and God has been very careful from the beginning in singing to choose a human being, a food that is being taught by the women to get dirty pictures now that we look at the side of the newspapers in the newspapers before maintained that I have been given to them and the Mabibi of getting dirty pictures now that we look at the
Well not well) well.
