
The female children will be able to discover consciousness.

It was written by Kareny Masasy, Kahama Kahama.

It has been published: 11 October 2016.

The secretary general of the ministry of health, community development, gender, elderly and children, Sihaba Nkinga has urged female children at the school to start consciousness, to avoid sexual temptations that will make them continue to be poor.

He said that you get pregnant while they are still masomoni will be unable to continue with his lack of employment in this country with the policy of the establishment of industries and remain being employed to one group which is men.
He said that the day before yesterday at the female children conference during the commemoration of the Girl Child Day which took place in Kahama district, Shinyanga province in the secondary school.
Organized by the international organization of Save Children.
Nkinga said the female children have a responsibility to protect himself and leave them, sexual and will realize why they don't know their rights because they don't know they will avoid the disaster of poverty being in the country continues to have the economy of industries and needed scholars to get employment.
"With you and you have a responsibility to protect yourself, achaneni and sexual, greed, you realize and understand your rights, right now we are heading to the economy of the female children that do not want to leave the male children alone they should be in factories because they will have gone," he said.
The United Nations Agency to address the population (UNFPA), has been estimated to be in the next ten years girls are expecting that they have been married under 18 years in the whole world, and the data of the National Bureau of Statistics show in Shinyanga province is leading by 59 percent of childhood marriages.
The education officer of Shinyanga province, Mohamed Kahundi said the female children should be required to stop the chipers not by chicken because they missed and protect them they will arrive their goals.


