
SUMATRA-CCC warned the passengers being stopped at buses buses.

October 12, 2016 2 2, 2016 2.

The Advisory Council of the consumer services of Nchikavu and Sea (SUMATRA CCC) have warned the behavior of some of the drivers of the buses parking passengers more than the number of chairs because it contributes the insurance companies to fail to compensate passengers when the road accidents come from.
Also, he has advised the existence of a special tool that will be harrated to the treatment of passengers who will have received road accidents so as to ease the trouble, especially those who do not know the law to claim their compensation immediately after they recover.
Speaking to Majira Dar es Salaam yesterday, the education officer of Sumatra CCC, Nicholous Kinyariri said that the passenger act to allow the driver parking passengers more than the number of chairs that are located in the transport tool that uses it and they stopped getting their rights of compensation as soon as an accident.
He said there are some drivers and conductors of buses have had a habit of filling passengers to continue a number of chairs, a situation that helps passengers to lack their rights for failing to be compensated.
"So as passengers can be compensated by the insurance kapuni when it comes to the road accidents, it is a must the owner of the tool to give information to the insurance company that he was on his bus within 24 to 48 hours and more than that right will be lost, so the passengers failed to be compensated by the insurance and the responsibility to remain with the one with the bus," he said.
He said that the Sumatrer CCC is the vessel with the responsibility of defending the users of buses, it should be understood that the law is not allowed to the owner, the driver or onders will be forced to stop passengers on the bus and who will be denied legal action will be eaten against him.
In addition, he said the traffic law used is for a long time since the year 1973, so there is a need for the government to make the replay so that it can go hand in hand with the current situation in line with the current situation in line with them and enable them to punish passengers who will be standing on the bus, the owner will allow his car to change the passengers as well as the driver and the driver will be in the bus.
While explaining about the presence of a special tool that will be harrated for treatment to passengers who will have gotten an accident on the road, he said there are some injured for not knowing their rights have been lost their rights of being overwhelmed.


