
Shein added ZSSF to build modern houses for modern houses.

It has been written by the special writer, Zanzibar.

It has been published: 06 October 2016.

The president of Zanzibar and the chairperson of Revolutions Council, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein has commended the efforts that are done by the Zanzibar Social Security Fund (ZSSF), to run development projects with productivity, including modern houses in Mbweni area.

Doctor Shein said, within six years of his leadership, ZSSF has done well by starting several projects including the construction of the grounds of playing for children in Kariakoo, Unguja and Tibirinzi Pemba, the construction of the 50 year anniversary tower, together with the construction of the train building which will begin next month.
In his explanation, when he visited the project of Mbweni the day before yesterday, Doctor Shein said that the construction of modern houses has a great benefit and will have a house 252 among three rooms, two and four.
Previously, the executive director of that fund, Abdulwakil Haji Hafidh told Doctor Shein that the construction of 18 buildings on the floor is expected to be completed at the end of the year 2018 and is expected to cost 43 billion shillings.
The director explained that the project will have 18 buildings on seven floor which will be built for three different phases, where the construction of five buildings with 70 houses.
He explained that in the previous step, the organization has used eight billion shillings where the construction of 55 houses is going on and have already got buyers who are joining them with contracts.
Hafidh explained that the project of Mbweni at the beginning was planned for the purpose of citizens with low incomes and below, and will be sold between 168 million shillings to 249 million shillings, but it has been noted that many people do not manage, therefore the fund has decided to build low income in Tunguu area.
He noted that the first phase of the project which includes the construction of five floor, will end April next year and followed by the construction of another eight floor in the second phase and in the third phase construction of the remaining floor.
He explained that they have already started looking for buyers who have visited different parts of the inside and outside, for advertising while explaining that those houses will have areas of important services including shops and big modern hall.
The director said that deliberate efforts have been done in ensuring the construction of those houses, becomes more stable under the construction company "Dezo Civil Construction Limited with its headquarters in Dar es Salaam.
While giving explanations while walking on the construction of those houses, the planning manager, investment and research of Social Security Fund, Zanzibar, Khalifa Muumin Hilal, assured President Shein that the houses are stable.


