
The names of the richest 4 people in Tanzania.

The biggest economy of the United Republic of Tanzania depends on more agriculture for approximately 25 percent of GDP and 85 percent Exports.
Moreover, Tanzania has minerals as gold, diamond, coal, coal,

Tanzania has created a lot of rich rich, and these are four big according to Forbes magazine.
And these mamaires have ended up that everything is possible, and everyone is blessed to be rich so that the project just put up the effort in his work and carefully keen on his work and carefully.

4) Reginald Mengi - value: $560 Million.

Mr. Reginald Mengi is the owner of one of the biggest companies that owns the Media Media Group, with 11 newspapers, stesheni of radio and TV and internet networks.

3) Said Salim Bakhresa - Thamani: $575 Million Million.

His age is 65 years, I ay eye started himself up until there.
This businessman has started Azam TV, with a system to pay for the TV channel of East Africa.
He left the school with 14 years and started taking care of Mix (Urojo) and later to open a small restaurant and then moving to the business of agriculture produce.
In the past mine, he has added its sales for 750 million American dollars, and making Bakhresa Group to be one of the largest companies in East Africa because with more than 5,000 employees and more focus on the products of drinks and food, loading of products, ferry and petrol services and transportation.

2) Rostam Azizi - Thamani: $1 Billion.

Rostam Azizi is the first rich from Tanzania.
On the month of May 2014, he sell his 17% that he had owning the Vodacom company.
Similarly, he has intellectual property company, Caspian Mining, which is involved in the pastoral of minerals in a big company as BHP Billiton and Barrick Gold.
The Caspian Mining company also owns a large part of the land with the possibility of having minerals as punishment, metals and bronze here in Tanzania.
In addition, Rostam has shares in Dar es Salaam Port where he is together with Hutison Whampoa and he has intellectual land part of the big land here in Tanzania, Dubai, Oman and Lebanon.

1) Mohammed Dewji - Net yenye thamani ya: $1.3 Billion Billion.

He is 40 years old, and that is younger than 50 rich of all Africa for a series of 3 years now, he has intellectual 75% of the METL Group, concerned with industries in the country that was started by his father.
Good about Mohammed Dewji was punished the house of doing the purchase of agricultural products to be a production factory.


