
The port games continue to blossom Tanga Tanga.

It was written by Anna Makange, Tanga Tanga.

It has been published: 18 December 2016.

The Dar es Salaam Port soccer team has round a defeat of 3-0 to their colleagues of the headquarters in the competition that is going to kick off at the Tanga Secondary School grounds in the city.

The game that took place yesterday had a great opposition and the teams were gone on vacation without getting a goal that caused the second half to start fast.
Bandari Dar es Salaam started by taking part of their headquarters at the headquarters of the headquarters and writing the first goal in 47 minutes through Sigifridi Kikoti who used the laziness of the defenders of the headquarters to score the goal.
That goal was raised in the headquarters of the headquarters and started planning afresh so as to be standing on the attacks at the port at the port of Dar es Salaam without success.
Bandari Dar es Salaam have not been complacent with heavy attacks on the goal of their opponents and to write a second goal through Note Ngongota who took a stern shot that won the door to the headquarters and filled the net.
Ngonota wrote again the third goal for his team after beating the defender of their opponents and kudumbukiza the ball inside the opponents of the opponents in the basketball game, Tanga Port continued to give a defeat to the teams participating in the games this year after being denied without mercy on the port of Mtwara port for a reduction of 88-26.
Moreover, Dar es Salaam Port team emerged with a win of 50-47-47 against the headquarters where until half of the port Dar es Salaam was behind 27-19.
On the side of the netball game, Tanga Port team has continued to give a dose to teams participating in the tournament after beating Mtwara with 43-16 goals and in another game, Dar es Salaam Port scored 36-13 goals.

In the games of kuvuta kamba that was played yesterday morning and in the evening, Mtwara men and women were selling their colleagues from the lake region by 2-0, where in Dar es Salaam soccer match was forced to draw 1-1 by the lake region.


