
TRA collected Trilioni 1.37 / = in September September.

It was written by Mroki Mroki Mroki Mroki.

It has been published: 05 October 2016.

Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) has collected 1 trillion shillings in September this year and made money collected in the three months of the new financial year of 2016 / 2017 to reach 3.59 trillion shillings.

Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam city, the director of services and education to the taxpayer, Richard Kayombo has said that the aim was scheduled to be collected in September was shillings Trilioni 1.4.
Kayombo said for this financial year, TRA has set goals to collect taxes shillings 1 trillion shillings from its various sources in order to achieve the government's goals in serving the citizens.
"The month of Agpsti tulifed to collect a sum of 1 trillion shillings, so you will be able to see how we have been denied the collections of the last two months of July and August by attaining 1.37 trillion shillings," said Kayombo.
He said the collection of the government's revenue goes hand in line with educating the citizens about their duty to pay the correct tax and at the same time.
The transporters of goods to the provinces are encouraged to claim the receipts of EFDs when they buy goods and they have when they are transporting goods so as to avoid trouble when they are required to show those receipts.
In another step, the authority urged the importers of goods outside the country by using the customs system of TANCIS every time to follow up on the reports of loading of their products in order to avoid fraud of any kind.
Kayombo said that a businessman when he uses the TANCIS system can monitor its load easily and to know all the steps that his burden was at the end of tax payment and everything up to reach.
"For those who ordered vehicles are advised to get information reports that they deserve to pay before vehicles have not been gone so as to avoid complaints of any kind when their expectations," said Kayombo.
Regarding the verification of the taxpayer identification number (TIN) has already recovered and giving new certificates of TIN 15,467 since the start of the work in August this year.
"Having remained nine days to finish the exercise of verification and improvement of the identification of the taxpayer identification (TIN) to the provinces of Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar, already the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) has recovered and giving new certificates of TIN 15,467," said Kayombo.
The exercise of being reviewed by the improvement of the TIN information is going on until October 15, this year in the office of the authority and urged the citizens who are TIN to come out and verify before the time set up the TIN which will not be removed from the TIN system of TRA.


