
Friday, September 12, 2014, 2014.

Things that can be attracted to a man to the Mwenzi - 2 - 2.

We saw in the past article that a man needs a lot to be recognized his ability.
You don't have a reason to tell the man you love me.
The language of love that he is understood more is to be standardized his ability.
In line with this first, we saw the man he has hunger of honor.
Respect is to obey him and to stahi even when he's in the language, the words and behavior.

Pictures: Citifmonline.com .com.

In this article, we complete another four praises that he needed a man for his month which is basically what he needs to be expected for a month.

He needs the freedom, the privacy, the privacy.

Freedom and privacy for sure is contrary to what the women are needed as we will see in future.
But for a man, the fact is that he needs to see a person with freedom to do things he is happy without being told another of the difference is supposed to make.

For example, if your husband loves the ball, the truth is that he desires for the Ushirikino.
If you can strive to enjoy the ball you touches his heart in a different way.
Anything he wouldn't want to make your husband during his extra time, Mpe a chance to be without him to get involved except when it is a must.

If he has the things he would like and do not destroy your life, jiunge him.
If they do not make it possible, the Mpe freedom to love her things.
You don't have a reason, for example, to make him achane with his friends if they don't affect your relationship.
You don't have a reason to make him leave to go to the areas he would like to do that he didn't like the side effects.
The Mpe a chance to be free.

Meanwhile, freedom goes hand in hand with the needed privacy.
Basically, as a woman, other hours you are interested in knowledge every time he is doing your husband.
You need to know his communication, he has talked to who, he has been divorced and who is known and who if possible you know every nukta of his ideas.
Maybe you can't even be convinced to investigate on the secret.

However, for many men, this matter hendezi.
Men are peace to have a chance to do their things without being charged.
They don't like to see the wakinyang off the right to have the privacy.

If you are interested in having a relationship that was built in the foundation of being aminiana, you do not want to believe in order for his willingness to allow him to interfere with his privacy life.
As he is believing that is how he is able to hand over the freedom that you are seeking for you without bringing the mtaruku.

Mbinindividuals who are interested in the body.

Although human beings have to be selfish in the background, but the selfish of the man continues to be the one of the woman.
The common man you don't think about him more and his needs.
Sometimes even at times that aileti means to think about himself, it is easy for a man to put himself.

This state of praising himself first, has a relationship with his own Maumbile.
God has made up the man in his eyes.
Greed when it ruled the knowledge of a man, normally, selfish are born.

Except in the environment that a man has changed his soul, when he says he loves most of the time he is thinking about his physical needs.
He is thinking about your physical qualities that can meet its greed.
This situation is different for women.

If you want to be attracted to a man, make sure it is going to be attracted physical.
Fahamu is attractive and struggled to be staying in the way he expected.
The big offense they are doing a lot of women are to be forgotten when they are married.
When you forget to continue to be too burnt before marriage, you are being involved in the selfish man.

He does not want to see him he is required for me.

As a continuation of the authority we see that it is the essence of unume, the normal man desires to feel that he is still required.
The man desires to see that things didn't love without him.

Men are being amined by the community, friends age and sometimes through the actions of their father themselves that they will be uzi of problems.
And by the way this faith is based on the mind of a man, we say the man believes it is the will of the problems we don't know at the uhalisi.
The man likes to be the answer to all things.

Any attempt to show a man that even if he does not do it, even if he does not do anything, even if you do not give any idea, there is nothing that will welcome you to make him 'sabotage' relationships.
To make him feel that you are not needed, there is affecting his own performance (ego) and can be the beginning of problems.

Even if it is true you have grown up an income, you have grown up wisdom, you have grown up understanding that under him and the mwaminishe that he is required.
The man when the sun is required to be encouraged to love.
You do not make a mistake to make him feel he has been born.

He does not like to be changed to be changed.

Every human does not like to feel there is a person in place has a plan to change.
Often when we feel we are changed, we feel good enough.
If the defensive efforts, most of the time relationship with that one who try to change is affected.

For a man, a state of repisikia to be understood when he is ohisi his partner wants to be changed is bigger.
For a man it is a criminal crime when it is discovered there is his vitabia unakazana to change.
The man when he knows you changed, he considers himself as a person who lost his authority.
He couldn't accept it easily.

It is true that there are things that you feel is important to ayabadilishe.
For example, friends that ompetezea his time who could use it with family, maybe he has no inspiration and issues of faith, maybe it is a job he does or certain behavior that are era.
You should not try to show the intention to change.

If you want a man to follow the ones that you want to do, you accept it because he and should know that you have received without conditions.
Accepted is the motivation to change.
That's the rules.
When your husband knows as well as his weaknesses has not yet accepted that he has, changing is the issue of time.

Twitter: @ bwaya.

It has been written by it.

The Christian Bwawani of charge.


