Scandal of the World Cup in Brazil Jun 21, 2014, 2014.

June 12, this year the football competition to contest for the world cup was opened in the capital city of Brazil, Suhamaso Paulo and is expected to continue until July 13.
The whole world unakodolea eyes and discuss these matches for inspiration and nonsense, while international companies are marrying billions of profit due to this incident.

Media stations have been denied to announce these matches.
Kisichotannounced so much is news about the citizens of Brazil who for a long time now have been struggling with the police and soldiers who use every type of weapons, the bombs of tears, shot, grunedi and so on to prevent demonstrations that were accompanied by the world cup.
These anger started last year and have continued until the opening day when thousands of protesters gathered outside the stadium.
While the audience were prepared to enter the field, the citizens of Brazil were condemning the way the 14 billion dollars was eliminated in building 14 stadiums.

The government has organized 57,000 soldiers and 100,000 police who have been surrounded by the soccer fields together with the hotels of the players and their exercises.
His results the whole city of Sao Paulo has turned into the field of war.
It suspected one billion dollars will be used in defense and security however, demonstrations have continued across the country.
The military have been using the bombs of tears and ammunition but they failed to prevent the citizens angry.
Instead, they caused two protesters and three journalists injured on the opening day.
Anger should be climbed by citizens, they are forced to use stones to protect themselves, while singing "FIFA tokeni in our country."

These anger have been caused by several things, along with skandali accompanied by these finals.
For example, Minas Arena have been given the right to own the Minerao field for a period of 25 years.
They claim that they have invested 300 million dollars in the building.
But what is required to be 180 million out of those were given as a loan from the government bank of Brazil (BNDES).

That is they used the money for citizens to invest in the project of citizens, then now they want to warudishe their money "for the leasing ground for 25 years this is only one example.
There are other fields which have been built through this way of loans from BNDES Bank.
President, the president of Zanzibar has been born in Brazil has been claiming that the actual cost of building plots is 4 billion dollars, but the real cost is approximately 14 billion dollars which a big part is loans from the public bank.
The citizens have to worry that the money will not be paid, something that has increased their anger is not surprising opinion of the opinion that was done recently, it has shown that 71 percent of the citizens of Brazil are not satisfied.
This is a huge increase from 55 percent last year.
It is because they feel that billions of money spent in the world cup is better zingetused in public services like education and treatment.

The World Cup normally is expected to connect to the citizens of Brazil and provide a picture of development to the world and that time to promote tourism.
Contrary to him, the image that is from there is a nation that is divided racism and the economy does not meet the needs of the community.

Projects that was started, as the sports and infrastructure grounds has cost more money than it is island.
His results the government has entered a loss when a few people have come thinking.

For example, Brasilia has cost three times than it was planned in the budget.
It is because a lot of money have been squandered by a few who have invented the documents showing fake use.
This is a modern field that has been given the name of the famous player, Mané Garrinof who is very loved by the citizens of Brazil.

The year 1983 died in the poor despite his head contribution to the sports field.
His coffin was accompanied by millions of citizens lovers.


