
Each one of us contributes to the state of our country and WANdNdRI KAMAU

The picture of the country is quoted by the existing environment.
Similarly, the national citizen involved is also a great decision on how their life situation will be.
Due to that, I will not be worried to say that Kenya is a good example of the country "with you are in the rundo of rubbish."
Yes, we only model the country inukayo due to the rundis of evil in our community.
The real picture is set up by the malalamishi of citizens from it, on the way to our institutions, especially the authority of the management of cities-in-legconsistency of waste of management and udumification of cleanliness in that towns.
In the past several days, we have see the residents of several towns in the country, complaining about the increase of taka-to the level of even unable to continue with their normal life.
That's clear is that only the community that is suffering.
Our diseases are of the ethics.
For example, despite being given a warning of not running vehicles at the time only walevi, the warning is being taken in place.
The cost of not being responsible while it has to continue to happen to the deaths on the road.
An example of this is an accident that happened in Salgaa area, Nakuru on December 31st last year, where the matineja five lost their lives.
Basically, it was noted first some of the young people were to have lied to their parents that they were heading to church.
And even when the accident doesn't have a immune, they were walevi, along with running the car without licenses.
For me, the accident would be able to be prevented, if the rules should have been followed.
It is not that the young people lost their lives when they were young.
In the book of "adui wa Watu" (Adui of the People), writer Henrik Ibsen anafananisha the conflicts of one town in Norway and not responsible for its managers.
The residents of that town were forced to drink dirty water, as a result of the consistency of the management unit of water services in that town.
Kinaya main is mayor of that town, Peter Stockmann, was in the front line to prevent one newspaper against focusing on those news.
The supervisors even seem to be ready to give a bribe to one doctor in order to not explain the truth about the effects of health that the water would have been with the residents.


