Who is carrying CCM in Mbeya Town next year?
October 11, 2014, 2014.

In the general elections of the year 2010, the Revolutionary Party (CCM) had lost Mbeya Town County in the same environment that caused the region to fall in the NCCR-Mageuzi party, in the general elections of many parties in the year 1995.
Polisya Mwaiseje emerged the winner in the 1995 elections after defeating the CCM candidate, late Bruno Mpangala, while Joseph Mbilinyi emerging the winner in the general elections of 2010.
In all the two elections are members of CCM who contributed to their own party, as a result of groups arising from the candidates, where members are divided while everyone in charge of his candidate.
Among the reasons that we are mentioned to contribute to the anger of the candidates' aides within the party include private interests, many benefit from the candidates, thus the action of their candidate not pening in the primaries are usually and only one means, cease by eating those who got them from their candidate.
However, there is another reason, and it is a step of some of the leaders having their people thus stress to be approved by restriction on the candidates with the power to voters, a step that you get affordable when the "political injured are moved on the second side, the opposition.
Different names are mentioned to vie for that region through the party next year, some include the writer of the Business Times, Charles Mwakipesile, who in the recent years has been close to the party politics in Mbeya region.
However, Mwakipesile admits to confirm that saying the time to announce it still and that right now he has focused on working for the party.
"The time still, now I work for the party," says Mwakipesile when required to talk about his mention in the list of those who showed interest in contesting for that region which is currently one of the main stronghold of CHADEMA in the country.
The member who is in charge of positions as three in the party, including the member of the general meeting of CCM - the nation representing Mbeya Province, a member of the executive council of CCM in Mbeya Province and a member of the political committee of that party, in the province.
Others are who got to be the chairman of CHADEMA in Mbeya district and the parliamentary aspirant twice in Mbeya village, Sambwee Shitambala.
In all the two elections he participated in that he was born with the current member of parliament of CCM, Pastor Lackson Mwanjali.
Failure twice for Shitambala, when CHADEMA is believed to have power in that region against CCM and their candidate, there were causing the division inside the party, while some of its leaders and members applauding openly clearly that he bought so that he bought the CCM candidate.
However, Shitambala and he is not ready to put his intention saying that the time is not appropriate to do so, saying, "I have never announced, I am MNEC, is a party leader, I supervise the ethics of the party."
In addition to not confirmed, the member says when the right time comes people will know whether he will ask me or of, but he cannot stop the citizens mentioning his name and it is possible because of them (citizens) believing that he can.
Shitambala right now is a member of the National Executive Council of CCM in Mbeya town, after joining the CHADEMA from CHADEMA where he was running away from claiming he is tired of racist politics on the basis of the party zone.
Among the open discrimination that is confirmed by the leader includes the issue of special seats and how his former party was directed to youths who send it to the party to announce the party in the district of Mbeya Rural.
Shitambala notes that he had been replaced by being hurt by how women in the province were done, and Indian behavior, violence and not aminiana.
"A fetus stays in the group analofanana, I was not the group," he notes Shitambala being the first time to talk about exactly what he gave CHADEMA.
Anaizungumziaje the position of his party in the next general elections, especially for the Mbeya Town region that was lost after losing by CHADEMA in the last elections.
"Basically CCM is the ones who voted for the candidate of CHADEMA, I know that took place, more than 75 percent of votes drew CCM," notes Shitambala.
The details of Shitambala explains the claims that the presence of leaders and party members to participate in kukihujumu their party as a stranger of their candidate failing in the primaries.
His explanation get more energy from the fact that when he was the leader of CHADEMA and also their candidate for Mbeya Rural constituency, it is clear he understands a lot and he knows many who participated in the party in the 2010 elections.


