President Magufuli aipongeza Kilimanjaro Queens.

It was written by Genofeva Matemu - WHUSM.

It has been published: 21 September 2016.

President Doctor.
John Pombe Magufuli has congratulated the players of the Tanzania Women's soccer team, Kilimanjaro Queens by writing the history of being the first champions of the World Cup Tournament for East Africa and Central Africa (CECAFA Challenge) that took place at the Jinja town in Uganda.

Kilimanjaro Queens has succeeded in taking the Championship after defeating Kenya (Harambee Stanford lets) for 2-1 goals in the final game that took place yesterday on 20th September 2016.
In those congratulations made through the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Moses Nnauye, President Magufuli said that Kilimanjaro Queens has written history which will pay the reputation of the nation and it has raised the morale to the athletes to perform well in competitions.
"Honorable.
Minister Nape Nnauye, I urge you to deliver a lot of congratulations to the players of Kilimanjaro Queens, Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), teachers and leaders of the team together with all stakeholders who contributed to preparing our women's national team which has finally got the championship in this big tournament.
"I'm very pleased with this championship and I urge the players of Kilimanjaro Queens and other athletes here in the country to take this victory as a challenge to increase the effort in our games so that the country should not end to get the championship of Chalenji but also get victory in sports and many other tournaments that are participating" said President Magufuli.
President Magufuli has also requested all of Tanzania to continue supporting athletes and encouraging players because their success are selling the country and have a great contribution in development.
Previously the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Moses Nnauye has congratulated the players of the national women soccer team in Tanzania Mainland, Kilimanjaro Queens on behalf of the government and Tanzanians for the good work that they did up to be the first champions of the Confederation of East African Football Association and Central Africa (CECAFA).
Minister Nnauye has given those congratulations when he spoke to journalists today in Dar es Salaam city.
"If the government is good to commend our Kilimanjaro Queens team to represent well in Tanzania in the CECAFA championships and emerging champions by being able to jump at the tournament," said Nnauye and added: "The government will continue to put enough energy and join our teams to help them make sure they are doing better in different games."
Nnauye has said Tanzania starts to see the fruits of the long-term investment because it was not easy work for Kilimanjaro Queens to reach the finals and be champions by fighting hard teams and being able to win.
Moreover, Nnauye has promised the Kilimanjaro Queens players to invite the parliament in the next parliament to congratulate and organized a friendly match between them and women members to recognize their contribution to fly the Tanzanian flag.
The team that participated in the Challenge Cup tournament of CECAFA is Tanzania, Burundi, Zanzibar, Kenya, Ethiopia, Rwanda and host Uganda.
The competitions of the Challenge Cup of CECAFA for women teams have happened for the first time, something that is interpreted the tournament can uplift the women's soccer in the East African countries and Central Africa.


