And several newspapers that have been looking at the confusion something that is doesn't give me to my view that he didn't have to get inside this word and be that to be the one that he didn't have to get into this word and to be the one that he didn't have to get into this word
The corner that is said to be the
That they have been given to them and we are not uani.
Brotherhood to take a child to find another one who will need him to give birth to it until he sees his different upbringing and that you expect to give birth to him.
The women of the women.
Seven are enough when we go back to the topic.
The people and the msahihi has continued the law says the child is a person myself even put a sister to drop down after the kimatai as a whole person thus therefore, so that the whole person thus.
You can't tell me until he's a child.
I took the noise and what our bunge la
We see that the child has to go back completely.
That has happened a time that you have happened.
They had come here we see them completely that parents don't have enough enough.
By addition to the release of it.
The answers of the parents would like to know that the child has the right to what is the right.
Not one. Required.
Now that you find out there is why the child could know her when he refused you know the past people say that the people are saying.
Every child has his father something that I can if I get it with it because I haven't got it right and look at the theft only to give birth to children every day today has given birth to you and then at the end of the day you believe that you have given birth and then at the end of the day you believe that you have given birth and then at the end of
You as a parent must take responsibility to ensure that the child gets food to get accommodation when the child is going to the school where you are being cut by others that you know that the other two are children who are not yet to come here, there are others who have been directed to the pregnant that they have no phone to take care of children. When he comes from someone when we do something when we do something like the person he said that we went to teach people to people people people.
Teaching the daughter of the children who even their age is not expected to be able to hold something you can do things
The child children will not ask me the same way we have worked with the capital to start has been stolen from what they will give out that they are supposed to be released in which way even in the media, if there is a different concerts for the children and women women to find out that they are not calling for the children of the women who will be taught the community as a whole period of borneo there is no one to look for people who are being there for the people who are being there. They know that maybe I know he does so much love with the child care and even it will also please the women who like to give birth to them who are sits in power, he becomes sits a time he is sits for a time
When he comes to the itatubidi kipima.
The heat caused by a good behavior of good behavior.
The mother and mother and mother.
He was recorded a debate where he has little esa, maybe we will meet a lot of many that is why they have taken a child because of the women who are wrong that we are going to take my son friends.
The one I ask for even
They don't ami if we stay true men if they call themselves a man the problem is the economy sometimes causing it to be seen in the morning we are eta as the one that you leave is going to work and at home you have left them now due to the modem for the modem for the modem.
At that time, with him because it has left at home Paulo anything will receive him in the state of whom Prophet is unable to use the children and at the end of the day it will bring them a problem to tackle them, I have freed cargo.
