Idwindaji and the heroes of kimasai, while the south of kenya have started to change their mila by not having windaji of Simba but they are the wildlife guards who come from a hurry in East Africa, therefore, they are using the machines with g _ p _ s shows a map and a place where the person is instead of miades.
That's another one of those young people says things are changed again I haven't read an emergency emergency.
Today they remember it is difficult to urge Simba even to follow their feet of their legs.
It is a lot of crafy crafty clever.
They have to know how to be hidden so that you don't have one but they also know how to attack our
I knew it was very difficult to be
I am selling that like that for the activity.
In the culture of Moran before a young man to retain someone must be
He should stand his bravery by killing Simba Simba.
But right now, the effort is to educate the asai to know the behavior of those animals in search of livestock that disappeared for fear together with children have disappeared to follow the co-founder of the project of protecting Simba line, because of them brennan is that all the project is not to protect Simba alone from Contractors timestamp without shala city, we are trying to be a park in Simba, therefore that is our great job.
But Nope everything that we do is for the community.
The most important thing is to make sure that your society is safe we help them.
You know mi are the first in everything the number of guards in the south of kenya has increased from five people to forty since the project started with the number of Simba has increased in three times three times.
In the neighboring country of Rwanda Simba had disappeared completely for the past five years but when Simba were brought back to the wildlife guards were not able to deal with their number and kuitaka the project of line walezi to help them to help them.
The director of the park of akagera Rwanda about Gadner says Dilunga up to them.
The experts of that group teach their guards how to close Simba and follow them up to follow them.
After one month they started to see them with the media to follow them up with them.
Thus being able to know the state of treatment and their behavior and why they are due to the success that the project is expected to expand towards Tanzania and Zimbabwe Zimbabwe and Zimbabwe.
