
TOC kuchaguana today today.

It was written by our writer Wetu.

It has been published: 10 December 2016.

Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC) today expects to hold his general election in the city where the guest of honor is expected to be the head of Dodoma province, Jordan Rugimbana.

The secretary general of TOC, Filbert Bayi said yesterday in the city that Rugimbana is the one who will open the election meeting of the TOC leaders who will be in power for the next four years.
He said that all the preparations for that election is going on well and already members of that meeting, who are leaders of the parties and different associations of sports, have already arrived in the city ready for the general meeting.
Chances that will be vied today is together with the President, Vice President, secretary general, assistant secretary, treasurer, assistant treasurer and members of the executive committee 10.
According to the Secretary of the Electoral Committee of TOC, Harrison Chaulo, the candidates of the delegation from Tanzania Mainland is together with Muharam Mchume, Irene elege, Noorelain Shariff, Juliana Yassoda and Noel Kiunsi.
While contesting a message from Zanzibar is Suleiman Ame Khamis Mussa Abdulrabi Fadhi, Nassra Juma Mohammed, Ramadhan Zimbwe Omar, Said Ali Mansab, Sheha Mohammed Ali, Abdulhakim Cosmas Chasama and Shukuru Abass Nassor.
The candidates who are joining in the elections while they don't have the opposition is the President who is completing his term, Gulam Rashid, Henry Tandau who is vying for vice president, the secretary general Bayi, Suleiman Jabir who is vying for the assistant secretary general, assistant treasurer and his assistant, Charles Nyange and Juma Khamis Juma Zaidy.
Chaulo said that there is no any candidate who was cut in interviews, Hassan Jarufu, Lukelo Wililo and Abdul-Rahman Mohamed Hassan Saleh, who expressed interest in appeal, but he was unable to do so.
The Commission of TOC players, which consists of players from the parties and associations of different games, the day before yesterday got their new leaders in the elections held in Dodoma hotels and opened by the head of Dodoma Town District, Christina Mndeme.


