
Eating tikitfirefighting and teeth Hadija Tuesday, Mwananchi hon Tuesday @ mwananchi.co.tz Tikitley is among the fruits that are found in large numbers in the country with many supplements that have great benefits within the human body.
Tunda this is the source of the republic, oil, nyuzinyuzi, wanga, calcium, phosphorus, potasium, magnesium, carene, metals, vitamini A, B6 and C. despite being found at a reasonable price, Tunda this is also sold a different place.
On some areas even his pieces are available.
Although he is not allowed to eat the fruits that caused him, the pieces of tikitley is sold on the road too.
However, tikitimaji has many benefits in the body associated with the quantity of water that you have.
Experts are explaining that the 92 percent of Tunda that is water.
It is important for the health of teeth and fizi.
Linakinga destruction of stem cells while helped in food broadcast that the energy and the success made circulation of blood in the body.
Likewise you remove the poison in the body and for a man who is eating its seeds helps to increase the dysfunction.
You improve the body's immunity and speed up to recover by wounds and injuries.
Tikitimaji has a huge amount of Iycopene than the fruits or any vegetables.
Most of the time this time Tunda this without knowing numerous benefits that he has.
It should be at a celebration or hotelini and sometimes at home, tikitimaji is a health friend.
Most of those who eat Tunda this will not say its seeds without but they are taking advantage of its benefits are many for the health of the consumer.
The instructions of nutrition issues are saying that the seeds of tikitley have a lot of respect, therefore, to haunt the consumer of the cause of supplements.
Also, his taste are compared to the sunflower seeds.
Likewise, the fuel that are in those seeds are not merciful at a large level thus not causing to fill in the blood vessels thus reduce the risk of getting heart disease and stroke.
While there are seeds.


