
Cargo cargo beats Dar Aug 11, 2012.

The state of security of products that are loaded in the country through Dar es Salaam Port, particularly in the loading and downloading goods (TICTS), is not satisfactory and some of the business people have started to run away from the port and start using the port of Mombasa, Kenya, Raia Mwema has noted.
The investigation that was done by this newspaper confirmed that many businessmen have already stopped kupitishia their products through Tanzania, for fear that theft that is seen to buhu at the port.
This situation seems to affect the business people from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) who most of them are currently threatening the cargo of the port of Mombasa.
Those businessmen who are from the Bukavu areas in Congo, at different times have confirmed to be affected by theft in Dar es Salaam Port.
Apart from those business people from Bukavu, others are from Lubumbashi areas who have been running away from Dar es Salaam port and decided to pass their cargo in South Africa and in the Beira Port in Angola.
Speaking about that situation, Bernard Makita, who is one of the officers from the Democratic Republic of Congo in the country, who is also the representative of the government company of OGEFREM (equivalent to Sumatra Tanzania) says that state is dangerous to the economy of the country.
"Brother general living is better as the traders have taken that responsibility because the things that are taking place in the TICTS company are pushing up because the theft, the dominination don't have the foundation has ruled in the company," said Makita in shock.
He warned that, if the situation will not be contacted by leaving the foreign company to do when they will be, the port can be defeated by lack of customers and thus endangering the economy of this nation.
On his part, Faines Kiwia, who is the executive director of the Triple Company.
D. that is in touch with the provision of cargo of business people at the port for many years, he said the state of cargo theft has reached a kibaya amount of causing government revenue to a large scale.
In his talks with the author of this news, the executive director has given an example of the containers that are claimed to be lost in the hands of TICTS.
In that loss, it is alleged that one container was found at one army camp in the country being empty and another found in Ubungo, Dar es Salaam city, having already been opened.
He claimed that for the past two years, there are loss of approximately 40 containers of business people from the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The makotena have been lost "in the hands" of the TICTS company.
The writer of this newspaper made efforts to find spokespersons from TICTS so as to talk about allegations that are directed to the company, those efforts did not bear fruit, as it was for the efforts that took place in order to get leaders of the port authority to talk about those complaints of business people.
However, the efforts are going on.


