
Rumors spread the wife of the person to be remembered when they are doing love with the man on the edge.

Rashid Mkwinda

He has emerged a big rumor in the Tunduma and Vwawa district in Mbozi district where it has been claimed that one woman who is the wife of a resident of Isangu areas in Vwawa district, has been found in possession of the time doing love with a foreign man.

The journalist arrived in that town and found great groups of citizens while they are heading to the District Hospital in Vwawa, while they heard of that tragedy which has been accused of hit the wife of someone and a resident of the town of Tunduma.

Those citizens who most of them were mothers were heard as the woman is a businessman of Maparachichi a resident of Isangu village which is in the outskirts of Vwawa Mbozi district who does its businesses between Tunduma and Vwawa.

It was explained that the lovers wife and the man (their names were not known) were being shown several times not to continue with the love that was not legal where the wife of the wife is alleged to noted the relationship of those lovers for a long time.

It was claimed that when he was letting her husband who took an empty shoka and brought together with the mpini while explaining that as true he was not participating in love outside the marriage you will not be an axe and the liver that he was at home in which they are sleeping under the uvungu of a bed.

Those witnesses continued to claim that the day of the event left as usual towards his parachichi businesses in Tunduma border of Tanzania and Zambia where he met with Hawara.

However, those groups of people failed to be noted the truth about the event by describing the names of the characters while the Mbozi District doctor, Dkt.Charles Mkomba chepa denied the existence of those people in that hospital and explained that it is rumors that got observed since the morning.

Doctor.
Mkuhamaschepa said that the groups of people have been coming to the hospital for the whole day of the day before yesterday from the morning to evening to ask for that event that is not the truth.

Moreover, after realizing that there is no incident that rumor continued to spread that those people have been transferred to the Mbeya Referral Hospital due to Vwawa unable to divide the situation that was also thrown by nurses and employees of the Referral Hospital in Mbeya.

The rumors of that kind has been spread several times in various areas in the country where the beginning of eighty years in Buguruni in Dar es Salaam city, that emerged rumors of a woman who put her husband and turned out a rumor that until now you are vichwani of people.

Meanwhile in the year 2003 in Mbeya town that emerged rumors of being arrested by one physician who was involved and kuwakata breasts women, something that was also not confirmed.


