
The Ambassador of Egypt to mobilize the investment.

It was written by Katuma Masamba Masamba Masamba

It has been published: 09 December 2016.

The government has been advised to encourage more investors to come to invest in various sectors in the country so as to promote the country's economy faster.

In addition, the government of Egypt has said it has been doing awareness for business people of that country to come to invest in various sectors in the country including the health sector.
That has been explained by the ambassador of Egypt in the country, Yasser Elshawal while speaking to this newspaper in his office in Dar es Salaam yesterday about human aid that was given by the government for the victims of the earthquake in Kagera.
He said Tanzania's economy is growing by seven percent per year, but the government can increase the growth by opening doors for more investors.
He added that Tanzania is doing very well in the issue of growth the economy and that it can look at what is doing so as to attract more investors and grow the economy maradufu.
"My country has the intention of encouraging the investors of Egypt to come to invest in Tanzania for the benefit of both sides," said Ambassador Elshawal.
Speaking about the donations, he said that his country has given donations to help the victims of the earthquake especially by considering relationships existing between Tanzania and Egypt.
"It is donations that was given by Egypt for the sake of the Tanzania affected by the earthquake in Kagera province," he explained.
He said that the government of Egypt has given medicine, other medical equipment together with tents worth 70,000 American dollars which are equivalent to 140 million shillings.
"The equipment have already been handed over to the prime minister's office, the unit of deaths for being transported to Kagera," added the ambassador.
The donations has been made by the agency of partnership and development of Egypt and the Hilali Nyekundu of Egypt.
September 10, this year, 17 people died and wenguine 440 injured due to an earthquake of the size 5.7 by using skeli of "Richter."
That earthquake has also destroyed 2,063 houses while other 14,081 in a dangerous situation after getting a crack.


