Great because the children are sure you can make it as a capital capital.
If you look at the system of the male system that is going on now in different places for now, an example of Tanzania to serve the people of the people are capital children are capital children is capital.
When he was in the womb they have been carrying out of pregnant one then a man can give a cow to the parent of a woman in a parent child who will be born after the birth of that woman is ready to be married has already been married.
The father who has given him to pick a girl that he will give a cow to small
Fifteen or ten of the girl is married and the bad one after he is born with the child he doesn't need to be brought up with the ilimu because it is already a person's wife or not seen poverty that is the biggest cause of not doing this woman as a girl child afikirie things because they have been done to be the capital of business business because they have been done to be the capital of business business because they have been done to be the capital of business business because they have been done to be the capital of business
For me I think the biggest one here, maybe so that we should be understood the same as we can agree we should take the point of poverty just because of that because you go to the family but when you are in the family does not obey the baby boy.
Baby girl but I think that's the biggest one maybe to help their colleagues.
Seven to help grace and the biggest wila here is the systems because of that.
A lot of our families.
You found a Tanzanian boy boy.
If someone is understood in the family he is attaining thirty years old but it is still dependent on the family due to the systems that we have had set up set up for the family.
It will not be staying a good environment of young people to prepare to be independent in the economy that
He starts to discover itself because of the age of eighteen and eight years.
Who is recognized by our constitution because of a young man is not supposed to be a young man at the family level to prepare to be independent itself as ye and that is the biggest problem but the second problem but the second problem but the second problem.
There's the problems of the system as of the
The traditional problems of these traditional people that there are other people are using traditional laws like those you have said to sell the unborn child in the womb.
But we should take a lie point of poverty as poverty is the criterion of that to make a female boy to reach the goals because they are able to reach the goals because they are able to reach the goals because they are able to reach
I discovered that poverty in the inside of his ability if he is doing the effort in charge he can't tell me that at the other time we took a lie I don't know the week because we continue to complain poverty poverty is who is the responsibility of removing poverty even if you know that a great percentage of poverty even if you know that a great percentage of poverty even if you know
A youth should be able to lie when we are grieving we can't.
You see up until the empowerment of it.
When it is oppressed if they decide they can't
You can't like us the male children.
Sure you know what you know.
He was able to take a lie we pass that he didn't have a baby girl I can't I can't I can't Swahili Swahili. I can't
If it's brutal brutality.
Maybe that makes a lot of young people to reach the development of progress.
To achieve their goals are to look at the difference with male youths in our to remain at home we at the end of the day he comes to do the exam
The things he said are very few but compared to the time he uses a boy to read with a girl girl girl that is learning.
The male boy becomes spent a lot of time he must be heard of his goals but the girl's daughter becomes a requirement to him even achieve his goals also to also achieve his goals too.
But I think that if I think they said that there is a lot of work akijiparight on the right.
The works of it.
He becomes the person to study is a male boy he can be allowed from home the day they can get to his fellow youth to study but also the number last ten o'clock and two hours are usually at home.
And where you look at it again on the side even where the education.
I am committed to an example mi himself that we can achieve here is the little mind of the ability that is the ability to give and the ability to give and the ability to give it and the ability to give and it is the best
That is to be appreciated by my parent being ume not to be affected because I know they will be habari to go to kitchen or do a lot of other academic things that will help you to help with a lot of other learning.
When you do a good joy he is supposed to except for the mother of the home there is no need to read I believe he sa this is how they know the youth in relation to our topic that it was saying that it was saying
What is contributing to a female boy.
He should not reach his goals and are here here.
