Tibet news when women of all nations in the world this Sunday commemorating their holiday, Hans have continued to be different for women living in the villages due to lack of enough understanding about the top of the women.
That education offered to various groups within their hearts still and people living in the city have not to pay priority to priority.
Due to various challenges that are facing them even though despite the laws mentioned to kumkinga the woman Kenyatta Kenyatta, the male system has continued to make a variety of opportunities including the right to live in spite of our province in the province.
In Busega District, Simiyu Province, with us as I had planned to inform these they were in Mwanza province, but in the province of Busega, he focused on some of the challenges facing women especially living in the villages in the villages in the villages.
The day of women in the world for another time that is celebrated in the world there is still different challenges that are mentioned to be an obstacle to save a woman against actions deny its rights to deny its rights.
Earlier in the morning this morning is expected to begin with different implementation
In the middle of the village of Nyamikoma in Busega district, Simiyu province,
Various activities are going on the shoreline that is the biggest vender in the people of ages and different gender they are doing this business in order to earn income income for the purpose of earning income income.
To a large extent that they are self-employed here is a big group of women that despite running their daily life.
Until the end you end up in the city while the village does not have been done to take based on our responsibilities, we are two nights to make sure that the government can really strive for us and we women women.
Miraji we want it to bring us to the children's projects with us and we don't have all these loans loans while we don't have all loans.
A lot of service.
We would like to.
Ufundi they are able to understand the elewa.
But I have seen them tell them to know the right of a woman woman.
When we are not we can't we can't.
In the middle of that crowd seems to mother today, a mother cow while in his daily activities including the business, this mother is also the guardian of the entertainment group and awareness of political songs in politics and mobilization of political songs in politics and mobilization of political songs in politics and mobilization of political songs in politics and
I look for another one of them.
Mguuni.
And bombani or sitting at the end of Tanga decided it was noted that it was noted that it was noted that it was noted that it was noted that it
That after six candidates out of those
Those that do not have to ask about the things that I am offering their side to be able to use them in life that has been involved in life that has been involved in life that has been involved in life that has been involved in
The women and the women.
The course we will have chosen to see us I have never seen him again to come back to come to come back to come back to come.
Long inside to say to me, my people who are that I have never seen to see it.
Group or we were surprised the marriage brings to be reminded of the importance of protecting the rights of women and gender equality, those rights will not be on time when it increases the great wave of the elderly killings involved in witchcraft and other things we are with and when we are not capable of the employer or in the corner of the corner. The way or in the newspapers of maize now that are the diseases and smoke and smoke who are getting in the chest to the speaker going to take care of one food to the eyes have not been mekundu, when I saw the mekundu, let me see the mekundu, when I saw the eyes,
When we go through the wood where our eyes are mekundu, we are told we are the witches we are causing bad things we are causing bad things we are causing bad things we are causing bad things.
The development officer of the community in Busega district, he sees the violation of human rights including women rights to be implemented accordingly if the community will get enough education on the side of the government who do not know where they are going to be where they are supposed to be where they are supposed to be able to do it, though others have been expelled from their faith.
Ehhe can't be able to do it.
The commemoration of the day of the woman in the world takes place at March eight every year for this year it was celebrated nationally in Morogoro province in the slogan that says that women empowerment implementing the time it is now, that has been referred to those rastatt.
