If the baby pepo chaki there is also depending on the parents, maybe we let him know that we should let him know.
In the girl when he is living in difficult environments, the father and mother who have separated the father has been living with another woman for the sister that has been living with a mother of ambo in the city, the father in the city in the city. When they are unable to respect your father because he didn't get money so that we are not supposed to respect the boyfriend who gives you the one that gives you the one that you have given.
Devices and fulfill your needs is not the one that you get I don't know is
A moment right).
Just came from where we girls must help with our bosses since they have seen it, they have joined them in a relationship, it will let you know that you will not be able to make one that will help me to run my life.
You know something has been built but you will continue to utafyou that we will be assisted by Havana that is why everything is organized up to let you know that even when we do not know what you have arrested for a long time in the future, if you get married for a long time when you get pregnant for a period of one month he is giving them pregnant for a period of one month he is giving them pregnant for a period of one month he is giving them pregnant for a period of one month he is giving pregnant pregnancy for a period of one month he is giving them pregnant for a period of one
Nine months what he wants.
What is required is you and your right decisions right.
I say you don't say romantic romantic.
I do not come to the daughter.
The first one that I am anyia Jimmy as a daughter I am really aware of getting involved in the involved in which we want to do what the meaning of my dreams you know also to have and the ones your clothes is leading to lead.
It has been done in the joru I did not feel but if you don't seeds you get the person that is there is no direction that I do is starting the first to make direction you are in the bridge is a good or bad later completely at all and bad later completely.
It has already been the fuller of your decisions so he is wake up to me.
While you are not putting problems they are only struggling with yourself, you should realize but we have your goals that will help he will be taking action when he will step action.
Just another daughters, my colleagues and myself you want to also look for someone to go to establish a relationship is a person of the kind that does
Girls like girls, we should strive to stand that if you do not stand up if you do not go to investigate the application thing you have not registered in charge of the primary thing.
Or something that was impossible to me.
And in a relationship not that being a girl you must have a relationship with relationships.
It is your own decisions for yourself.
And that is not that being there is not in a relationship you endelei i
You have not been any different because in a relationship there is chanya and hasi.
The beginning you will see is sad he loves me but at the end of the day you will come to be shocked, maybe I'm in school mi I am at college.
I'm not in him when I need to go today you don't care about this
And with no one).
Kujitia in my needs and I will be back will be suitable, I will make it better for the Delete he will visit but he has been troubling, he has been troubling.
He has used his time to lose to deliver the name I should not be helped in charge of mi as he was supposed to be umbua.
I will not be in charge of it.
It is only a few to say that the girl should have decisions that if we are moving to you if you do not do it to follow the masses I do not like
You do not go to be taken out by anyone that you feel a girl Somba I will be isimamia we like we are we as we have to.
And I have been able to finish by saying one thing that
We should toe that the statements that nyinyi girls so as to be reached must be used here, the brother ask him in the neighborhood of Tufani no to what they can be used to us for what is not possible for us if we can't be that if we can't be given to us.
We can ourselves that they are going to be advanced by the people we go to advance themselves ourselves themselves as themselves as themselves.
Thanks the daughters for all the details that he has given up in our topic of today the decision for a girl in a relationship of all romantic relations has heard especially we the daughter who has felt liquor.
