
Magufuli disclosed the secret to disumbua the board TRA TRA.

It was written by John Gagarini, Kibaha, Kibaha.

It has been published: 25 November 2016.

President John Magufuli has disclosed the secret of his step to disband the board of directors of Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA).

He has said he was forced to take that step after the board authorized 26 billion shillings to be taken into a special account in several business banks.
That board gave approval of being taken to the funds in those banks when there is a directive by the president of banning for public institutions, public organizations, government departments, agents and ministries to put their money in business banks.
Those funds are supposed to be fired accounts in the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT).
Last Sunday morning, the State House announced that Doctor Magufuli has been broke up the board of directors of TRA, and a few hours he appointed the deputy general commissioner.
State House without explaining the reason, it said that President Magufuli has dismissed the appointment of the chairman of the board of directors of TRA, Bernard Mchomvu and replaced the whole board.
In addition, together with taking the board appointed Charles Kichere that the Deputy Commissioner of TRA, to fill the position that was open for one year after Doctor Magufuli to revoke the appointment of the former holding on the position, Lusekelo Mwaseba.
"The appointment of another chairman of the board of directors of TRA and the authority of that authority will be announced later," explained the report of the State House that was released on Sunday very morning.
According to the shajala of this year of TRA, members of that board that were appointed in the year 2014 and were required to serve in the year 2017 and the areas who were working when they were appointed in brackets is Shogholo Msangi (Assistant Commissioner of Policy, Ministry of Finance), Khamis Omari (secretary general, Ministry of Finance, Zanzibar) and Doctor Philip Mpango (being the secretary general of the planning commission).
For now, Doctor Mpango is the Minister of Finance and Planning.
Others are Professor Beno Ndullu (the Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania-BoT), Assaa Ahmad Rashid (secretary of the Ministry of Constitution and Law in Zanzibar), Josephat Kandege (the member of parliament of the Kalambo - Rukwa), Doctor John Mduma (senior lecturer department of economic research and policies, University of Dar es Salaam -Udsm), Doctor Nsubin order to Isaga, (lecturer University of Mzumbe), and Rished in the University of Mzumbe), and Rished in the University of Mzumbe), and Rished in the University of Mzumbe, and Rished in the University of Mzumbe, and Bade (being the Commissioner General TRA).
The secretary of that board was Juma Beleko (TRA).
Bade was fired from the position.
While addressing yesterday at the 31 graduation of the University of Huria Tanzania (OUT) at the university's headquarters, Bungo in Kibaha district in Pwani province, Doctor Magufuli said that he invented the board due to violating the procedures.
He explained that their act of approving the funds being put in different banks, it is different from instructions because that is the game being done by institutions and various organizations.
"Now I don't know if the University of Huria and nyinyi, you have to put up the development of development in Fixed the meaning when I got the information, the money I took with the board for a happy.
"Even at the moment, the minister (of education Professor Joyce Ndalichako) is here, the Tanzania Education Authority (TEA) which was introduced because of special reasons, it is allocated money when there is their money they have put on the fixed Account, the minister is ujumbe sent and delivered," insisted President Magufuli.
He said that there have been a game of different institutions to take money and to be placed on a special account where the government is going to borrow for a high cost.
"For now, this is the game that is being played and caused the government to miss the money something that the government is not ready to see abuse of his money," explained Doctor Magufuli who is known for insisting to do the use of the government and offended by violation of the procedures of the operations of the government.
He said this game has been given the government a great cost because of borrowing money to the bank at a high cost and misleading access to revenue.
"I request that we pray for us to let us know since the country reached a place in trouble where they can call the sessions even in Europe and due to the tumbua this revenue have increased from 1.2 trillion and reached 1.8 where the economy has improved," explained Doctor Magufuli.
He said the economy has improved and you need to be ukue by 7.2 percent, but until the quarter of this year has grown by 7.9 percent and being one of the countries that its economy is growing fast, which between five countries has been the second after Ivory Coast.
In addition, he said that the value of money has risen and that the ones that are depending on the money are the ones who share a deal that for now they don't have a chance.
A total of 4,027 graduates graduated and awarded various degrees and head of the University of Huria Tanzania, the retired prime minister Mizengo Pinda.


