Mbowe Mbowe.
Mobile phone communication company, today has handed a check worth ten million shillings to the Red Cross party in the country, being a donation to people who are affected by floods in the province of Morogoro recently, we get more information that we get more information.
While handing over the check, the head of the institution of vodacom, Yessaya Mwakifulefule has said the purpose of giving that donation is to ensure that the community that had encountered that disaster is returning to the state of their previous life and from the difficult environment is caused by the floods, Mister Mwakifulefule has said that the hope of the victims of the floods that happened to Dumila in the hands of Tanzanians themselves, therefore it is the responsibility of everyone to reflect on how to help those residents in volunteering for the purpose of helping those residents in volunteering for the purpose of helping those residents in volunteering for the purpose of helping to return their previous life, we went to the past if you were seen by the rest of the previous life.
And there is a reason to be given our support out there in there.
Because we have confidence about it and they have been lacked well as well.
All the things that took place when it was done.
In religion where there are victims still those houses on his part, the president of the Red Cross in the country, George nabidhiano has said after that disaster, that party took quick action by giving various donations including building of emergency settlements due to the fact that many families have lost their homes in part of the donation of ten million shillings to be provided by the vodacom today, we thank you very much, we thank them very much as we thank you very much of the donation of ten million shillings.
When I will enable you to get it.
Financing to send advice to the lights and the lights.
The same.
On the seventh.
In order to ask the mentally all those affected by more than psychologically a drought and disaster disaster.
I haven't been a comfort leader in the Airtel daressin Dar es Salaam.
If you talk about it.
