
Writers have said weee, until things are known is known, but journalists are like amplifier.
Their job is shouting and the characters know, but they are not ahaulisha, its results are there in public weeds.
There are a lot.
Before the start of the Premier League season, journalists in the article and common news brought to various experts, they wrote a lot to remind me that before the league started the needs of all teams to test their health.
It was a matter of a lot of sense.
I don't know if the job was done or is done for more than 400 players of the Premier League teams, I doubt.
It needs a club to test the health of his players every time to get away from the problem of falling on the field and sometimes lost life.
All they wrote.
It was written too that the players should be required for health insurance.
If a player will be offered health insurance, it will help him with his family by paying a small amount of money.
It will enable us even a player himself to go to test for his time.
I don't think like all the players more than 400 have health insurance.
Last week it was a sadness and tears to loose upcoming, Ismail Mrisho Khalfan who was serving Mbao FC of U-20 in Bukoba town.
I would say it is the result of the team leaders not to listen and do not want to test their players because of various reasons.
That of Bukoba is the results, but look at the league over, every leader in mind is he will play with her in the second round, he will do what he can win the championship.
After the end of the first round of the Premier League, the fact I haven't heard of a certain team has made tests for his players, even the pictures spread, when they measured, there is no.
The first round has ended and is now close to the second and the teams have started preparations, it was tested for health, pressure is sawasawa?
How is the sweetness of the body?
Who is supposed to get a service one?
That they played in a row and get the fatigue, warudishe the body by doing what?
I don't have it sure if it has happened.
This is the one side of the players to test the health, there is this one of the supervisors of the game to allow the game to continue without having the first service that is full.
There is one match played at the Karume Stadium, Dar es Salaam.
I did not remember it was who I had but what I remembered is that, in the game, the player was used, I had his teammates wambebe their colleague to let him go out so that the game continues.
There are a lot of sports events but it lacks the first service.
How is it possible that the referee to start a battle was no even the car for the first service?
This is the one to work in practice.
The referee or the supervisor of the game is supposed to inspect as every area has been completed by helping each other and his assistants.
Many matches will be played but there is no first service that was timia nor the service providers who are experienced in sports services, and maybe that they are in, or they don't have expertise or don't have experience and what is happening is just practice to be in the field.
Not having people carefully especially the first service desk, its results players lost life.
An example, a player has encountered the problem, the one involved in the sun is to reduce their muscles, asking for him and barafu then, but if there will be others they are not lie.
It is required for the real professionals.


