Tudumishe exercises to avoid diseases diseases.

It was written by the editor editor.

It has been published: 19 October 2016.

This newspaper in the last edition had news with the news headline that has to be "eating foods that are not healthy affected many."

According to that news, for now many residents of big cities in the country like Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Tanga, Mwanza and Mbeya, are faced with non-communicable diseases and not known easily because of the use of food and drinks that are not considered better diet.
Also, that news explained that lack of foods that are not diet, causes different diseases as diabetes.
The problem of eating and intake that doesn't consider the criteria is great in that big cities due to ease of food and drinks, and also lack of time and areas of exercising.
We support the statement of health professionals, including the expert doctors of non-communicable diseases, that there are a large number of people with those diseases, but do not know if they are sick.
One of the specialist doctors, Doctor Rose Hyness says the investigation that was done by the institution that deals with non-communicable diseases in the country has shown that in Arusha Province 30 percent of adults, they are faced with diabetes diseases, which as well as caused by food, are also contributed by not doing exercises.
In addition, we support the statement that was given recently by the adviser of health affairs in the country, Doctor Ali Mzige that the current system of life, affects and kuangamiza many human beings.
Doctor Mzige anataja several things to do in order to strengthen health and avoid various diseases that are not necessary as well as to stop smoking and drinking alcohol.
According to Doctor Mzige, smoking of cigarettes are in a big possibility of getting more than 40 diseases, which is dangerous for their health, as well as ugumba, cancer diseases, tuberculosis, heart, oral and eyes together with hair kunystraight, when drinking alcohol causes 60 diseases like the disease of the liver and reduce 4 CD to the AIDS patients.
We encourage the activity of health testing for voluntary to continue in all provinces in the country, because many people are sick, but do not know and they do not love hospitals to be treated until they are overwhelmed, a situation that is causing another time to lose life.
It's obvious a lot of people, especially low-income, have no time to test their health due to more focus on fighting with the difficulty of life.
Most of them when I feel headaches, the hunyof indigenous drugs or hununua medicine on drugs stores without testing.
When they are overwhelmed that is where they may be in the hospital and found out with great problems, so that it's difficult to be treated.
We ask the government to continue enabling the citizens to test their health, and if possible will separate a special day to test health, if it is set up a day to clean up which is every end of the month, and the day of planting trees nationally.
We are insisting that a great method of dealing with various diseases must change and do physical exercises every day.
We do exercise without a limit.


