Women guide them for HIV infections in the country Dec 07, 2016.

Apart from deliberate efforts of the government and stakeholders of the fight against AIDS in the country, it is still not satisfactory where the city of Dar es Salaam holds the sixth position in Africa for the infection of that disease.

Dar es Salaam which is a big city than all Tanzania is estimated to have 210,000 people living with AIDS virus where among them 58 percent are women, and according to the census of people and housing of the year 2012, the number of residents of the city is estimated to be 5 million.

According to the AIDS report in the world from the United Nations AIDS program (UNAIDS) for the year 2015, Dar es Salaam city has been between cities in Africa with a huge level of HIV infections.

The officer of UNAIDS Tanzania, Fredrick Macha says 16 percent of all new infections in Tanzania Mainland are happening in Dar es Salaam city where for women aged 15-24, the level of infections has reached 7%, a great reason being to indulge in sex with a young age as well as a business of ukahaba.

He explains that the infections from the mother to go to a child in Dar es Salaam is six percent (6%) despite the major efforts of the government and different stakeholders of the fight against AIDS, educate and encourage pregnant to test and follow professional advice on how to protect themselves from HIV.

"Statistics of the Ministry of Health of the year (2011-2012), one person between five people in Dar es Salaam city has a romantic relationship with more than one person, and many times are doing sex that are not safe so that is a great sign of an increase in infection especially for marriage," said Macha.

Moreover, he has mentioned some of the factors and indicators that contributed to the presence of a large increase of infection in the city that is the economic growth of economic and business activities that is causing the proliferation of people from different provinces in the country together with other nations.

In Dar es Salaam as those other cities in the world with a proliferation of cultures and different custom has been affected by the groups that are explained to stimulate new AIDS infections as well as they make sex business, who are participating in the love of one sex and drug users and by injection.

"According to the statistics, among the 4 women involved in the sex business, one is the victims and HIV virus (equivalent to 26 percent) .Vile among five people who are participating in the love of sex, one person has been affected, equivalent to six percent of the people who use drugs through injection, one is a victim of HIV virus (on the way to injection, one is a victim of HIV virus (), one is a victim of HIV virus (the way to injection), one is a victim of HIV virus (the way for injection, one is a victim of the HIV virus (equivalent to 15.5 percent)," said Macha.

Moreover, Macha said together with various challenges, Dar es Salaam city has been recommended to be one of the few cities of example world in the world's strategy to strengthen the control of AIDS in cities (UNAIDS Fast program Initiative).

The strategy is to be done great cities in Africa to be responsible more in increasing efficiency in the fight against AIDS in urban areas because the speed of infection and plenty of infection are in urban.

In addition to cities having a lot of resources, the systems of providing health services is still accompanied by various challenges, especially in preparing and implementing good plans with ensuring the involvement of all people especially special groups in the community, which the level of infection is great.

On his part, the minister of state, the office of the prime minister, policy, parliament, employment and people with disabilities, Jenista Mhagama says that the existing statistics show that 6.2 percent of women in the country have been infected by HIV percent compared to 3.8 percent of men, something that needs more effort to protect themselves.

"According to research of the HIV virus (VVU) and the maralia (THMIS) of the year 2011 / 2012 on the side of Tanzania Mainland show that a large number of women have been infected by the disease than men.

Minister Mhagama says that due to the research, the HIV virus infection on the side of Tanzania Mainland is 5.3 percent and it is estimated that a total of 1,538,382 live with HIV whereby youths aged 15-24 is 6 percent and children under 15 years is 11.8 percent.


