EhKenyatta legs wanga is a resident of here living in hopes but lack of hospitals in the neighborhood is forcing him and more than twenty others with a problem like her to follow this service in the neighboring villages of the neighborhood.
When things are not safe there are its challenges that this period being able to confirm the years to learn to learn the years to learn to learn the years to learn
The store and the means to store it.
Produce and little drugs you will find that he gives it is still one of the current donations if they give chicken chicken.
There is a lot of complaints to have a victim of AIDS who are requested a little thing when you are given medicine bda.
Not being taken.
It is not supposed to three ways of a little of the money you would like the money is required to return the principle that has been put back in the primary
We have to give them to give them.
Fields together with other services they deserved to be that any candidate or our employee of the department, I ask for a little while he gets it off.
Actions say that we follow up there are Africa we do not want to read we judgment a person that is not wrong when we are, if the institutions we give up to the office and they will be talking to them as well as we will also be able to set up five thousand resolutions in America. The poverty of poverty for mothers where this is to enable them to bounce economically, maybe all four systems
As the professions that go with read and read what we will pass has paid them to the rulers to the administrators.
Those people so that they can see what we want to do their lives to be better for their economy in order and a week to get rid of poverty and recovery of their little lives then Millard memba chadema, especially it has been wanawake Empowerment of urani.
The voice of life and will not be able to boi the line that allows you that I bring it is a bei to
Pay want to enable us if empowered we can sawa kanunua chicken, we will design and stage will continue with the people that will not be able to and help people who do not cannot.
The sun is the demand for the sun.
Her every time and I took him to resolve the mother of here, the problem of water demanding he has other plans to do the life matembizini will also be given we also we will also be doing we also we will also be we.
I think that they still don't have women lack of water they will have enough time to do other economic activities and be able to escape with the aim and our aim is to look for projects like to rear chicken to be able to kushona income from the wave of poverty, it has still hit the nation in general.
It is possible in the village to you the situation is hard likely than here here.
And it is determined that the changes are needed to be done to be done.
I certainly change there are in your hands when they were inspired by the knowledge that you are getting different places so far.
Concrete plans that will be implemented the foundation of development should be for one person the family and the nation as a whole of its whole.
A bit surprised.
