
Majaliwa: We will protect peace with all the strength.

It was written by our journalists.

It has been published: 13 September 2016.

The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has asked all religious leaders to use the houses of worship, to encourage their believers the importance of protecting and maintain peace and stability that is in the country.

He has emphasized that the government will maintain peace and stability in the country for all the power in Tanzania to be sure of continuing to do their work to bring income and bring them productive.
The Prime Minister said that while speaking to the believers of Islamic religion after finishing Idd el Haji at the Mwembe Fields, Yanga, Temeke Dar es Salaam yesterday.
Speaking at the Idd Council said, "the government will continue to strengthen security in all areas in the country.
My call to religious leaders, msisitize believers about the protection of peace together with rebuke evil actions so that the nation continue to move forward. "
Majaliwa insisted on citizens to continue to pray for you who are in Makka and Madina in Saudi Arabia, continuing with a service of Hija to return safely.
Also the Prime Minister used that opportunity, asking the citizens to help them with the state and property people who were faced with an earthquake in Kagera province, where a total of 16 people died, others 253 injured and thousands of citizens lack homeless after 840 houses fell and other 1,264 to get a crack, including 44 buildings of various public institutions.
Previously, reading the Idd's speech at the field, the international lecturer, Shehe Nurdin Kishki said Islam is a peaceful religion, therefore he has asked the Muslims to avoid acts of breach of peace including murder of people that do not guilty.
Shehe Kishki said it is important for people to protect peace, because it is put it difficult to restore.
He gave an example of Libya and Egypt countries, which until now are unable to restore it.
He said that anyone who is engaged in the acts of umwaging of blood, kudhulumu the property of people and their fellow respect, he will be angrated, therefore, he urged Tanzania especially the residents of Temeke to avoid them.
"Temeke is now leading to the murder events, they are killing up to the guards.
Soldiers have been killed without guilty, this issue is very disappointing.
The people who were working to protect the citizens and their properties are killed without guilty, "he spoke in shock and requested of Tanzania to evade themselves from those acts, also Shehe Kishiki congratulated the fifth phase government by showing the commitment to serve the citizens and bring them to the development so as to bring them in front of the cooperation so as a nation to be able to sweba in front.
"My brothers have been given a great honor today to pray for Idd and the Prime Minister, again he has come here at the Mwembe Yanga grounds, this shows the closeness of our leaders for their citizens especially the low level," he said.
BAKWATA is alia and professionalism of leaders in another step, the Supreme Council of Muslims Tanzania (Bakwata) has urged the Muslims to change by doing things depending on the profession so as to avoid leaders with erosion of ethics and who do not know yourself.
Mufti of Tanzania, Shehe Mkuu Abubakar Zuberi said that yesterday after Idd's issue at the headquarters of that council, Kindononi, which was followed by the Idd Council that was attended by various government leaders.
Mufti said the time has come for Muslims to change, because they are working against their professions.
He also said that the council is expected to open up the stations to provide education to increase their knowledge 'Nyumba of knowledge', the aim being to increase skills and knowledge of religious education in the community and the country.
"The presence of these stations will help to provide ignorance and have better leaders from the education of certain positions that he read and know living with people, previously Bakwata never had his religious facilities that are independent," he said.
Moreover, the Mufti called Muslims in the country to start the stations to teach religious education together with other studies as a language, technical.
He said that it is better for every Tanzanian to have a pain and his country and discover by working and I have followed each other that caused their evil as well as to face them in order to bring development.
"We are notified integrity to commit good as there will not be good and will be committed to the country will welcome us, we should be able to act good to do a service and work. God loves," he said.
Moreover, he used the opportunity to pray with the earthquake disaster that occurred in Kagera provinces, Mara and Mwanza recently.
On his part, the retired president of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi said it is better to change and build a new Bakwata because he already Mufti has shown interest.
"I want my brothers, we change us to begin with this that he talked to the Mufti to show Bakwata is what we help because one finger doesn't kill this intention is very good," said Mwinyi.
He said that every new thing begins by the weakness thus everyone is supposed to increase the power in order to bring change.
Shein is offended by the conflicts of Muslims President of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, speaking at the Idd Council, urged the citizens of Zanzibar to maintain peace and harmony and so as to give a chance to the government to implement development plans that in the second phase implementation has started well.
He said that at the hall of Mkanyageni Secondary School Pemba in the speech of the Council of Iddi.
He said in the next five years, the government is in the stage of strengthening the community service projects and development, including clean and safe water where for now its implementation has reached 80 percent.
He said more emphasis on the availability of that service has been set in the villages, where until the year 2020 the service can reach the citizens by 97 percent.
He said that the implementation of the majisafi and safe projects, goes well as a result of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar to be supported by international organizations and financial institutions.
"My call to the citizens of Unguja and Pemba is to strengthen peace and stability of the country and people loving each other in order to give a chance to the government to implement its various projects of community services and development.
He said that the great success have been met in the health sector.
On the side of Pemba island, 27 health centers are in the final stage to be completed including the construction of Abdalla Mzee's hospital in Pemba Province.
He said the construction of the hospital being carried out by a great partnership with the government of China, is in the final stages of completion and will do the citizens of Pemba to get all health services in Pemba, without traveling to go out of the island.
He said the hospital has the reputation of the referral hospital.
On the side of small health centers, he mentioned new centers that will be built as Ndagoni, will be tasted by Chake Chake and in Pemba Province.
"We are committed to ensuring the services of the health sector are made better and reach all the citizens including the rural ones we do not want to see a citizen is forced to go to Unguja to find a cure using a great cost," he said.
In addition, he said the construction work of the road is going on in Pemba Island and its aim to ease travel to the villages for strengthening the agricultural sector.
He mentioned the roads of Mgagadu to the Kiwani with the length of an agreement on 7.6, a road of Kengeja to Ole with the length of how to equitar 35 together with the roads of the Tclassroom up to Kangani has been completed on a kifusi.
He said that all development will succeed, as an issue of peace and harmony will be given priority to citizens to obey the law together with leaders of political parties.
Doctor Shein reminded the citizens that among the great training, which is found by Muslims in the Idd el el Haj holiday is unity and solidarity.
He said that the service has made millions of Muslims, to assemble together in the Araffield, regardless of their financial ability or utemed of their tribes.
Idd issue together with the council was attended by various leaders of the party and the government including the second Vice President Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi, the Minister of State, Office of the President and Chairman of the Revolutionary Council Issa Haji Ussi, the speaker of the House of Representatives Zubeir Ali Maulid and Kadhi Mkuu of Zanzibar Khamis Haji.
This news was written by Sophia Mwambe Dar and Khatib Suleiman, Zanzibar, Zanzibar.


