Mamlaka ya Udhibiti wa Huduma za Nishati na Maji EWURA has met with big oil business people and agreed to request the authority of revenue in the country, i am allowing oil that were Surface from the country to deal with the shortage of oil here in the country, the relationship manager of EWURA, Titus Kaguo has said that the delegation of those businessmen being led by the director of EWURA, Haruna Masebu and has agreed with Thika and Thika and Thika, and he has agreed with Thika and Thika.
That oil will be stolen and a shipment of oil that is going to be aired at the port more information and Africa is to begin at the port.
One day after it is not DECI to announce the existence of oil shortage in some areas here in the country while there is a congestion of ships in the daressport, the authority of energy and minerals under the oil vendors, the problem was what we saw this was the discussion for that it was a discussion for that, it was that we have to teach the big one you are making money has wanted it not like until we see the problem is where we are giving them and we agree all of them in order to finish so quickly, Mary then enter Madam business.
But what is contributing to the existence of oil shortage, the general manager of petroleum in our country of payment of slaughtering when he is loved when he is loved that he is loved.
For all of the ten month of the ten month.
Since they won't start the ten month there is nothing to sit in Tibet the star on the edition edition.
Starting on the same date until today the things you talk about.
All ships that have not been for oil.
It is used here on the floor and phone TTMS, there are not all our allowances ago they will be married already in the special reasons for those special reasons and put it because of those special reasons in the last month of last month.
The control authority of energy and water in the country EWURA has said that the shortage of oil that is in some areas in the country is expected to end in a period not exceeding the coming days when it started five in five days.
When the daressare in Dar es Salaam.
The road Stanley religious leaders in kigoma Province have asked the government to ensure that it is controlling the statements that can endanger the peace of the country so that Tanzania can continue to be the peace island in the world, that statement was made during the launch of the council of religious relations and added that the statements of some people need to be controlled, otherwise can accommodate the nation in the problems of our writer, Dotto Elias from Kigoma.
Peace and love is the one that was slogan during the launch of the council of good religious relations in kigoma, the launch which was witnessed by a large number of people from different levels led by the head of Kigoma province, Lieutenant Retired Colonel Issa Machibya, the secretary of BAKWATA in kigoma, Reverend charles that was said that he studied in a statement during the launch of the council of relationships. The religious values of religious in kigoma, the government is required to be careful and to take action immediately to control any source seems to be a sign of peace collapse and give an eye on the eyes we are asking for the government to build a habit of peace and security of our country also should not be a leader or a believer or a believer in any religion.
Do a point of mizaha doesn't pay you pay.
That will lead him to play for the faith in the side of one religion or another to do the process and the deliberate strategies of taking the peace of our country Tanzania on the basis of religion is to step over the furniture and brotherhood of us that we are doing that we have them.
Nelson Madiba and rozi mtasha some of the citizens have congratulated the step of the head of kigoma province to form a religious council of religious relations together with the chairperson of the council of good religious relations in kigoma, haji Shabani clothes to give a directive to Tanzania kuilinda and prosper in peace that is in Tanzania.
We are supposed to respect God that I know our thoughts hear our thoughts I have heard of our thoughts.
I have also used a lot of wisdom to do so something you bavu.
The period of violence has occurred in people.
Even the activities of development leadership or truly the truth.
If you don't like it.
Earlier on the head of Kigoma province, Lieutenant Retired Colonel Issa Machibya urged the citizens who should not accept being compared to quarrel with any person, but I was in kigoma ramadhani, he requested the citizens to reveal all those who provoke themselves in peace with peace in peace.
The situation that led to the split of peace.
He answered some of it.
From we should be careful that we are in the nineties.
While that was going on in kigoma province in Singida province, some of the religious leaders have asked the government to take stern action against all those that demonstrate peace in the country if he is reporting our writer Leonard Manga, Leonard Manga, Leonard Manga, Leonard Manga, Leonard Manga, Leonard
When we start very much for their leaders here that should not be done with the aim of praying for peace within Tanzania, I am asking for how we are looking for?
In the ones that are the secret and we are us.
And you should prevent each other that has to be maelezo and shari then we are going to be there for a week or not to be that we will be here that will not be here that we will not be able to be in our province we have peace and harmony in our province we have peace and harmony in our province we have peace and harmony in our province we have peace and
For that Singida, Parseko Kone will be chosen to be the chairman of that session for a week week for a week.
They are saying that they are not saying that they will not say that.
Irene here we have been given to you.
In Singida province.
The history of the while.
As many times have helped in this and then the delegates started to contribute where he has urged the government to manage the relations of controlling on behalf of religious and take appropriate measures to the people that are crossing the laws of the country, the country's laws of the country.
Pernicious I am not given the national permit for the nation.
Undoubtedly the leaders involved we do not have that news is the one that I was shivered by Serkali Serkali.
He was reached when he was his secretary.
Resulting from the government he will do what they are being reviewed without we have more authority than smoke I do not remember when I do not tire people because the faith of his person if you want to profession it is the property of the person that will cause Nyerere problems he saw so far.
He said the government does not have a religion that changes the people.
And we should not be looked at the baraba even if he has not been through fifty inside the family inside the family.
That we should be there are effects effects.
Jamatatu west has made a mistake that it is not a good sign he said in place on the issues that they agreed to reach divorced.
You have said that if you don't say it.
It has been released from the good dish.
For us.
Ehin especially when he is in the liver.
I must kiafrika when he was on the right three saying they ban the ban.
It's a need.
Or the region I remember the day.
This love there is a language of abusive language.
I didn't personally will be together they had hoped to meet from time to time to look at his implementation agreed that it requires everyone to encourage alcohol to obey the laws of the country and avoid the work of the channel to convince them to make non-scale violence and the foundation I don't have a Kimanga kibisi.
