Barack Obama, Wajaluo and Christianity Jun 28, 2013.

The last two months, I was cut by a funeral in our village, Kamageta, Rorya District in Mara province.
When I went, I was surprised to see the pictures of President Barack Obama of the United States on the sebule of my many brothers.

In our village there is no electricity.
In all the days I have been in I have never been able to get a television broadcast even one day.
But I listened to the radio.
And my brothers listening to the radio well.

I, Ezekiel Ochido Peter Ongiri Liech Kamwaga is a mjaluo.
Kamageta is a ujaluoni.
And although Barack Obama is very far with us, still for the Wajaluo is our brother and he is followed closely.

The pictures of the counter were showing one big thing, that now the Mjaluo is leading the whites in America.
This is a luxury for a human being with foolish origin.

A big question that I would like the readers of this article to get answers though a bit for today is about these people who are called Wajaluo who one of them has been the President of the United States, the biggest nation in the world.

First, it should be understood that the Wajaluo are found in approximately 10 countries in Africa.
These countries are Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Jamhuri ya Congo, South Sudan, the Republic of Central Africa and Sudan.
In the story of the story, the nature of the Wajaluo is diding'a on Dog Nam, the word Dog Nam has the origin of the people of the Luo tribe of Uganda (part of the Luo tribe) which means that it is similar to the word Dhonam by Kenya and Tanzania with the meaning of the beach of the lake.

Until today, the Wajaluo from those approximately ten countries have not agreed to be a lake in which it is ongoing.

Except different researchers are saying that the lake is known by the name Lake No or by another name Mto Palugo although in the Arab nations known by Bahr El Ghazal.

For many years, Wajaluo have lived along the river Nile and on the periphery of the lake which is called Nam Lolwe (lake with water that is going to the end of the world).
This is the British who came to later to give me the name of the Lake Victoria.

Wajaluo is not a tribe that has emerged just recently.
There is evidence up to the religious books to show that they were there since the era of the old Agano.

A model that is being released so much is tired of the judges book chapter 12: 5-6.
That when the referee Yepta, Mgileadi, when he was leading Israel he did one big thing to discover Waepus imu before they killed.

After arresting people, he commanded him to say the word Shibboleth.
They couldn't rael the ordinary ones they were able to mention the word Shibbolethi but they are struggling with the phone they failed because they were using the Sibolethi.

Why failed to kutamka Shibbolethi?
There's one reason a big one.
The people of the Eaff tribe and Manase is the children of Yusufu who gave birth and a woman from Egypt (which is called too by the name of the desire).

For reading biblia, they will be aware of something about the name desire.
This is the child of the Nabii Nuhu who is alleged to kumchungulia his biological father being naked.
Instead of signing him, he only captured him.

That's when I uhu akamlaani.
It was said that the country of Ham (Egypt) that is where he went to keep a black child.

Now Yusufu gave birth to him there.
Unfortunately, children who were born Ham (Egypt), their first language was not a Kigbrania of the Jews.
That's why they failed to kutamka the word Shi and instead they were up to him not.

For those that have ever spoken with people of the tribes as the Wajaluo, Waacholi, Wakargroup and those accused, they will sign that they don't have a word sh.
If you told them the Waseme the shirt themselves say the sati.

There are people who are usually each other that "ah black as a mjaluo."
That the Wajaluo is black tii.
But this is not a shameful thing for the mjaluo.
Basically, in the religious books, among the most beautiful women in the history of this tribe, Astarte, he is praised to King Suleiman on the Mithali book, "the ye is a Mrembo and black."

Basically, black is something to be proud of at the ujaluo.
Names like Ochol and Rateng yana one means in Swahili, black.
Names like Oteng (Jorateng) explains the lineage that God Jok (Wajaluo had to trust him before white religion and Arab have not entered), he was created by using black soil, special, that is found on the edge of River Kiir (Kiir is the foolish name of Mto Nile.
Kiir is also the second name of the president of South Sudan, Salva Kiir).


