As it is understood the country of burundi at the moment is in the political crisis, moreover, it has affected the life of the child there in there.
Well for sure this modern crisis that has lasted for more than one year or make sure some child child.
The origin of the origin.
The coast during the protests last year there are children who were killed in the other demonstrations were injured though I don't have the data here but I don't have the data here but I don't have the data here but I don't
And the children who seemed to be killed by others.
Were injured others because they missed the parents and find out what your life feels your life in that you found a mother who missed him who was killed in easily and thus so that he was killed in easily and therefore, so that he was killed in easily and therefore, so that he was killed in easily and therefore
I have a huge burden of children and such a
He has no hand in hand.
The right because of the children because until now I assume this week alone there are more than ten children who are in prison for allegations that he has always been permitted to Honorable the president of the republic of burundi.
Not to use that my take a pen and kill and destroy his picture which is in the books of students' books.
Ehhe is more than ten students that will now be measured this month due to that act that the ruling leaders say it is a criminal crime because the president should be able to profession profession because the president should be able to profession profession because the president should not be able to profession profession because the president should be
I did not know that there are more than three hundred and thirty and seven who were chased away from school in the south of the city of Bujumbura in with one of the city of Bujumbura in with one of them in the city of Bujumbura
Or all they are studying in charge of that which they say.
They are trying his picture which is in the books of students is something that seems at the moment due to the political crisis and the action of the students to take a picture and not to marry the eyes or destroy completely his vote in the book book in the book book.
Not in order for it.
I have not been witness on it in the same time.
This month of June where we are celebrating holiday holidays.
Of the African child for that and the child while this will be Tiwa mbaazi in the road of you ukuru cutting but likewise as well.
I am grateful to have killed negative because there are the children of the road those children who are andaranda on the road that they are continuing to increase and increase in the road.
The defending of human rights tthreat to the community because it is the people who lost hope these people who have no mercy completely.
It is someone who is a big threat as they said people who are defending the rights of children here in the country in the country.
Moreover, Allah will be back to you the time is not so long now then and gesell a microphone to you amen a tool in the country that you have not seen the body.
It is aware of millions of children together with the community institutions have joined that as they did other nations in other nations.
What is important that they insisted in protecting the rights of African child in the country kenya.
And something that has stopped and kutiliwa more emphasis on them have discussed in relation to them.
And with no one).
The trash and the political conflicts that I already have already said.
Umenikana here to have begun to give eyes to the eyes.
As a result of the opposition they made their protests had been witnessed in the past magazines where children even together with organizations such as for those, therefore, it is one of the issues that they have been able to consider especially to be accompanied especially to be accompanied.
And the theme of the African Child's day.
It or not in the same time.
I did not go to the world where all can be marked on another thing that they have been able to speak about there is a problem or the main challenge that is still hit social institutions is how they will be able to reduce the reduce of the community.
The number of children who are getting the
Gender services including the way you feel because if the area of the miverser alone in the first quarter of this year this year this year.
Nine thirty and eight of being reported where it is the children who were able to give me and they are saying based on the director of children says it is not that it is not that it is that it is not that they are saying
Those who do I feel these children are very different people certainly not but we will get others are parents brothers and close relatives and not just the female children why I am not bothered but but what I am not supposed to but but why I should not be employed but what I am not supposed to but but why I
There is also a state of women who will also last.
The male children kingono for those are all these Masala which have been given to transfer the headlines and think that I called together that it is a condition that all stakeholders can partner in
Dealing with issues that are threatening the safety of the child and see the child as he has no freedom to rotate around the child.
The listener and how you are struggling without doubt has been able to reach some of the problems facing the African child from those three countries which were their representatives here in deep but do the problems of the African child in the Sahara desert then the Sahara bus.
My colleague ship has made an analysis and making us organized for the summer report.
Today is a day.
