AHH we are heading to leave him to finish it is the one that is the way that you have been trying it is fighting and it is said so much young people are fighting.
Yes, they hate him he is going to vote and this is a ten-election year and five elections.
Their call to the youth.
Now, you must start to register you will be able to go to vote.
Because they are usually sitting eda only at home home.
This weekend mi nalala.
But when he was not elected a leader there is no
The year it is not hatumtaki that is so that you find the young people they are not the most likely inspiration to have a lot of inspiration.
We like the head of the district as their fellow boy there is something to tell you that
That is even grateful for being grateful and the punishment to compete with the responsibilities that you have.
I thank you first thirty have been a very important part of educating the community but well that they help the citizens to know several several things that their nation is doing and indeed I have been right mid-fielder between the citizens and their government as it has done it and it has done the right organ between the citizens and their government as it has done it.
And and and and and in something like that ulilolisema.
I will complete it but I tell you only to Kinondoni.
Why you go through it.
I do not know that these are now.
I usually have a new judge.
In the council of the district court of the district.
All those who were present I decided to remove it because of the complaints of citizens's complaints.
The peace and one case six hundred.
And the ability that was there to solve the case since forty cases.
For that we find ourselves we won't have one hundred
And the size of my area of the square kilometers of Kinondoni hundred thousand in each one of them.
And one million people and six hundred thousand people.
Since mi I have many people than the province of arusha who have one hundred thousand people
When it comes to the forty solution.
Ruvuma we are getting to one hundred and eight but they don't keep two hundred thousand people.
Therefore, my meaning saying that Kinondoni has been many conflicts of land because of the bulk of people's numbers of people.
And for sure and good if you tell me it is because he will decide to find a parliamentary seat that we are going to vote for them and they would like to have a house for them.
Every time when I was there in their states.
For we have been told we can monkey good key.
They do that but the second citizens of the knowledge through your program to entertain them
That we have also added that we have increased.
Days to serve the citizens there is no court they do until Saturday
The goal is to ensure the cases that have not been heard since the morning and five are heard of being heard since the morning and five are heard.
Wacha wacha Waseme just to go under the entertainment he is writing how he is crowded but also the consciousness of the district commissioner of Kinondoni I have employed six lawyers, six lawyers, six lawyers, six lawyers.
Which they have accepted I don't have enough money to pay them but I am sharing them with them in my salary salary.
Their great job is to educate citizens about the understanding of the legal issues not to be unable to get the steps before they are not going on in court they know if they go to court they have the right to court.
Therefore, it is also good for the citizens of Kinondoni district and Tanzanians to know for their benefit, but we have also suffered the second system going to Mwananyamala if you get it when they get there when it is in Palestine Sinza they get there when we are being troubled in a good system of the road, I will also say how our roads are made bad and those who are concerned with the ones and the ones who have and the ones who are and the ones who have and the ones who are and the ones who are and the ones who have and the ones who are and the ones who are and the ones appropriate measures will be taken for them will ensure our road systems we have paid a lot of tax money and then the construction of the roads are made bad to destroy our vehicles for a very short time and at the end of the day his wife who will not be held in the hospital when he is losing his life on the way because of the road being a bad time for a lot of human beings prevail. Ajili ya Kinondoni kapu Kinondoni kapu Kinondoni kapu Kinondoni kapu Kinondoni kapu
Which but of one hundred and eight cells remains twenty-eight teams, I am sending ninety and eight when it is planted in networking at an hour I have no other these are also very important people to me that we are ensuring that we are ensuring that we are putting up with other words to mark the production market to educate the community if they are not religious leaders on the side of Islam and the side of the Sabato, have taught us that they can leave the market of drugs that are there and education there are many items that are on the side of the side of the Islam. The education and the cleaning campaign is coming up says that I see a shame you must be clean and making Tanzanians you cannot feel that the truth in Kinondoni has been well even in your comment just but all those yakamilike needs religious leaders.
It was put do not do it well requires the councilors of the
Last when they complete I need to have the members of parliament to truly work true so that all yakamilike I need to have an easy one who knows the importance of development and justice to every Tanzanian without looking at his own education and those leaders can't know if they have not taken the steps to register themselves as they have not taken a step to register themselves.
Ehhe is giving you a chance to thank the people I thank you all of us being led to the night and in the afternoon but also without forgetting the mother of this family is called maria here is a very big job.
One of them to persevere if you find him at night and in the afternoon are on the road struggling with people but the second one trusting me and know his plans for the nations and our nation and gave him the honor of that is one day even if you don't support the world in heaven, you said that he thanks the mother by using the dominance in the world.
It is the best follow home at home.
He is not told earlier I would have told him to return to return.
Siku hii.
I haven't been very grateful every previous steps as any way that makes it for the sake of delivering young people to young people.
In different sectors, different sectors I really believe in all those that were successful then things will be good to tie the truth this lover
