Ehhe has been the maize why the sister does not get out at work this hour ohh for I was I want to ask how I received yesterday the ball came back to the ball.
And AHH mi I'm even now that is what I am receiving at work at work.
Ehat this hour is the one who will come out at work I am headed to the house.
Yesterday the phone, our team won Arsenal is on the top one yesterday was two two for Nunge ehhe then you know the player we lived in bring brought to bring brought a player.
We can use it as a lot of mangsome are strong.
Five thousand today has been released our new one you have the money to say he did a surprise yesterday, my brother that is there as a game Mister is not yesterday when your area is told then you don't say it to start the timana does not have the ball they have allowed those that allowed those.
That is the first one that was found first.
Ehhe yesterday did he made our coach Henga that he will hit his twenty years for very happy yesterday I was I want twenty to be in Arsenal mmhm AHH mi I got if I still have happened at work then I decided now about there is nothing I was doing.
Days like these people have been waiting for me at work csome.
AHH this hour I want the ones even the other hours work has to be one too.
Other hours to have Korea something that you are wachana that when you are now, you must look at the best you enjoy your life enjoy your life enjoy your life.
He didn't have a lot of it.
AHH is the truth that is the way in a aired
AHH but first, they said that it was looking at him and I understand they can remember people who were AHH old Tuesday they were on the sides with their new
Ehan income you know number one of us and milk ehhe is not the current one he was in the way he was not iya and then what the attackers was in Twiga roud is also the second scored of the second.
He was turned down the second goal there inside the inside.
He should go that when he scored the net was ten minutes and four
That is not a date a lot of my brother ye I will be delighted that that is
He has done until we're able to forget the van Persie.
The type you know there is someone in Manchester judy amenitusi very badly he has told your resource and number of first ATI tige that picture, that number of the newspaper to vote is the one that has to come to forget a lot of the heart that time does not vote for that time.
You will come to come.
He didn't have a lot of it.
Tell you what would you tell him yes he got a new instructor and and he still does not have the one that he has not yet come to the level of the ahe is still waiting for him to welcome him to the approve of that they approve of them.
Who Boys as the one who is the one who is the one who even has no name and then and of entertaining I don't have the Latifah sits well so then then then then then then then.
Absolutely it is called who even we should know who is ehehohh today today ma today with the Red Devils, that Manchester is today they are playing with the game today they are playing with the game today.
Mmhm is the ones they are playing the AHH is the ball that the hospital how many years old and who is a bad AHH and who is a bad AHH.
But the ball today the one with the good sweet today is out of clearly
To me for that while yesterday, I am saying there is a fight between them two, there is a fight between the two they want to revenge revenge.
Ehehhe really know all of you and all the money is mateam of those who are getting now they want to be seen their money to recover their money to recover to recover their money to recover their money to recover
Mama Ako maybe all this evening I tell you all the two out of the bus research is not there for those
Hebu adabu then they are now then they can't Germans then you know that you know you know there is a barGerman trainer who is in the world, that he is not surprising when I get back to the phone when I get back to the phone when I get back on the same time when I get back to the phone when I get back to the same time when I get back to the phone when I get back to the same time when I get back to the phone when I get back to the same time when I get
Ehanohh some of them and that one ehin, therefore, jameni and you will show me what it is not suitable for me.
You h when you get my phone then do not ate Tulia then it starts again
No I want to let you go first early, that's when we find the place that you know the people you know three to arrive at all of you hm.
Is not suitable for it.
Ehaninafaa we should have gone to be given there because there must be uji people that you know that it is the ball that we are in touch when I am also a year so but every everyone should be in every person they should be.
Ohh is the same then there must be there and we will start also a lot of money mapesa well as well.
Ehohh AHH no very much need the first one you know tomorrow is the day of the work we only have only drinks because they were three in the morning we're at work in the morning we're at work at work in the morning we're at work at work in the morning we're at work
With us and there is a leader who must change the soul today, we have to finish no work, I say together yesterday, it is not a must you say it has to be umekaa in asia.
But but you know the bad morning wakabaji when they are now two inafaa I should be at work I should be at work.
No you know you know her even the one that our child is also knows the ball knows that those are the ones that you are looking for,
Then you will see him with a person who knows he knows this date also to talk to make it easier and come to you to come.
AHH but he will understand what they will understand about and that I am unable to go tomorrow I will go that day I will make the piracy the other day I will do that many work is that I will be able to do with me.
AHH tutoke kuambukiza but endaje your brother has been many days.
It is AHH the family is okay.
