

Nairobi, Kenya of these days people have turned out to be like animals.
They are doing brutal acts that in mind as a human being cannot kuvitenda.
One man in Kenya, Stephen Ngila Thenge (24), has confessed to cut toward all the two hands his wife who have lasted with him for a period of seven years.
Thenge used a severe knife and brought down the hands of his wife's hands for the offense of failure to bear children.
Despite that we are saying that and the genre is for the Almighty God, this man was unable to persevere the examinations that he was given by God for lack of a child, and therefore, to find out akigombana with his wife once he accused why he didn't tourism children throughout the period of seven years they had lived together.
That wife, Jackline Mwende, from Kathama village, Masii in Machakos, his hands was cut on July 24th this year.
Apart from being charged with the hands of the hands, he got injuries near the head.
He did not end up there, that man also jeruhi his wife on the neck at the time of purukushani of a fight.
While narrating how the incident happened from Mwende says, "because of me accusing that I have not been able to kumzalia children, my husband decided to leave the home and went to live in order for approximately three months.
"Just after coming back the day before yesterday Saturday, he launched the door he told me that the day was the last for me, he started to attack by using the panga that he had come up with."
Mwende says he tried to make noise asking for help to the neighbors to help me, but it was not possible.
He says that after beating that neighbors came out but everyone was scared to kumshika because he might have died because he had a bad situation while most blood showing him from.
"I don't know why he was akinames that I don't have the ability to bear when last year we went to the hospital to test and my husband is the one who was discovered to have problems.
"The doctor said my husband is the one who had a problem... he was not able to give me pregnant, even though he insisted that the problem can be treated and end," he says.
Mwende notes that after those answers, her husband who is a mechanic in Masii town, refused to follow up on treatment while he was accusing that he is the one with problems.
"He was that he does not want to be treated... but despite the doctor's reply, he still continued to kuninyanyasa and it plays every day.
"But this journey is the one he has decided to have been injured in different parts of my body.
"He has hurt me badly different parts of the body, I have used the head, in the near future and even part of the secret," says Mwende.
Mwende says that together with all the mashibu that caused him to be left to God who believes that he will pay again for a while.
"I love my husband sincerely but this is what his payment so God is the one who will be judgment," he says.
While talking about the story, his brothers say that the couple had problems many days and that Mwende wanted to make her husband but one of the religious leader advised him to tolerate her husband and that there is a day God will be attacked the grace and the conflicts will end.


