
The shame that hit the coffee industries, complaints from the farmers of tea leaves of the small level in the country following the news that they will get a small bonus from the tea council of Kenya, KTDA, has been proved to clear the problems facing tea leaves in the country.
KTDA hununua one kilograms of tea leaves by 14 shillings and then later at the end of the fiscal year to give extra payment of known as a bonus bonus.
The vegetables of tea leaves get the second payment depending on the amount of leaves what they took in the industry and the financial ability of the factory they are leading those leaves.
The payments for tea farmers who are more than 560, 000 all over the country, he was shocked from between 24 and 35 shillings last year to 8.50 shillings and 16 shillings this year.
A total of money set aside for those payments and KTDA also reduced by 44 percent from 35.6 billion shillings last year to Sh19.8 billion this year.
The chairman of the farmers party of a small level of tea (Kusskwenda) branch of Bonde la ufa Joel Chepkwony says that the amount of a minimum bonasi this year was caused by a large number of directors of KTDA.
Mister Chepkwony is comparing those directors and "kupe" while akishangaa is why directors 455 were paid millions of money to manage 65 industries that are under KTDA here in the country, while farmers continue to receive poor payments.
"Is it a must we have seven directors in every factory of tea production of KTDA?
That is a huge burden for farmers because every director is receiving a payment of approximately 1 million shillings every year.
We will not need many directors so, "said Mister Chepkwony.
While uo, Mister Chepkwony gives a call to the Minister of Agriculture Felix Kosgey intervene and reduce the number of directors in every factory so that they remain two, explaining that this will reduce the cost of running industries so that more money can be paid farmers.
KTDA is in charge of 64 industries on behalf of 54 tea company that are owned directly by tea farmers who are at each other shares.
Abraham Rotich, accountant of KTDA in the area of Kericho and Bomet, anakanusha claims that the organization caused tea prices at the international auction in Mombasa City (Mombasa Auction) to decline.
Mister Rotich clarified that KTDA had the same rights with other businesses that are selling them and buy at the auction and therefore it was not any authority to decide the tea price.
"The price is decided by the international nut, along with the needs and the requirements of the customers who want to buy that tea.
It can also be affected by the level of currency exchange, "he added.
The tea sector in Kenya has faced strongly with various problems that seem to be caused by not improving the foreign countries that have been reported by the political conflicts or the weakest of the economy.
Kenya is leading the world in the sale of tea CTC (cut, Tear and curl) on the international market, considering that it contributes 22 percent of the sales of CTC in the world.
The big marketing of tea of Kenya international is together with Egypt, England, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Sudan, Urusi, Yemen and United Arab Emirates (UAE).
About a bonus, however, in the areas that are being used to tea leaves in the country, various industries to create tea viloffering different standards of extra payments.
In the field of Kericho, the Momul factory gave additional extra payments in the south of the Bonde la ufa, being Sh15.25 per kilo, while other industries like Litein, Kapkatet and Tegeta to pay the farmers Sh12 and 14 shillings.
The tea manufacturing factory of Ogembo in the county of Kisii paid a bonus of less in the country, being 5 8.5 per kilo shillings while the Imenti, Meru led to 26 shillings.
Is the solution for these problems is the lipi?
In his tour in Kericho several months ago, the secretary general in the Ministry of Agriculture Sicily Kariuki admitted that the tea sector in the country has been facing various challenges.
Miss Kairuki has demonstrated his fears that less than five percent of the total amount of tea being constructed in Kenya was being used by its citizens, while 95 percent being sold in foreign markets.
He says that the government will continue to look for new tea markets in the world while he recognized that tea is one of the produce that pays the country's revenue revenue.
Last year, tea ilizolea this country 114.5 billion shillings in sales outside and 22 billion here in the country.
However, the high cost of tea manufacturing in factories has been involved in the reduction of the income of farmers of tea leaves, and thus doing different industries to create tea to find a way to reduce costs so that farmers can get more money.
Four kilograms of tea leaves from the farm is needed in order to create one hundred kilograms of tea which is sold every week at the tea auction that is in Mombasa and which has been established so much.
Other stations in the world are in Colombo and Calcutta countries in the Sri Lanka and India.
The manager of Momul factory Leonard Gitobu Muriithi says that the factory is using 60 million shillings every year to pay the cost of electricity to run its work plant, and 50m more in buying wood.
Mister Muriithi adds that based on this situation of controversy, I had several tea industries in the destruction of destruction and who is holding back to register the produce of Stima which will be known as Setet Power Company'so as to produce electricity of use in those industries.
"Based on how things are now, every farmer is losing almost 5 shillings that would have gone through its payments in payment of electricity every year," he said.


