There is parents who have children with them they will be given they appear as if
The parents like those bani Abbas because though there are people who died mahari a child he plays up to maybe Tausi without your purpose.
That is the ones that this way his work to look at.
Things he doesn't know that you cannot sleep.
Spiritual clean if they don't come up.
Eat without the taabu is that he will serve because it is
Eat your children have children or a second marriage, a lot of them live
Even the names we know to believe in a child and a number of mwalimu must know what is being heard as a period of person people in every time I must make others know how much others do not know what others will get at home to worry about paying for you.
Judgment life to be given because now there is a need to know the child goes where to earn three time when they have gone to school school.
Well, he is always consistent that you found unipangie.
It will help my where we are looking for more difficult life and therefore, but they will still not get it including what you do and then we will change you later on
Threaten people as usual claims that I would like to inform them and those who entered that I had left what they were saying as a parent to the child of sending him a must for his parent to give birth to a hard cap.
For the fear of God and child to be left to the father in eternal sister that there is a person to travel with the bridge door to Saudi time and the wall of the room to store a child later ethics ethics later ethics.
My thing to be something in the body is that Joyce
He was able to meet people who others don't understand they can't be able to kumfanyia bad deeds of money they can because my side my side my side my side.
That we can finish the conflict of the child of my mother when they woi
I did not be able to fear two children a reason to go up to ten and five are the one they should use now that ATI is going to school one of the two areas two areas.
Three events of the child from the first headquarters, he needs to accept men and when they take a lot of orphans from Total margin has been a reason every day they are learning because those who are starting every school and only two and the people had in the traditional aspects of if it has a possibility that the school is learning money.
But they are teaching what school that will be their own when you mean to do Sabasaba a sister, there is one
But I panda buses buses.
They have said that it has not been asked to be stopped attacking but we see a lot of children when they are still crowded the father as they are usually taking care of their parents.
They don't have time to accept the state of life.
I think that's why magamba meaning without a reason we are thinking of the diploma of the normal government only, maybe this one is who they are planning they got to have got maybe his language sits Mbezi of it or without he changed the schools of the time and planting vehicles for what we haven't like to know many schools now right now right now.
That the business school still can be there in the school to wandikisha the child to some artists and the broadcasters and the baby of the school, maybe because the teachings of both religions people feel that we can teach a child in good ethics that is the mother of the child when it is planned as a child of the child is scheduled as a child of the child is scheduled as if the mother of the child is scheduled as if the child's mother is scheduled as
The creator of things from there is no loneliness woman that the child is
A shortage of a problem.
Of the fund.
The child is the difference that is in between the child to grow because we see what we have talked about some of the small children again as of a ten-year-old child or twenty years will have changed foreign issues to believe that after failing to you community members from the purpose of being unable to you members of the community.
We give them maybe I can get lucky if you know you will be a fetus he must be living a shadow either he can since he can since he can since
While a woman can create a changudoa every if it is so many now now.
They eat the bata.
