
The players should not be able to register to register to register.

It was written by Vicky Kimaro.

It has been published: 19 November 2016.

The round of the premier league is over recently and for now, the teams are in the process of making corrections their troops, for the second round of the league planned to officially start early next month.

Already some of the clubs have already started to contest for the signature of new players for strengthening their troops in different goals.
Rocks Simba, Yanga and Azam being fighting for searching for the championship, there is a team like Mbao, water, water, African Lyon and others will fight for the purchase to save the bridge.
Great, the players are required to be careful, not approve of their decisions to flooding with ink in various teams.
Players will ask the headlines that they should not make a decision by being challenged, a supporter and mihemko from the fans and leaders of the club, particularly the oldest in the end of the time they vote through the neck.
The players, especially the upcoming must evaluate their ability and the club they want to go to play for them as they are against them and will be able to help them develop their talents or if you owe them to be veterans in a young age.
The registration period is the season of the harvest it's not for the players, but even the aides and the coaches of the club, it will appeal to the registration to be done professionally by the highest professionalism of all sides because of the players and the club concerned, so that in the end of the Tanzania lipae.
We will not expect you to feel like that happened in the window window, when Hassan Kessy when he serve Yanga is still in a contract with Simba, a decision that until today unamtesa while he does not know the fate of his case that Simba have wanted to be paid 600 million shillings.
The first round, we have witnessed some of the players while signing away from cheating and causing it to be punished by the committee of law and integrity of players of Tanzania Football Federation (TFF).
The problem of cheating for the players has appeared to be sustainable for Tanzania, although for some period it was lost especially in the Premier League but for the level of low level cheating has been great and complaints have been a lot.
On the Premier League, the issue of players registering two teams has been common and has not taken the ears of soccer stakeholders, due to that commotion to be repeated from time to time.
All the time registration with controversy in the premier league even if it is the actual one that has always been involved in the old club of Simba and Yanga.
All cases that you have shaken the media here in the country are involved in those clubs themselves by themselves or themselves and other clubs where they are able to be his player.
We have witnessed also the players that are banned for a lot of mistakes like that, that has ever been done by the players in the past and given the punishment by TFF, but the issue has appeared to be difficult to be understood by the players.
Nionavyo, greed for money, enlightbukeni of the law is the ones that have been starting some of the players and find them getting into the conflict between the actual and others find them to be locked up to be involved in soccer for a period of six months to one year.
The Tanzania Football Association (Sputanza), though it would not be ungani and punishment but it believes that there is a good punishment to be married so as to stop the habit of cheating and build discipline in soccer game.
"If we will defend this issue, we will defend cheating to continue, most of the time we are denied a player given a great punishment to be banned for life or one year because we believe that it has a great impact because the player is dependent on playing as his employment, but for such cases, it must build discipline for our players to discover and respect the law," says the Secretary General of Sputanza, Mussa Kisoki.
Kisoki said it has come now during the players register to their party so that they can help them manage their contracts and not wait until they enter the conflict with their clubs.
They should educate players of the premier league teams and the First Division League on the right and their responsibility, their freedom in matters of registration and other important issues that bring mistakes to players especially in contracts and registration.
Players should be careful in getting contracts and if it will be possible they should be lawyers to supervise.
I believe things held on caution and great attention to both sides to the leaders and coaches of the club is clear we can witness the sweet leagues in the second round than the first that ended by Simba to sit at the peak with 35 points.


