
Buguruni Sokoni Waomba to improve the infrastructure of the infrastructure.

October 21, 2016, 2016.

The leadership of the Buguruni market have requested the municipal council of Ilala to stop bureaucracy and put open revenue that is found due to the collections of business taxes for the leadership committee of the market to improve the infrastructure of the market.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the chairman of the market Said Kondo said that the market has a total of 3,200 traders that were registered officially while there are more than 1,000 attackers outside the market that have been doing business without paying tax.
He said that the action of the council not open to the market committee about the revenue that is found from taxes caused the delay of the improvement of the market.
"The Buguruni market is faced with challenges of destruction of infrastructure due to buildings buildings, a situation that causes a lot of products in the market to drop the value due to the rains or the sun," he said.
Moreover, he added that for now the real state of business in the market is not good, many businessmen have yumba economically due to the circulation of money that is not good.
"Now, the price of products have competition, business people sell based on they buy so that they can get profit, the market is a competitive market you will sell and if you bring a bad product, you will get losses together with that business from farmers are coming as usual," insisted Kondo.
Speaking about the reason for some of the business people who drive their business in the market without paying tax said this is due to some of them take badly against President Doctor.
John Magufuli that he gave recently to be the business people "wamachinga" to allow them to do business.
"Due to this step I am asking for the Municipal Council of Ilala to consider the possibility of seeking the official areas of all business people who were involved in the market against the procedures so as to remove the congestion that is currently especially considering this market is a small one not to withstand a large group of people," said the chairman.


