
Usia WANGU to the youth of Mbeya City CITY.

Rashid Mkwinda

Usia WANGU to the youth of Mbeya City CITY.

Vodacom Premier League is over, Mbeya City, a team that has received the popularity of its kind in this league is over the third position behind Azam FC and Yanga all of Dar es Salaam.

It is clear that this league has been a unique challenge for strange teams especially Mbeya City which apart from being familiar in this league but has brought a new feeling of inspiration from fans who previously before the rise of that team, many of them were focused on inspiration and fanaticism of political affairs.

The history of soccer in Mbeya province cannot be completed without checking the teams that have ever performed well in that league in the country like, Tukuyu Stars, Mecco, Tiger and Prisons which both at different times were among the league and provide inspiration of soccer game in Mbeya Province.

For this season of the league under Coach Juma Mwambusi Mbeya City has been able to activate and withdraw the old teams in that league and showing the way of hope to do well in this league as it was for their brother Tukuyu Stars which for the first time rose the bridge in 1986 and that year to take the cup.

It was a history of sending it signed for the new generation of soccer in the country for the year of 1986 where under funding Ramnik Patel (Kaka), Tukuyu Stars team which was popular for the nickname "Banyambala", "it was able to climb the bridge and took the championship and showing the surprise of the regional teams to be left in Dar es Salaam.
In order to put well the history of soccer in Mbeya province is well, I was mentioning the squad of Tukuyu Stars which broke a taboo and put in Mbeya in a soccer map in the country after winning the cup and managed to participate in the African continent and the champions club in East Africa year 1987 and being able to draw 1-1 draw with the hard team of AFC of Kampala which previously was recognized by the name of Abaluya.

The players who created the squad of Tukuyu Stars under Coach Athuman Juma, were a goalkeeper, Mbwana Makata, central defenders, Ali Chimwaga and Daniel Chundu, Walinzi of pembeni Godwin Aswile, Suleiman Mathew and Aston pardon (late).

The defense of defense Yusuf Kamba and Peter Mwakibibi, physically of attacking, Richard Lumumba (late) and Kevin Haule, Viungo on the edge, Karabi Mrisho and Suleiman Mwankenja.

After being seen to do well in that league, the team strengthened more registration in the year that followed by adding vibrant players like the women in Aswile, Ali Mrisho, Salum Kabunda, Justin Mtekele (late), goalkeeper Joshua Kilale, Salum Kussi, Michael Kidilu, Jimmy Mored and Steven Mussa (late).

Together with the success, Tukuyu Stars faced a lot of challenges of his players moving to the big teams of Yanga and Simba where the team was witnessed his vibrant players as well as Godwin Aswile, Suleiman Mathew, Salum Kabunda, Steven Mussa and others moved from that team.

It should be remembered that Tukuyu Stars was a painful iba for Yanga team which time when it managed to climb the premier league and took the championship of Yanga, it was unable to tell the visitors where for all the two games was defeated by the team by 1-0 matches which was taken by Mbeya and 2-1 in the repeat match in Dar es Salaam city.

From that history of Tukuyu Stars which dropped the bridge in 2008 under the current coach of Mbeya City, Juma Mwambusi, there are primary things that should consider so as to ensure that it will last in the arena of the premier league for many years to come and even took the championship.

Together with the success that showed Mbeya City for the league season that ended yesterday, there are many weaknesses that are required to be worked on and put that team in the success of the league for the next season.

In a total of 26 matches that he played in Mbeya City team has won 13 matches with a draw of 10 matches has lost 3 games, has been closed down a total of 32 goals and scored 21 goals and to accumulate a total of 49 points was claimed to position 3 in the league standings.

Until it finished the first round the team as it was for the team champions of this league in Azam had never lost a game even one.

In the second round of the league, the team like that which began to be married themselves lost three matches, defeated by Yanga which in the first round, it was able to loose transaction and from with the Coastal Union in Tanga city and later lost the important match of sending it signed by Azam in the field of Sokoine home.

There are many that emerged in that match including rumors that emerged even before the match that Mbeya City has selling the match and that in the state it is a must for Azam team win that match and covered the championship before the end of the league.

If it was only about the beginning of Mbeya City entered into the field and seen playing under the level while his attackers unable to close the Azam gate and caused throughout the first half of the ball when you played half the ground.

It is a few times the players of Mbeya City seemed to close the entrance to Azam, a situation that some of the fans started to be afraid that maybe the team can be defeated by Azam where one minute before going to break the player Gaudence Mwaikimba of Azam managed to write a leading goal for his team.

The second half started by showing the existence of Mbeya City team, the instructions of the mwalimu started to show the hope of the team to restore hope for the fans and finally 70 minutes a player of Mbeya City Mwagane Yeof managed to equalize the goal by tiktaka.

The expectations of doing well for the squad started to enter with faults of the referee of that match and Nathan Lazaro of Kilimanjaro who claimed to carry a team of Azam being assisted by the leaders of honor, Abdallah Uhako and Godfrey Kihwili all from Arusha City.

The results of that game caused violence to fans even some of the players appeared to bear the referee, however, there are a lot of things to learn to the team due to the whole flow of the league and the way it ends.

There are also criticisms of one that Mbeya City is not supposed to be reped, to reforget after seeing it has begun to get popular, playing under the level and give Azam victory and took the cup before the end of the league.

Mbeya City has not yet break the record set by their brother of Tukuyu Stars, is supposed to put alternative strategies to strengthen the squad by protecting the efforts of the soccer stakeholders of Mbeya province and elsewhere who in one way or another they were wishing the team's success in the state and wealth.

As an advocate for soccer and journalist of sports, I will not stop saying this so as to be the catalyst for development of this club which apart from returning the inspiration of soccer in Mbeya, it has helped to increase economic opportunities to the residents of that city where apart from the entries that are found milangoni, many visitors from the neighboring provinces comes to cheer the team.

Mbeya City is required to learn for his sake of those who will be doing that until now they appear to slug in this league, it should be remembered also the Prisons team that lasted in this league a long time dropped in the year 2011 being under the coach who is currently the coach of Mbeya City Juma Mwambusi.

Until now, it is still continuing to be critical in a machine for every season it survived to drop the bridge where this season almanusura has to drop the bridge where it finished the league with a total of 28 points with a total of 26 games with a total of 6 goals while it has won 6 matches with a total of 10 goals and lost 10 matches.

Mbeya City team is owned by the City Council of Mbeya where has risen the bridge this season of the league.

Mbeya City squad led by Coach Juma Mwambusi and players David Burhani / Geofrey Julius, Hassan Mwasening / Mohamed Kijuso, Hamad Kibobile, Yusuf Abdallah, Yohana Morris, Christian Sembuli, Hamid Mohamed, Kenny Ally, Saad Kipanga, Mwagane, Deus Kaseke, Aziz Sibo, Antony Matogolo, Yusuf Wilson, Francis Castor and Jeremiah John.


