Without an error will not be there, the experts of TANESCO arrived also in the area that has many customers and providing education of better use of electricity electricity.
Ehhe has seen it better if we get the same in the area that if they like it.
If I'm ready for the topic that is the best topics that are the most of our customers who are in and one because if you look at even what you close the attitude almost twenty-twenty meters.
I have faith that twenty-kilometer already there are more than twenty customers.
Therefore, when we find the nivema so that we focus on the same way I am ere but we should give him and how much better than being able to use the electricity service but and to take precaution when maybe he has from the class or the one you are in his personal activities in the private activities.
Ehin for the commanders, the belief that the biggest things here, maybe when they are atika electricity, there will be a pass when you will pass.
Ehhthese laptop this year.
Ehthere will be a train even if it is the same style
If you give us the money you when maybe you have read it has come up to the night of eight, it's tired we want only to just just want to.
If we pour us more than a hm.
In order to build the ability to remember more when you have finished your activities of studying or in the classroom or in your activities.
Okay, the life device is the device.
Because that ehas when you have come from together in class a long time, you esha used a lot of like pads like pads.
The electricity items can't work a long time later on a lot of
Phone seven o'clock when I was called on a phone with his colleagues who remained here, I am saying a certain home for you to come out of smoke, we should change all that you should not join together when I know who you are here, it will be a catalyst for our colleagues who are not coming to the success that TANESCO passed here when they called them here when they called
Houses to the house to look at what the systems are and good luck this is a new building ehhe doesn't have its very basic weaknesses so that the users just want to remember when he ensures that he has a lot more friendly that he has when he comes to he is using it.
But if it is that to cook then I will be asked by wells that we will get a victim will get a victim.
