
Nchimbi opens up after CCM Kulikata his name during Kinyang

Former minister of internal affairs and the member of parliament of Songea town, Doctor.
Emmanuel Nchimbi (pictured), has opened up about several things and explained that of Tanzania should understand that perception in political parties is common in the country with democracy.

Doctor.
Nchimbi said that yesterday being one day after the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Songea Town district to reject the form of requesting for the parliamentary seat that he was taken by the citizens claiming it was not a criteria.

"I am telling you of Tanzania that we are giving his perception, perception in our parties is common in democracy, we can perception in the proposals, but we praised in the decisions we will be one thing to support what we agree with that is the good procedure of building democracy," he said.

Doctor.
Nchimbi who was being interviewed by Radio One station yesterday morning, said that the democracy of not eleoring the truth is not democracy but the true democracy is for the freedom of mindful.

He said that someone who does not like CCM should be calm is a person who will not obey the country and that he does not plan to relocate the party because he has been married by CCM.

He added that the reports of that he and several cadres have been questioned by the party in relation to the statement they provided during the selection sessions of the presidential candidate that they were not satisfied with the process of no truth.

"I have been right CCM and still I will continue to be CCM due to the basis of imagination and policy, now if there is someone who is thinking that I can leave that CCM is the mindset of a lot of foolish," he said.

The political committee of CCM in Songea district last Sunday refused to receive the form of vying for the parliamentary seat of which he won the Doctor.
Nchimbi and some residents on claims that it did not meet the criteria.

However, last month, Doctor.
Nchimbi prepared the meeting of members of CCM, leaders and citizens and thanked them for cooperation who nominated him in his leadership period, then announce that he will not contest again for the parliamentary seat in that region this year.

Doctor.
Nchimbi was mentioned that he may be asking for the West Mbinga region that is in Nyasa district that was being detained by the late Kapten John Komba, who died early this year.


