UBSIRANTI May 31, 2012, 2012.

(((I apologize for the start of this part of my debate by parandesi other.
Parandesi of this week has been forced by the head of words that I had been appointed for the article of this week: OBSIRANTI.
As I had hinted at the end of last week's article, I failed to get the Swahili word that will explain that the concept of the word of the ki-west "obscurantism" or "obscurantist."
Certainly there are many concept we should discuss every day that have not been given the right words in our language, and this is one of those.
In the state we have, then, I partiki to say that it is suitable, frequently, we should tohoe, we will join, we should tongue or we are enjoying the new words from the words that resulted in other languages.
Not that is how all the languages, as well as Kiswahili, zhow
The person who is described as obsikuranti (obscurantist) is the one holding him that he is knowing and if he is onto with his strength at all, and he became ready to go to war to defend the "skills."
It is someone who believes the things that can be yamepitwa by the time, and the knowledge of showing so have been found, but he does not want to even hear or see the whole Lo that can be neglecting or eteresha ignorance.
Society also can be defeated by the minyororo of obsikuranti.
For sure, it is the community that goes to people obsikuranti, because that the community has not built its system of faith in a long time, and you put the procedures of the system and the custom, as well as the law, regulations and custom that make sure that every mwanajamii is a knee injury in front of revolutionary beliefs, most of the time for fear to be punished.
All of us have been born in the community with several beliefs that were protesting with instructions as well as the shelves kem kem.
We have neglected (socialised) in faith, rules, regulations and procedures, basically without having an opportunity to question the need to do so.
On this way, even what the instructions that are with the benefits, or the ones face the benefits, we are following and to obey them without knowing what we are doing so.
Many African communities are not allowed the children to ask me a lot of questions, especially if those questions have direction in the foundations of the belief that were familiar.
When a child wanted to know than he deserves to know he will be defeated, or he will be told it is rude or rhythaku, he has no adabu, he does not respect the big ones, and so on.
His results are that, in many sectors, we have built our communities on the basis of the old beliefs that don't have merit in today's world, and don't ishangazi that development we are in this we end.
Our communities are not allowed to udadisi, and without analysts there is no progress.
I will come back this in front of the trip.
This situation has a relationship with issues that I have been discussing for some time now, particularly better education services and health to our people.
In understanding well the problem of obsikuranti and how to fight with issues of education and health are known directly.
Even in the environment of obsikuranti that has spread, in the darkness, the ignorance and the ujuha, it comes out a few of the light that even the strength of obsikuranti can't speak at all, it could be affected by some time.
Finally, that is collected and connecting with power and then that kurunzi with a tough light that is seen everywhere.
That in the University of obsikuranti miale like this can come out and eventually have the power that is not avoided is due to the great inspiration of the agents of change (Agency of change).
There is no agents of greater changes than education, the real education aimed at breaking up the ororo of obsikuranti, to disturb the eyes of the brain and to be forgotten in the brain of human beings.
For this sense investment in the best education is an investment in the war against obsikuranti.
We can be conflicting until chicken are back home about that is called the best education (and the best tungelumbana instead of the administrators pretending to know on our behalf), but your several things that didn't accept a long debate.
For example, for those relating to the debate that we have now, it is not possible "the best education" ikawa is the one that makes them get them to continue believing that there are people when they are using a ungo like HELIKOPTA from Songea to Tanga.
The person who went through school to university and got this degree or the one, and yet he became believes that we have the Tanzanian that we are making the deadkuti of Makuti, that captain through school only, but education has passed along.


