
The fear of the child of Zari, Lady Boss following the stomach!

In the city of the city for now, it is a serious debate on the streets and on social media that, the current lover of Mbongo-Fleva, Nasibu Abdul "Diamond Platnumz," Zarinah Hassan "Zari, Boss Lady" can kumuua the motto who is in the womb due to his behavior of wearing shoes with deep lines (hills) in this period of pregnancy.

They are saying the fans of the fans.

Some of the fans, especially the children of town who are believed to have great love with Miss Tanzania 2006 who is also the star of Bongo movie star, Wema Isaac Sepetu (Team Wema), who has served with a romantic relationship with Diamond, have called him in Zari saying that he put up to him in the hills, "wherever you are able to stomach at the same time.

Doctor AZUNGUMZA, AFAFANUA UA UA.

Following those heavy claims, the day before yesterday, the peace was talking to the famous doctor in Dar es Salaam, Godfrey Chale "Doctor Chale" who was forced to explain about those allegations.

Peace: "Sorry dokta, we should be forced to find due to the words that were spreading at the moment here in the city.
Diamond has his lover is pregnant.
Now together with his pregnancy, he is wearing deep shoes.

"For that they have to dock that he can't affect the kitoto that is in the womb because when he puts shoes, the muscles of the muscle.

The legs is filling and he is pressing the stomach.
There's a fact? "

Doctor: "First really it's not true.
A woman when he puts deep shoes during pregnancy does not caused the unborn child to die.

"Though, it is advisable for pregnant women.

They should not be wearing deep shoes because, when they are wearing, they are expanded muscles and increase weight.
Therefore it becomes such a person who carried a burden on the head while he is pregnant. "

Whoever went to the diseases that are facing Zari of Zari.

Doctor Chale continued to disclose that, pregnant when he is continuing to wear deep shoes, he has not delivered with the body ukapoa, he will face four diseases.

"First, he will suffer the foot.
Secondly, he will be suffering from problems on the visigino.
Third will get the problems of kneeling and four will be ill back.
That's why you can find a woman becomes pretty, good legs but if he was carrying cargo or wearing deep shoes during pregnancy, the legs is ota meat in the past "work."

AONDOA HOFU HOFU.

"Therefore, if the community has fear that the pregnant woman will kill the unborn child because of wearing deep shoes, that fear iondoke but it has been given those four problems that I said," said the doctor.

By women we wish you all the WOTE.

"But these effects are not for the only pregnant.
Professional research has discovered that, a woman has the ability to walk an average of 10,000 steps per day.
Therefore wearing shoes with deep rigino makes the energy that is used to walk in one point to be bigger.
Now you will see the effects of walking on 10,000 steps.
This doesn't matter who uses the car.

"Its results cause muscle and the veins on the legs, the uno, back and the neck to do a great job of trying to equate weight.
The work that normally are done by the visigino, "completed the dokta.

Diamond said that he said.

Peace, the day before yesterday searched for Diamond through his network of WhatsApp and asking him to sign up the claims of "bad" of Zari:

"Those are just there.
You know this world ukiswasn't popular every thing will be andama.
But I am looking forward more, what I do and what I will do.
If words even in the same clothes are there. "


