The number of search for the winners of that game, a difficult paper and a lesson has started today in Morogoro town to take three days the report of Esther zelamula has to sell them to sell them to sell them.
The Manager of the journey of the trip that supports the competition Oscar Shelukindo together with the national leaders the game, the chairperson must be beaten by the assistant secretary of the past parties, Mgonja has said that the aim of the competition is to recognize the best players and growing the standard of the game but I believe that the money that we have made for now those times that we have met at the end of the gift.
Ehhe but there was a magotini if they will see music they will be given a t-shirt they will be given or they will be different items there will be a promotion at the
The location of the event and
Teams that will participate are thirty and four teams.
Between the thirty and four of the four and four.
What is there.
A number of women.
Kilimanjaro ourselves bringing a four team bringing a four team.
Basically the gifts we will be doing the analysis after that we have to make the income that we have to do.
It would not have been able to where we are going to where we are going to
To participate and which we also got new at that time that the Kilimajaro premium company has launched a great campaign known as asilimia mia Tanzania, that has a slogan of celebrating our best in a row and I know until the end, George Kavishe has said that the campaign aims to encourage Tanzanians to be proud of various Tanzanian things like the music and the sports having a continuation of the campaign in order for them to start last year. During the commemoration of fifty years of freedom mosquitoes mosquitoes at the age of independence.
Down the campaign that I have written for the one to speak to our time.
Here should make it before a lot of time.
From now up to the month of eighteen and continued according to Kavishe the campaign has used Simba and yanga pictures which are being sponsored by the beer the money has been sponsored by the beer the money has been sponsored by Chanel ten daressalaam.
