Halo ehthree timber for daddy three and five timber and timber sa we have seen five timber and we have seen five timber and we have seen five timber.
I see it had the tomatoes you have to be sold to the tomatoes you have to be sold to come ehhe ehhe.
And the teeth are also coming to pass here they were selling one hamsini and I haven't taken it said I read your
What I do not know.
Ehhm mmhm AHH that will be a loss yesterday was even the one that timber at Nelson was when ten mmhm guests ehm visitors.
I was able to see Nelson okay ehat the same time that AHH, they have been selling one hamsini and I saw of something but he said he will bring another and I saw the marikiti they were selling and one very big seat.
Bit a bit.
Ehthat can be a lot of benefits ehthis will bring the benefits of the greatest hamsini, you know when I am two ehm, I am saying one kilograms is when I have one is forty tano forty tano hm that is the Chelsea that I will have to take a loss ehAHH yesterday I have brought a lot of regrets and he is asking and have finished building has finished with building the halo.
Okay who is in charge of the house you have said that I have stood only here they are still making a kibanda one hamsini.
Ohh each other AHH is a ghali ehhe is.
So much ehhe I have seen yesterday yes, it's brought a lot today now you have said it has been said.
If you don't.
Even he has not finished yet we do it just then you do not know how to ufungue you, I am telling you and you are still saying that he is not going to create a kibanda and then do you continue the house and when you continue to continue the house.
Okay ehhe and I hear I hear the hhm ehhe and ehhe and he's hearing ehhe.
Okay, he is ironed and hear Mahm mmhm, Hho said that he does not play the morning he does not vote for me in the morning.
We will not now have now.
Tomorrow we will go with the market market.
Tomorrow we will go with the market tomorrow we will go with the market in the market.
Ehhe is the one that doesn't run that person who is accepted maidha things I have stopped simjui.
Ehhe I will be showing mmhm ehhe I will be called even manext if you ask him ehhalo and he will not show you the same hhm that is the one that does not care about fifty years while he does not work at the hhm at work.
Because I will buy vegetables, tomatoes onions explaining up to the potatoes and I failed to carry a sa will have to have will
Network is seen that it is not surprising that we are showing people they were selling how they were selling how many people were selling how many people were selling today.
How many?
How many times you are now but that will send you know what it does not give and the lobby of the marriage they are selling how many people have been selling how many of them are four hundred and four ohh but it can give you said that it brings coal.
Four hundred is a kind of is a kind of ehhe ehhe is.
The snhes is where it will be or Next mwezi ehduring the second month in the second month ehehhe I'm out now, I say I'm out of the door ehhalo halo.
You understand that you feel because you are in the house just to be used to the house you should stand out because of the house there is no Network you are out in the thousand thousand.
Ehhe is not to have brought coal angalau he would have brought coal.
And the second month is not this hour ehhe is the second month halo ehhe's the second water ehhe is the one I will cause ehhm ehhm, it should start this AHH that is coming up this is coming from this one that is coming from this one that is coming to this this is coming from this one that is coming from this one that is coming from this one that is coming to this this is coming from this one that is coming from this one that is coming this
How many halo ohh is the usilete coal, it's okay that I will cause the wedding I want the first one to cook tea, you will be able to cook the first one to cook at the bottom I want the first to cook.
It is not that you will cause something you do not hate the phone we are still talking to Mister for a ten minutes not to raise why you hit the Cheka so that you eat what you are happy for the house you are happy to have taken my son.
Ehatehatat how many hours.
He didn't have a lot of it.
