
'Wateja gesti to register names, the number of vitambulisho' '.

It has been written by Sophia Mwambe.

It has been published: 09 September 2016.

The police commander of the special unit of Dar es Salaam, Simon Sirro, has appealed to the residents of that city and visitors that are coming in the city from different provinces to assume the reports of the voice being circulated on social media networks that the police have arrested hovyo they are in the afternoon at the visitors houses.

According to the report that was released by Sirro today, the news circulating in the internet of WhatsApp naTelegram, together with published on some of the newspapers that the police have arrested those people on claims of selling and laziness is rumors.
Commander Sirro said that in bad interest, those reports have claimed that the action is to implement the directive by President John Magufuli of 'Here Work Tu', something that is not true.
"I am afraid of good citizens that we are developing an operation in searching for the suspects of different crimes including those who are doing the business of sleeping visitors against the law by running a bubu," he said.
He has said that in his report that investigation has shown the existence of houses to sleep guests that are running the random business by store criminals, including women and men who are selling their bodies (sister and brother good).
"It is a duty of police to conduct inspections from time to time at the visitors houses, hotels, restaurants, clubs of liquor and luxury spots zinazokesha," he said and added that those found legal action will be taken against legal action.
Sirro has urged traders of houses to sleep visitors to follow the procedures of receiving visitors by writing their names on books, writing numbers of their identity cards and places they get from when they worry about any client to give information to any police station.
He urged the chairmen of the local government and the members of 10 houses to be responsible to recognize all the visitors that are coming in their empire and take appropriate measures that are known to be criminals, in order to strengthen security.


