How do I promise to show the European finals?
APR 13, 2012, 2012.

After a long period of love soccer in the country unable to watch the English Premier League with many lovers here in the country, TBC One brings liberation by showing one of the league at least for some of the matches.
Even if those matches were shown they weren't able to involve themselves in the themselves of Manchester United, Chelsea, Arsenal and Liverpool but we have seen one of those teams that are playing with other together with other terrific matches that are not involved in four teams of England with many lovers here in the country.
For that we are said to thank you a lot TBC One and do not go back.
More than England Premier League, TBC One have been showing the Premier League of Spain and various soccer competitions including domestic and outside of our national team, JK Boys when it won and Taifa Stars when it failed!
For all that we have said thank you so much TBC One.
In addition to their sincere gratitude, I request to say by the fish of the television station by kuwalaumu due to the afflictions that they have given in the implementation of that good thing of making us show different soccer matches in one.
If announcing the English Premier League matches directly through their football period of soccer, Swahili channel of BBC in London have been informing them one week before that it is a match that they could show directly.
BBC continued to do so until the morning of the broadcasting day of the match within the period of this week.
Contrary to her, TBC One have been doing very secret about the match of showing one of the next week.
And when they announce, the announcement is given a few times a lot where those who see you have seen me, lucky luck.
I don't know why they will not be angazi early and for enough time so many to know that maybe the match that will be shown is on Monday at 5.00 at night between Everton and Middlesbrough.
The results of "privacy" that is to love many soccer where they missed the battle when they could need to see it.
Another, we are requesting them to fish, to think that it is an act of assured that they will be entertained directly to a certain competition which his schedule is very easy but should not implement that promise fully.
For example, at the European nations of this year in Switzerland and Austria, TBC One, they were assured they will show the competition directly.
We are very pleased with our love and our honor to them vilipanda on a lot.
Suddenly, our love and our honor to them have dropped fast after only two days of the beginning of the competition.
After the rest of us show the first match between the host Switzerland and the Czech Republic, it mentioned the news report that was followed by a series of business advertisements.
The announcements reached the time to start the second match between Portugal and Turkey that was eagerly awaited by the Tanzanian of Tanzania than the first one!
Sad, the match was not shown by TBC One against the promise to show the competition!
The second day of the competition, not the first match of the host Austria and Croatia or the second match of Germany and Poland were seen in TBC One!
Sorry to tell them that the second day event was built with hatred and great arrogant of loving soccer of this country by TBC One for denying them which had promised them.
The hatred is built by seeing TBC One is wachukia them and the dharau is built by seeing TBC One is awadharor them.
When you are planning and respect them how to hate and to be harharor?
That's despated is the most serious.
We love these soccer of Tanzania feel they are being tested for what they have been promised but that can be prevented but it is hard for them to persevere the arrogant of not inform the reasons for those changes.
That's the most evil.
TBC with TBC One television, TBC National radio and TBC FM together with the closeness with the news newspapers Leo and Daily News failing to tell the citizens in Tanzania for what is unable to fulfill his promise fully is being arrogant for the citizens.
There should be any reason as well as the citizens should be taught than they do just and be seen as they say "since they will make us what the service itself is for free."
That is unacceptable at the basis of the best service to the customer (Good Customer Care).
For these two days, complaints on the streets against TBC One has been very high.
Many saying it's better for the right to show the competition would have been given another television station in the country, maybe TBC One have been overwhelmed the burden!


