
It's true, we need this law Nov 22, 2012.

In the third page of this newspaper we have published news about the meeting of leaders of the Anti-Corruption Agencies in East Africa (EAAACA) which started on Monday this week in Mwanza town.

Different leaders have talked about the meeting, giving suggestions and advice to improve the fight against corruption in East Africa countries.

Between the speakers include the vice chairman of the ethics committee and combating corruption of Kenya (EACC), Irene Keino.
In addition to other things, Keino has advised Tanzania to have a special law of monitoring of its resources that are stolen, that is an asset Tracking Act.

In addition to the existence of the law to protect the witnesses, we think it is the right time Tanzania to have the law of that way, that is independent and not to put the section within the other law.

There are several factors that are important to support the advice and the biggest one is the fact that our economy as a nation continues to open up the day up to day, challenges of controlling our economic system also to grow up as the years is moving forward.

Business opportunities in the country are continuing to open up while the speed of harvesting of the resources of the country in order to increase.
Those challenges and others that are not easy to be listed here, it is obvious that they will be the loopholes of corruption.

Inside that list of challenges of expansion of the economy and this speed of harvesting resources of the country, theft and corruption of resources is a clear threat.
For that means, it is important now to have the law of that way although the experience is confirmed that, for Tanzania, the primary problem is not the law but it is the law enforcement.

However, together with acknowledging that the primary problem is not the law but the management of law, it is well to continue to improve and even make a new law better for faith that, one day, supervisors of these laws will come out.

We recognize that the fight against corruption and theft of the resources of the country is a war that needs the use of all weapons to the extent that can be found.

We don't have a volunteer to choose weapons in a fight against corruption and corruption, and we don't have a volunteer to choose what time to use the weapons.
It is true the country needs the law of monitoring the resources that are being robbed, the parliament and executives of the government should be responsible for keenly this advice.


