
I could have been Jerry Muro, quickly I could have done this week last week the press team of Mwananchi newspapers did an interview with the chairman of Yanga, Yusuf Manji being only two days after being elected to continue to hold that position in the club for the next four years according to the constitution.
In the interview, Manji spoke different issues of development and advice to the sports sector, politics and the economy and provide notice.
When I was among the writers' team, out of things that I saw him yanamkera from his heart is an issue to be shown the team's match saying that they have reduced revenue in a big way.
He said the revenue decreased because people are waiting to look at the ball bar and also in the 'vibandaumiza' people are looking for 500 shillings.
Manji said that it is better for the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) to remain with their contract with Azam and Waseme they are paying how many shillings for every match so that they can give them freedom.
Manji went far more to say that it has caused to lower morari of fans to go on the field and to lower the income of the club.
Also, he complained about a few clever kuhodhi the system of selling equipment like the jersey, scarf, socks, socks, socks, socks, socks, socks, socks, socks, socks, socks as a problem because they are making equipment with the logo of Yanga and use them to benefit themselves instead of the club.
He said that in a big way Yanga has got a loss and forced him to add 25 billion shillings to achieve different things until winning the premier league championship, the FA Cup, participation in the Champions League until the Federation Cup and now is the stage of groups.
Now, together with that Manji was saying in an interview, it is possible that it was recognized inside Yanga that there is a loss has been found and reduced revenue.
Due to that situation, what should be done, was required to make a mental mind to fill the holes in these matches of the Federation Cup because it has already been found at a loss.
For that situation, I could have been information officer of Yanga, Jerry Muro, I could manage this to be done first, I could have advised the formation of the committee to manage this income with integrity.
They would have been building special cards that will be sold for special people to contribute to Yanga and then there is a ticket for the match.
The cards would have been sold maybe by 1 million shillings or more that would also include if it is food or drinks and vitafunio and it is for a special area.
Secondly, I could look at the procedure of entries that because to run the competition is the cost, those who are capable of between and they will pay if Sh200,000 right and they have their procedure for their area.
There are people they have a pain with their team, they will pay only.
The same way, other areas can be Sh100,000 and 50,000 shillings and there will also be special services based on the people's money to the area.
The area of all, here the entry can be 10,000 shillings.
I know it will be very high, but it is known, luxury costs.
Even the European matches, basketball entry is expected to reach 10 million shillings.
Third, when we will come to the people to find out the stadium for the money?
I could air the advertisements of the radio PENDWA, I don't want to be named, they are known, every time the announcement is on the air as well as in TV, I could have to ask for TV or radio sponsorship of those announcements as well as using sports programs to promote more matches encing people.
Four, Mara after going back, I would record the voice of the players and sending the redioni, he identifies then he says that he's encouraging the fans, even the coach and those who do not know Swahili, I would have secrets behind their statements.
Five, for a different day, I could have stopped the press meetings to explain the strategy of Yanga, as well as closure, the direction is short, why they have been closed and what is done.
The last meeting I could have made us today Monday, because tomorrow is to write Yanga plays with TP Mazembe, the great news I know will be what I will be saying and that will have planned to be done, the procedure to enter and everything related to the match, including with special cards and special entries and other entries.
Six, I could have advised the leadership of Yanga to ask the sponsors, the Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) at least doing 'road show' by yesterday on Sunday, Monday and tomorrow Tuesday for Temeke, Ilala and Kinondoni to encourage them, encouraging people from coming up on the field.
Seven, I could advise leaders, also help at least sports newspapers through sponsors, to announce their products by providing announcements of the match being caught up by the pictures of the players, all is encouraging and inspiration.
So, until then I haven't been able to fill the ground?
Not for this match only, all the matches.
Most of you but for those seven, I believe the amount I will have helped Manji and his leadership and I have fulfilled my responsibility as information officer in spreading propaganda to promote the match and the good of the club for the benefit of the club.


