
Tuesday, September 27, 2016, September 27, 2016.

Jenga positive thoughts, Uwe and Furaha

To be happy it is your own decision.
Joy is the result of how it has decided to think.
Meanwhile, cutting up and lack of peace most of the time is the result of thinking things that are giving up and sometimes we do not have his answers.
We interpret the worst things we meet with and that's the reason when we cut up with ideas.

Yes to say, your thoughts have great power.
If you are able to change the thoughts you face you cannot be disturbed by anything that is able to happen in your life.
In this article we are looking at several things that can help you have a positive mindset that will make you be happy.

The Jaza of your knowledge and positive things.

Invest on the things that build the knowledge.
Instead of spending a lot of time to read, to listen to, to speak, to look at the news that involve me and thinking about the heart, changing practice, since when you woke up, it's hibished your knowledge and news that picked the heart.

You don't wait for other people to do the heart.
Jiinue heart himself by reading positive things, to hear things that are building, and reflect on things that are raising.
As you are building this practice, your knowledge will you all the good news and that will be the beginning of being happy.

I see it as a person who is able to

Perhaps it has to be right in the environment that they are to prove to you cannot.
Maybe it was known and suggested that you are not being able to.
His results in your mind has to believe you cannot and you leave them to think about such a poor person and who doesn't deserve something.

There's no reason to continue to be thinking about it.
Hupati any benefits to see you cannot.
Begin to see it as a means, an important person, a person who is relied upon by people.
We walked the chest in front that you can.
Jisemee words of kukuinua that you can.
Badili that the voice that you used to feel like being ong'oneza that you cannot.
Ikatae.
Jisemee you can't.
Your joy will come back.

When they expect good things.

It is shocking that many times we find ourselves we hope that the wrong things will happen even in the environment that we don't have any proof.
For example, you can be prepared the report to take it to the big ones of the work, but you think about how they will oppose the report.
Why do not expect him to be a good thing that will arise instead of thinking that you do not want it to happen?
Jenga positive expectations for the ones that you have planned.
We rely on the good things will happen.

Futa the history of bad that you meet with it.

To think of bad that has ever been affected you will not hurt me and lack of peace.
If you've failed a certain thing, for example, that does not mean you will continue to fail eternal.
There's no reason to continue to believe the poor thoughts that because the bad way it was happening then it must continue to happen.

The truth is that any bad thing that you ever face in the past didn't need to be the foundation of your identity.
It is time to cancel the history of the bad that we teach to feel badly.
It will watch today instead of yesterday and tomorrow.
It should be taken today you will ate the strength to watch it tomorrow.
You will be a person who is happy.

I stop accumulating for the mistakes of others.

Why prepare to be found guilty for the mistake of another?
If who made a mistake is your brother, your friend or your employee your partner, there is a reason why they bebesha blame for the mistakes that are not for you directly?
Certainly, you don't have a reason to kujivisha shame for things you don't have in charge of it.
Kujitesa for things that are not for you personally, and to be hesabted guilty is to make your joy yourself.

To be happy does not mean you don't have problems.
No.
Joy means that it has been able to unveil problems that deal with the positive eye.
Badili your thoughts, look at his results.

You can monitor the psychology on the Tanzanian newspaper every Thursday for the debates like this.

It has been written by it.

The Christian Bwawani of charge.


