And there are those
Let's think first even mi is when they have even heard where I have put it but it was finished not to end the work I have refused to bring is not the fare you can for other trees to have brought to the other trees.
A thousand has a lot of ufala we have.
It is not that it is not so he went to and others yesterday is the one we have remained sharing because the youth of it is usually right and then you know we will need a lot of people this time, the first many people are in ombana and they are coming to the trees or they are coming to trees or they are coming to upload you.
Even if I forget my work I finished yesterday was the job he didn't tell me you wouldn't have told me even I was told even I was told even
When we don't know.
Once you have an apology and does not have a problem we all the same things that I will go to when I have been sa we will talk to find that you see the one with you said that you have said that you have said that you will get to see that you have said that you will see the
Who we ask for this young man to get there to talk to you who talked about what you are talking to what you have talked about.
There is no only for the house there is no many things told me that you know the points are the most budaroa at the moment that we cannot be better to read about the same that he was telling us that we are not provoked there is something even told me it is mmhm aai ehhe.
Ohh cause mi, I feel you have talked about that all the same things then let me do I don't know if your animal has let me know what is in Ako and what is I feel your mind.
He couldn't count it because he is calling me not to tell me that he will help me help help help.
Okay then his amount but he is not there to use ATI nitumie I will be able to pass the time.
Ehanokay doesn't have a problem we iforwardie then then.
The news of the day of the way
So even I haven't met the ye all that we are looking at and the phone but Ako poa has no words even mi.
Ehehhe will stay Ako very busy so much.
