Investigations the scandal of certificates Fungani waiva iva.

It was written by our journalists.

It has been published: 25 September 2016.

A few days after the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa promised the government to look at the possibility of accusing the Standard BBC of England concerning corruption that took place in the loan of 600 million American dollars (1.2 trillion) which the government borrowed by using certificates Fungani, it has been noted that investigations related to the issue is in the final stages.

That bank is alleged to give a bribe of 6 million American dollars (12 billion shillings) as a bribe to government officers so that it can get that business in the country.
The Prime Minister Majaliwa speaking with this newspaper recently said that the government will be working on opinions of various stakeholders including members of parliament who are advised to be sentenced to the bank due to the saga.
"We like the government we will be working with when we will see what we have reached at the point of giving information to the public concerning the implementation of that advice, we will do that," said the prime minister.
Speaking to this newspaper the day before yesterday, the Executive Director of the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (Takukuru), Commissioner Valentino Mlowola said that the institution continues with the investigation that is in the final stages in collaboration with various local investigation agencies and outside the country.
The director said the investigation will be completed recently, the government will be in a good position to decide about the bank convicted or not being charged with the issue.
"Any time this investigation will end and therefore the issue will be solved and official information will be given to the citizens so that they know the fate of their money that was taken against them legal in this regard," said Mlowola.
It is alleged that March 8, 2013 the Tanzania Government borrowed 600 million American dollars equivalent to 1.2 trillion shillings from outside the support of the Standard Bank of England which is now called Standard Bank ICIC Plc by putting certificates Fungani.
That loan with interest rates with being able to climb started to be paid in March this year and will be paid up in the year 2020 by the 9-level that is against.
By the year 2020, Tanzania will pay that debt together with a total interest of US 897 million dollars (almost 2 trillion shillings), but however, different stakeholders including members of parliament, they claim that the loan is being marred by corruption while the bank was alleged to give a bribe of 6 million American dollars (12 billion shillings) as bribery for government officers so that it can get that business.
After emerging the scandal, Takukuru used the report of the Institute of Criminal Research of England (SFO) in taking the necessary steps against the Tanzanian ones mentioned in that scandal.
However, it has complained that the SFO did not do an investigation against the British Bank of Standard.
Speaking about the issue, the member of parliament for Kigoma Town, Kabwe Zitto (ACT-Wazalendo) said the interests of Tanzania in the scandal will be big if the government will be able to succeed to show that the Standard Bank was moving to get that business in the country.
Mentioning those benefits, Zitto said, "one, will be a big lesson for international companies that Africa is not a place to hang and get a job and not being punished.
Two, Tanzania will not pay this loan and its interest.
We will have saved more than 2 trillion shillings in the national debt and directing the money that we had to give interest to go to our citizens in health and education, "said Zitto.


