Coaches but I'm told the maslai will look at their reputation if he will be able to help from see who we are about five five.
We take away but it is when we take that he is not even one when you are planning to reach another coach, another time you plan to leave another coach.
Reasons for the drop I will be plus I will be plus
You will find the Toba.
That's tokeni out will be viewed as it will be viewed.
There is a second one who is accused as the federation is obtained in the country.
We must look at what I will be able to take care of me also to take care of me.
We will look very different and that is being built but there are some people you will find and kibii, I am cursed that the moon will be tired of Cosafa to be abiri to look at the side of the geti to meet the race given all of them yesterday different and we have agreed to the coaches who ama and he has a lot of great but the reality of the reality.
He found a little potential his ability.
Because I know that I know of the three nyani Mpe enough time of what you have to return to one month we should talk just to talk about it. "
That the father we will get meaning there are others now he has been well in the studies but on this budget now, you ignore they get to help where they are and if you said the challenge coaches from kenya and Uganda who will be able to filter on the subject that these five teachers will still leave the first one I think I think first, I think the first one I think first, I think the first one I think first, I think the first one I think first, I think the first one I think first, I
That's what is expected to be expected.
I mean that in the Alliance academy together with their championship and there are still a lot of things there is also the construction of the hall ehimpatie nne mwalimu titles I was not talking to him during this time to come at the funeral of the ehcoach, he was the assistant coach of every nation, the festival was speaking to him in one of the something that the children are doing, that I followed up to mchana and a great position of a lot of young people to get a lot of young people to get a lot of young people.
An there.
For this time we will put a good one you will come to stay with the panel of people of today ATI is Chumo.
