
These are the reason for many youths to fail at the interview of work when many youths have been facing a problem of not confident the amount of failure to use their talents, the challenge has been the cause of many failure in interviews (interview) during the time of asking for work.
Last week, I was talking to the director of one company to interview employees from Arusha, Ismail Nassary who gave me to prove that the ability of Tanzania to explain themselves in interviews is a problem despite that many are having appropriate education and experience at work.
He insists that his company has always takes responsibility to teach them how to explain them when they go to be interviewed.
The big problem said it is not confident for the most of Tanzania who are many, something that makes them lack jobs they will want.
He continues to clarify that one of the questions that have always been not allowed accordingly is the one that wanted the artist to explain to him who is (a question: Tell us about yourself).
He says that this question is the only chance for the donation to himself based on the reputation that he had and why he should be given to work instead of someone else.
He says many have been threatened to explain their names, all schools they read up to graduate, then they conclude by saying "that's all."
The director says that the question is a wide requires the donation together with other things to explain his reputation in the work he requested.
On the details of the director, it is clear that there is still a great request for professionalism and confidence in students that complete different colleges.
That is why there is still the fear of implementing the International Cooperation agreement that concern the independent movements of people (free movement) and employment because many positions will be taken by Kenyans and Waganda who the English language is increasing confident.
Something that reduces confidence in Tanzania is the spokesman for the English language.
Most of them have the professionalism that is required but they fail to prove that they know and they have the ability to work involved.
Interviews you need the preparations and know the good work that you are asking for.
When you get into interviews and if you're not preparing enough to be unable only and remain being raped that they got a job they gave bribes so they have great potential than you.
The designer during the interview is an important element.
There are two main benefits to wear well during the interview, first, it is adding to believe in themselves.
Several research have been revealed that people who are endeza in front of people who believe in themselves more than those who don't know.
Second, it gives you an important mark during the interview.
When you go into the interview room, the first step they will be looking at they will look at your appearance.
If you do not attract them they will believe that you are not suitable for the work that you ask me even if you have all the other qualities.
It is important to have a good look at the time of interviews so that you can get a chance that you expect.
Apart from the intent of getting a job, you make them even people who are going round to have a positive view on your own.
In addition to all the important preparations, confident that is the weapon that will want to be aired during interviews.
And the stuff owned someone, the courage when the interview is to know well the work he asked and know the English language in order to communicate well and they are aili.
English language has been a problem for the most of Tanzania when interviews when you are held in that language.
Despite that Tanzania, we are using English language in learning of secondary education and colleges, many will not use this language in talking.
For example, some of the jobs provided these days they will tell the qualifications of the applicant to know and write English language.
Talking to write is two different things.
The most of Tanzania we know English of writing but talking to clarity is a problem.
That is caused by that we don't obey the language from time to time in talks.
We must try to build a habit of talking English from time to time especially students so as to be staying in a good position to use that language.
In addition to the importance of our rare language of Swahili, we are still able to ignore English because it has been connected to the system of our lives.
By acknowledging the weaknesses, the government introduced the agency of employment services (Taesa) which one of his responsibilities is organizing youths for interviews.
This agency is important but many young people do not obey as their unganishi and employers.
There is still a chance to learn and make corrections when they are not staying well.
If a youth struggled to learn something new every day especially for reading books.
We will be struggling with the habit of reading books from time to time.
Peter Elias is a writer of this newspaper.
He is found on the phone, 0763891422.


