

At the beginning of the last month documents of the semi-fielder that caused a panic that caused the whole world that had emerged a scandal that sells them and scandals that involved in one country.
Lundo of a million documents 11.5 has a report of more than two hundred thousand companies away from the list of Mossack High advice that revealed the owners, with shares and senior leaders of those companies.
It is unusual in a business system to run a company outside the country he is from the owner but it is not common about the worlds documents, it is the wealth of different leaders in the world that was futed to be noted because we are suspicious.
Previously they were mentioned a few principals and their brothers but later on it was revealed that the islands of Virgins owned by England and Hong Kong islands that is still in the beach.
Owning a company outside the nation is not a break-laws but the companies have been used for crime including evading taxes and corruption.
The closing of the crimes of that crime was opened by the writer who had jiped a fake name, "John Joe" who reveal those things publicly, in the German newspaper of Süddesche Zeitung early last year about the dirty game that started in 1970.
Later the documents spread by 400 journalists through the union of journalists of investigators in duniami (ICIJ), in the press 107 countries in 76 countries.
As it was in the hekaya of the Kigiriki of Esopo where then have been banned at the funeral (Pandora's Box), which was controlled by the first concrete woman in the world (Pandora) who was affected by the water and soil, but then it was broken against all those evil in the world as the documents of the worlds have been raised in corruption (corruption) from various countries including Argentina, Armenia, Armenia, Armenia. Australia, Azerbeijan, Bangladesh, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Cyprus, Egypt, France, Hong Kong, Iceland, India, Indonesia and Israel.
Other than Italy, Malta, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Tunisia, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, England and America.
Ownership companies out of those countries and the prevention of being denied their information and a small tax charge, has been used badly corruption for the benefit of wanene of those countries.
Mossack Fonsecan has been involved in the three hundred thousand companies, the agents used to play for those documents so as to oppose its customers, to prevent the identity of owners and confusing accounts of use and benefits so as to arrest the kinyemela thus affecting the economy in the world.
Pengo between the rich and the poor has increased by evading appropriate taxes needed while the main victims of developed countries that missed the income that are estimated to reach 213 billion American Dollars for the month of July alone in the last year.
Mossack Fonsecilclaimed to be compiled with his network communication but after the documents started being involved in it, the professional growth reveals that it was playing for the internet with documents with copies that are not doing so as to hide the truth.
The person that leaked the secret said that he decided to do so that the world understands the truth although until those allegations are proven to be known that it will be known.
The names that are mentioned include the President of UAE Khalifa bayed Al Nahyan, King Salman of Saudi Arabia and the Prime Minister of Iceland Sigmundur Gunnlaion.
Wamo also the former leaders including the president of Sudan Ahmed Al-Mirghani, Mtawala of Quatar Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani.
Wamo also the senior ministers of the former (Georgia), Bidhave to be filmed, (Iraq): Ayaq Allawi (Jordan), Ali Abu al-Ragheb, (Quatar): Jaber Al Thani, (Ukraine): Ullo Lazaro and (Moldova).
Other popular names are the father of the Prime Minister of England David Cameron, in the law of the president of China Xi Jinping, the child of the prime minister of Malaysia Najib Razak, three children of the prime minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif, Clive Khulubuse Zuma of President Jacob Zuma of South Africa, the child of the former secretary of the UN, Kojo Annan, Mark Thatcher a child of the prime minister of the UN, Kojo Annan, Mark Thatcher a child of the prime minister of the UN, the former secretary of the UN, Kojo Annan, Mark Thatcher a in the former Kingdom of England, the former prime minister of Italy Silvio Berlusconi and actors of the film Jack Chan and Amitabh Bachchan.


