
The careless housing of worship is possible that it might be difficult to be understood but that is the truth itself.
Some women have been a nuisance not only for men, but even to their fellow women who surround them.
What was pushed to write this topic, is this tendency of some of these women not to consider the stths of their bodies and decided to wear clothes that show their empty empty publicly.
Others have been doing that on an excuse to go with the time, it would be disappointed for me yet it does not obey akilini.
Now in those they have gone forward more and do the dhihaka even in the house of worship.
Surely in the issue of clothing it is good to know that, every place there is his fashion approach the whites call the 'dress code'.
The office clothes is not the same as the one that is born in the funeral, or the one of the funeral is not the same as the one that is born at a celebration.
The clothing of the mwalimu is not the same as the doctor's.
These things Hayaisthis in, since you continue up to the house of worship.
In the recent moments, it has been marred new styles of doing the houses of worship as part of the beauty competition especially for women.
Worse you are putting your children clothing that do not go along with the Tanzanian culture.
The naked clothing you're going to have been done, that is the one that I want to be proposed by the children.
Again on the parts of worship.
I don't know exactly what you want to create what is there.
Sikatai that each one of us is supposed to be clean in front of God but this cleaning does not live wearing pants pants, to stop some private areas of the body outside or wearing short clothes!
I know that you all understand the special gear to wear in the house of worship and instead you make deliberate.
I think this is a ulimbukeni and don't otherwise.
I understood it is not many you know the effects of the nyinyi to wear clothes that are not fit especially when you are committed to holy place as well as in the madhabahu of God.
And laiti mngeunderstood that they would have contested even one day to wear the clothing.
When I speak about the madhabahu I think that everyone of you understands that is what religion especially what is aimed at.
Among the first effect is to establish the children who were afraid about their creator.
Since they will be following the way you do the nyie who are ahead and thus wearing those clothing that are not fit in the church.
And normally the children will not end there.
Since the act of getting out and where the church will be encouraging the faithful believers, the move that will cause a hope on their own.
On the logic there will be no thoughts of God again, it should not be the rule of the devil.
I say the truth from my heart that, in this I don't have a problem with the female faithful of all the Islamic religion.
Since they understand they reached the way to wear them in their parts of worship.
They have not stopped exactly as the religious books that are commanded.
And because they don't have the procedure to be appreciated during this service to them, they are still not a very problem.
In this clothing that do not fit, I would like to hate them and nyie couples especially female.
I do what you understand me is that I always get training of different types for a period not less than one week before marriage.
Class on the clothing that is favorable on the day of marriage is one of those lessons.
Surprising day of a marriage service, you are coming to madhabauni Mkiwa shoulder.
Right while it is forgetting or arrogant?
Let me be afraid of your God.
Heshimuni the house of worship.
When we are not part of the taste of dressing is the sehemutu to meet the imagination and your God.
So it is not bad if you are preparing good to get into the environment.
I wear what they will be accepted to your God and not otherwise.
This issue of kuwekewa 'fashion Polisi' on the doors of churches is a shame to the believers and the church in general.
Since it does not obey akilini, eti your colleague instead of getting praying, he's at the goal to inspect who is cloted?
Badilikeni!
Muogopeni your God, vaeni as it was ordered on your religious books, if you need struggling with the church workers or masista are playing, that is the right answer of the clothing that is needed to be born in your worship houses.


