
Ulimbukeni of the 4th commandment Aug 22, 2012 by Raia Mwema katika

For the Minister of Mikiki and makeke, Uzitoni street, Bongo.
Lover Frank, has started a lover!
I am thinking that we have agreed to rest my salary for the construction of our house.
Now this idea of the modern television has been released from where?
When I try to explain that we agree the other you're annoyed and refused to receive the phone.
Is that right a lover actually?
I know that you like to look at the ball on a good television and you will be surprised but the other times... and it doesn't usa true it is a way to solve a problem with a lover?
After all this years?
Eniwei, I don't want to even think that, let me continue with the same continuity.
And for what they're talking about and it's not the Olympics.
Or it is because we have a ulimbukeni of a lot of connections.
I am not the truth but the truth we can do two weeks practice so we should be indane and those who did practice two years?
Our ugali and the dagaa you can compete with special foods of athletes there?
Or we see that the number of officers wasindikizaji is the one that decides the number of the medal.
Officers oyee!
Usinishangae a lover.
Even I was naibiaibia competition as well as the details of the players' lives.
I was surprised to see how they are frustrated for me to succeed.
But after kuibiaibia, I think a problem is not only preparation.
Even how we are looking for people it has completely errors.
One person brought to the boss a proposal that he wanted the boss was brought to the minister of walks and sports.
Because I was left alone at home, I got a chance to take it after the read and to save the mind.
Please give your thoughts here.
Honorable Minister, after looking at the participation of our athletes inside the ninth page, I request that I will give my contribution to the ideas how to improve our participation and ensure that our athletes are back and a medal instead of nishai.
Again, Honorable Minister I believe that it is very easy.
Let's look at there's kind games and we ask ourselves if our people can't play this games.
Throwing miski, to throw the mishale.
We don't have people of that kind?
It is not that it is our tradition on the other tribes.
We got those champions in them and give them training they can't get into the clouds and from the medal?
This, there's a lot of demons.
Competition to use the makasia of different types.
Mador and it's Ngalawa of the modern.
Our fishing experts do not obey here?
How can they go far so much and can't make a lot of industries, if you give them modern Ngalawa, who will be able to compete with them?
Targeting a goal.
These soldiers are where they are up to fail to get even one of the target at the international level?
Now the enemy akivamia, they intend where?
This without forgetting to run away.
Who has never seen the Haile Gebreselassie?
His hand has gone down the fulles you will be off from carrying his books when he is running away from school for many kilometers.
Now he became the champion of the world from the practice.
We have many children who are still running away for many kilometers to school?
Potelea apart don't have the books to carry out but they carry a brick, or fagio, or the wood for teachers.
Here is no even one to compete with Kenyans and Wahabeshi?
This and don't forget the talents of our sisters.
The day before yesterday, I am looking at one receiving a bucket in his head.
The method that he used is ileile of lifting up weight in the same counties.
We can't start a bucket competition until we find our champions to go there?
And the youths who increase the sacks in buses or to carry them to the market, or who are smoking in the market they don't have the muscles to compete?
I haven't finished the honorable minister.
These young people of the guta, and the bicycle that carry ten times of their weight themselves, if they are given a little training they can't compete in the cycling race?
You don't know that your tribes that their dance are very off.
And without forgetting these scuokozi of us are timua in the race discovered.
I tell you Usain Bolt hafui dafu in front of these.
Even before he has not stood those they have already finished the race.
And by that way he will not have a reason to be saved again and he will be an example to the prominent okozi others.
They are in the love of sports and the construction of the nation is not a girlfriend, I am in this mind because I loved his thoughts, then I returned quickly sebat the school.
Again I heard the boss's car has reached so even I had to run away as Bolt so that the letter will calm down before he has not opened.
And you know the boss did it?
He passed the eyes of the harakaraka then he was abducted and kuitupilia mbali.
"Pumbaf!
Who will work to look for these if they are not given any allowances of finishing all the money offered for the games?
Who is ready to leave the tradition of "our kizungu games that was continued" and incorporate for us of what he was in the national competition.
The race of the guta.
The competition of lifting up a bucket.
A competition of mitoe.
The competition of poaching and so on.
He wants us to tuchekwe?
Other people sir.
Hidaya, let me bring my wiski! "
Then even the one, the guys returned to know the fate of his letter the boss told him to go to the ministry of the walk then he told him to the boss, while he was captured until he was charged by the counter.
But what is that you have come to a lover?
This has no good idea actually.
The problem is that we are not sponsored our people.
We are left struggling with the people of other countries then say we are the poor country that is why.
That is every day we are adharor human resources, and appreciate the resources officer that is why the number of officers win completely the number of players themselves.
But it is also in all our plans.
In the villages who appreciate the ideas of a villager?
We have seen how many plans some of us are welcome to us because they are coming to uzi and do not trust them without knowing that our environment will be ourselves?
It's better even the biblia meaning were ten, those have an order to move by the project when they are not possible they are affecting us, that's what I don't know.
Wanakera.
Otherwise, if we cannot recognize good people for the sake of what they are doing, then we should continue to make it our face and the games that we know we are different from the world.
I recommend the following competition: If you undering money.
The one that should be killed more fast he gets a medal.

Kusinzia for a long time during the parliament.
And also, the ability to give a speech for a very long time.
Without forgetting our colleagues in the villages and the youth.
The ability to sit in a half a brick without being caught.
The ability to use a piece of chaki to sentimita one.
I know things like that can kuwachosha the audience but potelea apart.
We will get our heroes of sharp.
They prefer more than your television, Hidaya.


