
Agriculture.

Written by sebastianmaresi esi.

Mtama is a group of small seeds of cereal cereals or cereals which in the scientific name known as (Salizia region bicolor), it is a lot of produce that is very involved in the whole world for food and lishe.Mtama provides a lot of produce even in the state that is not suitable for cultivation of other types of cereals.
Mtama has a lot of ability to be destroyed causing a drought.

Mtama can be used for it to provoke them and be eaten as you are, to be bid farewell and used by uji, making drinks like beer, getting tired of bread, and other types of vitafunes.
Mmea mtama is also used for the livestock malisho as much as hay and sileji.
Mtama unastches well on the environment with an average of 400 - 700 of the rain for a year.
It also mtama is to tolerate the places that are relocating the water, and you can be cultivated in places with many rains.
Mtama is also in places with the average of low temperatures under 18 ° C, so as to be able to grow well, and the amount of 25 temperatures 25-30 ° C so as to grow well.
Mtama cannot persevere the barafu.
Mtama can grow in all kinds of soil.
In a big way you are more fit in the soil of the finyanzi, but also in the soil that has a small amount of a newborn.
Mtama can persevere the uchachu in the soil from a pH 5.0-8.5, and it is tolerate soil with salt than what it is maize.
The kind of sorghum for a total there are more than 30 types of millet that are tested like food.
Mtama is well known in the heat it will not tolerate a drought.
Therefore, it is cereating muhimi in the areas yabisi of Africa.
In the previous years, his farming was left most of the time for maize because maize makes a lot of produce in acre.
But during the drought maize is a loss and people hurudi back to the farming farming.
The types of sorghum are ofautiana based on his colors, there is white, red, and he kahawia.
The traditional seeds are usually being thrown easily but the harvest is usually poor compared to modern seeds.
However, modern types generated at affordable prices are planted by following the regulations of good farming.
Serena: It has to be punhawia.
This kind of branch in the area with an average rains and hukomaa in a period of 110 days.
This kind is usually with the stem and root, where can produce an amount of 3,000 kilograms of one hectares.
Where they are needed 5 kilograms of seeds for one acre.
This kind has the ability to deal with the illness, to be oversated, and the madoa of kahawia on the leaves.
Seredo: This is another type with punhawia, and it recommended to be tested on the area with 1,500 meters from the equation of the ocean.
This kind is chanua after 71 days and hukomaa in the period of 120 days.
This kind is always long, and it has the ability to produce 5000 kilograms for one hectares.
It has the ability to deal with the disease of milia, to be brave in the leaves, and the madoa of kahawia on the leaves.
Gadam: It is doing well in places that are not a lot of ame.
In many countries example Kenya, this kind of sorghum is used to make beer and also for food.
This kind is pervumilia Bungo and the disease of leaves.
Sure and ever: These are two types of millet which have been produced by the agricultural research station of Ilonga for growing in the farms that were affected by viduha.
These seeds have a yellow color that was denied.
The flour of both types will be done very much by cooking ugali.
The farm production, we have organized a farm in order to soil professionalism to ease.
If the farm is educated and tractor has to give a penalty and if it has been prepared for a donation of hand, the move of soil should be solved, the tree of seeds on the verses without being forced to 7 kilograms of hectares and planting by a machine you need 8 kilograms to 10 hectares per hectares.
The upandaji can rise in the dust before the rain rains, or when the rains are starting or, when the rains have pounded enough.
It has: The rise in the dust CM 5.0 - 6.0, Kupanda in the soil with CM 25 (4.0 in position), a section of a lot of vegetables, 60 million Tanzanian (CM 60), the area of the line and CM 20 or CM 90 x cm30 or CM 90 x cm30 or CM 90 x cm30 or CM 90 x cm30 or CM 90 x cm30 or CM 90 x cm30 or CM 90 x cm30 or CM 90 x cm30 or CM 90 x cm30.
Fertilizer: Different types of fertilizer and fish are used to increase the rotuba of soil Samadi, it is required to be distributed to the farm and to be imiwa down or how to report on the verses and appreciated by soil before the rise.
The amount that recommended it is 5-10 tons to hectares and how it will be availed in one month before the rise.
The fertilizer before planting: Fertilizer type of DAP, 20: 20: 0, 23: 23: 0 at the level of 20kg N and I have been looking for 20 kilograms of P2O5 to eka, how to rise and before planting seeds.
Top dressing: 20 kilograms of fertilizer of Urea, CAN.
When it is done by the spread of plants and ensure that it is set up when there is enough that is easily swayed in the fertilizer well, Palizi has to happen twice.
Palizi first to happen 2-3 weeks after the seeds to grow.
Drugs to kill the weeds that are being used is the type of Lasso or Gesaprim (before the ota) and 2,4 D (after the ota).
Kupunguzia plants should reduce them with 3-4 weeks after the ota and reduce it when soil has enough fatigue to reduce the effects of plants.
Wadudu waharibifu: (I) the desire of bua (Antherigona soccata) the effects are receiving 7 days to 30 after the ota.
Viluwiluwi are eating inside, you have to cause signs of moyodying (deadmoyo).
Delays climbing the effects. (II) Vitoboa-bua (Stem borers Chilo partellus) Dales so that it is an vidirisha in the leaves.
Viluwiluwi is revealed to marry and plants in michanga shows a moyodies (deadhearts).
To prevent them when they go down as soon as they are given to remove and burned the last season that they are given to use seeds that are being used to use the drugs that are being used to use the drugs that are being fixed in the age of 4 weeks to prevent them, "insects in the age of the 4 weeks. The hicola), the effects are brought by the viluwiluwi who are eating inside the essence of seeds to prevent the growth of the seeds to prevent the growth of the seeds to prevent the use of the seeds to prevent the use of drugs to prevent the effects of drugs as Endosulfan, Ambush, Marshal or Karate.
Insects, an important park in storage stores is like bungua and nondo. (I) Bungua-maize (Sitophilus) and Bungua mtama - Sitophilus oryzae).
Bungua and viluwiluwi is destroying seeds and make it not have any use.
To prevent harvesting early when they are being used to draining them, they have been used to use storage stores with quality and which should pass the ghost ones as well as they are given to clean up the ghala and put medicine for 6 weeks before harvesting.
Nyunyizia medicine like Actellic Super, Malathion or pythrum vumbi.
Ndege there is a plane as a quelea quelea, similarly, and a piwa.
To prevent Kupanda early seeds zinazokomaa at one time in nearby areas.
B: To get a newsletter click here.
Mawasiliano, 0754407774 74.


