
Employee is supposed to avoid dangerous environment at work we have seen many times some of the workers implementing their responsibilities, in difficult environments that are vulnerable.
Therefore, employee threatens his responsibilities in the environment that are killing procedures while others do not know that their circumstances are affecting their health.
In addition to that many employees when I heard a certain person, who was working in a factory or the company has died no even one of the employees who took the action of kudadisi about the cause of that death.
The employee should be mwajiriwa or a task is his right to know about some even of the chemicals that are in the industry, which are killing by causing various effects of example cancer.
Many workers are hit and died before their age, by thinking that the right is a sin and by thinking of being the value of their personality is low because of poverty or because of lack of education.
Some of the other employers who believe they have the right to lower the value of its employees, so they can get financial welfare.
Several workers in the country have lost physically or their lives, matahalani because of smoking the dust of minerals in the workplace.
These effects are not for only employees, but even the residents who are going to the mines.
There are a large number of employees who today are working on the difficult environment that is terrifying.
Many people are brought by their employers in the environment that have been surrounded by poisoning regardless, because only they want to get a great profit.
Today you pass in some of the industries and even some of the areas here in the country, you will discover people are poisoning or to feed themselves to believe that they have a small value or a lot of other human beings.
This is known so much that people are working in the same kind environment, because only to want money and believe that they will live hard life and their families left work.
Some of the industries many times connects employees in the environment to protect themselves from danger, like the equipment to prevent dirty ghost, special shoes, the clothing of work or a cap when there is a leader visiting the factory.
Leaving the workers are told the wavue and they should continue with work as it is their custom.
The employee who accepts this environment is that he has not yet know them and he does not know his rights.
The employees remember that those circumstances are killing slowly and often you are lying because you don't see your colleagues when they fall and death in the work.
But when they heard certain who was working there at work he died, and do not hangaiki to ask about the death of their fellow employee has been caused by what.
The workers I am supposed to know of that chemical, dust and many others in industries are A by giving someone the disease that goes slowly.
It is very important for the employees to know this matter that in this world where people are still being charged with greed and more worried, to know their rights.
The wonder most of them are being paid small salaries that even does not meet their needs.
Therefore, it will not happen even once, some employers were supervising the safety of their employees at the highest level, because by doing so that makes them use additional costs thus reduce profit.
It's about the employee myself asking about his safety at work.
If there are signs of a small safety, it's good for an employee trying to check on ways of commitment and look for other activities.
There is difficulty in getting jobs or to change the activities, but if the tahadsituation many employees think their children and others who rely on will be affected in life.
Citizens are waiting for the Workers Compensation Fund (WCF) which was started according to section 5 of the Workers Compensation Act and.
20 of the year 2008, to address compensation issues to employees who are in the public and private sectors in Tanzania Mainland who will use them, suffering or died from work.
WCF started officially work on July 1st, 2015.
The main objective of the start of the Workers Compensation Fund is to address compensation issues to employees who are in the public and private sectors in Tanzania Mainland who will use them, suffering or died at work.
According to section of the second section of the Fidia for workers number 20 of the year 2008, the characters of the fund is employers of the public and private sector in the country.
Christian Gaya is the founder of the center of education education in Tanzania and the adviser of pension issues (gayagmc @ yahoo.com or 0655131341).


