
The old memories - UWANJANI ARSENAL- Brasil and Sweden January 26, 2013, 2013.

This news was written five years ago.
That day different countries were competing for a friendly tournament.
They said it is friendly but it is to be competing before the world cup tournament that will begin in September every place.
I don't know if Taifa Stars will reach the point, but inshallah these days we are trying, again our coach Mbrazso that at least we are usa the size of the balls.

Then I have to go to Emirates.
Inside the match there are those who don't give eyes on the field.
Every famous player as Frederick Lundberg (Sweden) or Robinho (Brasil) akigusa the ball noise zinapasuka, vigelegele will think the goal has entered.
When I am going to this big balls husisimin and happening on the field than even the ball themselves.
There is music that is played.
The kind of people who are there.
Zogo tele tele.
For instance in 1988 I went to Maracana (the popular airport of Rio De Janeiro) to watch Brasil being struggling with Argentina.
The popular player Diego Maradona was the star that era.
Wabrazin order with the Wargentit has not been so much as a dog and paka.
I was fascinated with the usanii of Maradona (I doubt I have ever seen a good player like that one from that day, maybe Zinedine Zidane), but I did not dare cheering.
The fans of Brazil would have been killed.
The ball thing is amazing.

Then the day before yesterday at the Arsenal stadium, which is entertaining is the one "Mexican Wave" which started during the World Cup Mexico (when he played Pele and his colleagues) in 1970.
When it comes to everyone when he calls on foot, he woke up the hands of the air sits again, that goes the whole stadium becomes if you communicate.
Then there is a vigelegele and shangwe the goal is missing.
The noise for OOOO and AAAA.
Here is where you see the power and the inspiration of survival.
The Stadium had been jazana.
You think the forest has been surrounded by insects, flowers and chemchemi.
A life.
The strength.
In the past, the ball was said to be at the junction of the madume (especially Europe) singing in a bad voice they were given and insult ovyo.
These days things have changed.
There are people and those who have, men for women, to combat the youth.
Brazil iliifunga Sweden 1-0 but for me is not necessary.
The importance is to be in the state of frightening, entertaining and entertaining.


