Rivals Simba and yanga when they meet one when he is opening up why he must get a witch doctor mi, I can say that one thing I can say that there is politics in politics in the country.
The match of us here in Tanzania?
We believe that if we talk about the match in Tanzania we are talking about Simba and Yanga soccer club is a team that is for me that it does not believe that it is the team that is building even the national team but the hour comes from the whole issue that everyone is on the sidelines that everyone is on the sidelines that everyone is on the sidelines that everyone is on the sidelines that
We will be leaving a certain player when you take it to the mi so that I have to stop to stop we and I do not all if you talk about the issue of politics politics, I'm not everywhere you don't wish or not to wish you or not.
All these days even the men are kuchafuana playing each other.
AHH there is another thing being registration.
Registration is taking place between Simba and Yanga looking at Simba players and Yanga soccer club.
Often when you find the players that is looking for the player from Simba, he is playing for Yanga soccer while he is getting back to Simba but the problem I have the reason we are doing that we are doing that we are doing that
Holding back will be wanted that you are released a certain team has brought ownership has come to the ownership has come to come.
The forces of the forces and the forces.
There is nothing else that I'm going to live with the fans of I speak about it.
Team if the team is talking about the fans that are coming into the field those twenty-two players were taken up to or they represent the team but even the team is a supporters that they are cheering that you know that completely mi is a fan of Simba and Simba, there is a lot of shows that you have a lot of power to make sure that they are talking about how they are talking about when they are talking about how they are talking about when they are talking about how they are talking about when they are talking about how they
The fans are the team.
But the team comments people who are in ten and one in the field are the people who represent the fans there are another issue that can talk about the other issue that can talk about it.
The ideas are for players.
So that it is supposed to come because if you look at it for example if Mrisho ngassa went out of Tanzania he went to Tottenham.
Going to look but what happened after I returned to make preparations so that he will return to he should have the power he did come back to come back to return to his return.
That that can't be the presence not to believe in believing that he can do something potential with them but to use and believe it does not have to be understood.
This is some of the things that doing that cause that Mchawi will be replacing us, we will
It has remained the state of staying just that he said mi I have to be Simba I am coming from Simba I am going to Yanga but there are players who if you look at it in the present.
Other teams like the army Kitila lines have more good players than they but the ability and the belief that these are the players that are the reason
