
Shame!
Students are supposed to GESTI preparing to eat URODA DA.

Two students, female students has 14 years (seven class), male 15 years (form one) in Morogoro town are alleged to be found inside one of the straight that was said they had a goal to take over the sixth commandment of God.

The incident that hit the crowd happened recently in the same time that is claimed that it does not have a valid registration that is in the neighborhood and the market.

News indicate that, that day denti was sent to the market and his mother to buy a variety of food needs but what he understood to return.

It continued to be alleged that his mother followed him while asking people, that's when Mbeya was the one that had seen him his daughter getting that match with a sweater!
Mother of the people, with the accangao, with him or inside and found the room number 5.

Author managed to appear in the scene during the sekeseke and spoke to two witnesses, Asha Chande and Tausi Omary.
When he interviewed them they said they saw the two of them wakizama inside the gesti and they were surprised by what they were accepted because all of them are children.

"After a period of time, the whole person arrived here in possession of a stranger, he claimed his daughter who sent the market has arrived at the market, once and he entered inside, he found him and a boy while the fund was sent to them in the market of the girl being under a bed.

"He wafurumusha, individually has been running away from her and this daughter is like this.
Worse here is the market, people have left the business and filled, "said Tausi.

When the scandal was going on, some people wanted to have dropped a ondo denti for his act to stop what he was sent and overrated in love while he was still a student.

Later on the police of motorcycles arrived and took the denti with the aim of sending him and defeat and went to the police station in Morogoro where it was claimed that the police had advised the parents of those children to finish at home.

The efforts of our journalist to want to speak with the guard of that incident were moving to rock bottom after a lot of time scored the big geti.


