A moment.
I haven't been your success in your activities.
You have recently been angered I am thankful I am thankful I am thankful to thank you
We think that we think about it.
I have managed to be able to fulfill my dreams that I had and even if I haven't been all glad I still believe that you will fulfill more that I will remember the level that the patient I have set up to do, that is why you will find out since it has changed since it has changed since
I didn't have children learning and there are others there are also at night, you have a donation gets to the kwwe know since they know because it's because they know it since we know it.
I did not know what it is also like how he had previously said or first, I didn't know when it has given birth to another business I am staying at home I don't know how long it is a farm kitambo.
That if you are doing business it will be able to retain other businesses to you for business to respect the sa now we are we, we will be able to
Without those doubts, the things of encouraging a lot will be the person who is usually plays this way because its
In every success the sister I did not think there are challenges in different ways.
But when I look at it seems like you have all the challenges that we meet are actually there are
There are no like you said the success that they aren't challenges there are although at a small margin.
Let us tell them the challenges that he met with challenges that you meet are there are breeders of when they were dying still young people.
When I was still given only because it's still a little bit causing me in the kuvilea.
Ehbecause they need a big summer.
The animals who needed to be cool in the do not be careful that you can find out.
There was maybe you have benefited from heat or heat has been very small, they will die a lot of other challenges that you face when it has a solution is that my production has been young because of I don't have a machine for not given herself to their home but those who are uga to go more than five hundred feet.
He ehhe is a little bit.
A lot of a bit.
Therefore when I get a machine I believe that the challenge I will have to be finished now now.
Because sometimes the old and the eggs I want to give you a person with organizations for the car at the morning from next week, it has to be what the family eggs should be used to be used to be used to be used.
We would love to have a lot of I think of a very big level of rearing so much about the same challenge you have to get a machine of not given a machine for not toleshea ea the machine for not being given to
There is you with him that work with that machine now right and he will be ordered if I ordered them to create a very good way that I will stay with it for some time it is very obvious that to continue with my work, it is still doing a friend to get but that it will be very good but that it will be very good but because they are not given a little one of the other cases and that is why I have delayed a bit to get a lot of other cases and that is why I have been delayed a bit to get a lot of other cases and that is why I have been delayed the same thing I am ukuru without a doubt in one of our colleagues in the team of amka and changed I have told him we are in an expert who is making a very good machine and we have been showing them in some of those programs that they don't have benefiting from those services and support it is close to we will also be able to help them as well as they will be able to help if they will be able to help if they will be able to help if they will be able to help if they will be able to
Ohh apart from that challenge there is a lot of challenges I am looking for okay everyone is not there is no big challenge than comfort because they are currently committed to them because they are committed to them.
They don't have accommodation hovyo if you will be suffering from what they are dying are there and something like that, where the drugs need medicine actually that they do not need medicine for me that they do not need medicine for me that they
But only by saying so, I ask you to give a notice to the viewers because we have been told that the person you tell me that he needs medicine then they are going to rear how he is able to feel yourself.
Maybe he became there is no enough welfare they did not take into the shape they will decide to use the problem that I did not say that because those drugs then I will be ute how I can.
Love for Fid in the state of the dirt they will have found it with hair cuts, we will look for them as an issue in Deusdedit how it has to be cleaned as well as how to rear with other bags. Those Chande did not require much but we contribute to the pupa in the side, I love you fears that maybe you can get called and a warning they get to forgive for it is a few but if you look at the normal situation since even they are required in the normal situation since even they are required in the normal situation because even the required one is required in the mood because even
When it has been mi young, so as to give them the power that led them only water and I'm out a little bit that you get the power then we will end three days they don't need any medicine and they are very fast because it is the milk of mandano and entertaining about seven death, we have to look for the eggs and entertaining about death seven weeks.
I wish that he began to hear the news of the money come and those are using food they use food for MACHAKOS like food food that is using the toilet itself is also distributed to Kilaini more than those big ones who don't know great acceptance because a little bit that they are smaller that well.
So much that he can't hear but the food is making yourself to AHH food often, the mila are making yourself and my family actually and mix you
Very grateful congratulations to be done.
And now the sister Suzan actually.
Pina I ask that we should tell me on the money in the money.
You know there is a business entrepreneurs sitting on they are waiting because they are still delaying because they are still delaying.
We have seen your success we have seen how business mi and the money they get to help them in the family families.
And I personally and the audience we would like to know the money is available where they are available.
Since these are selling and sell how this claims that you are selling and it has been selling it and you sell it.
Also the market is oje.
Very close to a lot.
Thank you thank you.
First I start with the news of the market kor
I say actually the business of kwale we're very high because a lot of
Although they are unable to start it a little bit
Then you know what he started to find do not know when we get a little problem the same time when we have started many people do not know we are doing if they tell people and it was hard for people to understand what you are using the first method to give them a patient. Menstruation and I ask you to revive me and I ask you to revive and I ask
Therefore, after that I came to be surprised by the market when I remember yet those I was giving them they use they feel the changes he saw now, what he announced now.
Therefore now, the market has been great to the extent that even I can't.
Absolutely you know we now have told him on Monday, I am starting to kumbatiza the construction I want to rear kwale we're together though but though but
Now if you come up at the price the eggs of kwale people sell between one thousand shillings directly to one and five hundred percent of the purpose of up to come years and while unakoroga ukapches and they are a hundred
And he said years out of the verses in
Yeremia six and we are now if you are crowded six hundred and if you truly have read the eggs cthsome who wants him one for the death of my day to ue if they want it up to three years.
But for a year I can get a lot of eggs for Richmond is said that I can get eggs like three hundred
There are prayers that if you give out we say that this will be posted two hundred eggs to go because about how you will give up a lot of eggs and twenty-one egg we should say we start a joint shilling.
The sister Suzan we're talking about twenty hundred million.
It's not possible.
The addition in addition to them.
For sure it is encouraging us to let us continue.
And then and vifaranga chic together with that themselves sell the nuts of it depends on the age of the age that they are in Saranga of one day is the one that comes out we are unable to continue to solve it from three schools from three schools.
A little ehhe could have been able to breed chicken selling one hundred and a five hundred thousand dollars, there are others to be fired up to wait after or have said three hundred thousand and has said three hundred thousand.
Kigali from his best quality and then they don't have the cost that if you bought a computer to block each other when they are very fast because it is only a short time you can produce fasafa for one week they sell it if we were scored by scoring against them.
Four hundred of five from five weeks for a week.
Shinyanga seven if it is a union that we are going to papitapo those three weeks four main
Therefore, but up to when himself, who is only mentioned the school for thirty to continue the first seven website, the first seven person is sold from thirty and continuing to continue thirty.
When he has not come out of it.
Gathering also depend on the brothers' jobo you can start with thirty and five that I will be the normal person to the ordinary itself they are playing in the parliament there are five legal reasons and technical people to see what is the reason and the technical people to see what is the reason and the technical people to
Because his meat is sweet they are aida most of the places they are sold to face those people to join those people to join those people.
It is still people who haven't understood tomorrow ohh these are very good news without doubt that you think there is a shortage that comes out if you feel the fear is this right.
Maybe Europe a period of amka and changed what it has come to the table is the money money.
Now, don't forget to communicate with the father Sudan of course through ehana your team of amka and changed we will be delighted to connect that chronic is here today in the studio also because he has been a good pursuer of the period of amka and changed and today we see other fruits through yourself and you also can't find out that way if you are looking for an opportunity to discover an opportunity for them and also you can't find out that way if you are looking for an opportunity to be discovered an opportunity for them to
Maybe now that's the time we reach the end of the only period of the only half.
It's your plans.
Our plans to advance or do more greater things than those who do
It is true that it will be my later is that I want to be a great breeder Hariri events Hariri Hariri.
Also, but ma patches to see you have started completely and has told me that you have a great market is what is going on style we form to expand the market of the market to expand the market of the market to expand the
Come to be providing all the customers who are in the market.
I did not know what my plan is that I want to think to increase the production that is why if he said I am looking for a machine that will be able to be that they will be able to.
To help in the production of there is to be that I am able to be that ohh.
I haven't been a Christian being raped even I'm because it's not news we're talking about it starts.
Her because even for their wives.
Several several.
I will be very grateful I will have been given this explanation that you have given up and in the end I will be supporting a lot of Tanzanians have been seeing him today, many Tanzanians have to listen to how many Tanzanians are listening to
I wouldn't want to tell Tanzanians Tanzanians.
The location of the county.
I would not want to invite Tanzanians Tanzanians.
We focus on the rearing is very good especially rearing of because when you are opening a happy when they are helping you revenge and they also increase the income then we will see the cost they have since you do not get money and you will still get the eggs of living your children and you will not get sex and you will still get the eggs of living your children and you will get sex with sex and you will still get the eggs of living your children and you will not get sex with sex.
I will be grateful to find God to continue to bless us and we are asking for that now we Karatu from now on the team of amka and changed we needed to also help in educating them in various seminars, but the people will come to need the eggs we would like to keep the eggs as well as God bless you very much as well as God bless you very much as well as God bless you very much as well as God bless you very very soon as well as God bless you very much as well as God bless you very much
If you are struggling with you.
