We wepe the emergency of can the region dancer, we have managed to capture the shume and different tools discrimination America has arrived safely more than eight hundred million shillings to be prioritized in Mwanza province, while talking about the action and the squad has already been arrested in a special search. The use of illegal tools, our writer have lacked making it is organized more from Mwanza Mwanza.
Lake viktoria which is bigger than all in the continent.
In the recent years, they have been caught up the speed of extinction to the fish due to the increase in fishing using illegal tools where ninety percent and four of the fish that are in the present.
Currently, it is small less than fifty-centita police squad in Mwanza region that includes Mwanza and Simiyu provinces in dealing with the effects of the reduction of the fish has been running a search of illegal fishing in the lake and held a lot of fishing and the ones that are taking over two hundred million shillings in a month or we have been arrested in that patrol together with the Organization of Sangara to get two hundred million shillings too. We have been able to capture my plans for strategic plans to make plans for strategic plans
The house of a believer hundreds of ustating results, the results of the results
At every committee is a wide range of it.
The one of it.
The tribes seven notice seven.
Seven and three despite the success but the fight against illegal fishing in the lake viktoria face a lot of challenges meet with the koadic statement that you find a politician when it is a councilor then they are telling them that those who are doing a year that they are doing the branch will take place until we are told to give a penalty stones.
The whole search that was run from the novemba thirty and one until December ten this year, the head of the district of honor, Joseph Mkirikiti, give a call to the new minister of agriculture livestock and fishing and fishing.
Nchemba my personality for Mwigulu has said that Mwigulu Mchemba is two
I should realize that you will not know that I will be able to.
Vanligtvis small even a little is the people they do and they are people to do it.
I did not have the power meaning time and started fighting the youth has passed ita
Mmhm we are seeing as a minister of whether it is a counselor we like is a lump and you know that this is the actor of these notion that he does not have bought now that you can't mention the advice that aims at ending illegal fishing on the lake viktoria proceed with the head of the district must now find those who are using them to accommodate the illegal fishing.
I mean that it is not possible to have been given the committee of the if you
But others are made out of the country when you're not saying it's only a place and not only a place to bring out of Mister makosini, then we are coming to arrest the insects that we will help die to arrest the big one that is on the fish, the type of Sangara have reduced from one million and three hundred thousand tons to eight hundred thousand tons to reach eight hundred thousand tons to reach eight hundred thousand tons to eight hundred thousand tons to reach eight hundred thousand tons to reach eight hundred thousand tons to eight hundred thousand
Six hours ago but for these hours, the fish have reduced it.
Very grateful).
If you have a lot of money ten thousand to continue about we were asking for the government government.
Interview interviews to the interview).
I can start members of parliament.
I have to get it in the same time.
It won't be a problem problem.
People otherwise, so he has made a mistake to make a see Mwanza mbalimbali in Mwanza.
Of Mbeya Mbeya.
