Malinzi: It was gone for Lowassa to do?
Jan 23, 2014, 2014.

The president of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Jamal Malinzi has all the rights of having a friendship with someone and accompanying him in any matter with a happy.
In order for the project havunji laws of the country, Malinzi can go anywhere when he wants to, meet anyone who wants and talk to any.

But, there is a big difference, a big one out of Jamal Malinzi, as an individual and Jamal Malinzi as President of TFF.
In Swahili eloaha, we have said the difference is like between heaven and land.

I will give you a few examples.
Jamal Malinzi can go to the field and cheering a goal when his Yanga team is playing.
But, as President of TFF, he is supposed to show the ustahamdue even if he has personal love.

As an individual, Malinzi can go to the clubs meeting wearing a sweater of the club that he loves but as President of TFF, there is a standard that cannot cross the exhibits love.

Whenever he does, he is supposed to put first first interest in his institution first before his personal interests.
When it arrives at the time to choose between something with its benefit and with the benefits to TFF, the president of TFF is supposed to choose the one with the benefits to the institutions.

It is a lot of small things but with a huge impact, a lot of great.
That's why, they are not surprised by his step to visit the retired prime minister the day before yesterday and to explain about the strategies of the federation in the analolileading.

A big question that is required to be asked here is because what Malinzi went to explain the plans and strategies of TFF for Lowassa.

Lowassa is not the minister of the Ministry of Information and Sports which at least work closely with the federation.
If Lowassa would have been the minister of that ministry, I could understand the goal of Malinzi to go.

Unfortunately, I haven't heard if Malinzi has gone to the minister of that ministry, Doctor.
Fenela Mukangara, and to tell him about the strategies that he has explained to Lowassa.
The question is back constant, why Malinzi went to someone who TFF did not make him work directly?

I could have welewa a bit Malinzi as Lowassa would be the chairman of the Parliamentary Development Committee which is involved with sports issues.
But Lowassa is the chairman of the parliamentary committee of foreign affairs that indeed does not have a direct relationship with TFF.

If Lowassa would have been a member of the National Sports Council (BMT), I could understand the aim of the Malinzi tour.
But, unfortunately, Lowassa has never been a member of the council.

I say clearly that I would have understood if Malinzi would have gone to meet President Jakaya Kikwete, because his government is the one that pays the salary of the coach of the National Team (Taifa Stars).
But Lowassa is a member of parliament and he is not in government at the moment.

If Malinzi had a problem to meet with the retired prime minister, he is known to love soccer.
He is called Frederick Tluway Sumaye and not Edward Lowassa.
If he would have met Sumaye to tell him about his plans to lift soccer, even if I could have understood.

That's why I ask, Malinzi was following what to Lowassa?

Edward Ngoyai Lowassa I knew I have never seen him in any big soccer match here in the country for a long period of time now.
Basically, when you are talking about the names of politicians who love the soccer game, the name of Lowassa is usually not passed.

We see the politicians who come in the National Stadium during the big and small football match.
Professor Juma Kapuya has always come to the field.
Samuel Sitta is not that he is attending the mpitions, but it is also one of the sponsors of Simba Club.
I have been seeing them too on the field, most of the time, Freeman Mbowe and Zitto Kabwe.
These like the ball.

Amos Makalla is coming to the field.
Mussa Azan Zungu is attending a match.
Iddi Azzan is attending a match.
Richard Ndassa is attending a match.
Juma Nkamia is attending a match.
I have seen him many times Mwigulu Nchemba attending a match at the National Stadium where that is a big match when they have been played.

I don't sure if Lowassa has gone to the stadium to view the match even one of the soccer.
It is within my right to say that Lowassa is not a ball person.
It would have been so, all of us would know because the rest of football is not a matter of kujificha.
That's why, as well as holding the top position in this country, everyone who followed soccer knows that Kikwete loves Yanga club.

On the sidelines of soccer, there is no secret.


