The two federation council of the African Union for East Africa and Central Africa CECAFA and the soccer federation in the country, their death have put their stand that they are now ehhe that support him that support him that they are supporting him that they are supporting him that they support him.
Anything that picture Blatter's veteran of FIFA, Rachel Ndauka, now that they will support us in many African countries to support Blatter because they are said that they will be ready and that they will reflect that he's the intention of continuing is that Blatter is the only president that Blatter is the only president that Blatter is the only president.
I added the intent.
The main mission of developing African soccer and there are things they would be held as they claim to listen to the president of CECAFA Leodeger Chilla Tenga, father and Jamali Malinzi, the death of the death of the death.
They have already said that now they have-CCM they will support a veteran with Blatter who is vying for five term to lead the world soccer federation FIFA since he was elected for the first time and one hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred.
Donations that are given by FIFA to go to African countries including cash five hundred thousand dollars each year together with the renovation of fake grass among the reasons that make the sector no tears s to accept Zlatan Tenga, says the other candidates of the presidential race of FIFA including the president of the the Portugal nation of Portugal, Luis kidneys
The province has been given to you said from that it is possible comments.
Then we support the hand.
Of the end of it.
Yeah Kaisi Kaisi.
That's the reason why.
It is not the Estate and they have announced to support Joseph Sepp Blatter.
I go to Tanzania in Tanzania.
The sixth general election.
It will go to no Joseph
I should not be able to make it.
FIFA elections will be held in May this year, while many European countries having a stand to marry Blatter who has alia the seat since one thousand of nine hundred and eight years in another step, Tenga is vying for the message of the committee of performance when it's the only candidate who is representing the African region to Farm, I asked Tenga why he is ang onto and he has to vie for a message instead, he is the only candidate who is representing the African region. The presidential vying for the presidency in the year year to contest for the presidency in the
Shiro will pass think that I want to be shubiri.
The president when I added him something.
AHH medals institutions Dar es Salaam.
