When he will fly.

It was written by Ikunda Erick and John Gagarini, Kibaha, Kibaha.

It has been published: 22 September 2016.

The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed the Coast Provincial Commissioner, Evarist Ndikilo to write letters to the government institutions, public and private ones with plots that are not advanced in the city, wajitell them when they start to develop and within two weeks to give answers, otherwise, those fields will be ang off.

That order made yesterday in the city while launching the Tanzania Court strategic plan (2015 - 2020) and the improvement project of the Tanzania Court, Coast Province.
Before that order of the prime minister, the provincial commissioner, Ndikilo was itaki to the prime minister of public and private institutions which have piled plots for a long time between five to ten years without developing and asked him (Majaliwa) to make a decision because they are people who need it.
"Kibaha is the refuge of Dar es Salaam province, there has been filled with here there is a chance for these who haven't advanced, they should reach a letter today and give them two weeks tell them when they will be ready to start that job," he ordered Majaliwa.
The Prime Minister mentioned those institutions that have not advanced plots as well as small Hazina with two and one with the number 232 has been advanced, but another number of 221 is not advanced.
Other institutions and their fields in brackets is the University of Huria (OUT) (kitalu and.
228), Njuweni Institute (kitalu and.
229), Shirika la Umeme (Tanesco) (kitalu and.
218), the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) (kitalu and.
233), the SF Group (kitalu and.
225), CRDB Bank and Taasisi ya Kuzuia na Kupambana na Rushwa (Takukuru).
He wanted Ndikilo to write a letter and and should not be within two weeks.
"I know there are people of the government they will say they don't have a budget, but the budget assembly is starting on April next year, therefore, to prepare themselves in the next budget, so that by July first, 2018 if they haven't advanced, we should take our actions, we will take our actions and these wanaosusa they will be ready to ask them afresh," said Majaliwa.
Previously, while launching the project, Majaliwa said many citizens get a problem of reaching various social services including the courts at the county and district level, something that is unacceptable.
"I take this opportunity to remind our colleagues of the court to be, we are all we are in order to serve the Tanzania, therefore, plans and our strategies to consider the procedure that will give their rights to them so as to increase faith in the court and the government in general," said Minister Majaliwa.
He said the strategic plan that was launched yesterday is a good sign of leadership and the performance of the court which is itambua, which is the sun goes where and for short time and set up the procedure of testing and self-assessment for every step.
The strategic plan of the court, which will cost 139.5 billion shillings (equivalent to 65 million American dollars), will be imiwa for money from the government budget and a loan of affordable terms from the World Bank.
Earlier while welcoming the prime minister to speak with the hadhira that attended the launch, the chief justice of Tanzania, Othman Chande said the court has initiated a new cadre of the servants to manage financial issues so that the law of law can continue with the court activities only.
He said that the launch of the strategic plan of the year 2015 / 16 to 2019 / 20 together with the improvement project of the Tanzania Court services, to enable the court to build a resident magistrate court between five to eight, the courts of 30 districts to 40 are expected to be built by the 70-year-to-100 matches will be constructed within five years of the program.
Judge Chande said out of 26 provinces in the country, only 14 provinces which has the Supreme Court.
He said that the court can be built in Njombe, Geita, Simiyu, Katavi, Singida, Manyara, Songwe, Lindi, Pwani and Morogoro.


