The great report is the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, Tanzania, Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, says the government needs to enable women economically, whereby the research statistics of its two and ten economic figures show that twenty-three percent of women have a low income and thinking income for men in the country, while addressing at the peak of the commemoration of the women's bank which has given loans of twenty-four billion shillings that entertaining the percentage and eight of the women in the country like a visitor without from the province as he has the following report
President Kikwete says that in addition to bringing them on his establishment, it also helps in the establishment of the parties to put and borrow, help to create a good environment in various institutions of small loans in the country, it will help eight percent of women to participate in a small business, I want maybe and so as to overcome your poverty and the family in general.
Help
In the beginning that up to two thousand women and nine thousand women.
I had since been on the first because it wasn't a cash capital.
I said that I will release the money it is three billion Tanzanian shillings.
And why is it every year and for that reason?
We will welcome them.
Helping the citizens
Sometimes they don't have when they need it.
And why the answers you have the activities of doing we get all the money but I request it
President Kikwete has added that the government has increased the number of women in leadership positions as a step of taking their rights that have given them for a long time due to the bull system.
We are doing this
We do not care for women why not fun
Happy fun
You can find it.
Then we are fulfilling our responsibility
Of loving actresses
It comes back to women their rights
And their benefit that the society has given them drinking for a long time
And they did not kill the nations and they have said that it will continue supporting the government's efforts in empowering women economically.
The Union of donor nations and development stakeholders will continue to help the improvement of gender equality and women's rights.
Planning is choosing
To decide who is confident and to fulfill the dream of when we reached, to build up to the government so that it hurts, I see the women they are enabled through loans given by the savings of money while women together with the minister of community development and also children to identify the success of being driven by a woman here So das de ten groups and one of them are still waiting for a total number of women and one is getting everything that is required to enable women economically and to increase their participation at the level of decisions of accounts that were opened up from uju in front is fourth, Martha dust passing up until now, we have a translation of war, and to enable women economically and to increase their participation at the level of election decisions that were opened up from uju in front of the four women in Morogoro province this year is the empowerment of a woman explaining the time now.
Right now
Hell
