"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
On the first of May, after twenty years ago on the basis of the employees of Tanzania, today they join their colleagues around the world during the May first celebration which is used to talk and evaluate the achievements and challenges that they face in the implementation of their responsibilities.
A source of this Day began since the 19th Century in the United States and spread across Europe and then around the World are workers to oppose a Long time of work and want to have the right to interact.
Workers were suspended for hours sometimes up to 20 per day.
Employers complained about not caring about the interest of workers and even their work environment that many lost their lives at a small age due to the diseases that was caused by poor environment at work.
The first party of staff was formed in 1827 in Philadelphia, the United States and his biggest role was to suggest a special time of work.
It continued the formation of the same objective and when it reached 1866, 30 parties held in Baltimore, America and formed a federation called National Labor Union.
Three years later, was called an international meeting of workers in Switzerland and was formed by the International Federation of workers.
In 1876, another international conference was held in Paris, France and is the one that hoped that May first will be threatened as World Workers Day.
Since then the claims of the work hours were hot and even the solution started, it came out many things including the adoption, and poor life thus wanting the existence of systematic changes so that the workers control the main ways of accountability in production so as to eliminate the exploitalist of capitalist.
The history of May first is long but it will not only inform us that the claims and complaints by workers is of the past century and have been taking a new chapter as every single challenge is resolved.
For example, the original challenge that produced May first of the hours of work, although it is still a problem for several countries especially in the world, significantly.
Servants understand their time of work and for institutions whose work require workers for a long time or all, there are shifts.
The big challenge that is in which has been a cry for go and go back is for interest and now there are suggestions that the minimum wage should be 750,000 shillings per month.
But there is also another challenge as a better environment for work especially considering that sometimes a good salary is not everything to an employee because there are those who ran away from the bad environment of work and contrary, there are organizations or institutions that have been reduced due to the environment.
That is why we celebrate this day with a history of demanding justice for workers, we must remember saying that justice is going along with the responsibility.
We employees, from the public to the private sector, we have to ask each other for its time if we fulfill our duty as required?
If we do not suspect or there is weakness, take a step.
We've done it, then the chest ahead of our agrees on the basis of the law.
We believe that we have been doing so, we will do it quickly the steps of economic development and the interest of employers and the employees will be considered.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
