Yesterday, this is the one he is speaking lome halo daddy, it is unpredictable because we now want to talk to Swahili for ten minutes now, we will talk to Swahili that you know even you can tell you but it is Swahili for ten minutes.
Halo halo claim
Okay we will be ten minutes the ten minutes will be enough, it's about why it is saying what is the record of what is it.
Ehhe blaze improved ten minutes AHH
I talk about anything.
Everything I was recording because we should be vegetables, I'm in Town in the way I'm in Town first I want to come back to you when you come to you, you create a girl there and wait for my AHH as you are with the blessings here.
So you are in Town okay for the office to let the game be the way you are and who will get me away.
No one has talked to his phone to add his arm in the moment, I will start my ten minutes to speak.
And now if mi I went to work
It is in line for ten minutes not we have talked about four minutes already we won't come out and get out in the alone.
In July sure there is sure that it has reached four minutes okay because mi at this time I went to the pipeline when I went for a long time when I am not in a car I will not come back and get back?
Yeah, we are talking four minutes and it's about it.
At this time you are in that office.
I have come from there with money eastlando we don't have from there now?
Okay what is this lt; hes tgt; I don't know what we are coming?
The guys even today I would like to go back today tomorrow @ AHH
And once again he asked him the Story of yesterday.
Those area yesterday is not know, he has said that the weekend will take you a release.
Now we are saying this weekend, I know it is today that you are not today is good.
Today, today, he has said today if you want to take it first, let's go back it is equal to AHH but okay if you are waiting until the weekend you will take you to those of the ones that you do not want to know what you do not want to do with them and then you are at this time you see what is happening in Town at this time you know what is happening in Town at this time.
AHH let us come so far until how many hours we are.
They see them eat when I'm in a car heading to the pipeline, I see just one of the problems that I have happened but not you know that people of city Council are troubling people who have not paid rent not you know he does not pay for their shop they seem to do a step.
Why again, Jane ehhe now wants to tell us about seven hours.
When I suppose the pipeline you can be Sure you can kill me from it.
Also read
