"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
After Oscar is collaborating closely the world has changed significantly, at around different, D character countries are being announced different every day by the media research agencies, technology is increasing and money is Drinking.
The richest people are, they live and looking for them to put the money every new day as you write in the calendar and every time you get closer.
New is a lot, to be interesting or drop, it ended all that it has ended up with no one who is sexually assaulted.
Every goats will eat with a height of his hashtag, peace has disappeared and it is possible that even in the family's family and they were not living in one area and we don't stand up again.
Each one with two legs wants to make sure that he is bigger and the long race to look for success is not paid.
In soccer they've ever had oil money from the Arabic, these are unprecedented, then they will take it.
It has lived in England, where there should be France and will go to the spread.
It brought fear, heart disease and stroke to some American and Russian owners who thought the benefits more than the misuse of money.
For them, they don't know Kaisari, they did not think his sin and never had the thoughts of Isclosely with the greed of money.
The fuel is paying and they did not have a different investment area to look for a way to get to the world in a way they feel and they could be mentioned in a way close to Abramovich or GTwitter and Usmanov.
The good luck to them is that even their plans were in permanent in this game for a long time and that is why it is not surprising to see the previous registration of Paris St Germain and Manchester City were leaders who are soccer people like Leonard Leonard.
In Russia emerged that St. Petersburg, including Anzhi Makhachkala and others who met with the Russian money who were confused, Russian who wanted to show their power and weight of their bags.
While developing what was called to change in Arsene Wenger's era and entered into a Financial life that could make Raheem Sterling to be the most expensive player behind Ricardo.
It is in this period when the clubs' meetings were not worth compared to the presence of rich in the concerned club.
It is this period that it started to be rare in searching for Steven Gerrard through Raheem Sterling, Dennis Bergala through the name S is this period that one would be ready to leave United that gave a life to be paid for the purchase of Geita.
The good luck was built in Russia took the fire of existence again, with names like Eto'o is bringing to live and the world remains in a knee while the clubs could live in the pace of Waara Chester City and those who have the life of soccer to come into there, the world that killed Del Piero, Pavel Ned esco Tweet to Ryan England and Carragher or began to leave his credibility.
It has followed a new world a one wearing the jersey is living in a neighborhood that is any time he wants his club for money to the world that Higuan money is not a lot of money, the world AM trying to continue believing Pogba has value to Ronaldo while Antoine Gr was prepared to break the future record.
This lie has continued in China, have emerged and they have arrived with their pride.
What do you think about them, w money they want and they have.
Their money can be sold on Mount Kilimanjaro in Tabora.
The bloggers that destroy a lot of dreams for now, especially Ballon D'Or and the European Union is not going far from Lionel Messi or Cristiano R their money to change the truth and have been able to be it to change the behavior of different players and the United States and the United Arab Emirates where many went on when J sha to leave and the Chinese people have been able to continue to make a lot of the world players, amba and the chance to continue kup is not in their clubs no longer with his sons.
The one who shocked wen can be the OS tos player.
This player was his club before the arrival of now Antonio Conte, aliis until it was in the night when it came again with her because he went with a big way to go and go.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
