The two federation council of soccer parties in the East and Central African countries of CECAFA and the Football Federation in the country have set their stand that now they should support him.
Whatever the image of FIFA's political stance is now that they will support for many African countries to support Blatter for therefore, he said that they will be ready and that he will announce the intention of continuing is that Blatter is the only president.
He added intent
The main aim of developing African soccer and there are issues that would be held as they are claiming they want to listen to the president of CECAFA, Doctor Tenga, father and amali Malinzi terrorist of death speaking about that the mi had decided and that there is a different view of stakeholders but this is the real situation for Africans.
They have already said that now members of CCM are supporting a veteran of Blatter, who is competing for five term to lead the Federation of soccer in the world FIFA since he was elected for the first time with one hundred and eight hundred and eight.
The donations that are given by FIFA to go to African countries including cash of five hundred thousand dollars each year together with the renovation of plots at the level of fake grass among the reasons that make the sector no tears to accept Zlatan Tenga, says that other candidates of the FIFA presidential race including the president of the Football Federation in the country Holland Marco van Kag and Jordan's president, King Mohammed bin Hussein and former Portugal national team player Luis kid didn't know African soccer for that Africans.
The province has been said as a result of that, it is possible.
Then we support it
Candidate
Yeah.
So that's why
Not Estate have announced to support Joseph Sepp Blatter
Going to Tanzania?
In the sixth general election
It will go to Joseph
So FAR.
The FIFA elections will take place in May this year while many European countries having a stand to marry Blatter, who has qualified for the seat since one thousand and eight hundred and eight in another step, Tenga is competing again the message of the committee of performance when it was the only candidate who represents the African region, I ask Tenga for what he has to run for a message instead of vying for the presidency in the year.
Rather, we just think that I want to be a preachers
President while sir, talk about something
AHH medals in Dar es Salaam
