"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The journalists have said weet, until things are known, but journalists are like amier.
Their work is to speak out and those involved know, but do not inform us, the results are getting publicly kweeting.
There are many.
Before the start of the premier league season, journalists in an article and normal news quoted various experts, they wrote a lot to remind of that before the league started, it needs players of all teams to test their health.
It was a very important thing.
I Don't know whether the work happened or is done to More than 400 players of the Premier League teams, I Don't think.
It needs a club to test the health of his players every time so as to overcome the problem of falling on the field and sometimes losing life.
They both wrote.
It was also written that the players are required to have been paid for health insurance.
If a player will be given a health insurance, it will help him and his family by paying a little amount of money.
It will enable even a player to go to test for his time.
I'm not sure if all 400 players have health insurance.
Last week, it was sad and tears losing the upcoming, Ismail Mrisho Khalfan who was serving Mbao FC of U-20 in Bukoba town.
I can say it is a result of the leaders of the team not listening to him and he is working to test their players for different reasons.
That of Bukoba is the result, but look at the league is over, every leader of his mind is to play with his work in the second round, what he will do to win the championship.
After the end of the first round of the premier league, the truth I have not heard a certain team has made tests to its players, even the pictures of the spread of them, no.
The first round has ended and now it is near the second and the teams have started preparation, was being tested for health; the pressure is the same?
What is the consummation of the body?
Who is supposed to get the service?
They played a row and got fatigue, they should go back to the body by doing what?
I Don't know whether it happened.
This is one of the players to test the health, there is this of the managers of the game to allow the game to continue without having the first free service.
There is one match that was played at the Karume Stadium, Dar es Salaam.
I don't remember it was who and who I remember is that, in that game, the player was hurt, he had his fellow players to accompany their colleague to go out for the game to continue.
There are many sports events but they miss the first service.
How is it possible for the referee to start a battle while there is no even a car for the first service?
This is the work of practice.
The referee or the supervisor of the game is supposed to inspect if every area has been completed by helping with his assistants.
Most of the matches will be played but there is no first service that is done nor service providers who are qualified in sports services, and maybe the ones that are, or they do not have expertise or they do not have experience and what is happening is a practice for them to be in the field.
Not being keen, especially the desk of the first service, the results of the players lost their lives.
For example, a player has been faced with a problem, the concerned person is what you know is to throw the muscles, welcome him to the snow, but if there will be some they don't lie.
It needs real experts.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
