"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The work for the elders of Mbumba Simone, big business people and those of the middle were being called and forced to take money.
Otherwise those criminals decided to follow up in the homes of the rich after warned not to report the police.
In one case I had heard, a businessman went to the police after being given a report of the visitors of that kind.
Police put a trap and a few minutes before the hour of the incident, police officers arrived to work in every corner of the house.
They saw it safe and they left.
After the officers went to their room, the guards discovered that rich was killed in his room.
They asked him to knock the door without success even when they decided to break it.
They grew up with hands, legs, eyes and mouth.
They concluded that all the money has been taken.
They were not officers, but criminals in the faces of officers.
A leopard on the skin of the sheep!
Many of the robbers who went to the 80s had emerged as a robbery of kind. He is in popular spots in the city.
At the time you gave you a few days after your beer, he just entered a short person and called a drinks attendant.
But before he was not asking for the cooperation of the culprits in the country.
They are saying that the culprits were thought to be the one "andunis" had a special job for them.
On his opposite, she tells the attendant's boxes for the height of those people.
A attendant in surprise, andunis made a bag full of notes and demanded an attendant to attend the payment.
The day people would be drinking free until the next morning.
At some point of problems, people are comforted by the women.
They were crying.
They also brings a new twist of "pedejee" who is inevitable, who is inevitable, who is protected by the youngster, and he will give money to the street on how he felt.
There is no one to ask them what he did.
Now because there are many people that don't like to work but with luxury life in the umbrella of pedejee, they saw the situation even if the pedejee is in their property (public domain).
When it comes when you control this one, then you will be confusing many.
It is an example of the big food that had a lot of food to the table to play for them.
Their aides decided to Put on the legs in the legs than looking for a seat.
Later, the song comes down; many were struggling to get a chance.
Christians have the same as older.
What should we expect to expect?
In the past, when Israel led from the Egyptians said "It's better to let you leave you; we eat and eat" without thinking that they were deported to the table to eat their food.
In this, it is not a must that we get into the ankles.
It is open and everyone knows we wanted the country of what kind since we got independence.
The condition of being hurt in her sweat in a sheltered place.
It is not Tanzania to be forced by the agent to buy your sweat in the price he wants then to sell the market at the price he wants.
If he wants that is not his own ime?
Work for you "voters."
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
