"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
When we have organized we can improve our towns yesterday we published news about the Kinondoni Municipality plan in Dar es Salaam city, to demolish all the random houses and then put it in a modern shape.
Speaking to Mwananchi in a special interview, the mayor of that municipality, Benjamin Sitta said the plan is expected to start in the year 2018, is part of the development strategies of the municipality.
For starting, he said they have planned to breathing a popular village in Tandale and to build in a special modern system.
This is a step of being added because that is in Kinondoni is a sign of the situation in many areas in the country.
Primarily, many areas in the country are hooded and this is a result of not getting urban towns early or the absence of effective management in areas that at least be remembered for the existence of urban planning.
The effects of having towns that are built in all we see.
For example, areas where the map of urban planning are being targeted or because of sports grounds or holidays, school expansion or hospitals or government buildings, we have witnessed being attacked and built houses to live and others for business activities.
Also, we have witnessed those who have money taking away and build houses in areas of road reserve and maybe above the water pipes and fuel.
What's worse, there are some who in the nanny of money they dare to even fill the gutter that stop dirty water and thus causing a big problem to other residents as sewerage is careless especially during rains.
We added that Kinondoni Municipality for a one that is supposed to be followed by other parts of the country.
However, we want to ensure that this plan becomes sustainable and to organize themselves to implement its ability.
We are saying that especially considering that our country has built a period of years and go back to having many plans, but only a few if it is implemented and many are threatening them in the office of executives.
We have a good example of developing a park near the Kinondoni District offices.
Since it was announced that the area will be improved and have a unique attraction several years ago, until now nothing is going on.
Outside Kinondoni, there are many examples of strategies to develop towns, but so far it is not understandable.
A good example is the modern towns of Kigamboni and Luguruni.
We don't believe that Mayor Sitta wants to make popularity, it should be remembered that this is a big project and if you will succeed in Kinondoni in a unique chapter in the country, therefore, it is a must for the municipality to prepare because its process will need many resources.
To plan is to choose, if we have chosen to improve our towns, we must have a concrete and true commitment, in the start of our local resources.
We are not aware of anywhere like every day we will have plans and strategies while depending on the extent of the support of resources especially money from donors or foreign donors.
Together with that, we are saying the plan of Kinondoni Municipality, you should give us other areas in the country.
Ugandans want to see better and modern towns, not Kinondoni alone, but every corner of the country.
When we have organized that, the era of our areas are complete, they will have reached the day.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
