My eye: Control over the child
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Written by Stellah Nyemenohi
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Published: 02 October 2016
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Among the news that was painful in this week, it is this about a church leader in the village of Kaseme in Geita district, who was killed by suicide after allegedly killing her daughter by sprawling Bakora.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Reports are saying that Mbappe is an evangelist from the African Inland Church (AICT), gave a punishment to her 15-year-old daughter who accused him of engaging in violent acts.
It is alleged that he sent a seven-year-old daughter while standing on the road speaking in that environment, he started sprayed Bakora.
Witnesses claim that he went to home where he blocked him inside and continued to punish them by beating up until he was in the soul.
Poor, when he noted that her daughter has been in the soul, he decided to run away and when he arrived for a distance of approximately one kilometers away from the scene, he hanged himself on the tree using a hashtag to death.
The eye has witnessed these reports in the press having been confirmed by Geita Regional Police Commander Mponjoli Rodson.
The media reports have quoted some of the people who know Mbappy, who many admit to remain with a lot of unanswered questions about this incident.
Some told me Mbappe that he was a good believer in a criminal record.
For sure it is sad.
May God rest his soul in peace and continue to comfort this family that lost two people with a shooter.
When this religious leader was in front of justice, the incident that caused the deaths, is a lesson to me and you.
It is a great lesson not only to parents and guardians but anyone with the authority to punish them.
Of course, questions about the event, where they are stolen from spiritual perspective, the answer comes as a "devil" .there is no doubt that everything with negative results come from the devil.
In this event, the devil came to fulfill the truth about the phrase of "anger loss."
There are a lot of events that parents, guardians, teachers have been found guilty by giving punishment for anger and the results of assault or killing.
There are many reports that have been reported about such events.
Among the events that I've ever read in the media is together with the mother's mother in Tabora province who is investigating his child on a banio of charcoal.
The four-year-old child was under investigation by sparking careless and ignored at home.
A mother reduced the legs claiming that it makes me laugh.
If you look at his guidance, there is no one who loves her child.
But now, the way used to rudi, was led by anger, the mother was found guilty.
Another incident I remember, is one woman in Mtwara province who mocked her four-year-old son for eating gay.
He took the leaves, prompting him in the hands, and then went on fire.
The mother was interviewed, he supervised the foundation that he took that step to inform the child.
Nobody wants her child to save, but also, the punishment was brutal.
No wonder it had an inspiration for the negative economic situation.
But that is not the protection of this parent to be taken against them.
I believe there are parents and guardians that they have found themselves with severe punishment for their children believing it is right without knowing that they can be turning their preachers.
I agree that anger is a situation that could affect anyone depending on the circumstances of an issue.
But it is understood that, regardless of the crime he made a child or anyone else or the horse of your anger, it will punish them and caused injuries or kill, there is no defense.
This is an example of the results of parents and guardians to punish children with anger, because a few days ago the parent Elisha Sumila (35), has been jailed for seven years in prison for the mistake of beating her child by beating him two teeth and caused severe pain.
That judgment was given by the resident magistrate court of Ilala district, John Msafiri who said that the court was pleased with the evidence given by the prosecution after bringing five witnesses including the doctor and that the judgment should be a lesson to other parents doing such acts.
The primary thing is to learn to control anger at the time of punishing children without caring about various issues that cause the situation.
For example, among the worst incidents of parents or killing or injuring their children, you will find some suffering from psychological problems and other economic problems.
While everyone needs to control anger in taking any decision, the community should help in saving and save children against severe punishment provided by a person who failed to control his anger.
The community is supposed to overcome the style of ignoring a parent, a guardian or anyone who is giving a stern punishment to the child, thought that they are not involved.
For instance, for instance, Mbappe is an evangelist, as a community, including her family, would have intervened when he took her daughter, the deaths would not happen.
There are people in our community that we live, they are known and is popular by giving punishment including great language to children.
But it is common without knowing that one day, those acts can cost the lives of their children.
We accept the fact that, anger is poisonous to punish a child or even an adult.
Therefore, we should learn to control anger and be so much when we give punishment.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
