"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The receipt of the receipt TRA closes the shops in Dar es Salaam.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
July 31, 2013 some of the business people in Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam, yesterday blocked their shops opposing the use of electronic machines that are used to provide sales receipt as they were required by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA).
Those shops were scored from the morning and held demonstrations in the streets claiming that those machines are a burden to business people with the aim of oppression.
Speaking to sports, businessman Mister.
Samson Ngowi who owns a clothes shop in Aggrey Estate, said their stand is to stop the business they are undertaking until TRA will listen to their cry for not using those machines.
"Due to the commercial circulation, those machines are a burden to our business people, a big part of the profit, is used to pay taxes thus delaying our goals.
"We have done talks with TRA we agreed until November 15th this year, we should not continue using these machines now the action of staying silent is a sign that there is nothing that is going on," he said.
He insisted that it is important for the government to recognize the real environment that the traders who use and the influx of taxes collected and caused them to continue.
Another businessman, Mister.
Juma Tinyango who is owning three shops that are in Kongo- Aggrey, Mwananyamala, said those machines are not recognized as a business procedure between the big businessman, middle and low.
He said the cost of those machines are big without considering the income of the businessman thus if the government has the intention of reaching an agreement, it should give those machines free to business people.
"There are small business people (pepper) who have spread the various streets of Karimoo contrary to the law, the guards who have been given the job of removing them getting bribes and leaving those businesses are not available because they sell products outside our shops," said Mister.
Tinyango.
He said that the government has been unable to remove those people whose businesses are planning outside their shops and they don't pay taxes, an issue that contributes to the use of those machines.
And Mister.
Winston Hemba said it has come at the time of the government to speed up the discussions between them and TRA in line with the answer to ensure the pain, they are removed quickly.
Some of the business people in that area were seen not to know anything after going to their business areas and found many shops have been closed and they are forced to enter the strike if they fear to undergo violence if they will open and appear.
Different people who came to Kariakoo to look for different needs and found many shops have been closed, they requested the government through TRA, to see the importance of doing a joint meeting with business people so as to finish the different differences.
Mr Trump Said.
Lucas Matata, a resident of Kibaha, Coast Province, said the closure of some of those shops especially medicine is a violation of human rights.
On his part, the acting director of services and education to the taxpayer of TRA, Diana Masalla, said they have had talks between them and government officials thus any time they will release a statement on the government's stand.
The armed Police Force (FFU), strengthened security in many streets of Kariakoo with fire weapons and tear gas to strengthen security.
The police commander of Kipolisi, Ilala Province when they were looking for him from the morning so as to talk about the whole issue of safety in Kariakoo estates, his phone was being received by his assistant who claimed that the commander speaks with another phone.
In October this year, the business people in Mbeya province also held a protest to boycott the machines in which the situation resulted in huge violence.
The police force in that province, which was forced to ban tear gas to prevent the traders not to make a meeting aimed at opposing the use of those machines.
Such violence has also happened the day before yesterday in Songea in Ruvuma province where business people have opposed the machines and claimed that they disturb them and sold at a high price.
The traders said they are not ready to use those machines because they are aiming to suppress them, stop them without basic reasons and want the old system to continue.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
