As it is understood the country of Burundi is currently in a political crisis, the crisis has also affected the lives of a child.
Yes, this modern crisis that has lasted for more than one year or left some child
Origin
In the coast during the protests last year, there are children who were killed in other protests were injured although I don't have statistics here.
And the children that seemed to have been killed by others
Others were injured as the ones that lacked parents and find themselves as orphans who feels your life in find the mother lacked the left who was killed in easily and so
Having a huge load of children and as well.
Ehr
Rights such as children because until now I see this week alone there are more than ten children who are in prison on suspicion that he has never been Honorable President of the republic of Burundi.
You don't use my pen and kill and destroy his picture which is in the books of students
Ehit is more than ten students who are now expected this month due to that act that ruling leaders are saying it is a crime because the president should be respected.
Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; there are more than three hundred and thirty people who were expelled from the school in the southern city of Bujumbura.
Or all are reading the critics that they say
They are trying his picture which is inside the books of students is something that is seen for now because of the political crisis and the act of students taking photos and displaced on his vote in the book
For
The task was witness.
This month of June where we are celebrating the holiday
One of the African child to that and the child with this child will be his residence on the road of thanks to the tape, but as well.
I thank you very bad because there are street children who are reporting on the road and are continuing to rise.
The defending human rights advocate for the community because they are people who lost their hopes are not sympathy.
It is someone who is a great threat as they said people who defend the rights of children here in the country
In addition, Allah will go back to you for a long time now then and sell a microphone to you amen.
He understands the millions of children and social institutions have come up as they acted with other nations.
What is important that insisted in protecting the rights of African Child in Kenya
And the issue that has been emphasized and taken seriously, have talked about it.
And
Riots and political conflict
He denied it here in Kenya have begun to comment on his eyes
As a result of the opposition they made their protests had a shufle in the past weeks where children and organizations or social organizations have threatened to denounce the situation and insisted that it must be issues of talks because there are already children who have been left with orphans after their parents AHH calling them to be in the same protest and there are also one of the issues that they have been able to consider especially according to one another.
And the theme of African Child's Day
Or in
Twitter lt; hes tgt; in the world where all can be marked on another issue that they have been able to talk about there is a problem or the main challenge that still hit the society in which way they will be able to reduce.
The number of children
Gender services including you are because of the area to enter the country alone in the first quarter of this year.
Thirty-eight of them were reported where children were able to be filed and say according to the children's director says it is not that
So I am so proud of these children are distinct people but we will get some parents, relatives and relatives and not only female children why I will be filed but
There is also a situation of women who will prevail
The male children, therefore those are two of these two things that have been given to relocate the heads and think and have called it together that it is a must for all stakeholders to cooperate.
Dealing with issues that are threatening the child's safety and see a child if he has no freedom of going around.
The listener and his predecessor has been able to reach some of the problems facing the African child from those three countries which have their representatives here in detail but what are the problems of African child in the Sahara desert.
My colleague, the ship has done an analysis and prepared for the following report
Today is the day
