When I have been maize, why doesn't you go to work at this hour because I just want to ask what happened yesterday the ball did.
And AHH I'm not even at work
Ehr at this time will go to work and go to the house
Yesterday, our team defeated Arsenal is above the mm yesterday it was two of the two to join me and know that the player we lived.
We can use it as how many mangoes
Five thousand today left our new man who money will also make the surprises yesterday my brother mym there, if the game is not yesterday, you will tell me then you will say that the timeline does not have the ball to me.
That's the first one.
When he was first made a good coach that he did in his twenty years with a lot of joy yesterday, I want twenty years with Arsenal mym we AHH I got like I was still from work and then I decided now there is nothing I was doing.
Days like these people will oke to work how many days
AHH this time I want those even the other hours we need one.
Other hours to have North Korea something you do with it, you must look at what you decide to look at well you enjoy your life
Ehr
AHH is the fact that this is a way that comes to fun too.
AHH but first did not look at him and I understand you can remember the people who were AHH of Tuesday were on the sides and also their new haiya.
The income you know number one of us and milk it is not the moment he was in the way he was in the way he was in the way by the way then the attackers had gone to the second.
He scored the second goal there.
He should go to the net, it was ten minutes or ten or three mym.
That's not a date for my brother, I will enjoy it completely.
He has done so that we can forget the van Persie.
Kind of you know that there is a person of Manchester judy has been very bad and has told me that your resources and the first number one can vote for the same picture, so that you can't forget you so much that you should call it again.
Instead
Ehr
Tell you that he got a new trainer and yet he does not have that he has not yet arrived, the level of akule is still waiting for them to accept it.
Who Boys like the one who is the one who is the one that doesn't even have a name then you have fun, I don't know Latifah, yes, then.
Completely, what is called who we should know who is the way he is doing today, today, today with the devil Hundreds of Manchester are the ones who are playing with the game today.
Mym is playing AHH, it's a ball that how many years I'm AHH bad and?
But the ball today is the very good thing today is one of the clear guys today is the same football ball that makes people vote for the quarter night.
For me so there is no conflict between them, there is a conflict between two who want to take revenge
When you know all of your money and all the money they are for those who are now asking for their money to recovery.
My mother is probably all the evening to explain all the two out of then the current research is not only those of the people of those who are not flurn with them.
Don't you know that they are now then they can't wait and you know you know you know that there is a Barcelona coach, Guardiola's trainer and that he didn't know you know you know you know that there is Barcelona's coach, Guardiola's trainer and that didn't get me back soon as I get to the same time when I get back.
Ehrohh some of them and the one that you should do with you and you will receive what it is not to be.
When you get when you get my phone, then don't come with Tulia then you start again to tell them all.
No I want to go first early and find out the place where you know the three you know very well.
So...
If we should be given there because there is a must now that people know that it's the ball that we are going to have a year So but everyone must be.
Ohh is the same then there must be there and we will also start a lot of money.
Ehrohh AHH no need a lot of time you know tomorrow is a day of work we're just drinks as they were three as three we go back to house in the morning we are at work
And we and there is a leader who must get the soul today, where are you end no to work, I say the work you can say together yesterday not to say it had been in Malaysia.
But I didn't know the bad morning they should be at work
No............. that one of our son also knows the ball knows he knows the same ones that people lie mym will know it was there, I know very well it was going to see the ball
Then you will see a person who knows that this date will also be able to talk to you?
AHH but he will understand that they will understand about that when I failed to go tomorrow I will go that day I will make sure that I will do so I will do so I can work for me another day I could not be able to go.
AHH should be infectious but how do your brother have been many days
AHH family is okay
