Twitter lt; unk, gt; Twitter lt; unk, gt;
The farming or computer was not about two until this time climbing in the middle.
That child I don't think kibanda and Saed Kubenea have done very well in America, we started going to go well.
They would be depending on the goalkeeper, equal in the middle.
He has succeeded.
To take the pick up to these hours we have lost the ball here is that the football team is one of the five members of parliament that will increase others as well as they will be faced with the problem until this time that bricks try to Simba and two there was Yanga called Kevin tooth is a must for pregnancy is important
To know the second side cannot mind Madimba
Saying this
What does it do
It doesn't matter that is the presentation of Kigamboni to ease as here we see until today, two leaders
He was carrying Betty
We didn't believe but Simba's match has met.
The result regardless of our religion?
Should be released.
Name
I remember that Diamond, the truth has been prepared and what we see here is a certain ignorance like those who have played the ball that you deserve in the middle to front, there's nothing that is called to buy their cars, why I don't understand what an explosion would get to go ahead, because I don't understand why you don't understand where you don't understand where you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you
We cannot say that they wear as men every day they will share
The left is not possible even a barrel there is a rich one, it is impossible for our players to say and are encouraged by our team, it has a lot of limitations, let us say that Simba bought a match I don't know what we are being given by the capacity Solution we should never stop them.
You will be faced by Simba because I was Pima we cannot see why.
He has been delayed, we have agreed that we have been blocked, we have been blocked because it is lucky that the red card is asking them that the red card is legitimate because compared to the hands they don't want to hear.
And that the German is a very little child to talk about something he has come here and don't know anything even that tivoli told you we have a small child to do so today I try to suggest today when I lost three points.
I am called for a certain story for peace and I am here to look at Simba and Yanga that is a very big lover of how many times that I have been so much today to be beaten as we play the ball is very bitter but with the leaders of the Dowans have requested to come up this is not the end that the league is still hard not to continue having unity, let me think we shall take the championship because when we live there is no two.
In addition, the coach wanted to defend early it will be water until the end, you know the bad reason even how many times he hate people from finishing the prosecution until he was thanking the players.
I hadn't met Simba and Yanga, they are considering whether their interests are quoted as the day of their crops as they enter when they do not know that they will not be affected, they know that it is an Indian that could not be preceded because they could not return because the first thing they think about.
The ball before it has not started, they are coming with something like a coffin, you can think of these people, maybe they have killed someone or has faith of witchcraft, but it is a matter if you have Mapunda still gets something that makes Yanga believe that they are jailed but it has not been written about God's words.
A tweet
