Ehr
Where are we affected by this East African region.
On his face in soccer
Everyone along
Uganda:
Everything
Different from us
I don't think we are behind.
In the three soccer schools contrary to the meaning in the need is still difficult for the punishment we are supposed to make investors who are faith that the people were not present in investing but now you know that many of those who are not present is that they want that the fruits to be given fast in the ball in the ball is invested in mind after ten years I see out to know its fruits, there is an education that is in place for them not to invest in mind, but we are still looking at the government with the bus and when they went to them.
Where then it seems that they have a good direction like Uganda four one helps him and his government in soccer schools so let it reach now, even if you appreciate it then the government will help you so that it is still focused on cereal and Twitter lt; unk, gt; and sports here.
But the judgment as I heard about people investing in soccer
Also you know to invest that it will give and receiving it not to finish you get in this time, it was giving out plenty of time now, it needs a very difficult soul and a solution.
However, things I need education if you do not have ivu to Invest in investment in soccer you need to truly withdraw from Resurrection and Holiness.
To give us public education
We should know there are so many people with the ability
But now they must get when they get educated and faith we don't dare
They will be able
Tini we are a coach and we believe that you are wrong with you, that's a big role then close to the players here in the once ever.
Here, if you are talking about a very good example, there is still a big problem in the attacking position, we see our league to live and know that he is from the country in the country to bring a very good way to the soccer professionals. Httgt; provides a contribution to the country.
Here on a certain thing or when we reached an international coach, I want players not to mention the head, our children should start the process.
We as the teachers are that we are responsible for self-thinking that we are responsible but the activities are coming so that the youth yesterday can be with the benzene that the campaign is free and asks you.
But what to do at the field becomes different from what the best chance comes to a young man
First to give them taught, there is no work on work and we are still putting on a lot of young people in a young man where there are no teachers where there is no teacher where it needs to do but then every teacher needs to do well and a certain person to school comes a day of tradition, I could get very much and we are still working for young people who have arrested the teachings Now there are some of the teachings.
