Twitter lt; unk, gt; got a lot of others as we realized they were demanding that sir, you know our bad education is not the others we have not read about seven other secondary at the moment it was given a member and we are small Said maybe we tell you many secrets and there are some who dare to get the branches.
This success is a miraculous human being.
But there are others said that maybe they don't have kneeling at all hours think that maybe someone is holding him there.
Others continued to say that there is a business but still getting customers a little problems there was a lot of things that AHH we normally have a lot of bad things that we see is the foundation thing to do the next period for the future.
So I would like to use this opportunity
You can't think the motions given.
And now maybe it is now.
We're going inside for one thing and time by asking questions as well.
You can tell us in a very simple language because most of our viewers will understand
Which are the ways and statements to sign
The last time we talked about when it was hit on the enthusiasm of inside charles pai
But it is WhatsApp.
Which was going through the procedures we understand so that most of our viewers will also learn to pass through those things that are not yours and to see like other things but also do not forget.
Work
Where to start the beginning?
When people went to know with the procedures if you had God Father, he died or we are the ones that says the local hope that you get the capital when you get very close to me and I know in a way that a common man will understand.
The first thing that I have seen as I started with Mister funeral
I heard a place where I wanted to succeed
And this being built is that I have reached a place and I got a lot of enthusiasm for England they call it apart design and Desire again, it is good yet to give them when it needs to accept it well for the benefit of their viewers.
That's also the product in the morning when I woke up in the morning I am going to work, you find your problems when you see life, you see how it comes to you, you find your own problems when you know how life is, how can it come to get that, the desire of inside a Desire there is two ways that you can get it from the first way that many people are receiving it.
That situation around the problems and many things going around.
It is a place for it.
He has also had no answer and there is no answer, it has reached the place that life has lost.
It is over.
Trouble we have agreed to think about the place where responsibilities have grown Bana.
And you don't have a way to handle it now, you are and and I wish you become a desire to come from where you are Samson, the environment around you may be another reason but it's too much but the second reason there is what you suggest.
A reason:
When you want to go through a vision of malaria one in the second reason but here I want to talk about it in this place where you want to go to you, maybe I will have a better house today I wish and I will be my children not to get a better school.
I wish me to be able to travel as my colleagues at the table, I wish me to have a better life to win because you want to put a picture of the place and want to go.
It can enter Bana if you look at the life that they were while looking at that you want to go.
The reason for where you want to go to it, it's great to win life.
It is creating a statement to be done that the summer in Samatta is making a lot of inspiration by saying that sir, it doesn't matter what an obstacle that will be in front of me look at the place where you want to go to AHH continues to leave the problems they will continue to accept and accept that it comes as an inspiration and it is something that is being built on day until the fire is burning in your heart because they believe it is not a must that will happen to you, I went from the place to speak out of getting married to their heart.
I have got the first reputation from that, I heard a place where I saw that life is a better life to win if you want to live for this, it will begin to build that if the farm was supposed to live life and Majaliwa when you saw today I saw today because I saw it.
There is a better life
While there is a life of honor
