Farewell Mohamed Kingolile "Boxing Day" APR 09, 2015
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
When I was a spokesman and finally the Secretary General of the Simba Club, there is no branch that I have been close as that of football and development.
There were two main reasons, first, it was his closeness to my office and secondly the creativity that was with them.
The closeness I speak is that most of them were doing their activities at the headquarters of Msimbazi Club in Dar es Salaam city.
It was not easy to pass one day of work without meeting at least one member of the branch.
The creativity I talk about is that of the branch to make things like calendar and photos that later they sell and get money to run their activities.
It is in those working environment, then I met a person named Mohamed Kingolile popularly known as "Boxing Day" who died in the bus accident last week in Morogoro town when he and his colleagues in a way to Shinyanga province to watch the match between Simba and Kagera Sugar.
Six members died in the jail.
He is the former secretary of the branch and in more than one; the leader of that branch.
Many Simba leaders, and other clubs here in the country, at the level of branches have died and I have never seen them to start.
Today, I have been arrested for boxing for the reason to celebrate all the people of his own kind in front of justice without being known nationally, although they had a great contribution to the soccer game.
Kingolile and his colleagues in the group, they were ensuring that they have arrived in the club from 12 and a half o'clock in the morning up to two o'clock in the morning for the purpose of winning the soccer game.
This discussion was important for people who didn't go to watch the last match between Simba or they don't understand about the new news about the club.
For workers in town who are forced to arrive in the city before their offices have not been opened, Msimbazi is "bold" to challenge him time before people go to their activities.
Many people do not know but in the football and development group, there is someone where he is called Chinga due to that he is dating in the southern provinces of Tanzania but his colleagues have called Shafih Dauda.
He has been given that name because of his ability to explain the game.
I mean, there are people who give money so that he should go to watch the match on the field so that after the game, whether tomorrow or any day, he can explain to them not to go about what happened.
If there is a new player that is signed by Simba and he has done exercises for one day and Chinga asked him to ask him only and he will know that if a player is good or bad.
Boxing will be canceled without having financial ability, they were ready to travel at any cost to go anywhere where Simba plays.
Many times arriving at the concerned region the same day of the match and turning back to Dar es Salaam just after the match.
Boxing is one of the people that were ready to do anything to help Simba got victory.
There are a lot of things to also seek a win that he was doing that for a special reason I won't mention in this article.
Kingsile was residing in the front seat on the second side of the driver when they traveled.
The goal was to be able to be heard easily when he wants to give a report while in the car but also in front of people who see then they know Boxing is going on.
In the Tanzanian football that has not gone on big strategies for the announcement, the buses of fans is one of the inspiration that will announce this game.
Even if someone had no plan to go to a mph, what more exciting stuff in the road makes people change ideas and come to the field.
Always, I believe that people like Kingolile are the ones that do football fans to continue going to the field here in the country while in the neighboring country, the number is going down every day.
I had to look at the Uganda Football Premier League match two years ago at the Mandela Stadium in Kampala, and I'm sorry to see that less than 400 people have gone to watch the match.
If you check keenly, together with other factors mentioned including the strength of the English Premier League, you will discover that one of the reasons is that the country is not again with the Kingsile and the branches of clubs like Football and Development, Football and Development, Wekundu la Terminal, Yanga pipeline and others.
The people doing this game is attractive, like Kingolile, Doctor Yamungu Kayandabila Morogoro and others, should be recognized as part of the people that should be respected.
These are people whose lives have been given because of this game.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
