Politics have forgotten the risk of El Nino Sep 30, 2015
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The way for Tanzania to easily think of El-Nino rains which are expected to begin to fall next month can explain why our ability to fight disaster is small.
What is clear is that we have not been seen before the disaster has not been on the wall but we stand up when the enemy is on the door.
I have been following up on the broadcast of television and radio stations in Kenya and discovered that our colleagues have already started taking different steps to fight or at least reduce the effects that are expected to occur because of the disasters that are expected to fall in the East African region from the second week to the third of October.
First, already El Nino has already been a major agenda in Kenya which will be discussed in mainstream media and social media every day, with the government giving information on what is doing and why the citizens are expected to do.
According to one source, the government of Kenya has given a budget of 15 billion shillings for fighting the disaster of El Nino, the government has given five billion shillings while donors including the World Bank and the European Union promised to give 10 billion shillings that are remaining.
Some states have begun to hold meetings with citizens in their areas to educate on how to deal with El Nino, while the National Anti-Maafa Center (NDOC) has planned to provide professional instructions, education and coordination of the central government and the provinces before the rains, during the rains and after the rains.
But, the most important thing is that the various authorities of the Kenyan government in the cities, especially Nairobi have started to stir up in order to allow water to pass easily.
The government has also been able to encourage citizens to do that activity in their streets.
On the advice of experts, measures have been taken to put stones, cobbles or building a hard floor to prevent the erosion of some areas.
Local governments have organized to relocate people in the valley areas that are expected to be affected by those rains.
Special areas to relocate the affected people are already underway.
Education has been given to people that they have been forced to pass through flood areas because it is best to delay but get safe at home.
In the plans to deal with El Nino, Kenyans have organized 70,000 youths in their savings Force (an example of JKT) to deal with any emergency of reduced infrastructure while several other steps were taken to prepare to deal with the explosions.
Kenyans have started thinking about how to deal with the effects of El Nino in various economic sectors including food and tourism.
It is expected that those rains can destroy crops on the farm and run the tourists who will not be exploited to come to these areas in that period.
Kenyans have also started to think how they can change the disaster as a grace by harvesting water, which otherwise will be lost in the sea.
Advice has been given to the government of different cities to think of being built in ponds.
It is possible, but at least people talk.
Sisi yes?
Maybe if the media I visit to find information is not right, I have never heard El I see how much we can do with its impact.
And even if the discussion is there, then it is significantly less.
For now, all our minds exist in election matters, we should forget that we shall choose only if we will be alive.
Christianity, it doesn't matter who is ruling, Magufuli or Lowassa, CCM or Ukawa.
Kenya where debates to deal with El Nino is many and has been given great weight in the media not that they do not have political issues that rule and shook the country.
Currently, Kenya is facing a strike of teachers in the whole country who claim to have more salaries, while the government told them that it does not have money to pay them.
Masiku several, if not a week students are at home.
If that is not enough, the opponents of the Kenyan government of President Uhuru Kenyatta led by Raila Odinga, have started paying the issue of a political twist, as they used to claim to start the steps to remove him from office.
But despite all that, Kenyans know that their survival and welfare of the country is important and therefore they don't forget that they have the responsibility of protecting the life, which without that no one else is a human being can do more than being buried and displaced.
While Kenyans have decided to decide that truth, the Tanzanians have been violated and we are thinking about politics.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
