AHH again directly on the work that has risen to the family could come.
So everyone lt; hes tgt; I remember that it is impossible and we can also be the first thing to do with you as it is with a spokesman but David for all and I work together, I have seen your daily version of the phrase
It's really good to come from the lt; hes tgt; in what I can say to be clean, not the ones I started and I remember.
We have done in the movie in the groups in the mouth, we live like, but we cannot succeed you that you like to remember one day there is one brother that is called Adam to make him take him and get him in a squad.
He told me that they have done a shooting and we like things you want to go to see him and I told him to eat So I take a look at we went to reach we found it was different.
The other one were doing.
Every Palestinians have Mwakifamba.
Peace, I have heard that there is a secret that it is possible that it does not have someone else they choose a bad person, therefore they should not have a request Sunday against it, how did he get it.
Mi every first time playing I was for support
The support was a doctor was called Regina
The Job is what he has done, I would like to take part.
December Twitter lt; unk, gt;
First and then in power not to also climb with the problem when I worked.
Several of which are the mother's law we don't know the debt or sa is the one hundred, we should scrap the people that we don't do, they are not doing an effort.
Don't worry then.
Nelly is thinking about it.
Just after being able to manslaughter
To shut down
The journey there we have done two and the second to take place at the presidential palace at work as a sister
My sister is a writer and instead
You will find you that I want to cook like that one and I mentioned that I wanted me because it is the people that I have discovered while using the clothes of fees that like the sister and I read it, I see that here is a little bit of that car.
The same story is the same when I tell me first, I wrote this movie but first you look for things I have been seen going to play the music doesn't like it happens.
Then I finished sauri
We ended up
Their tomorrow we are thankful
From home because of going to until he was recognized if I don't want to know
What challenge is facing them
That since he was tweeted, the company's sister is still his sister he has not made Direct wants to do the same as he is writing
That's what he said.
When it is supposed to know that the one that added one is getting back if I've told me if we have seen this in Bongo movie, there is a lot of words and previously exactly the same thing as I am now, you find that that is up to other adults and that then the election is only one thing I find you, but he cannot get the charge for not only to know how it is not that if he is not a couple of people to come and tell you another person who wasn't.
Now that if you want to have a good person and here to be taken care of the title if you want to be transformed.
It's good to get what has been written on.
Because in making sure that you understand the title they are using it is not an easy job that is maybe the one who has and is preparing to face the sanctity of the sanctity that led to us, we are here at the ICU, then and they came to say that it is one thing that the right thing is for everyone else but he had already written me that I would never forget that even one week now like a lot of house until now, I want to say that I would never forget that even one week now like a lot of house until now I had been tired of it for the news.
But at the end of the day I remember that you want a better thing to take the cities of us this is the ones that talk about the bottles that if our company's task Force is not the reason we become a brother when we went to the house after that everything was going on.
We ask the perpetrators.
