"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The best leagues in the continent for fans and sponsorship by Thomas Matiko for Glo Premier has been mentioned to be one of the most competitive league in Africa according to International Federation of Football history and Statistics, has been unable to attract local players and even outside.
Even in Europe, others are interested in the league like England and Spain that have invested well, that are enough money, money that are determined through reliable sponsorship.
While in Africa, the sponsorship issue appears to be fast and it has already started OUT of these days has improved business and despite being the premier league of Nigeria which led to the league that are attracting many foreign players to join them so as to give competition to those at home.
And this is the reason despite the sweetness of the East African countries that are with many players that are playing soccer in Europe, the lack of good sponsorship has made many good players from outside to boycott the way of playing for the clubs of those nations.
With the Zambians in those countries as they decide to escape home so as to search for more rice elsewhere, including also in the South African League, Kenya and Tanzania.
1.
South Africa premier league sponsorship: Ksh17.5 billion in the South African Premier League is mentioned to be the most interesting in Africa for the soccer players to be paid due to the huge sponsorship that he got.
This is despite being one of the most young league in Africa that was formed in 1996 after the nation self-employed.
In 2007, the ABSA bank entered into an agreement to sponsor the PSL premier league sponsorship of 4 billion shillings for a period of five years.
Up to today, there is no other league in the African Continent to have ever entered into a big sponsorship of more funding.
Along with that deal, PSL entered into another contract of 17.5 billion and SuperSport that was given all the consent of flying his matches directly.
After the end of the agreement 2012, ABSA and PSL represented again for another five year period and now will end in 2017.
ABSA is informed, there should be a league that has already paid the players.
2.
The Ghana Premier League sponsorship: Ksh 903 million in February 2014, the Ghana Football Federation agreed a contract of 10 million American dollars for a period of five years and the first Capital Plus.
Every year the bank will be giving a sum of a million shillings that will be divided among the clubs participating in that league.
First Capital Plus, which is the country's bank entered into the agreement with Ghana FA after opposing the communications company Vodacom Company that was proposing a sponsorship of 5 million dollars.
According to most of Ghana's two games, Allsports and Black Sports Net, several clubs had already threatened to withdraw from the league after the first sponsor of the mobile phone company Globacom, failed to give money in the 2013 / 14 season.
In 2008 Globom owned by Nigerian billionaire Mike Adenuga agreed with Ghana FA to give a sponsorship of 23 million American dollars (Ksh2.1 billion) for a period of five years.
It is in that sponsorship period where that league was known as Glo Ghana Premier League.
However, the sponsorship of this league is estimated to be more than one billion because they are also in another agreement that will be used by SuperSport company which has a permit to fly the premier league championship directly.
3.
The Tanzania Mainland Premier League sponsorship: 327 million according to the news of the newspaper of The Citizen of Tanzania on December 19, 2014, the mainland has value Ksh 327 million). The Tanzania Media Group Board (TPLB) announced that the executive committee made a total of 1.5 billion (Ksh90.5 million) to fly the league matches.
The Tanzanian League has succeeded more to attract the players of Uganda, Kenya, Brazil, Nigeria and even Liberia.
As a result of that sponsorship, every club gets a share of 160 million Tanzanian shillings (Ksh 8 million) each other.
The board agreed every year, about five years ago.
Recently, it has marred the conflict between the Federation of soccer in the country, FKF and KPL after knowing that the board rejected the sponsorship agreement for the next five years without being informed.
In that new deal, SuperSport who are the ones with a license to fly the TPL Board agreed to increase their sponsorship to 100 million shillings.
Along with SuperSport, beer company EABL will be making Tusker, it gives a contribution to the sponsorship of the league cup of 56 million shillings each year.
In those funds, KPL goes to every club 7 million club that is participating in the premier league and due to the new sponsorship may have reached 10 million shillings.
5.
The Egyptian Premier League sponsorship: Ksh100 million the Egyptian Premier League is the oldest in the African continent, founded in 1948.
However, the one that is mentioned to be one of the most interesting and competitive leagues in Africa, according to the da la Ventures Africa, got its first year 2005 to agree with mobile phone company Vodacom Tanzania for two years.
The amount of money was given by Twitter is unknown.
After the completion of the strategy and Vodacom from 2005another mobile company ALAT took over from 07 to 2011, the period that was changing the name from the Voone Egyptian Premier League that ETalat Premier League. da of the end of the contract to sponsor the league that is known as the one of the Egyptian TV station, who have a license to fly its matches directly and also spreading them to other stations.
Since 2012, Egyptian TV has been carrying a bundle of 100 million shillings each year for surveillance of those matches especially the famous teams like Al Ahly, Zamalek and Ismaily.
In that sense, Vodacom's sponsorship was back again to sponsor it until early this year when it ended up in Potation Sports.
The Egyptian Football Federation EFA has been changing its unmistaked explanation that has been dealing with this.
However, in addition to all, the udity of that league is more than the amount that was given out by the unknown level that is being given by the sponsors of the league at the moment Potation Sports.
Though the league is among those with great attraction to players due to higher payments, the number of foreign workers is very small because every club is allowed to be three only.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
