Mym ehorehhe want experience
I haven't done the Team well, I just want to then tell me I will return from Monday.
Until now, they told me that I would have.
They want a three year experience or two years now, but you see that I don't have that big so that we should then now know if there will be that.
Mym right cool
Whether we Don't know there is no good place in the meantime, you know you know there is a place maybe in line.
If you can't leave your Job as it is in line, where he is inhalo mym ehhe is unable because now the good thing comes to even if it comes to you, where you will get a mm when you will begin confusion.
Ehyou then tell me that you must be very worried to tell me that we are adults, you know I know that she is making a lot of children up to you.
Until ehhe disc, while there is no money he is thinking of you, we don't think it's like at home you missed the allowance and the maize is therefore, he starts to be surprised at the same time, he had told me to go to the zittoke, it is still unable to go for the message and what he will be.
No one can take a fortune in the next month and it's not like Nairobi if you don't have money in the next month and mym AHH and Next month in the middle I can ask as Long as yesterday you know even I'll come up with it.
If you can't go home not as if you know where everything is the fund, now you see if they are coming?
It's not for us to share what we were told that we should share the malog to take the money.
Let us talk to us there are people while they are still teaching them with those things, I am with many people to prepare to see if we will teach them even not to take that money before it is not mentioned.
Chris, I will come to the side it is not bad if you are a group of people who have sacrificed to pay you, you know the wrong thing I got to a group you know a person being used when I get all the strength and then other people will not get paying you that you are paying you, there are people you know well and no mi mym
Ehr
What is the way that you do.
Ehr
Whether it's the problem now, even the people I have been looking for those people you know even when a person lacks that money, I am going to take his home or where there is a good person to say tomorrow I got left.
Ehit because happy is paid?
If you will be paid and who want a person to know maybe the latter of the house he has built his house or the invitation to her parents, even parents will know if you get a boy to clear whether the girl is talking to you can even get that milk.
Mym mym ohh I have never been surprised
But now if you go to a person in the road you will give you tomorrow
Until now, I was saying that we have to prepare well the certificate is close to that, we should know that things are going to take it not and not we are cool except for the life you will take a lot of words.
Mym ehhe mym ehhe AHH is good I went to everywhere.
Ehr
Ehhe and not only will we talk to you that the party's issues have continued.
AHH tells me
