Mym ehhe years ago I remember the same way he is so much to remember two years there is a metal in school.
We were the one we read and we are in secondary schools and asked.
Ohh mi remembers when we see TV in the same way.
Mym ehorehI remember the life that we live in remember or Entertainment Jo ehhe and there is now life that has changed.
And I remember completely, I see the school is that their only female child is the only one, I was surprised when I was surprised to see that the youth was given out of that school has been the only yesterday.
When the school has been alone in these days I went to school, I got the councilors to fail because to change the constitution or do it?
When activities have changed, I am surprised to see.
When I saw that the school, even clothes have been transformed on date are transformed as they are doing very different.
It's a draw of mm how she is wearing
Ehit is very true about the things run, you know sometimes it may have changed when people think that it was blessed by or people are going to be buried.
When today the eight eight will be changed.
AHH must have to go to the first one, it is it I think they are going to the side of the buses, I think that the drama I have not heard very much but it's the living I hear and think it goes on.
Ohh the year and the queues at music and drama
SA plans for tomorrow how the day will go.
AHH as I see tomorrow I see if it will have a lot of activities playing, there must be music that we will go tomorrow fun there.
Ehr, so tomorrow there is a place where research
If the same will have the preparations for you, I don't know what he is and then I will go to school to prepare my things and I know I will do so I will have a lot for you to know the life like that I can bring.
AHH thus it will be good.
Ehormi just like you know these days we need to mean for it.
Ehit plans and plans for the future that we are heading to now see the way the way it is.
AHH at the same time, so we should know what we have to finish school but that is the years without thirty years and where is it, we will know we will be.
The thirty-year-old and mym ehhe will have to have a must for a woman, you know the Bible is the one that is born and think about a month that you must come and get it up.
Ehr then you call this a home plan
Yeah, we must find a good plan to prepare well that is why I don't know it will happen.
When we need to start the lower level until we need to prepare well but I'll see this AHH must come up and harder for the reason why I don't want those who were there in high school and the preparations you know how small things are needed to bring us the problem, therefore the small things must come in mind when I started to go far from that is the activities that we are having to make these schools right now.
If you must, then you see how this is in school?
Yes
And yes.
AHH yes I agree with you all this time, we should know how we should work hard.
When we know that we can also see until we heard a lot of art or what is a degree that can be very well, you know the friends of these days are those who pay for alcohol
If it's done so far, that's the reason for now.
If these days you get in this is the one who has been brought to get where these days is drinking alcohol and smoking of drugs and that is not good words
When they say they are telling them that the male system is also a dress for a class, I just see that they are friends that was told you will find you mym
Yes, I will let them tell you that they are friends with you and they are the ones that do for you to come in those words that do not know.
Ehme is that I eat at home, let's know it true
AHH huto at the same time if this is so far as a supporter of so I am Daisy 'lt; hes Twitter gt; the sheep is the one who put it up and do you have shown what's on the farm
Mym mym
When I am on the farm, I want to go to harvesting my potatoes, not you know that there is a whole who is cold and we must look at my potatoes on how I started to pay for five other children, so I started to pay for the five other animals that I started to pay for my animals College.
Ehyou we yes.
AHH that this is very good that he has closed down the animals that my child has helped me if they provide milk and I sell it is the children to get fees for school fees.
It's really milk, I know what you are true and mym
AHH completely doesn't decide then again there are those cows and animals, we have a problem and then you are still getting ten money until as fees and so on.
When you pay for fees and get to remember I remember our beloved friend that you saw the second game is supporting itself and have joined them.
If I have seen on the internet lege lege AKO and the fashion cow as it is not seen there, there is another big language of meat at this time we have seen us so much but you get this time if this is a neighborhood you get a little problem with grass because this sun is very much that you get our way from now, we have to find that it's what animals do.
Mym ohh these days you decided to get into rearing
Ehhe.
Mym
Okay, there's a problem we need to be embellished and you will get things that the tribe is the hand and also come out well, the farms do well, it is normal for life you know life is I tell you you'll go with them as he is coming to it.
Halo AHH thus yes we are doing we are looking for farms
When it is so far we have to look like this time we have to look for the plantations than it is the only animals that we are looking for them, we are looking for those farms, we will put food and then the sun is very intense, we use the farms to help you.
Ehhe, well
Ehhe and I heard about how all the birds come out of the air that they have a lot of benefits, I don't know if there you can breed the aircraft.
AHH if this time is not if it is not even if I don't know the animals even we have put on them about but I still hear that there are still those things that we want to make us know what we know is that we should start.
Ehr
When these airplanes are giving eggs for people are crying until it's not before they come up with homework, the maize eat it's because it is shut down.
You are the same as if these animals are giving eggs and you sell even this time and then again the other plan, therefore, if I put Linda if that is no matter to you, well.
When it is true he is true to be very big to the farmer like the same and will have to be apologetic to pay for them to pay for women who pay for life to continue the future of these days is like the day before yesterday that they said last days have been published.
Hell
AHH, as if this is like this
