The reason I asked Mrema, we have accepted himself there and my leg there and the words with the mind that how someone has heard to tell me that the woman himself is asking for a white woman that aims at getting to pass it or don't like it becomes a problem when you give you a good example you don't see you remain here and this is the Network from there.
Step
Indeed
You don't have people to look for Free will like the children we cannot go to oil and talk about it doesn't have problems to talk about you, you know that people know and then tell you for news like the fire is a secret that he has never done anyone to know that the socialism will be a journey, I think the rights of God, that is the same evening in the real time that mi naskia is living in a high time from the father is full but when they had problems.
Ohh things I win eight times in fact, I know you are the doctor in the same way you have his own problems and it's really a person sitting here, they started well.
Mi certainly didn't hide it
Truly the Proposal I end by saying what happened.
Accidents lead you an explosion.
Selling and selling
They went down
Mi maybe it is BoT
Sipati sleep
Mym but I know because the importance I have received as a drett, we are going to be found, you know a lot of people who will speak up to say the need.
You will not be lost, many people whose men are unable to show their soul in the country but by giving my opinion on my Image that is going on to be completed then it does not have a problem every you know, that is, that is to kill _ it has also been a need for a long time, he said I was sitting in, Fatma and brought a few from my heart and how you use it.
In Mombasa where there is certain leaves
But mi lock stretched up, we accept that it will not accept what to do even those who did not be found in the news of some of my body, while you are the good people.
You hear your second brother to hear and I have accepted that early I have heard very well and I have accepted it and I have agreed that I have not got but just say it was because maybe we're not seeing the policy to call me it was doing no problem according to the Kiba that is required to be given that we didn't just see Uganda to say that it was doing.
Have hit me and find out that I would have died to call a long time
I wrote to the channels you'll go.
Sleep babes and give me a habit of behavior and therefore for reasons
Take them then and the issues of you know how the budget depends on the machines.
A good mother and now mi I won't tell you about my tweets, I'm talking about my romantic treatment so that he should say that
God is when I know it is very bad in those places where all the time you came to me, I know it's always a patient and it's a stupid things that doesn't have a bond at all time I was telling me to stay with me in my heart to tell me that you are sent to me to tell me that you are sent to me to tell me that you have blood.
Let's stop weakness and arguments
Do not be a whole person and my Mboni is in line, you feel ridiculous things I would have been laughing at that he has been a meaning and just a game answer.
Wema Sepetu
