"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Our engagement to worry I have been with a fiancé for two years now and we need to live together as a husband and wife.
The problem is that he does not want to know their people nor does not want to be known for us.
Is it possible that he is playing for?
Through SMS I suspect your colleague is playing with the mind and maybe he wants to use it nor does not have any plan about your life as well.
It is about you to suggest if you will accept that or you will leave you as another one that is seen to care.
He does not want to stimulate the fire that I got and we have one child.
The problem is that when we go to the room, I do not want to take time to stimulate the fire before starting to live.
Instead you want to work directly.
I advise them.
Through SMS, I understand the importance of destroying the farm before starting to grow.
Maybe your colleague has no skills and that is why he does not see the importance.
To explain his benefits and convince him to try because the sweetness of music is to play.
It's fun in the forest I have a beloved friend.
My colleague has been used to washing my farm when I was lying and I asked me saying that it is not happy to see that the farm has turned into a forest.
The truth is that I'm going to be that.
What should I do?
Through SMS is very lucky to have someone who cares about the cleaning of your body.
I do not understand why you like to grow the forest in your farm because you can bring a dirt on all kinds and insects that are not needed in that country.
Mrie your colleague is continuing with that role.
KACicks: I think 16.
There is a youth who I love but I have discovered he has a relationship with my close friend.
Through the SMS, your age is very little to engage in issues if you love her, if you love your friend, you don't try to break their relationship so that you can get that boy.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
