When I work is many but I will vote for ten o'clock at ten o'clock and the two will be the same let's go to a place where I do and you know it doesn't know what the old man will bring a problem because I want to let us go and let's go to a certain day of my own friend's birthday.
At eleven o'clock and lt; hes Twitter gt; do not call for ten o'clock to tell me because you know you must find a person to leave the kids that I should prepare myself to meet and let us go back.
When the plan cannot bring a problem because he is gone, I am saying that my elder cannot bring a problem because he is gone to her family, I have now remained alone and now I want to look for someone and leave the children so I know they are safe.
The job girl, I gave a little vacation to go to his parents and then he will go back if the Christmas season come.
That is okay then I am trying.
This is okay to tell the other words they are doing.
And I am trying to go in line with that exam?
For me start on Tuesday, I pray for
On Tuesday, I tell you also that hard it will go through the examination and hope.
I will tell me that I gave me every day you know we are my sincere friend I must tell me every day I request to remember.
Twitter lt; hes tgt; thanks to AHH not to live at work at work, but I also think about how to change how I get through, how can you change your change.
All my friend now tell me what you are doing?
Mym ehr
Ohh mym
Mym and now and now if you look for another and the ones who want to maybe many people get the position of two people not you can call it
Ehr I will tell.
When I tell me because I also know other hours to stay in this house or the work of walking around the walk, especially during the rain like this one can get a lot of illnesses like this time I'm too tired, I was doing the work of walking to sell things here at all of my products.
Ehr
What was you doing by the way this work continues
And the work is not bad but the benefits do not see if it is good.
Now and get it at this time you are doing.
When you look for another I see this and then we continue with that I have lost but if the income will be good
