"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
A shame that hit the coffee industry, complaints from tea and tea farmers at a small level in the country following the news that they will get a small bonus from Chai Kenya Council, KTDA, it has proved clear the problems affecting the water sector in the country.
KTDA bought one kilograms of tea in 14 shillings and then later on the end of the financial year to provide additional payments known as bonus.
They couldn't buy tea and get the second payments depending on the amount of leaves that they took to the factory and the financial ability of the factory that lead the leaves.
The payment of tea farmers around 560, 000 people across the country were blocked from between 24 and 35 shillings last year to 8.50 shillings and 16 shillings this year.
A total of the funds that were set aside for those payments and KTDA also reduced to 44 percent from 35.6 billion shillings last year to 19.8 billion shillings this year.
The chairman of the small-scale farmers' party, Rift Valley, Joel Chepkwony says that the minimum amount of bonus this year was caused by the highest number of directors of KTDA.
Mr. Chepkwony describes the directors and "shootes" while wondering why 455 directors were paid millions of money to manage 65 industries in the country, while farmers continue to receive low payments.
"Is it a must we have seven directors in every factory of Labour for KTDA?
That is a big burden for farmers because every director receives a payment of approximately 1 million shillings each year.
We don't need many directors, "said Mister Chepkwony.
At the same time, Mister Chepkwony calls for the Minister of Agriculture Felix Kosgey to intervene and reduce the number of directors in every factory to stay at two, explaining that this will reduce the cost of running industries so that more money can be paid to farmers.
KTDA runs 64 industries on behalf of 54 cold tea companies that are run directly by tea farmers who are shares.
Abraham Rotich, an accountant of KTDA in the scene and destruction, denies the claims that the organization caused tea prices at an international auction in Mombasa (Mombasa Auction).
Mister Rotich clarified that KTDA had equal rights and other business people who are selling and bought at the auction and therefore it did not have any authority to decide the price of tea.
"The price is decided by the international direction, as well as the needs and demands of customers who want to buy tea.
It can also be affected by the level of change of dollars, "he adds.
The tea sector in Kenya has been faced with various problems that are seen to be caused by not strengthened the markets of foreign countries that have been executed by political conflicts or weakening the economy.
Kenya is leading the world in the sale of tea in CTC (Cut, Tear and Curl) in the international market, considering that it contributes 22 percent of CTC sales in the world.
The major marketing of tea in Kenya is together with Egypt, England, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Sudan, Russia, Yemen and United Arab Emirates (UAE).
About the bonus, however, in the areas where tea leaves in the country, various manufacturing and tea factories have provided different levels of additional payments.
In the county county, Momul County issued an extra paycheck in the south of Rift Valley, being 15.25 kilograms, with other industries like Litein, Kapkatet and Tegat paying 12 million farmers and 14 Sheps.
The cold tea factory of Ogden in the Kisian county paid the lowest bonus in the country, with 8.5 kilograms of kilograms, while the Imenti, Meru led to 26 shillings.
What is the solution to these problems?
During his visit to the city in a few months ago, the secretary general in the Ministry of Agriculture Sicily Kariuki admitted that the tea sector in the country has faced various challenges.
Miss Kariuki expressed his concern that less than five percent of the whole amount of tea being constructed in Kenya was being used by its citizens, while 95 percent were sold in foreign markets.
He says that the government will continue to look for new tea markets in the world while recognizing that tea is one of the crops that pay the country's headquarters of foreign money.
Last year, tea shares this country 11.5 billion shillings in foreign sales and 22 billion shillings in the country.
However, the high cost of tea production in the industry has been linked to the reduction in the income of the farmers of tea leaves, and thus making different industries for making tea to look at a way to reduce the cost so that the farmers get more money.
Four kilograms of tea leaves from the farm is needed to make one kilogram of tea which is sold every week at the big tea auction that is in Mombasa and which has been very recognized.
Other stations in the world are in Colombo and Calcutta in Sri Lanka and India.
Momul factory manager Leonard Gitobu Muriinherit says the factory is using 60 million shillings per year to pay the cost of electricity to run its work equipment, and 50m more in buying firewood.
Mr Muriinherit adds that according to this controversial situation, he had several tea factories in the destruction of the destruction company to register a multiconic Power Company in order to generate electricity in those industries.
"According to things that are there now, every farmer is losing almost 5 shillings that would have gone through its payment in the payment of electricity every year," he said.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
