Another one.
Which you can talk while doing the television
Those of the players
We are not hard the director manson wondered why he came with the equipment that he has since and of Course
Like
If running, there must be a look at a moment when a player is walking to the start, you are supposed to help, especially when they came to them, the equipment gave him in his car, he claims that he gave him in his car, the players who were unable to get a good results but Mercy came and therefore the equipment helped me so much to make a team that was very good.
In fact, people who have gone through his hands are taught at the coach
Benefited from it because it is in people
He actually gets the principal but he told the coach you must use your mind
Nothing can be interpreted from the book
Sometimes use your mind to get a victory or your team does not make me feel good what they were doing for the teachers.
We have lost a person who was a very good pillar in soccer watching since the two thousand and three years when the assistant coach of the youth team helped Abdallah king Even the players who he has made.
Especially when these have come up, we don't have a fever to stand for him because of this conditions, the victory is due to him because some time he was telling a player is telling him he is not doing it in truth.
The players themselves witnesses the way he has helped to make a lot of football so that we can be able to reach here where it is.
You can talk.
At the end of five, I'm talking about now while we use our value, filling it telling the Tanzanians and in order for us.
That will be a continuation of that the nation will be some of the stakeholders who will be watching but you know many times
You are our host
... the scheme is now being Ahmad
Ahmad is a very young man or he saw him yesterday in the house
The coach I tell you watching the players and the late competition, he also offers his money savings that he got there he took it for the same way the team had players of soccer and men and those with different children.
Onde chonde, a long time old man of soccer stakeholders have heard a check of this center is a uru
To get away from the future players being left, the players who are not present in a squad in academia will go to where his results shall produce.
Rape people are not productive but these players are being buried and they were described in the future
This station will be a great help to the best soccer stakeholders, Hemed that they do everything that should be able to look for the station to continue because a young man is supposed to be able to develop it wherever Masha was taking the phone and asked him how they are doing it so that he is going to develop it.
Just think again, it's very grateful for your message here in the studio you know this time is this post, who's grateful for you.
And where the controversy in the water was speaking briefly including coach, ester Marsh who passed away in front of the rights and his body at nine o'clock in the afternoon will have a journey to return to Mwanza town ready for a funeral that he is within two days in the coming days when he is in Kigoma Diamond more information to be informed in the press here.
I return again that we have sponsors then later we will be continuing with it.
