Probably
For me I would say
And what do you do?
I've got to see what I could continue.
Choosing for other people
Then wards continue with that.
Right now and then it's lost
Now they go back that role.
End
In that they were given if not.
However, I managed to loose the leader I would ask me a question when and I know that I've got again on the lines but I am so grateful to clarify about the payments and other things that have been questions of distraumatised people who are asking now to go back to violate it.
When people are walking and when you work with the journalists in Kenya, they say what he has explained about the payment has explained that there is a time they went on and they can't eaten in the kitchen, people have gone to the international athletics in the citizens say.
Thank you so much if you are not first to say the congratulations to listen to him so that he can do in the American voice and I commend it also because he has won a lot of times and then the problems that came up there I've heard a lot of time to start India twenty ten and one Maputo ten and two London is ten and third was the most common he finished fourth position.
And he has proved that
He has made it better in his ways
Tomorrow, because it's also a stir and those of other athletes have heard here saying they have done these mistakes like insurance through buses that are called 'I don't want all
Back to many Kenya have such comments if you look at the social networks that we journalists but we are participating here in Kenya, you see people expressing pain, citizens have expressed mixed feelings and another thing that many have said that payments did not have problems when it has come with the payments.
It's not to say to me this side that it is a scholar who is leading the committee for many years
Isn't he the place he has been elected by the ministers
Ehyou to investigate everything was held fake
Ehr officials who supervised the crime in Kenya does not mean that one placed on the way as a doctor is an elder who has been appointed by the Olympic Committee of the Olympic Committee
And you can't.
Ehhe:
Ahmad two things that the committee can congratulations together with the fact that they have helped many youths to get studies in universities like Scotland and elsewhere in the region of Makamba, it has emerged that there is a good thing that the Kenyans don't leave it quickly because of the reasons.
So many youths like promoting the games
I am very unsure that I would like to say before we will end.
The first part of thinking that tomorrow on live talk about one hour and a half hours in East Africa and also.
Facebook we will be discussing this issue of the Olympic games and a scientist from African regions and especially in East Africa are participating in athletics competitions across the world and why they fail and sometimes fail and various problems are also supervision, but before we finish in short, I see that those listeners who are advocating back on as u CAN be on our Facebook page are continuing to give opinions on whether this person's relatives says that most of them should be handed over to him Musa week, he has said that we must change them so that we don't give it more than pocket.
The very high level of course, we will look at a detail tomorrow on line from one hour and a half hours in East Africa through the Swahili language channel and now stay tuned in the second place in detail
