"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The problem of electricity is distribution of Valentine OBARA is not a government to launch a project that will increase 140 megawatts of electricity energy in the country is being added, although this is not enough to guarantee citizens better services for electricity distribution.
The electricity distribution service in the country that is supervised by the Kenya Power company is one of the ones that are struggling greatly from the citizens and investors.
Most of the time we have witnessed a lot of things from investors about the high cost of power energy, a situation that led them to raise the cost of the products or not to get losses in their businesses.
Also, citizens who use electricity in their homes have been witnessing the disappearance of the power of electricity regularly.
This situation makes many love to stay with questions about whether we are in the race to stay in competition with the nations that continue, because Kenya does not deserve this in the 21st century.
That sector is among the most important areas in the efforts of raising the development of development in the country and lift the lives of life to the citizens.
Therefore, it needs a lot of steps even though that is not enough to ensure they are taken to improve the provision of that service.
The addition of the amount of power energy that is manufactured alone is not enough, as there are still those old techniques that will be used to distribute electricity.
It is a must for Kenya Power to invest in modern technology equipment if we want to see changes in service delivery.
It is a shame to be in this era, the residents of various streets in Nairobi, the capital city of Kenya that is respected by the international, they are forced to live in the dark without power energy for more than 24 hours because heavy rains have downtown.
Shame!
If the situation is the same in the capital city, you can't worry how it is in the farms especially in areas where rain is part of daily life.
It will be wise if there will be no electricity equipment that can be endangered by the air, especially rain.
It should be remembered that the government has been underway for several years now to increase the number of people who have access to electricity in the farms, although there is a style of Stima disappearance.
There will be no benefit if the government will provide more weight production and forget to improve the methods of distribution of that service.
The two issues are devastated and you deserve to be addressed together.
There has been analysts of economic issues that are proposing to be empowered on another electricity distribution company which will bring competition to Kenya Power.
In any business, competition leads to the concerned company to try more in service provision to customers.
A good example is evident in the phone communication sector where the presence of many companies in the provision of those services has contributed greatly to enable the customers to make up the companies that feel they benefit them more.
It should be required for them to discuss the issue of better distribution of electricity, not the efforts to increase the amount of electricity that produce it will not be beneficial to the citizens.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
