Halo halo
Halo yeah
If you are getting the yeah, and say I listen to don't want you to tell me what a thousand are not waiting for a question or mym
You feel like he wants to talk
Especially speaking to talk, you are talking to you, you are talking about girls you are feeling that you are feeling just trying to make his way back on the boat in front of what I said mm ehr
And shut down nine o'clock.
7.m. about the bodies
Bodies
I cannot say I don't know that
This about the beautiful
So the beautiful mym
When he went to where he went to where he was right not the guy of the beauty instead, he has decided?
After All the money?
The beautiful AKO, I can't have ever seen mm
He was in the room now they had the eighth month of the year AHH to make a wedding will be mym
He did a wedding to do it and now we want to say, but why is it?
Mi still doesn't start with you a second thing of life but well we must think that it is not something we don't think about just one day MOI, you feel that you must prepare well and everything yeah.
Mym ehhe ohh and now you hear that you want to imagine how many years you want to do so if how many years do you do with how many years do you have?
Ehr I don't have?
When you go there
He shares twenty years in the mym
If then I ask oil questions I told him a week
Okay So in life we have to see what kind of child is.
What kind of Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; the one with no one with everything I want.
No, I saw it okay with a man with Stella so I want So mi to focus on the first buses, it will be taken into consideration.
Aai mi I don't want to consider those things I look for now in mind six are using those things to consider.
Okay notre you like a white or one who love you and it is a must for God to know this okay and you do what you think if you are again with your fiancée, another religion will be easy to become a single hour or it is good to change the first before you get married.
Aai squamungu mym and the truth is not, I think the truth is false.
If you can't depend on with a religion, maybe maybe a Muslim is maybe a Muslim girl, but if not Christians are going to go to a different church if we don't know that it depends on if I don't like my Indians there is nothing to change or or the Story sometimes I can't think mym don't come to life.
Ehr
AHH
And here
Ohh talks here right now in the church is a Catholic priest we are the next month you get our ideology like Catholmi also, there are things you consider whether people should help it is not that before I say that we can't change if we change later, we should stay tuned or be good to change first or later the first.
It depends on whether I'm ready to change life or you take one hundred of luxury to change maybe, if he can accept the cold So I can't accept to change the march.
Okay So, you feel that maybe we are still in, especially when we look at the religion of a man's minerals.
You know that it depends on them and for them maybe my parents did. He has said that we should change you or your children are the one that he needs to change and know your children, that you want to go the church to the church of that woman.
This
It's okay then it's okay then you do a difference later but mi is a good friend to go to a wedding that is the best to do so you will decide on the day before, things in my MUM I write about the wedding yeah, So I thought it's good for them to be supported and welcome to one church to a church to one church.
If you have to know that it's the one who will save it will have to go to him for a year, it is ok, we will see him will have to give us to our church
You can accept that a big woman doesn't sell the spectrum not to see halo okay with the fish and I realize that I was going to take it completely and he has refused to change religion I will do what he will do in the month of mmm you will tell you that you will be based on it?
It's not expected So if he will accept you, you know what you will decide if I say I have been there.
So, it is hard for now, then you to make us in our church is the second I know of it is fine.
If you like me, we must continue to keep my religion as we go with it because if love you must agree with the teachers to agree with each other, we must come forward to us.
The religious religion is coming into a habit, you can't change later but recently, it means that you can also change the habit and then the behavior of the first thing I don't want to go to the denim or if you find a lot of things and then I would like to understand that I am looking for a long time for a long time, but this tendency is also a lot of behavior that you need to go out for a short time for a long time, or it takes a long time for a long time, or how long will we look for the mother and then it takes a long time for a long time.
Where will it be based on what the seven-character behavior is how you wish to be an array
Ehhe mym ehhe ehhe ehr
Mym and third ehr.
