We have made an urgent need to be that dancer we have managed to capture and different tools in America, I have arrived safely more than eight hundred million shillings in Ukerewe Town, Mwanza Province, referring to the assistant close to the brutal police, he has said that those penalties have been arrested in the special operation has been held in Ukerewe, which even his wife has only gone to a person in mind with diseases and ignorance and ushering a child to say in fighting against the enemy of using illegal tools, our writer lacked to make a lot more from Mwanza.
Lake is the largest in the continent
In recent years, it has been hit by the pace of disappearance of fish due to an increase in fishing using illegal tools where ninety percent and four percent of the fish in the world
Right now, it is young under fifty centuries, a patrol squad in Mwanza region which include the provinces of Mwanza and Simiyu commended in dealing with the effects of the reduction of fish has conducted a crackdown on fighting illegal fishing in the lake, and to arrest so much and then fishing with a value of more than eight hundred million shillings in a lot or we have arrested them in that patrol together with a song Sangara about two hundred thousand shillings and we have also been able to arrest my strategic plans.
A house of believer in the result?
On each of the committee is broad.
Also.
Seven ethnic groups
Saba and third despite the success but the fight against illegal fishing in the Lake Region have experienced a lot of challenges that meet with the ostadic statement, you find a politician if it is the councilor then I tell them that those who are participating in the patrol they are doing in the year a branch is a step until we are told to get their stones.
The whole operation that was run from thirty o'clock and one up to December ten this year, the head of Ukerewe District, Joseph interpreter mosques gave a call to the new minister of agriculture and fisheries.
Nchemba my personality to Mwigulu said Mwigulu Nchemba is two.
She has to understand that.
Vankets even little is the people they do.
I had no power for the time and started fighting the youth.
Mym we look like a minister of if you are a counselor if it is a lump and you know this is the actor of this concept, he does not buy them now, you can mention the advice that aims at ending illegal fishing in the lake as it is married by the district commissioner must now find those who are taking them.
Because it is impossible, Bana Ukerewe Committee
But others have come out of Ukerewe, only and it's not a very good place to bring a big man, then we come to arrest the insects you have met in helping to arrest the big fish that the kind of Sangara have opened in the lake to reach one million and three hundred thousand tons to reach eight hundred tons.
Six hours ago but for these hours the fish have reduced
Great
If you have a lot of ten thousand money to continue above we would ask the government
Interviews
You can start lawmakers
For them to get.
Life is not a problem
It is not so not that he has wrong to make a different province in Mwanza.
Mbeya
