"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The world is growing at the door of the disappearance of electricity frequently in poor neighborhoods in the city and rural areas is not an amazing thing.
The residents of these places are forced to stay in the dark for a long time before seeing the light.
Ms Susan Wendy Shias is one of the residents of kinyago village that is in Eduardo in Nairobi, who have been affected by the situation of electricity.
In the last year, Ms Shias had been employed in the area and every time the power of electricity got lost in the whole day, returning home without bread despite having a depend on them.
"If they are employed in a salon, you are paid according to your work, if you work to return home without a few cents," he explains.
"Life was so hard that paying the house tax was a problem," adds Ms Shias who is now the chairman of the 15 women group, known as Twinklers.
50,000 shillings, this group is owning a hotel which they started due to the award of 50,000 shillings they got after emerging winners in the competition to Put packets of a washing machine of Ariel.
Apart from employing five youths, members of this group who did not have jobs have also got employment in that hotel.
"Most of us who did not have the work now we have employed in our group's hotel and even start our personal business," he says.
This group was started last year, the producers of Ariel soap when they visited the area and urged women who were close to form groups for the purpose of the collection of packets of that soap.
"Fortunately, the electricity had been lost and I was only one of my colleagues in the street because I went to work," he says.
He continued, "we were told to split up in groups so as to start the competition of collecting packets of Ariel.
We considered a humor but we were threatened that the competition was true and the winners would receive 50,000 shillings. "
After gathering the papers for nearly a month, this group was shocked by the good news that they were able to collect a lot of packets more than other groups in the region of Cameroon, the Nairobi county.
Ms Shiite says that members decided to start a project that would improve their future lives instead of sharing those funds and then a group collapse.
"We started a hotel business because it would be a wealthy majority of us that we are doing the problems that are not productive," he explains.
Every day after the sales of members of this group are sitting down and made accounts so as to note the benefits they got.
Three quarters of the benefits that are available are members who are required to return those funds together with interest of 10 percent every month.
"The quarter that we are in the bank," says Miss Julia Muthoni, the secretary of the Twinklers group.
Ms Muthoni explains that unlike in the past where he was working with washing clothes so as to survive, now his life has changed significantly.
"You can walk around the street without getting a person to wear clothes.
At the same time, water is lost in this village, the work they should just wait, "says Miss Muthoni, who is a mother of two children.
According to Irene Mwathi who is a good relations officer of the Procter & Gamble (P & G) that is making a soap to Ariel, more than 140 groups across the country has benefited from the competition of collecting packets that are thrown after the soap ses.
"Groups that have managed to get those funds are involved in various activities like, rearing of chicken, coal, manufacturing, bricks, milk business among others," explains Miss Mwathi, adding that the competition is still underway.
Twinklers are among the groups according to the Minister of Planning and Ugatuzi Miss Anne Waiguru, already a total of 5 billion shillings have been admitted in all the 290 people across the country. A total of 4 billion shillings were divided, whereby every region received an amount of 13,847,586, while the funds that are remaining were divided depending on the level of poverty according to the report of the statistics organization in the country (NBS).
The Mandera ward is the one that has received a huge amount of the money of BI Shiite Sh3.8 million while Lamu East receiving a total of more than 14.2 million shillings.
The groups of women, youth and walkers that have already submitted the request to benefit from the Treasury funds for the ability.
"When we succeed to get those funds for the ability, we aim to open a big hotel in the middle of Nairobi," says chairman Shihem., which have attained the criteria required to take a loan of between 50,000 and 500,000 shillings without paying interest.
The group should have nine People and less than 15 People aged between 18 and 35.
Likewise, that group must be a bank account with the name of the group.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
