And a number of newspapers that have been watching please do something that doesn't matter to my view that he didn't have to get into this word and be.
A corner that is said to be said.
They have also been directed and we were inappropriate.
Brotherhood is to take a child to get another person who needs to give birth to come, he saw his different upbringing and it doesn't give birth.
That women
Saba is enough to go back to the topic
The wrong things have continued, the law says that a child is himself even putting a sister to drop down after it is mistaken as an adult.
Can a sister tell me:
I screamed with what our Parliament is.
We see that the child is back home
That has happened to a while.
They had come here to see that parents are not enough.
And
The response of parents would like to know that the child is right?
Which
Now, you find out why the child could know her when he refused to know the old people say.
Every child has a father, something that I can do with it because I have not got this and to look for the theft of the children every day, you have given birth tomorrow, that you have given birth and then at the end of the day they believe that.
You as a parent must take a responsibility to ensure that the child gets food, a child is going to school where you are suffering and others know that the two children may be children whose father are still unable to come here there are rapists who were abandoned by the children when we do something like the one said that we went to teach religion.
The teaching of the children whose age has not yet been able to hold something you can do something you can do things, let us help them what he comes to take down, we don't know that he can help the creatures that will be David now that is what I used to charge if there is education
The child's children will not ask them as well as we have worked with the capital to start being treated as they deserve to be released on how to do even in the media like that there is a lot of Concern that we need to give education a day for children and women to know what they want to give birth to the child's upbringing and even it will be good for women who like to give birth to them, they should stay in power he will stay.
She tweeted:
But that caused a good character
And for mothers and mother
Recording the debate denied a little bit, maybe we will meet a lot of people that's why they take the child because of who is wrong with what we were going to take my son on no.
I request it
They don't wait for men, if they call themselves a man, the problem is an economy sometimes causing it to have gone up in the morning when you get to work and home you left now due to that modem.
At the same time with him because you leave home Paulo anything will be with him living in the condition of the Prophet in failing to use the children and at the end of the day it will bring yourself to them.
