And then we killed until they were a unit.
It should be a lot of people who were raped everywhere.
Welcome, we got factories
Australian schools and services to customers are desperate to reach as a tree planting and a special tool for what they have uploaded.
The price will not succeed all the sides had to start.
The ride must be a special people who had been appointed from there still mi from the ethnic groups in class two have become a very good ht; unk, gt; a child to follow me following a bed in bed there was a bed.
Every group there is true why our branches do not have an increase.
The children so we were the battery and the government will have to meet let go out of the ground there are big sun.
There are people who were taken to Mabang
He has told us there should be such a tool in terms of a big house of not given what he was on the side.
My way I wanted to destroy the end of sir, if you want to mean children
You believe that children like that to participate but celebrating three years ago and witness the small groups but two people are enough men also know himself
That he is saying that there has been a lot of nonsense that will agree with three Makame in the citizens and that time you pass there is a problem.
They are ready to give it forward even when we went to the globe, there are people a long time when we ask the government to do one thing to tell us at the situation that we have the first to go to garissa we are making these important services if you want a place to give them a high speed; a lot of people get the service.
Of the plane, I'm tired that it has passed since the couple continue then they can pay certain taxes I hope that you hear our members of today in the full period but have said I was happy
For the report they have been punished and given money but the big problem that has been checked and they take it for a long time is that when the promises they are saying they are not fun, they have said that there are people sitting in the place I hope that they have reached out for hours.
Lord people have got one place like they standing on dala dala
Now we can saving
