"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
JPM: I'm so ruthless Asema wants the country back to the line, Mussa Juma and Daniel Sabuni @ mwananchi.corez Arusha.
President John Magufuli has urged the citizens of Tanzania to be cruel to fire some of the directors of the government, because he wants to return the country on the line.
Speaking on Sunday's mass in the Catholic Church, the parish of Mister Burka in Arusha town, President Magufuli said that the ruthless people are those who were not beer and sucking the weak.
Doctor Magufuli said that he is forced to take action to fire the work is not that he is cruel, but the aim is to serve the citizens of Tanzania and return the country on the line.
He said Tanzania is a rich country, there is no reason for citizens to complain every corner, because there is enough land, all kinds of land, animals from different types of animals that some of them have started to be taken outside.
"When I take a step I want to put Tanzania that was tired, I have already said that I have made sacrifices to Tanzania especially the weak," he said.
He added that he will not bring down the people of Tanzania and he will not change, he will continue to stand and defend the rights of the poor and all the days he will walk to the poor.
The interest of parties speaking about political issues, he said the election is over if there are people who were Chadema, CCM, NRA or the CUF party, the aim is one to ensure they are partnering to bring development to Tanzania.
"To take care of the interest of Tanzanians in front of our parties, because even if the parties would not be there," he said.
He repeated his call to urge the citizens of Tanzania to continue praying for and pray for the nation, because leading the poor nation requires the support of God.
The Priest of the church, Peter Pinto speaking on behalf of the Bishop of the Archdiocese of Arusha, Josephat Lebulu congratulated President Magufuli for the good work that he did with Tanzania.
He said that many Tanzanians are supporting him especially in his slogan "Here's just work," because even the words of God insist on people to work hard.
The chairman of that parish, Philemon Mushi giving greetings to believers explained to support the efforts of President Magufuli especially in trouble of boils.
He said that even in the books of the corrupt God, the work that he is doing for President Magufuli is the work of God, to ensure he will return discipline and accountability for the benefit of all Tanzanians.
In that service, President Magufuli was handed a gift of the Bible, bed sheets and rozali, he gave a gift of 1 million shillings to the church's choir and agreed to be an artist.
President Magufuli is in this province on a work tour, and today he is expected to launch projects of buildings of the community development organizations of NSSF and PPF.
Speaking about President Magufuli's statement that he is not cruel, Doctor James Jesse lecturer at the University of Law of the University of Dar es Salaam, said that the problem is not to be cruel or not, the big thing is supposed to be seen as decisions even if it is right, have to follow the basis of the law.
Doctor Jesse said the action of public servants being suspended in public, is the same as encouraging them because they are supposed to achieve decisions they will be afraid to reach the right decisions by fear the pressure of the president.
He said that it is good for public servants who are concerned with various challenges, to be followed by public service procedures in order to hold him and not to be removed publicly.
John Bayo who is the coordinator of non-governmental organizations in Arusha Province (Angonet), said that for the nation, President Magufuli does not stop violence by stopping the public servants.
He said there is a clear mistakes that have cost the nation, which has been made by the servants that even to stop the work they are not enough.
"For example, the issue of sugar, people are looking for sugar so that others will not get people who are paying public property, it must be taken to be taken," he said.
Hassan Hashi Ahmed, a businessman of Karatu, said President Magufuli does not do any violence, citizens are supporting 100 percent, as he defended the weak.
Ahmedi said Tanzania had reached a place in trouble, therefore, it must now be taken to be taken and congratulate the president for good work.
Joram Laizer, a resident of Arumeru district, said the president has heard the decision to fire people from work due to identifying irregularities, but he wonders some of the blame from the lack of accountability at other levels of the government.
Laizer said the president is taking the action of stopping work is not as cruel, but there are many executives who have a chance to dismiss the work and they have failed to fulfill their authority, or they are responsible for embezzlement or not knowing their responsibility.
He said that it has come when the president noted embezzlement, listening to the executive director of the lower level, then those on him who were defending them will release them.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
