What happened at the international meeting of Davos Feb 07, 2014
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Recently, President Jakaya Kikwete attended the annual international meeting in Switzerland in Davos city known as the World Economic Forum (WEF) or Davos.
This meeting that started on December 22, 2013 is 44.
They attended nearly 2,500 people including presidents, government heads, heads of international companies, investors, heads of international banks, economic experts and a few representatives of civil society.
They were in the 80s and millionaires who don't be counted.
Their total is 1,500 when government officials are 48.
African rulers are in every year to attack aid and subsidies or attract investors.
All of them are out in a luxurious hotel that is in the mountains of Davos.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The agenda of the meeting had a topic about poverty, unemployment, water, treatment and social protection, as well as climate change.
The aim is to bring economic and social development in the world, as they say.
IF 2014 report submitted to the world's biggest threat today is an increase in differences between the rich and the youngest, the wealthy and more poor people are fast growing.
Participants discussed the topics in 250 meetings that took place.
The wealthy people have confronted ideas with politicians and scholars on the purpose of protecting and strengthening their capitalist system.
That is why they were willing to pay 250,000 dollars each to attend the meeting and be members of WEF.
Civil society are invited and are allowed to select the way to improve the system.
Ten Naidoo, an activist from South Africa said "I'm usually invited every year and WEF without payments so as to show that our contributions are trusted.
He is the leader of the international organization for protecting the environment (Green Peace).
It was also invited by OXFAM organization which presented a very important report before the opening of the meeting.
The organization's research has shown that one percent of the richest people in the world are owning 110 trillion US dollars, that is 65 percent more than the property owned by half of all the poor people in the world, it is more likely that while fuel are growing, the rich and more people are growing.
For example, Bill Gates who should depend on him as our big sponsor, last year its capital increased by a sum of 15.8 billion dollars and to 78.5 billion.
The results are now taking the first position in the world that he had lost.
This one Gates in its 25 pages report says the world's situation has been restored, that poverty is reduced and that poor nations are starting to be independent instead of depending on aid.
He predicted that by 2035 there will be no poor country in the world.
He has forgotten that every 20-year-old child is dying in the world due to lack of clean water and greetings.
That is why the Director of OXFAM, Winnie Byron told the meeting that "it is a horrible thing to be in the 21st century, three and a half billion people are owning a little amount than the property owned by a few wealthy people who can spread in one bus of passengers."
OXFAM added that this situation has been caused by a few wealthy invading property by controlling the political system, it also uses a way to control the economic system for their benefit.
OXFAM warned the rich of Davos that the fight against poverty is only a mere words without making sure that the difference between the rich and the poor doesn't increase every day "this mixed causes causes resources to continue being controlled by a few wealthy people, when we remain fighting for it, we live in a community where better treatment services and education is controlled by a few people for their benefit and their children.
This seems not only in the poor country but even in those countries.
Pope Francis also warned that incredible revenue as well as the allowance and allowances of the horrible scars are a symbol of the economy that is full of greed and minority.
He added that without equal opportunities (political, social and economically) for all our communities don't live in peace.
He rebuked the community where many people die in hunger when food is burnt because there is no market.
He said "theories" claims that the growing wealth of a minority under the Creative Commons system will benefit the poor.
He warned that the system of worship for a few wealth will cause many people to cut up and the community like this will not live in peace because the poor will face it.
"I pray to God to come to the politicians that are deeply saddened by the poor state of our citizens," said Pope Francis.
But in Davos the words made by OXFAM, Naidoo, Byron and the Pope as usual were put aside.
Ungetexpected otherwise in this meeting that was attended by senior leaders of the world's wealth and ruling the economy, politics and policies of our countries?
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
