"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
MARNNOMA that lives in Hollywood, residence in the film industry a very common thing, the music who succeeded to decide on the entertainment industry, to a shine. I and, Cher, David Bowie as the last one-year-old industry, a big number of marapa, as well as acting in acting on how to music.
Let's react to the music that the music is not because of the love of deadly, and they still end up D. a to sell more than 25 albums across the world and write a name in memory books to be one of the great white women ever from the sun, heard an appropriate time that he needed to do in acting.
While it is expected that he would start if i or with the relevant ones to give enough interest in the most deadly sector since the 8 Mile films (he was acting as Jimmy B-raba's character.
Surprisingly, it is a film to be his first, which helped him be nominated for the Oscars awards.
That o of Eminem acting and up to more than 50 films including w, Project X, Southpaw out of the ginezo. the rapper was acting in the Belly Hills in 1998.
That period that he is still doing music and his talent in acting did not attract.
But in 2000, when Romeo Must die is the time he started his ability in acting in acting and put him in one bridge in Hollywood.
In the movie along with acting as a robber, he was featured in Soundtrack, the song he sang by the late Aaliyah.
The filmmaker Andrzej owiak was impressed by Romeo Must to die in the movie "Wounds and Cradle 2 The G t Lithu four Jump OUT Boys, Death to soothing the Bleed.'
Many stakeholders believe in the death of the rapper in the late T, at the time he was defending him in acting a lot like his colleagues as the assistant actor in Fi in Monster ball alongside the one that made him be decided to marry and do music but it doesn't have been involved in the Greek film and then got her face, Hawaii Five-0 and its delple.
I know the quality that would like to thank the professionalism of acting is Half Bak aby Boy that he acted along with the beautiful Target P Henso a concerned for a cookie in the Empire of the Empire.
Snoop has also come from another movie Training Day he acted with tight Denver Washington, a movie that helped him be nominated for Oscars.
It is also good to remember his concerned Snoop at a joke Old School that brought him to her acting and left everyone a viewer.
Typically, in the mistress, as you ask me, the Dinner would have to call him 'a kTail' of entertainment.
This is because he is lying everything and it's still from the pipeline.
He has the ability to navigate well only, he has the ability to sing with you, it's RnB and also by acting, huh! If you do not care.
Tyler was focused on making More than anything else until the year 2000 when he decided to define it as well.
This first documentary is a Baby Boy in 2001, So well.
That Ukawa will be the beginning of the acting stage where he made music next to him and considering the film.
He is acting as the concerned head on 2 Fast 2 Furious and then called again in the Fast and Furious 1 to 7, he acted together with the Death Race, Transformers, the Take all of 2007, Legion, this year while in Ride Along 2.
Last year he announced to abandon all the music to be done more in acting.
Ludacris in the year 2000, he started mistaken from the film of actor dancing in a small position of the concerned.
That time he was doing a reliable music not a game.
But when he participated in a joke in the Wash in 2001, that is the one that supports the way and got her way to act on 2 Fast 2 Furious together with his great friend Tyler.
The biggest work that raised even more are those of 2005 Crash and Hustle & Flow that were selected to compete for the Oscars of that year.
Then he found himself a lot and left the music completely the last time he had ever made a hit in 2004.
Ludacris has continued to eat his skills in the film while among the actors who will be involved in the Fast and Furious 8 that will be released from 2017.
LL Cool J: Under the age of 48.
LL Cool J Sea, S.W.A of the films that AM very popular since 2000.
Ice CUO'Shea Jac last year a group later AK Wit Attitu 1989 and his fellow MTV in the marapa of Music ime marapa w maishari y khadh, the music he puts on the top of him and the stars of n Ice Cub of the last six years to do, but now she is with r Ride Alon and Outta Compton among them.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
