Your news, the news that we are supposed to see are metal still remain like today we don't talk to the other, we are using their children what things we go against the income we need to get to the mother, there are these people after getting the opportunity to get to get into it as usual we are at different stations.
And these people savers their fare to them and get the ones that will come out to predicted the interests not to ignore them because you have an intention to help the money you look but the one to tell us that we are still going to go for real me here I am called for Meshack I am with my colleague.
A mother from the market will reduce
If you expect things it will be today as usual and the surprises in our first topic we will talk about being asked to contest for the presidency, they should have your time to citizens and other people.
Choosing a person who does not understand
The meaning of the new relative
Possibly her children
But before we started to find a little bit here by this topic
We report that we are back to Masai great Diva, that it says to carry out the candidates for the time to give the citizens a time to follow them maybe it is true if I know this year it is a year of elections and in every election has a different outcome that should be done before we finish and if it will be remembered by being followed.
Buddhists from parties decided to announce their intention for the start of the journey
After what if Tanzanians can also follow up on the evidence of those parties so that they can get the candidates' decision to those who have behavior.
A great world and
A problem but only two months will be done so that people should start voting.
Of fact that it's just a mi.
In countries that tend to have a lot of new gains in Tanzania?
Now we are too much, I don't have to confusing the citizens.
If all you have been noticed in your village where you are urban and you have been advised to give the school a budget.
Speaking to the second Adam is to go to do their campaign and visit friends who will be able to come easier for them but it needs someone more to want to be the president.
Our Swahili language that says a bit, but these hours as usual, I was like I would like to cooperate with stakeholders and walala Ramadhani everything that Mwanza province.
