The residents of the neighborhood of the neighborhood of the mine, that is in the ground in Simanjiro District, therefore invading the area of mine to see and use the way to the main entrance of the board.
And making the destruction of water infrastructure for what is described as a protest, would not talk about the support of the workers
Witnesses have said that we did not involve one hundred people that are estimated to have recipitation they think of the Masaai farmers.
The funeral of the beloved police forces put the same as residents
Full report by Ramadhani mspots
This center was taken to Mirerani area shortly after the occurrence of the incident where the defender of blood in that mine, Habiba Ahmed has said the group before destroying the infrastructure, we started to plan stones at the main entrance of the mine we saw.
More
They took stones to the machetes and where they set up they said here he will be able to enter or leave.
Beka
It is understood
The security manager and the relationship of the tango company looks at the field and that
He has said that the incident is a natural production of that conflict due to lack of water for several hours until he was forced to look for alternative methods to restore the infrastructure.
The activity was delayed because he was in charge of our technicians to depend on them by making extra work to make but also they will also give you going to work.
While little was impossible after that everyone was afraid and there is a lot of fear and there is no fear and there is no one in cooking after the incident has been looking for and managed to get the chairman of the village of naisinyai, it is not, Laizer, who claimed that the villagers reached the step after noting the lack of justice to the workers of that community in an exercise of sale at work.
They have said God has not done mistakes in keeping the area.
Now the Tanzanian company is more than twenty years led by whites
Now up to this time it is led by people who call the indigenous communities until now.
They aren't two years but when they went to all the services that provide a village.
By all the companies, there is no one that is there again on the sixth of November last year, the leadership of the Tanzanite mine took the decision to reduce work for approximately six hundred and thirty thousand out of one hundred and thirty thousand and one of the two hundred and thirty thousand shillings as a result of the production of minerals, a situation that has generated controversy.
Ramadhani Mvungi Star t _ v Mererani Simanjiro District
I think again.
