Simba's rivals and Yanga when they meet one when he opened up why he must be searched for a mawi I can say that one thing I can say that there is politics.
Matches for us here in Tanzania?
We believe that we are talking about the match that we are talking about Simba and Yanga is a team that is for me it does not believe that it is a team that is building even the national team but the time it comes to the whole issue that everyone is on the sidelines.
You will leave a certain player, when you take a mi so that I am going to end you and I don't know if you talk about the issue of political politics I don't know.
All these days even the men are femming.
AHH is another thing if registration
Registration is taking place between Simba and Yanga looking at Simba and Yanga players.
Most of the time you found the players who is coming from Simba who came into Yanga who came out of Yanga who returns to Simba but those of the problem I do that we are doing.
If you are wanted that you got a certain team that has brought ownership has come.
And troops
There is nothing else I'm talking with fans of talking about it
The team as a team is talking about those who go to the field, those twenty-two players took it until they represent the team but even teams like the team are fans who support that you know completely, I am a fan of Simba and Simba, we are so many shows that how they have Simba's strong power I am talking about.
We fans are the team
But the team's comments are ten and one in the field, those who represent those fans are another issue that can talk about.
Limited ideas for players
So, how is it looking for example if you look for example, as a journalist, he went out and went to Tottenham
Going to check but what happened after the return of preparations so as to get the power he did back to back.
That wouldn't be the presence of confidence to believe that he can do something to them but using and confident he doesn't.
These are some of the things that make the fact that the massacre will be abolished
It has been a situation of sitting only to say that mi I will be in Simba, I love Yanga but there are players who look at it.
Other teams like the army, but the lines have good players more than them but the ability and the one that these are players is the reason or we continue to think.
