The presidential candidates choose the sponsors of Mwanza Jun 24, 2015
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
In a situation that was not expected, the cadres of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) who are calling for presidency have shown great discrimination in finding sponsors inside that party in Mwanza province.
A thorough investigation that was done by Good Citizen this week has revealed that many candidates have continued to flow near every day in two of the seven districts that form the province to search for sponsors inside that party.
The districts that many CCM cadres have been arguing almost every day to look for sponsors in the process of requesting to be appointed by that party to vie for the presidency, is Nyamagana and Ilemela that form Mwanza.
Until the day before yesterday, Nyamagana and Ilemela districts have been blocked with more than 10 candidates, with five others, some of which have not been reached completely and others have been blocked or have one presidential candidate, or less than three.
Other five districts that seem to be chosen in those movements of searching for the leadership of the country, Kwimba, Misungwi, Magu, Ukerewe and Sengerema.
The secretary of CCM, Kwimba district, Tabu Lugwesa, told the newspaper that until the day before yesterday there was no presidential candidate who arrived in that district to look for sponsors.
"Until now there is no presidential candidate even one who came to look for sponsors here, Kwimba, I don't know why, maybe it is because our district is next to you," said Lugesa.
Likewise, there is no presidential candidate through CCM who arrived in Ukerewe District which is the island in Lake Victoria to look for sponsors inside that party.
The chairman of CCM Ukerewe District, Ali Mambile, has told Good Citizen that it may be geographical of the district that has caused the presidential candidates to flee in the process of searching for sponsors.
"While (Ukerewe) has not arrived for a presidential candidate even one, we haven't seen us, but I think even the geographical we have done is a problem, I don't think there is a candidate with bad intentions and we," said Mambile.
On his part, the secretary of CCM, Magu district, Bangcry Pangobu, has said that until the day before yesterday, the only presidential candidate who was in that district is the minister of construction and the member of parliament of Chato in Geita province, Doctor.
John Magufuli who got 38 sponsors.
However, Pangobu has explained to not be surprised by that situation as a result of what he explained that the procedure of finding sponsors are not at home nor to marry his presidential candidate in the district to go.
"There is no transparency, where candidates should go to look for sponsors, so far as Magu has come to Doctor.
Magufuli alone, came on June 10, this year when he got 38 sponsors, but they may come to other sponsors, "said Pangobu.
Also in Misungwi District, the cadre of CCM who went to look for sponsors are the former Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo only who got 45 sponsors.
The secretary of CCM, Misungwi District, Donald Magessa, has confirmed that saying "who came up to look for sponsors until now (the day before yesterday) it is the only Muhongo, I see that he is very careful, he does not want a celebration."
At least in Sengerema District until the day before yesterday, it had attacked three presidential candidates who went to look for sponsors inside CCM.
According to the secretary of CCM Sengerema District, Mohamed Shabani Mohamed, the party cadres who arrived in that district to look for sponsors are Doctor.
John Magufuli, Ambassador Ali Karume and William Ngeleja, who is the member of parliament of that area.
While those districts, especially Kwimba, Ukerewe, Misungwi and Magu have been faced with "discrimination" in Nyamagana and Ilemela districts have continued to lead by being attained by many CCM cadres who are demanding the presidency.
The secretary of the parents community of CCM Ilemela District, Faisali Dauda Hamadi, has said that until Monday, nine cadres had arrived in that district to look for sponsors.
Hamadi has mentioned those cadres of CCM to be Professor Mark Mwandosya, Makongoro Nyerere, Judge Augustino Ramadhani, January Makamba, Edward Lowassa, William Ngeleja, Stephen Wasira, Luhaga Mpina and the farmer from Kigoma province, Elidephonce Bihole.
However, Nyamagana District is leading up to now in Mwanza province by attaining the cadres of many CCM who are demanding the presidency.
The secretary of CCM of that district, Elias Mpanda, told the newspaper that more than 10 cadres of that party who have been reached in his office to look for members of sponsors in those races.
According to Mpanda, the presidential candidates who arrived in that district for that purpose is together with Frederick Sumaye, Doctor.
Asha-Rose Migiro, Lazaro Nyalandu, William Ngeleje, Edward Lowassa, January Makamba and Bernard Membe.
Some of the cadres arrived in those districts to look for sponsors so as to help others for the celebrations that were dominated by various celebration.
Those who came to look for the sponsors as well as Judge Augustino Ramadhani, Professor Mark Mwandosya, Lazaro Nyalandu, Stephen Wasira, Makongoro Nyerere, Luhaga Mpina and Elidophonce Bihole.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
