Three days of citizenship education in Chipogoro, Feb 18, 2015
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
After 13 hours of the journey I arrived in Chipogoro village, Mpwapwa district, Dodoma on around three o'clock at night.
When I was in Dodoma town, I saw one of my fellow passengers on Chipimo.
Chipimo's condition was contrary to the rhetoric of the passenger who had told me there are all basic services including houses for enough visitors.
The bitter famine caused by my fear of eating in the journal, which I was told the sleeping house is just one side of the road!
In my fingers, I went off the road towards I was abandoned.
After asking several times, I arrived.
Four toilet rooms participated in.
The existing electricity is the sun light and you will light the lights.
I have a dirty bed.
Godoro is full of joy as a mosquito celebrated steadily in a bitter summer.
The toilet was very dirty while water is a problem.
Around five o'clock at night, artists of the group TACCI, who brought Chipimo to arrive at the visitors' house.
The coming of them brought a big conflict because the rooms were not enough, while the water was completely broken.
TACCI, Tanzania Community Civic Initiative is a citizen institution in Dar es Salaam that provides civilian education.
The artists of TACCI told me that the problem that I met with Chipimo are not even half of the lips that they went through their convoy for a period not less than two months in the ward and the villages of Mpwapwa district providing citizenship education.
But, all of these problems are earning interest in this amount of suicide?
My three-day schedule to walk and witness the work of the artists of TACCI got answers.
In the morning of my first day of work after a sharp needle of a mosquito to the other, two lawyers, Clementina William and Husband, who are part of the group started a schedule for running a seminar for county leaders about inheritance and good governance.
The leaders were impressed by the subject of wosia.
Especially, benefits, conditions and a place to preserve wosia.
At the end of the seminar, leaders urged lawyers to visit their villages and give the citizens the education.
"We could be able to go ourselves but we will not explain to fluency like this," the chairman of Chipimo village popularly known as Punda of Jesus, told lawyers.
After the seminar, the leaders were displayed as a sophisticated training intended to be shown in three villages that had been appointed in that ward.
On the day of that day, the work of providing education through the acting game started in Wiyenzele village.
In line with the paramedics, there was also a mercy on the law to advise the citizens for free to fight for their rights.
In the advice which began at nine o'clock I witnessed the queue of citizens with different problems waiting to meet with the lawyers.
Clear, one of the lawyers said many citizens of Mpwapwa have been asking for advice on marriage conflicts, land and inheritance while the main victims are women and children.
Several times, those advisers have been receiving feedback from the citizens who are grateful after succeeding or wanting more advice.
At 12.30 pm, the art show started.
Four redients were displayed with different content including good governance, child abuse and children.
The first chorus was a dance and an indication that it started by showing the father bought for alcohol and people who are coming later to bribe him money so that he can show her daughter with good development in education who is in primary school.
The mother of a Child is opposed to receiving a glimpse while the daughter comes in shock.
The second video shows that we should stand for those who refused to go to the development of leaders, husbands, parents, and so on.
Citizens did not participate in meetings to discuss development believing that they have chosen leaders who are supposed to bring development without any contribution to the citizen!
The third chorus is about the exploitation of women and widows.
After the passing of her husband, one of the perpetrators were expelled from the house they had created by her husband as they think everything.
And her sister is accused of being beaten by her husband who is an addict, but he is depending on being treated without stopping money.
This sister every time he was suing, - to the father, mother, aunt - was told to be a cry.
The men dragged with a child with a child to be richer for alcohol.
However, the chorus ends with two fees to deal with the entire lineage that brought me the widow and orphans.
The fourth chorus shows the amount of forgetting from Tanzania.
It is starting with pauce, where one man narrates about one good country, rich of milk, honey and minerals but has a lot of citizens.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
