AHH is what we have voting for you and I have to tell you that I have told me that I have decided to go back to go.
Let's talk about it?
I haven't given me when I decided to give me back in the morning.
The morning I felt like how many hours.
I want to speak up at ten o'clock and I have arrived there with a style of cars
Ten and two hours are not early
I want it to go to the same that and the mstrine
Ohh and I was writing Nelson was found
It was not found until today when he was going to go to the same.
When it was destroyed, it is also when he was born and went to the same with that money since he got a time.
May you know the money took to different people
Ohh was like a group where Jane did to take the way he would take him.
Then it took another one that he had taken to a m _ money each other was asking for people to be going to the groups of these mothers then he is taking the loan so far it is only money not one person then I don't know he was to register them together and he went and it's like he is gone to open a place.
Now ohh debt will be many.
Ehhe's lt; hes tgt; if he has never been found then he is hiding in me when he was next to MOI or is the only one to enter.
He is gone to open.
He went on twenty-eighth in the month of this month
It is worth it should be twenty-eight years ago but for themselves.
When that game has married his mother, he has said that close people are scared first because it was still a foot has been known now and there is no way to you and even in school.
This sides, their area with people to crush someone reading they are and theft even read again, there is no way to do it god, he would go just to go, he should go just because of the ticket he knows someone being done only by writing it is not like this other work will be written immediately quickly.
The heavyweight doesn't even end up even when his mother had Never invited me to go there before he has not gone to me to give her a palm, it is a person that he can stay because it is vio, also groups becomes a problem, but yesterday with a help it is the same as he reduces it.
It's palm palm, a number of people who are ready to sit for now is naval and the problem, it is good or what you will help.
When the day check up, you see if he can block it was a long time.
Mi wonder if I am surprised if they didn't get a Baby Class when the virus returns until the third grade is still.
He did not do with that problem, it's a mother, he says we cannot pay someone I don't know what it is for many Kenyatta University is to be vied for, I don't know where I am not paying.
Therefore, it has given it because it seems that the teachers had to go to work for prayer.
Ehhe engineer rinda tell me that I saw me I see me.
