"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Social protection is important to deal with our writer, Mwananchi, article @ tz.nationamedia.com you need safe drinking water after destroying it is important for food security because it reduces the possibility of getting bacterial infections or fungus that are causing different diseases including sumves.
Sumove is a type of poison that is being constructed and slaughtered or fungus that are in different crops especially cereal like maize, millet, wheat, rice and guidance.
The skulls are seen as a fool.
The maize is gruered by air pollution, compared to other cereal.
Other crops that can be attacked by these fungus, despite grains are together seeds of oil for example nuts, cotton, sunflower and cashew nuts; pepper spray, food, food, inevitable; vegetables and fruits that are not shaken.
The animals that eat the skulls usually have the possibility of affecting their crops for example milk or meat.
Air pollution may occur before and after harvest and cannot be removed from common ways by cooking for a long time.
There are health effects of eating food that include the death of the consumer of that food.
Usually, the effects depend on the amount of poison in food that was signed, last time since it can be used, the age and the health of the consumer in general.
In August, several people were reported to have lost their lives in Dodoma province after eating food that was believed to have HIV infections while others were hospitalized due to its effects.
The effects of a short-term effects include the pain of stomach, vomiting, fever, degedege, not in many blood, yellow, eyes and parts of the body to toe.
The person showing these symptoms be taken to the health center that is close quickly.
For a long time, summed up can cause cancer, kidney and throat cancer, affecting the immune system of the body and family, affecting the growth of children especially under the age of five.
The effects of the economy that is sick as a result of the infection of a gloves causes a reduction in production activities.
The burden of medical costs also affects the economy of one person, the family and the nation as a whole.
Moreover, the business of crops outside the country which is important in promoting the national income may lose the market if it is known to have a huge amount of summed.
A good example is the loss that Tanzania got in the year 2008 after selling 15,000 tons of nuts at 424 million American dollars per tons and was revealed to have a lot of dirt on the type of aflator in.
That price was small because of the errors compared to the income which in another country got.
South Africa for example, that year changed its nuts at 1,473 dollars in tons.
This is because they did not have a huge amount of sumves that could endanger the health of consumers.
The advice of the officers at the stadium is important and the farmers should be able to give priority to ensure the crops are taken and taken care of the international standards so as to avoid losses like this that emerged approximately one decade ago.
Controlling the gloves, there is a lot of ways to deal with the spread and affecting crops.
Most of these ways are made after the harvest of the cereal.
To ensure the maize or cereal have been set up well before putting the reserve is one of those ways.
Before putting the park, it is advisable to identify the grains involved in order to remove the dirt and keep the poor, torn or attacked by insects.
But the farmer can avoid paying the maize or other cereal in soil.
Experts advise the use of anja, greenor floors, a clean floor that doesn't have any kind of mouse.
Precaution should be taken even at the time of considering various important issues for food security.
The store should be clean and with a good weather in all times.
Another important thing is to avoid mixed grains of the past and the new ones.
It is not reported to mix crops from yields of different seasons for the safety of the concerned food.
This helps not spreading infections, if you are in one of the harvest.
Wolves are important to be monitored carefully.
The experts suggest that those willing to teach him in the new sacks and a Short place where there was not a floor.
Drugs for sprinkling in order to increase their lives, you are also important.
If it depends on putting the reserve for more than three months, it is advised to get advice from the agricultural expert who are in the report in your area about good storage and how to use it.
A reliable source of the literary room is another priority of priority during preservation to avoid infection.
The room or the story should have been abducted well so much to remove the possibility of cereal to be rained on.
Warnings have seen as a result of mobilization offered by health stakeholders, there has been a huge awareness of people to like eating disorders that do not be exposed or dona.
The organizers of these cereal are supposed to be keen during sexual orientation so as to eliminate the possibility of it to the fungus.
There are several important things to recognize.
To sort out and label them cereal so as to remove the dirt and grains that are attacked by insects is among those ways.
The other step is that it is enough of the maize or cereal that you want to listen and run up until it comes well.
This helps to make sure that all the animals have been removed before grinding.
There is a need to grill cereal, you have come out of the anja, grew or turf to prevent the pollution of fungus that are in the ground if you are believed below.
Even after grinding flour a database in the body of greed, torture and allowing them to make it easily.
If possible, a tool with a feminist section.
However, the scientific report shows how grains is reducing air pollution, so I advise the eating of a stable health.
Since the maize and cereal in general is the main food for many citizens in the country, it is good for all stakeholders in the room with the value of food to consider the health regulations to avoid sumves.
By considering the best agricultural regulations, ranging from conservation, distribution and processing of maize and its products to reduce the effects that affect the community by eating food and teves, thereby increasing the guarantee of safe life.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
