"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Members who are not faithful are dangerous to the welfare of the party, CCM followers participating in the launch of the general elections campaign at the wilderness grounds in Dar es Salaam city last year.
One of the ways that bring success in any matter so that the existence of credibility to those involved are dealing with that issue is to make it sincerely.
Human beings who becomes a contribution to the community of bringing development is a must to have five major things.
Those things are skills, truth, justice, legal and integrity.
One with the five things he can be counted that he is a person who is complete and he can give a contribution to development in his community.
A man holding those things the issue of bringing development to his private will be a dream of helping the community that goes around.
In the political parties, the integrity of members is the most important thing because it is why it can be able to goalkeeper the development of the concerned party even if it can hold power to lead the government.
The party members are not integrity, they can bring some misconceptions that you think that you have followers that can get a goalkeeper from your party victory, but when you get elections, you are not there.
Therefore, lack of integrity in the party is dangerous because the party can think it has many followers and the real situation is not the same.
It is a primary thing for members to be integrity in their party and to make sure that they don't go to any way even in secret ways.
The integrity of the party, the chairperson of the Association of Parents of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Abdallah Bulembo said recently that there are members who are charishabitical in that party.
Bulembo who is a member of the executive committee of CCM speaking to the students of the universities who are followers of that party in Zanzibar town, he said that there are members of the night they become CUF.
That leader who led the campaigns to achieve the victory of President John Magufuli in the Tanzania general elections that took place on October 25th, 2015, said that issue is bad.
Bulembo urged CCM members to be fair and not to be able to sabotage the party and deny it in his responsibilities.
It is possible that Bulembo can be there because if that leader would not be able to say something that he has not heard.
In fact, the issue of Duncan kuwili is not a new thing in politics, but it is bad and that hung in all community activities.
Together with that Bulembo spoke to his CCM party, but that issue of lack of credibility to the party is not responsible for any party.
So it is good for the people who have decided to come out to support a certain party to do so for their hearts and they should not be intimidated.
That behavior should be avoided so as to bring the welfare of political parties and to ensure there is peace and stability in the country.
Acts of violating the party's instructions or to be used by another party and to sabotage your party is an inappropriate thing and it must be reduced because it can endanger peace.
It is good if anyone sees that he cannot be honest in his party, what he decided to join from exit and he remains without having any political party since there is no mistake.
However, that afternoon is like a sheep, but the night is wearing a leopy skin is a dangerous thing and can even lose your life.
Politics are on the sidelines of the high level and there are other people who can't allow if you will make actions against their party and they discovered that issue.
In that kind of environment that could happen and the concerned person is found to be affected, something that can be avoided.
To reach CUF in recent days, there has been words of some people who want the Civic United Front (CUF) to be postponed for claims that it is changing and endangering the peace of the country.
Those claiming some of them while politicians claim that CUF has been encouraging citizens to oppose the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (SMZ) and not cooperating with it.
Before the Zanzibar general elections that was sacked CUF was partnering with CCM to form the national government of the national union (SUK) that led Zanzibar for five years since 2010.
However, the national government of the nation was broken after the repeat election of Zanzibar that has been boycotted by CUF and its results to put him in power the government of CCM.
Apart from taking that break, the repeat election broke the right direction that was reached by CCM and CUF which brought the peace situation in the country and to cancel the tensions that existed among those parties.
The right time for Zanzibar between CCM and CUF was reached after the agreement between the former president of Zanzibar and the deputy chairperson of CCM Zanzibar, Doctor Amani Abeid Karume and the secretary general of CUF, Maalim Seif Shariff Hamad.
The breath of SUK and the right has sparked the political division in Zanzibar and the state of tensions to the citizens is back in afresh where some of the people of Zanzibar get involved in providing community services like selling products.
In the current situation, the thoughts of wanting to cancel CUF is not a solution to the problems that are in Zanzibar.
In any way even when the political parties will decide to reach CUF it does not mean that the situation will make Zanzibar be safe.
There is no doubt that CUF followers if their party will be wanted to join the ruling CCM party.
However, of course, those followers can support another party or they created a new party and the situation continues as usual and they increase the opposition to the ruling party.
In that view, it is good for all those with ideas of wanting CUF to be searched for them to look for those ideas because they do not have any contribution in removing the political division that is in Zanzibar.
If there is a true commitment is good for the politicians of Zanzibar to meditate and find alternative ways to end the political crisis in Zanzibar.
The true democracy that can bring peace and stability in the country is to ensure that everything is done by considering the basis of justice.
It is a must that every event in the country should be done in the legitimacy without having injustice to some people or to provide biased in some people.
In other words the country is supposed to have a true democracy where every citizen will get their right without any conditions.
The writer is a senior journalist and political commentator and communities.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
