"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The decision of the Parliament Bangua Bongo, Honorable churches, do not know other people is insane.
Let's give me one reason why the parliamentary debates should be killed and I will give them ten reasons why it should be done completely.
Again, I will tell you as a very ordinary citizen.
God should prevent us from the speculation of their discussion.
Again these days with the decision is not, therefore, I have a need to listen to them as they get themselves like they are in the village instead of fantasy.
Let's go out of the national security and national security.
Linda fools in a country respect equal rights, we have to protect themselves in society.
Well.
If the only reputation of being a member of parliament is to be able to know how to read and write only, while even if the driver must have a form four certificate, why are the seats, let's give me one reason why should not be the solution to the culprits?
He has not apologized to be the minister.
She is asked to be given a job that needs a mind.
He has been asked to be a member of parliament for his hand to go to a chameleon and chips.
When a person was not a member of parliament, he should say in parliament because it is the terms of terms of the Honorable.
Now if the statement takes place in front of us in the whole country, we are doing justice.
Not his fault, he is not impressed, why should he be appointed?
As we show a Professor in class? The whole professor provides an incredible words but he is predicted by his college, those who know his stupidity is those students.
If a Professor is protected by why the Honorable who knows to read and write only does not fail?
That is why Tanzania is a country of people who are in the Almighty God is clear that we are supposed to protect the status of these honorable members who ota to look for work that goes with their qualifications.
Linda's language on that we would like our national language and we don't like you to do it, we must realize that they are others who don't know our national language well.
Even foreign is a problem.
For example, when a person uses the word "beige" knows his meaning?
It's not his fault if he was opposition when the teachers got in class.
Or because he has been used to stay in the village and the village language is completely bad for other citizens to spread Swahili.
So, in order to protect our citizens against the bad use of the language which they receive or get to them, these use must be secret.
When there are no doubt those who are coming out to be interrogated and spread the wrong words that were said in the privacy of antantic.
Linda faith, the peace of the previous voters was coming out to elect this or the one.
I don't think that most of them look at their candidate at the political level.
They look at the colors of his clothes without caring about the content inside the color without forgetting those who watched the brown or t-shirt or a selfie.
If we don't believe, how many went to the campaign meetings of prospective members of their constituency?
Now they want to realize that the favorite person is doing things like this, this can make me laugh.
They will fail to work.
They will fail to keep his family.
They will fail to build a country.
Yes.
When I was younger, we trust our leaders.
We respect them not because they were honorable, again this word was born completely.
We respect them from the words and acts of respect.
That is why we are volunteering to die and recovery to build a nation.
We went to power even with the students.
We went to teach our father and sisters and sisters and brothers to read and write... without demanding five cents, because we believe our leaders.
We really believe we were on one trip.
Not all of us have a suit.
Now just imagine, see the other words of the knowledge offered by the Honorable, people will have Mori true to build the nation.
Linda's interest is a foundation of a mid-fielder, those who will be added and I realise that, unfortunately, this country has left God who like to follow the mid-fielder.
Those who are with, the winners, have the right to protect and without suffering from the eye of the second side.
This is the first commandment.
Linda needs your interest to protect the interests of others.
That's why someone in the spring, he looks just one thing.
Being a woman and women in the second side are being assaulted by a man on their side, he will go ahead of humanity and honor of women.
We must keep the interest of his group ahead.
He must protect his colleagues with interest together.
Most notably, as a person in a certain area, potentially as a colleague, who are the first, others are the dream of allies.
However, it is not good to be seen because you can be misunderstood by the citizens who do not know these regulations or those who do not know these regulations or those who do not know what they have got.
That is why we can see the scenes for people to protect their interests.
Linda the male system does not have a mistake.
The country has its culture.
His culture is a male system that does not get yourself.
Bloggers are losing time.
I myself, I am looking for you to tell you every corner and you love you, I must give you a gift.
There is wrong things.
I do this because we are men.
Being ahead.
Now if someone is doing so in his life he has a mistake to see all women are there?
Isn't his ideas?
But in front of citizens with limited access and limited access to themselves who are the most voters, you can be misunderstood.
That is why we use privacy to protect our culture.
Don't tell me that it is not true.
This is not a point.
The point is that we should protect our culture of seeing them as if we do not do so, at the end of the day people will know that they have a mind than us.
Mmmh!!
Linda the open source and Creative Commons have been made.
We do not want a general broadcast because there are above, but these retailers are wrong?
Here, every Honorable can decide to make me laugh at the time he wants himself.
It's not the time he has been buried and sleep due to the state functions or when the head broke out due to the heavy discussions in the nearby bar.
It is time he can feel well.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
