I should continue giving condolences to the citizens of Kagera province and the Tanzanians in general
With this earthquake that hit the lake regions, honorable president was supposed to be on the way Zambia
Since activities of swearing in honorable president of Zambia
The minimum who has completed it is to show that the government has taken me this issue
And a great opportunity if your thing is good for the lake, then we as members of parliament and we are mixed at though our post is today's session.
At least it should be a place to sue those colleagues of Kagera province especially in Bukoba Municipality as part of their condolences to the government's efforts.
Seems the government have yet to organize ourselves
And the government earlier on foreign stakeholders are in the factory to continue contributing a good thing but the government has not told us the challenges they face our young children, victims and injuries a matter when he was killed.
It should be to join us with great honor
I request to give my condolences
Bahati, for all the citizens, I thought like my colleague's wife
This is the instrument of the citizens
And we were supposed to show all the respect to the citizens, we are on the whole day of today, we should discuss and focus towards the government is what to do when we see the prime minister is gone there but we haven't seen a wealthy and we expected the prime minister of mangoes and tents and all the citizens being given quick donations there is no commitment in the country to tell the citizens that what their government has failed to do the ten and if we cannot say it is not a commitment here in parliament.
You are talking to dumba after speaking to the press, I see it is not the same for me to join up with the presenter, Honorable aunt.
To contribute to our today's allowance
For the sake of the victims of this incident, you made a sense of life has made me even the situation of our colleagues in Kagera province and neighboring provinces.
But they don't want some people to take this area as an area of wanting to get vibrant in politics
How he was touched by humans, we have our own words and give us the left hand then the right hand, you want to say that as a nation we thank God that the whites are saying to change our
It could be worse but still a god and you have to block him again.
In the disaster, people want comfort
I have arrived at the girls' school, a government is still continuing with an assessment when three teachers have collapsed.
I have gone to the dormitory even mi has a crack and also there is no house in Bukoba, one of the ten houses have a crack, I have gone through that as a nation we become one as a nation we are looking for international aid also to help the Honorable aunt, I request that not to be supported so that I am questioning the parliament and I request to give a point to the winners of the gay involved.
The argument has been supported honorable members of parliament now I questioned the people who agree with the argument to say.
They don't agree with that argument not to say not.
Those
Who said that they have won by thus the allowance of today's honorable members will contribute to Twitter. Hes Twitter; the disaster of our brothers in Bukoba
Honorable Lukuvi, this thing I see great and the government will be taken because this night has done the honorable prime minister not to go here today in the parliament to remain a specialist in hundreds.
You have made the honorable president not to go to the sin not to stand up when it started there.
If you look at the two condolences you can find that this thing as a government we have done for a month
Today we cannot be first to build houses for the victims, we need expertise to be intimidated that even where they are built.
Then if they are putting them today tomorrow we can take the other so there are a lot of things that are happening under the way, Honorable Simbachawene was able to bring up all the mattresses that the government is thinking and will not be able.
I request the honorable speaker honorable members of parliament and Tanzanians to believe that the government should think
It has a huge shortage.
In a way that has been caring for its people and this issue will go well and continue to cooperate and pray for the injured people who went ahead of the right to pray to the Almighty God.
