To shock the pour in a myard mym, a place is not very skilled, that you can't go away from what we are doing.
That's a non-architect Mister mi is a translators
I was tired, closely closely, I went back to the city and wanted in the city at ten o'clock and headed to home
He was a very good home if we heard from the above has taken this man's brother tomorrow, Majaliwa will not make you a lee then later he starts work.
Mym ehr
Who's going to the person to Easter, there is no one that can only leave you only let you see if he started looking at home.
Ehr why did you know why mm AHH completely heard these mym mym, we heard we were here in Town when there is no matter where we are talking about, we are talking about something that is everything we do.
Let alone try to let you try or luck to your colleague, there is no even mi how I want to come from Masai I can go back to next week or Tuesday.
Mym
Mym
Okay is the same problem but I do not know I am doing the record of what mm mi today is the same as today is okay, I'm still in the process they refused to get out of the neighborhood that he has told me that he was still in prison Richard was buried first when I was told and said that it is wrong.
So the effects and then the Story I told me or the way it is okay, then what will happen again?
Mym
Because you have talked to him in prison, you know the number there is what happened this time and the result?
Ehhe for jam
Mym
It is Majaliwa the house now claims that Diana wants?
Am saying now you use the money of soap
If it was yesterday you can use the money to you, Sam ehhe ehhe ehhe and since it's not yesterday the bride or his fiancée should speak up with mym ehhe not you know he has voting for the Mercy, let's try to vote for a no longer available, you will make you make a mm.
If he can use the money they buy tomorrow, I can speak up with them, we can talk to them with a cigarette in many things.
His is not where he left his grandmother at home, right now not to visit her.
Of Mercy girls still Jo ehorsa mi is like when I lost your number, it's like the number I lost even at this time I want to drop this time I don't know how to drop this time and then get down and go down, what will happen round about no round about the ten pipeline to go.
Mym ohh as you fall down today at Thika road road.
Like that, I was telling you that you must know it near because the Job I told you
Those smart
