Mbowe, Lipumba, Mbatia in trouble Jul 24, 2014
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
In a step that will destroy the opposition leaders, several members of parliament of that camp are in the run to run, Good Citizen has been told.
The members of parliament are expected to relocate their current parties and join the new opposition party anytime from the end of the Special Constitutional Assembly (BMK), reports say.
Many of the members of parliament are coming from the provinces of the Lake Region, North, East and Lake West and this newspaper has been told that the decisions have already been done, the rest is the event itself.
The party is mentioned to move to the members of parliament is what Alliance for Change and Transparency (ACT) that is associated with the member of parliament of Kigoma North (CHADEMA), Zitto Kabwe.
Zitto himself has not moved to the party but one of his political allies, Samson aaon, has already joined the ACT and has already started doing political tours in some regions.
This newspaper has been given names already of some of the members of parliament who will go to their current parties but for special reasons, these names will not be mentioned now.
One of the members of parliament who are expected to move to ACT has spoken to this newspaper at the end of last week and has confirmed that he will make sure after the completion of his parliamentary term; that is after the official violation of this parliament in the year.
"I leave.
If our country would have been allowed a non-Cross (moving to another party) without losing his parliamentary seat, I would have already left.
But I can't leave it now.
"I left, first I will miss the opportunity to participate in the process of creating a new constitution of Tanzania and also contribute to national issues through the parliamentary debates.
"Then there is an issue of income too.
ACT is a new party and doesn't have any source of revenue.
As a member of parliament I will continue to get my salary and also contribute to my party.
It is wise to remain in the first parliamentary, "said the member of parliament.
Parties which are expecting to lose its members of parliament is the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) and NCCR-Evolution, while it was alleged that the Civic United Front (CUF) can only lose some of its members of Tanzania Mainland with strong influence in the provinces.
Mwema should have been told that the step of some of the leaders of CHADEMA in some of the provinces to announce the withdrawal of the party at the moment, is part of the planned program of people to leave the step by step.
One of the leaders who released the level is the former chairman of CHADEMA in Kigoma province, Jaffar Kasisiko, the former chairperson of CHADEMA, Western Region, Shabaab affairs and the secretary of CHADEMA in Kigoma province, Msafiri Malawians.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam city at the end of last week, the chairman of CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe said that they have rumors that there are other leaders of that party who are preparing to leave.
However, this newspaper knows that the picture of which members of parliament will leave the opposition parties will be known more after the special assembly of the constitution where there are some who will start showing their intentions.
"The ACT have a great secret and it will start to be open from after BMK.
After that there will be less than four meetings before the parliament was broken.
Waiting for the first to BMK, "said another member of parliament who has been mentioned to relocate but not wanted to be involved in the ACT in the current step.
"Brother, and I urge you to know my name or use my picture in your newspaper.
Do you do it completely.
First am surprised how these things have come.
I know it's..... (the name is stored) is the one to tell you, "said the current member of parliament.
But many of the members of parliament and politicians who are expected to ACT have been mentioned as youths who see that their political life in that party will be easy than in parties that are running ready.
While the member of parliament speaking to Good Citizen, he was a young man who is engaged in politics in universities who told the author of this newspaper that he will go to ACT as soon as "cannot lie in a bus that is full" - meaning the other political parties here in the country.
The efforts of this newspaper wants to speak and on the way to get sure if they are expecting to get members of parliament failed after that politician who was once the leader of CHADEMA said nothing.
"I actually hear the news like you but I don't know anything.
We are building a party and if there are people who believe in what we want to do, we will welcome them.
But there is nothing until now, "said the politician.
Zitto was not available to give his opinion because he is on the way outside the country for his parliamentary activities.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
