Additional questions
It is mistaken to know that because all the ones that went to
There are many in the villages and that's why this problem is no problem for me when I was on the market
It's not a small problem and it doesn't mean that all those who have gone into the system because of our soldiers while on the maize floor.
To be a lie, when we see that we are given one thing and go to report the real story
Our police forces suggested that it has been given employment
We have heard when the winner is a minister of internal affairs how many young people were ousted from a unique difference
You should ask why a person makes it bad for his ability not to take it to the employment he will be given.
So mi I talk to me when I talk about it.
The whole thing that he will hear is to support him because of the illustrations that they are there we say some of them and we made suggestions on the box that we shall see me naimani not but a large percentage of its performance of the police force are supposed to tell the number that I have faith Obama.
The bacteria will be able to bury a person with a banner as a banner.
The evidence of force require contrary to law Celine
Vote as you vote
He will go to Temu to say but the elect is not.
But our weaknesses, the style of those who are violated that is why even in the report we have discussed the legal limitations that they don't speak one of our big groups so that action can be taken against them.
Using otherwise he will lose what he is saying is what we speak right now and it is no doubt whether the constitution of the republic of the United Republic of seventy-seven years will be released until five minutes was thrown before Article ten and third of the evidence is giving us
And there are other laws, even where you don't know who needs the children to listen to Kigamboni is where it is the one where I'll be in the tt; unk, gt; human rights have been thrown since I finished, we also thought that three of the three mining judges will take a post with our fellows just if you go to tell us that there is no budget for that.
They took the point, I wish you to start with the police force to build a word passport
While Bana
Work professionally
Amazon is uneducated
I woke up to protect our citizens.
Two different things, the police force is not, I talk about it, I will come back to him three times I have been on the toes and you look at and appreciate from the recruitment starting from those who are in the country not whenever you have a legal conflict, let us know if we want to go ahead more than otherwise we shall continue to lose you, but we have been very tight.
The names have to end to the end of this place to talk the morning in terms of life without the head.
But the biggest thing that I was looking at the morning in this place is the controversy of the death of the late Samsung nyakia, it is also helping to get involved.
Arrests
For the owner and
The wildlife officers on suspicion of involvement in poaching but which is said according to the news is that a police was beaten by police and KINAPA soldiers.
But the situation led to a lt; hes tgt; samsoni to be taken to the harando Referral Hospital where the death broke.
The controversy is starting from there is a market analyst but also the chairperson of the association of journalists who oppose the use of drugs and crime today is a bowl and scars here in Anton john in order to continue with the Track to talk in the morning in the tour of the capital as it is that to come together today night.
When he was ten and two of the month of January fifty years ago on the date of today in Zanzibar, it was delayed to come back to be traumatised by a god but also the biggest of you got less than three hectares.
Like the people of Zanzibar the good morning for all Tanzanians and Buddhists
You say it's all good in celebrating fifty years and one if you ask them.
