"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
TFF to put it clear the regulations of his competition last week, the issue of Simba player, Novert Lufunga took the position in the headlines after the police soccer team defeated the appeals after the team brought together in the list while he has a red card.
The police blocked the appeals for Simba for what terms as it made Lufunga in the Federation Cup last week.
In that game, Simba won 2-0 goals.
In his appeal, the police wanted to win a victory due to the step of Simba sprayed the player.
However, TFF has dismissed the police appeals for details that it did not meet the criteria because it did not have 300,000 shillings that are supposed to be accompanied by appeals.
However, together with TFF to leave that appeal, there have been various complaints of the law, regulations and procedures of the competition for what is explained to be a big part of the FA Cup, will be supervised by the rules of the premier league.
Basically, what is needed is for TFF to make regulations that will make every independent competition because they have its approach.
Even if some of the regulations are similar, there are other areas that will go to each other.
The regulations of the FA Cup should be different from the premier league so as to eliminate the controversy that can come out.
The good example is the FA Cup regulations, as well as being used in the Premier League, yet the FA Cup is a knockout, therefore there are areas where they are arguing.
We think it is good for TFF through its technical committee to look at how to create regulations for every competition because the position is there and it is possible to do so.
Making it easier for having one regulation in a different competition brings controversy.
A good example is the code of 16 (2) which is saying, the competition of the Azam Sports HD competition will be led by these regulations as well as the regulations of the league VPL, FDL & SDL.
The TFF competition committee will have a responsibility to review, discuss and give a decision on all the events that are happening every round according to the regulations of this competition and the league (VPL, FDL & SDL).
Another area has said, the competition of the Azam Sports Federation Cup is for elimination, the use of the league regulations involve the areas that allow the operations of the knockout competition.
This is one of the regulations, because the premier league has no knockout competition.
Another problem is the regulations that were given by the FA Cup which does not have a section that includes cards, be red or yellow.
Due to a lot of mix, that is why we want TFF to be with the regulations of every competition and it should set it open early before the concerned games to start because every club is required to understand and be focusing on.
But this event should be a lesson, not for Simba and TFF alone, but with other clubs of the premier league or participating in the competition with an official procedure to have units that will help to put records for the club.
If there is a memory, Lufunga wouldn't have a chance.
The leaders of Simba, TFF everyone would be aware and it would not happen and cause complaints.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
