Ehr
In which way wherever you are, I hope you have a good morning the edition is on February first of the two and ten thousand, it is inviting them to the news report I called Alice Marco close.
The government has changed all the buyers of their Indians so as to benefit the small farmer and it has changed the procedure of providing input subsidies that he started being used in the next season of agriculture, those changes have been announced by the minister of agriculture, food and corporate, Stephen Wasira while speaking to Indian farmers and inspected the exercise of paying debts of maize farmers in Namtumbo district and Ruvuma province in Ruvuma province for more information, unite and has no needs.
Here is Tanzania?
Just yours
After seeing the four exercise
He has not said the procedures and now the purchase of maize by using the agents seems to have warned them to grow because those agents has not been registered and they are prepared for me the price they want a procedure that will be used in the whole country from the next season, it will enable our agents to register and enter into a contract with the national agency for food and announcing the price of maize by farming before buying maize by farmers we cannot stay in this dream.
The agency has warned the farmer to the son until the last breath
So I am saying from all groups and...
There is a specific contract between someone who wants to be a ka
And he asks him for the next season and he is happy
Our constitution that allows you to steal five hundred thousand shillings.
So, when they say he is even buying the area?
And he will pay a farmer.
The changes of the fertilizer grant, Honorable Wasira has said that the current procedure of the government carry a stone for farming has been used badly and to benefit the input agents and Vocha there are citizens banks in Mbinga town.
I tell you now farmers of cashews in groups
Their groups so paid is in groups have been stopped.
They are given fertilizer on loan when they sell their crops
Twitter lt; unk, gt;
Speaking with anger after growing the maize in Namtumbo district and I have requested the government to do every way so that farmers have not paid their money early in the season of farming, even if it is a certain amount that will enable me to work because we are focusing on agriculture like the work now on that basis until now where we have now hurt the life of another season in life of the maize by claims that its cost of maize seems to be very low but the passengers why he is above now, you are suffering from coming from talking to the ones that are organizing us.
Their citizens
