How about the promise to show the European finals?
13 APR, 2012
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
After a long cry of love soccer in the country to be unable to see the English Premier League with many lovers in the country, TBC One will bring the liberation in showing directly to that league at least for some of the matches.
Even if the matches we were shown did not involve each other for the themselves of Manchester United, Chelsea, Arsenal and Liverpool but we have seen one of the teams playing with others together with other intense matches that involve the four teams of England with many lovers in the country.
For that we are saying very much to TBC One and not to go back.
More than the English Premier League, TBC One have been showing the Spanish Premier League and various soccer competitions including inside and outside of our national team, JK Boys are playing with Taifa Stars when they are protected!
For all that we say no to TBC One.
Together with those sincere gratitude, I request to say I'm sorry for the television station by leaving him because of the suffering that they give us in the implementation of that good thing to show us different soccer matches directly.
While announcing the English Premier League matches directly through their World Cup of Football, the BBC London's Swahili show have been trying to inform one week before they were the match which they would show directly.
BBC continued to do that until the morning of the broadcasting day of that match within the period of this week.
Contrary, TBC One have been doing a lot of secrets about the match to show directly for the relevant week.
And when they announce, the announcement is usually given a few times when they see them feel lucky.
I don't know why they are not surprising early and for enough time so that many know that maybe the match that will be shown is on Monday at 5.00 pm between Everton and Middlesbrough.
The results of "privacy" is that many soccer lovers have lost the battle when they could see.
Another thing we are requesting me to curse each other is an act of assured that they will show directly the competition whose schedule is very easy but not to fulfill that promise fully.
For example, in the European Nations competitions of this year in Switzerland and Austria, TBC One assured they will show the tournament directly.
We were very happy with our love and respect to them, they went very high.
Suddenly, our love and respect to them have dropped quickly after just two days of the tournament.
After showing us the first match between the hosts Switzerland and the Czech Republic, he mentioned the news report that was followed by a series of business advertisements.
Those announcements got the time to start the second match between Portugal and Turkey that has been eagerly awaited by many Tanzanians than the first one!
Sadly, that match was not shown by TBC One contrary to the promise of showing that competition!
The second day of the competition is not the first match of host Austria and Croatia nor the second match of Germany and Poland seemed to TBC One!
I'm sorry to tell them that the second day event was to build a hatred and a lot of love for many soccer lovers of this country to TBC One for them which took them.
The hatred is built up to see TBC One is butting them and it is set up to see TBC One is devastating.
You don't respect and respect what you hate and ignore us?
That of inciting violence is more serious.
I love these Tanzanian soccer to see what they are being given, but it can be tolerated but it is difficult for them to endure the lack of disapproval of those changes.
That's the worst.
TBC with TBC One television, TBC's national radio and TBC FM together with the closeness of news newspapers today and the Daily News failed to tell the citizens in the whole country why it has been unable to fulfill his promise fully, it is very arrogant to the citizens.
There should be no reason for all the citizens to be educated than to keep quiet and seem like they say "because they will do what the service itself is free"!
That is unacceptable on the basis of better service to the customer (Good Customer care).
For these two days, the complaints in the street against TBC One have been very big.
Many saying it is the right to show that the competition will be given another television station in the country, maybe TBC One have been given a load!
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
