Now
Mi is your success in your activities
Has recently released thanks for thanks
Your success as we think
I have managed to fulfill my dreams that I had and even if I have not fulfilled all, I believe that you will fulfill more, I will remember the level that the patient has set up, we will not wish that it's why you'll find it since it has been changed.
Mi have the kids reading and there are some who are also present at the moment the donation gets in that we know.
Twitter lt; hes tgt; also as initially said or first, I don't know where it has given birth to another business, it is Home I don't know where the farm is a long time.
That if you are doing business will be able to sell another business for you business to respect it now.
Of course, things are encouraging, he will be a person who is wondering what is making any way because the only reason is it.
In every successful sister I didn't think there are challenges in different ways
But when I see it seems if you have all the challenges that we meet are there.
There are nothing like you said the achievements that do not have challenges, although at a little level
Let's tell me the challenges that he met with the challenges that you meet there are local farmers who die still young.
As I was yet to be given, it is still a bit traumatic in the crossing.
It's because they need great temperatures
But with needing temperatures when you do not be careful you can find.
There was maybe that you have benefited or summer has become a small window, they will die with another challenge that is facing, it remains a solution is that my production has been young because I don't have a machine of not given up to their home, but they don't have to go more than five hundred feet.
Ehler is a little
Little bit.
So when I get the machine I believe that the challenge I will be finished now
Because sometimes the old and eggs want to offer you to vote for someone who has organizations for a car in the morning from next week, we have to do what the reproductive eggs should be used
We would like to know that and I think a big level of rearing is so much about the challenge, one of the people you have is to get the machine of given priority.
There is what you do with that machine right now and he will be hoped if I hoped to create a very good machine that I will do with it for a while it is very clear that we continue with my work, Isaiah's trauma, so it is still a friend to get a good machine and we have been shown in some of those programs that do not benefit from those services and its support is very close to we are happy to speak up to identify them so that they can help.
Ohh apart from that challenge, there are a lot of challenges I look for okay every person is not there is no big challenge than the comfort because because they choose.
They don't have accommodation, if you will suffer from dying in there and something like that, where the medicine needs to really need medicine.
But just by saying that, I request you to give a note to the viewers because we have been told that someone is telling you that he needs medicine then they are going to get the way he can.
Maybe he may be no social welfare not to take it well, they will decide to use Twitter lt; hes' gt; I didn't say that for those drugs then I'll find out what I can find.
The love of Fid Q in the state of dirt will be you have got a lot of cuts that will find themselves as a new thing, they should not be taught that it will be cleaned well as the way to rear those with other bags, you should be suffering but if you go for a cleanup when they don't need any medicine if you remove the responsibilities and even if you don't need it, but we are looking for a lot of medicine for you if you need to forgive you because they need a few but if you look at a normal state since they are required.
When it remains a young man so as to bring strength that led to water only and I'm out of a little to get a force then we will end three days they don't need any medicine and they are very fast because it is milk and entertaining about seven years we have been looking for the eggs when all eight weeks have confusing the beloved country.
I desire that starting to hear the news of the money that come and those using food are using food to MAS like food for chicken, they are using the toilet that has also been shared more than the big ones who don't want to be messy because their little is small that food that is good.
So much so he can't hear but the pain we have bought it, you are bought by AHH food often is the tradition of myself and my family actually make you take a machine or you go to the machine, I tell me I don't know it.
Congratulations again
And now sister Suzan true
Pina ask us to talk about money
You know that there are small business entrepreneurs in the seated are waiting because they are delaying them.
We have seen your success, we have seen how business mi and the money they are helping in the family
And I personally and the viewers would like to know the money found?
Because these are how you sell and you sell how these demands are and you sell them
Also, his market
Welcome.
Thank you
First let me start with the news of the market or
To say the real business is very high as much as much.
Although we started it was distraumatised
Then you know what he started to find out how we get a little problem when we've started to understand what we are doing to explain to the people and it was hard for people to understand what we are doing to tell people and it was difficult for people to understand what I'm doing so that I am in line with you use this I will use it and I request you to get it.
So after that I was surprised when I was surprised at the market when I remember the ones I was giving them a lot of hope to see the changes he announced now.
So now the market has become so high that even I can't.
Completely, you know we are now telling me on Monday as I start reminding the construction I want to breed that we are together but
Now if you look at the price in the eggs of kwale people that sell between one thousand shillings directly to one hundred and five hundred thousand shillings for the purpose of the border to come up to the years and while it sucks it to make sure that it is a hundred of seven reasons.
And say ten years of lyrics.
Yeremia six and we are now if you get six hundred and if you have already read, how many other eggs wants him one for the death of my day to decide if they want until three years
But for a year I can get a lot of eggs in Richmond is said that I can get eggs like three hundred times.
Is the prayer for if you say that this will be a two hundred eggs to go because they are suffering from eggs AHH one hundred and twenty thousand eggs and it should start at the start of shillings.
Sisters Suzan we are talking about twenty hundred million.
Probably
And
It really makes us hope.
And then you are chic in addition to you that you sell the nuts of it depends on the age that they have Saranga of one day is coming from we are unable to come and solve them from three schools.
Slightly that I would have the ability of breed chicken selling one hundred and one hundred thousand shillings, there are others to be sacked until waiting, or they have said three hundred thousand shillings to rostam Kafumu
Kigali due to its quality of quality and then they don't have the cost that when he bought a computer flat every time they are very fast, so it is a short time you can generate more than one week they sell if we were defeated.
Four hundred thousand from five for a week
Shinyanga seven if it is a reunion we are going to make those four weeks four weeks until maybe there are five.
So, but up to it himself who is mentioned only has mentioned thirty schools to continue seven best websites first, seven people are sold from thirty and continued.
Therefore they do
Gathering also depend on brother jobo you can start with thirty-five chapters, I will be the usual person to be given because it is playing in parliament there are five legal reasons for the technical people to see.
Because his meat is delicious that many places are sold for the people to support them
It's people who haven't understood tomorrow ohh, it is very good news without doubt that you think there is a shortage that comes out to feel afraid that it is.
Maybe Europe at the end of the change has come from the table is money
Now do not forget to communicate with the Sudan's father of course through what your team woke up and changed, we will be happy to unite that the chronic is here today in the studio also because he has been a good character for the period of woke up and changed and today we see other fruits through himself and you can also look for it if you find the opportunity.
Maybe now is the time we reach the end of the next half.
What are your plans
Our plans to advance or do a lot more things than those working in lt; unk, gt;
It is true that it will be mine later is that I want to be a big farmer.
But it's also calm, you see you have started completely and has told me that it has a very big market and what's going on in style we have to build the market.
To come to be giving the needs of all the customers who are in the market
Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; my plan is that I want to think of increasing production that is why he said I am looking for a machine that will be able to do.
To help in the production of there is women and women.
Mi is a Christian condemnation even I'm because it's not the news we are talking about, it starts to take a position here in a bit of the film because they still don't know anything else they will help the people from research to be able to land.
Him because of their wives
Several others
I will be thankful that I will close this explanation that you have given and at the end I will close it, many Tanzanians have been seeing today, many Tanzanians have to listen to them.
Mi would like to tell Tanzanians
Ward
Mi would like to invite Tanzanians
We need to focus on rearing is very good especially the rearing of because when you bid farewell, they help you revenge and they also increase income and then we will see the cost they do not have a high cost I have since it doesn't get money and you still get the eggs of living your children and get sex.
I will be thankful to look for God to continue to bless you and we are requesting that now we are in Karatu from now you are in a team of woke up and change we need to help in educating them in various seminars, but as people will come to you, we will also need to educate you in different seminars, but as people will come, we need the eggs we will bring to you not to require you, we would like to breed the diversity they were asked, we request you to give you open doors like God bless you so much.
Viewer
