Welcome to the sufficient magazine and I don't want this today to look at the small cotton sector where we will bring together with various stakeholders of this sector who together are trying to come up with answers to the questions of various challenges facing the evidence sector, I can be the second in a foreign currency.
On behalf of all those who will participate to make sure there is an average while inviting them in the third visible Journal.
The stakeholders of the small cotton sector gathered so as to come together with the answers of the challenges facing the sector
It is at the conference that took place in Dar es Salaam city, including the heads of the heads of districts, farmers processors of cotton board to make business and sponsors of various programs of cotton farming.
Nearly twenty years ago the cotton farming was used as one of the major revenue sources to the residents of the lake region and other parts of the country.
Two farmers were raped in hope of farming as a better light in their future
Like this, it went hand in hand with the start of the production of clothes and different products that come from cotton.
It is estimated that more than one million and five hundred thousand people out of one hundred and eight hundred thousand, nine hundred and nine hundred thousand shillings were benefited from two including food digestion, producers of clothes and cooking oil.
In one hundred and ninety six hundred and ninety minutes got into the open market for the hopes of improving more in the whole issue of production
The cotton board started to witness the conflict that is closely caused by politics and the tension of power within the political parties and Putin in general
In accordance with the agricultural law of the contract to be operated on major milk like cotton coffee, tea tobacco and sugarcane, however, the contract of the contract we have not defended the big sanctions for the crops as the sun first takes.
Along the conference of the stakeholders of the small cotton sector that took place in Dar es Salaam city, minister of agriculture, food and corporate in the government of the United Republic of Tanzania, Engineer Christopher Chiza will speak about the farming of the contract
Mi has said that farming for a contract as agriculture is not bad.
What is needed is, you know that I have passed away in my conversation there that any development process will be addressed.
That starting the farming of a contract, there are things that we expect to be on the contract is between the person's kulu.
He has been cheated
They scary
Now, more importantly, what is needed is all of them to be done for example
The contracts must be in the language that both of them understand what is scared, how will we get money
Halo
The only one she gave you must be honest to the sir, the end of the day I will have to take a must be what is legal.
If you look at the system is good
Because you can enable farmers to get input for what we need sa
Mi my thoughts that I believe names
It is to look at what matters that are in the farming of the contract
He has not been pleased with the farmers we have reversed more than to say the procedure of a contract from people here in the world because we implemented well, we will enable farmers to get loans
And then these others provide loans
Giving loans, we must enable them to get their money that they were given now, that is the challenges that are there.
It is stated that the small cotton sector in the country has the ability to empowering the cotton farmers in a pit of poverty if the government in collaboration with other stakeholders will help to help the existence of a contract to resolve the challenges facing the agriculture.
The farming of the contract first is not that those pictures will not be made in trial for three years in a row
If you accept what it deserves and that's six reasons
They decided to Bariadi tribes and that money because it deserves to see the whole country
When there is a problem here on its implementation, there are some of the stakeholders who have different goals and aimed at others who are not faithful who failed integrity but agriculture of the contract is the only way that he will kill six cotton will be ordered by the farmer to raise the name and names in the meaning of those with industries that will be ordered by the farmer.
He has been found and buyers will get the cotton board to buy so that they are required to work on the night don't get cotton to sell and eventually be able to sell and also the district councils will get the taxes that the tax of the produce is paid sex.
That farming of the contract, in my opinion, you will know that it will be able to save the farmer.
We've got a great opportunity for the first time we started in bed the groups will be better than we are told everyone has joined the group because first I think.
Thirty and two hundred people.
So on me the sides that you know in that class has four divisions but when the wards in the Division we can be better in different wards so every village, we have taken a big step in every thirty group who is himself
Sango we met.
What are the fruits to see the sun will be given so the last day are good people who are growing even if they got the last day you are ready to come up to say we got a lot of money and also a company that has scared the drugs that we will see.
So
We tell its citizens that we pray for him.
To get into the market early so that citizens should not be able to go to search for another one, so it helps the citizens to take money while so as to sell the time so we can't live at a time when I think he will get our minerals that is why I see charcoal and eight percent from the year up to this year, your body then there are two thousand dollars a year, we can be able to link between ten and seven million tons that should be handled according to.
The Kanumba was Western.
Four hundred grams will drop down in one acre
A new system without seeing three
When we had the expectations we had, according to the status of both sides, there is insulting insults that are against them.
They may not be able to shut down the fire is six seven lions.
It was bought an average which would probably produce.
What happens from five hundred to look for him
One of us, we have seen is because you know we have been suffering from the price has been not good.
And then produce depending on one acre, I will be better than what it is doing, it is doing it will be above us
We would like to look for Europe and groups.
The devil to go there is our third hope I have been doing well and among them are youths who have taken the youth Brother, we are tired of Kariakoo in the special commission and we know from the style by going to Singida.
The youth who deserves to be sold for that house more than two hundred hectares and ninety minutes in Mbutu bridge, the village of bukama have been told me I am saying the youth who benefited from walking and it is surprising that the meetings has brought up so much that we are doing to be his death accident.
The agricultural transport of refuse that is a very big problem because there are people who came to there.
Ehr goes to the middle and confused.
There is
Spokespersons for real speed
Because they grow their farm on the farm.
You can't talk about someone that is on the farm about this time of talking on the topic.
Because you are supposed to be in a group quickly, which on Monday
Therefore, we are striving so much in bringing a big problem is that it is not that the farming is not enough to inform you here to make a good number of change, like five books as it is known that cotton gold are sold and even the service will rise So here as the other one that has ever seen in the Riders.
Five days than coffee
But it seems that it seems to be misleading.
The real intent of the government sometimes translated
If you will be released
Agriculture of the contract is good because you are sure of selling your produce and the price that is at the same time because I go with the price in the world market to know that the past was you don't know because he said, we will communicate with him and the contract that Bana want to sell our cotton on the price in the world market and information to the public maybe we wait for us.
A date, then we shall begin to do about buying so that we will look for its beauty benefits for the contract.
I started when I was a lot of land without a contract.
I was in the past when we entered the farming of the first contract we would know I had been cheated.
That is what you need
First, it was a lot of a lot of farm after getting into the farming of a contract after making sure everything
I bought at ten and six but in the past, it must be two depending on the ability of a contract with my fellow farmers because agriculture of the contract had a lot of need and education get a lot through our sponsors who visit them.
That is until now the farmers had a need for farming for a contract that is the other than it means that someone gets benefits through the loans.
And the destruction is also one of the challenges in the farming of cotton industries, which is used including farming and control of non-political parties.
And maybe
