Leadership
The leadership first would like to thank the new leadership.
They usually don't like ten and fourth for Jamal Malinzi
He led it well
But those who Board members have failed to implement leadership?
Like to export no search for talent
They go to the streets in rural areas, they don't know
My view
No reason for god of admitting to insult what we are going on.
Welcome
Thank you so much called gold
Mi would like to talk about Musa
In our country of Tanzania, many people we love and Bush
Now it becomes a feminist, which is not suitable here in the country, if we need to be based on sports things then if we get bribes it will be available for example which comes to the registration thing they prepare for the clubs of different teams.
Simba Yanga Azam FC, all the clubs causes that directly, to register people who are not concerned, they are not well known for example, you see that you don't want maybe in the stage of United itself, we have been able to give five veteran people from thirty years to five years they will cause these people to play football well so that the young nation is talking about coaches coming back.
We have moved back to Tanzania, we will take a high cost to buy a coach to get out of foreign countries.
To come to look at how these people who come to critics are the people who don't pay them so I see how I see these national football coaches.
The improvement in order to go is even ourselves, they can teach people from different clubs below for example if you look at Ndanda.
Ndanda after being beaten five goals during the vodacom league were the coach to dismiss him and which is a priority quickly thanks for me.
Very Good.
Time
For some time, it is not a friend is the one that agreed, let's go to the end of AIDS, let's find it.
What should happen we have opened for all these reasons, we will take the stadium players lack of sports education at the moment we're going to the end, I managed the tax that I managed to enjoy it.
He was ready
For prayer, what should be done first I will start soccer athletics
Ok if you look at a person who did the athletics for the second time, the second is a beats by.
Yes, he is on the right now let left bureaucracy in the issue of going to choose people So it's a certain person because of this every day he is there or because you know you will get twenty percent of them when the important squad even in the leadership of you can choose.
Elections are taking place to stop corruption not to stop the laws that go against the leader
And also a leader who is elected to be a leader who is right now there is someone who has always thinks but this has been a problem.
So we also look at a lot of corruption and bureaucracy.
Leave it out but the Syrian mid-fielder is facing a good person that what should be done to solve the problem is that I will talk about two things
The first is the issue of leadership then the second issue is the issue of patriotism
That we want our games and let us go far, we must be with vision leaders
The leaders of seeing that he did not have bitterness for our country to see that after five or ten years, our national team is doing well and secondly, the whole issue of sponsorship to have enough sponsorship in all the games we see in our country and the sponsorship was very difficult to see the fans seeing them today they have not received good results if there will be a good team that will be able to get a good team, but we want to get a good team that will be allowed to reach the next year but we want to get a good team that will be respected more than the elder person to set aside time for the desert fans.
Twitter lt; unk, gt; as Sadik they love their team and they agreed to be patient and we will do better in the games Santa
