"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The support needed Baringo after the residents escaping WYCLIFF with Florah KOECH Commissioner of Rift Valley, Osman Warfa addresses the citizens at a security meeting at the Chemolingot area, Baringo on November 17, 2014.
Photos / Jared Nyalandu, a humanitarian aid is needed for emergencies in the areas of Baringo North and Baringo, after more than 4,000 people leave their homes for fear being attacked by the thieves of livestock.
In the area of Baringo South, the quickest families have been seeking refuge in various schools where they live in poor environments.
"We're worried that it may have been Food for diseases following the killings of people in classes.
Victims have no blankets to hide, food and nets to prevent mosquitoes.
Pregnant women and children are the ones that were affected more, "said John Wendot, an elder of the village.
Reports that have not been confirmed that some of the pregnant women were given birth in the poor environment.
The representative of Baringo's county, Grace Kiptui who visited the quickest families gave food aid to those predicted.
"It's sad that when Kenyans were celebrating Christmas, our people were sleeping in the forests and in evil environments.
It is worth mentioning the challenge of lack of security immediately, "said Ms Kiptui.
The conflict between the Tunisian communities and Palestinians have erupted again following the murder of former KDF from the Pokot community who is believed to be executed by the assassination of Tugen.
Peter Kokon was marched with her child before being shot by the assassination that had killed her on the way and burned his car.
The former KDF officer was driving a car from his home in the Mochled area before being attacked by the livestock thieves that have been hanging to the residents of Baringo.
The Bokot community has threatened to revenge following the murder of the former soldier.
The threats have made hundreds of locals of the area to relocate their homes and instead go to the school.
More than 20 schools may not be decided today for the first term this year after parents leave their children.
Some schools that have been affected in Baringo North is Chepkewel, Kalabata, Yates, Sibilo, Kapturo and Chemindany.
The other is Tilingwo, Kagir, Ng'aratuko, Kosile, Rormoch, Chepisin, Kamwetio, Chepkew, Barkett and Moinonin.
They are in Baringo, South Africa is Arabal, Rohus, Kashiela, Chebinyiny, Chocokyon, Ng'elela and Kapindasum.
Some schools also need to be restored after it was revealed that the attackers bought equipment such as iron sheets and solar machines in those schools.
Those attackers have now started to burn houses that have been left with victims and destroy their properties that are remaining.
The member of parliament for Baringo North William Choice has wanted the government to increase the number of savings in Chemoe villages, threatened, Kagir, Ng'aratuko and Loruk to strengthen security.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
