AHH we are heading to end it yes, htt; hes tgt; many times has been actively fighting against the youth
Yes, they are going to vote and this is ten and five elections.
What is their call to the youth
Now you must start registering you to vote.
Because they're sitting next to home
This weekend mi I sleep
But he was not elected leader.
The year is not to sue that, you find the youths they have no great inspiration.
We as a district commissioner as a fellow boy there is something to tell you
That is even grateful for the desire to compete with your queries.
I thank you first thirty have been part of the very important part of educating the community but well that it helps the citizens to know several of the several things that their nation is doing and in fact I have been the right link between the citizens and their government as it has made.
And and and in the same thing you say.
I will end but I would tell you just in Kinondoni.
Via you
They know this now
Always with the new judge
In the district council of districts
All those who have decided to evacuate because of the complaints by citizens
Peace and one hundred cases
And the ability that had to solve the case for forty cases
So we find that we have a total of five hundred cases.
And the size of my area of four hundred square kilometers for each one
And one million people and six hundred thousand.
For mi I have a lot of people than the province of Arusha who have one hundred thousand people and seven hundred thousand people.
At the time, we entered the solution.
Ruvuma we are getting one hundred and eight hundred people but they didn't above two hundred thousand people.
So my meaning saying that Kinondoni has had many land conflicts because of the numbers of people
And in fact and good he told me it's because he will decide to look for a parliamentary seat that we are going to vote for them and they would like to have a home
Whenever I was in their states
We have been told we can be good guys
They do that but the second to the citizens of knowledge through your period of anger over them
We have also added.
The days to serve the citizens there is no court work until Saturday in Kinondoni.
The goal is to ensure those cases have not been heard since the morning and five are heard.
Let alone leave you just to go under entertainment, he writes that they are dying but also know that the head of Kinondoni District have employed six lawyers.
Who have agreed to have enough money to pay but I have to have them on my salary
Their main job is to give education to the public about the understanding of legal matters not to be unable to get to the steps before they go to court so that they go to court they have justice.
Therefore, it is good for the citizens of Kinondoni district and Tanzanians know for their benefit but we have also suffered the hope of the second system going to Mwananyamala when they got it yesterday got there when Mwananyamala go to Palestine Sinza they are getting there when we are Going to find a lot of taxes and then the construction of the road are so bad and so I will ensure that our roads will be bad and those involved in the hospital is losing his life on the way because of the road to be bad for many human beings and we are in Kinondoni.
Which but only one hundred and eight hundred stem cells remains twenty teams, I can send ninety and eight teams that are planted in the hour and I am also a football team of ten teams and two hundred and that we want to get the winners and let them sell good players from Kinondoni, not only the player is buying from other countries no, I want you to tell us to sell good players from Kinondoni, not only the player is buying from other countries, but all of them have to make sure you want to be clean and to make sure Tanzanians cannot feel that true Kinondoni has been well even in your comment but all that has to be complete, it needs religious leaders.
It was not done well, it needs councilors.
In the past, I need to have a hard working member of parliament really, so that all to be complete, I need to be easy to know the importance of development and justice for every Tanzanian without checking his income from his religion and its ability to choose in his environment and that the leaders cannot get them as the same youth who I mentioned today they have taken them if they haven't taken a step to register.
Ehhe is giving you a chance to thank you for all of us being led to me at night and day but also without forgetting the mother of this family that is called Maria, here is a big job.
One of the speculation if you can see the night and afternoon are suffering from people but the second to kill me and know her hope that I am going to the nations and our nation and give him the honor of that it is one day even if you do not get in the world you will say the mother in the way it comes to it.
It's best to follow my home
He's not telling me early I would have never been back.
This Day
Mi is grateful for all the initial steps like any way that makes it easier for repatriating youth
In different sectors in different sectors, I believe that all of those got successful then things will be good to make this true lover.
