The list of coalition issues will be included II Mar 13, 2014
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
On the qualifications of being elected as a presidential candidate or parliament (article 79 and.
125), for now, the parties that are interested - are not true to select a candidate.
Yet some who were chosen to contest would not be selected as voters would know.
Propogens of parties and fans are the ruling.
As a result, the nation is getting bad leaders and a weak government.
I suggest that there should be a tool to filter and make up the qualifications of candidates presented by the parties.
It should be a authority to refuse and ordering parties to do other or another.
The Electoral Commission has given that authority.
In implementing this responsibility, the commission will be led by the taboo of leadership listed in this constitution.
There are other countries with the same approach to filter.
Without having such a tool, those qualifications will remain in papers and things will continue as usual we were used to and the nation will continue to get bad leaders.
Parliament suing President
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
It is my opinion that the proposed amount of 75 percent of the parliamentary votes for the purpose of creating an investigation committee and to remove the president is very high.
Why more than 50 percent was suspended for the form of the committee and 66 percent (two-thirds) stopped him for more than that level is "competing."
Also, the constitution should talk to the president or the leader who had been removed from power that you deserve to be paid the pension benefits - as it is for other public servants who are fired.
The process of changing the constitution
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
For this we are led by the experience we have already received and the weight of the constitution passed by the citizens.
The ability to change the constitution should not be easy like this proposed, which is being used now.
This process has enabled the ruling party to use the numbers of its members of parliament to cancel the rights of private citizens to vie for the presidency or parliamentary without being appointed by the political party.
Let me allow this process of changing the constitution continue.
I recommend first, two-thirds of the members of parliament from Tanganyika and two-thirds from Zanzibar will be needed as it is now and secondly; two-thirds of the opposition members - these are representing the citizens who choose, third; if the intended changes are big article 119 recommended and supported.
The creation of the Parliament of the Republic article 113 needs a comprehensive analysis, not to implement it.
I see the elections in his region will be very high even to do the work of candidates to make a campaign to be hard and expensive.
There are also questions of asking: The party's election manifesto or the candidate will have such policies on defense and security issues, foreign affairs and other things like that to convince the voters to vote on the possibility of the country's leaders to choose the members of parliament of the United Republic as it is taking place at the parliament of the East African Community.
But the president is elected by the citizens.
I suggest it.
The role of the election director's role in the role of the election director (article 196; -3) - that "the election director of the Electoral Commission will implement its obligations by assisted by executives who are public servants...."
Director does not be made to use public servants as it is now.
There is evidence that shows that the workers are serving the bloggers - the commission on one side and his employer on the second side who wants his demands are met and misleading.
I suggest that it would be able to employ or select its staff who will be responsible for him.
The revenue sources of the coalition government in the revenue sources of the coalition government (article 231) first; this proposal, in my opinion, will give birth to a weak government and put the United Republic as a shadow.
It is the government which has no authority to charge taxes to its citizens so that it can serve as required, we want the government of a powerful coalition.
This strength is together with the ability to get enough revenue to run the coalition government.
Those income contributes to every citizen with the ability to pay taxes and every institution paid taxes in accordance with the law.
On the current procedure, citizens pay taxes that runs the union activities and activities of Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
