"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Malaria is a infectious disease, n a o l e a and a lot of cells known as professionally Plasmodium.
These cells enter into the body of a human body after a mosquito bite of Anophone.
Mosquitoes with blood cells of Plasmodium when it bites someone, it gives some of the mate with infectious infections in a sore, thus spreading malaria.
Those infections are traveling to the liver where you are full of maturity.
There are 4 types of malaria, which are P. vivax, P. malariae, P. ovale and P. falciparum.
It has been given names according to the type of Plasmodium which caused them.
The first 3 types are not dangerous but it is very dangerous but it can cause death quickly.
This is because it comes only in the body usually makes it plenty in blood.
The blood cells of blood (which spread in the body), the affected is thick and cannot get into the hashtag.
This situation causes death in the brain, liver, pneumonia, kidney and a mystery because of the lack of death, an issue that causes death if he does not call it quickly.
The symptoms of malaria include fever, shivering, the pain of joints, vomiting, cell anemia (which is caused by leaving red blood cells), headaches, and void.
These symptoms occur after two days in the infection of P. vivid and P. ovale, while the symptoms of P. malariae and P. falciparum comes after three days.
It can be accompanied by the fever that comes after between 36-48 hours or a fever that is not known but ongoing.
Children with malaria are often demonstrated in a common space, a sign of brain damage.
It has been discovered that malaria causes problems of identifying especially for children.
They also causes the spread of sickle-cell anemia in a period of growing lussy and pollution.
This neurozone is based on brain malaria which is very dangerous to children.
The malaria of this type will be sponsored by white supredients, which can be beneficial as a sign of malaria and other fever causes.
The World Health Organization (WHO) made a report that in the period of the year 2013, more than 198 million people were infected with malaria and it was estimated that 584,000 people died from that disease.
Nearly four out of five dead are children under the age of five.
Nearly 100 countries in the world are affected by this disease thus threatening the lives of many people.
Estimated 3.2 billion people around the world are facing the risk of being infected.
In order to deal with the disease, scientific experts have noted a new way to sign drugs to kill mosquito nets.
That way has succeeded by 100 percent in dealing with some of the types of mosquitoes.
The international research report says the way that uses solar energy energy to paint medicine enables nets to carry out high levels of medicine.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
