"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
What happened to the small elections give Judge Francis Nyalali on the grave on February 27, 1991, the second phase president, Ali Hassan Mwinyi was appointed the commission of the president, to do research and get answers about the requirements of Tanzania, if they want a multi-party system or remain in one party system.
That commission led by the former chief justice of Tanzania, Francis Nyalali and worked for a whole year.
February 17, 1992, President Mwinyi was given a report about the views and recommendations of the citizens about the system of many parties or one.
The answers that were given by the commission of Judge Nyalali is that a multi-party system was rejected by the Tanzanian from 80 percent.
In that sense, only 20 percent of them were already in multi-party politics.
The youngest of them were not ready for a multi-party system not because they were not wearing me, except they were asked something that he did not know and did not have an understanding about its benefits.
Nyalali Commission report shows that the introduction of a multi-political system in 1992, was done to force.
A few people who saw the importance of multi-party politics in promoting democracy, they killed many who refused.
The father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere was one of the people of the front line wanting the nation to move by one party system and inviting many political parties.
Even CCM, they told the world Mwalimu Nyerere when he voted for many parties.
In summary it is that Tanzania has been threatened to get into a multi-party system.
However, many people don't know the importance of many political parties.
The results of the small elections on January 22, this year, to make a small parliamentary elections in Dfaith, Zanzibar and 19 wards in Tanzania Mainland to fill the vacant positions from different reasons.
The Revolutionary Party (CCM) got great success by winning the parliamentary seat Dfaith and seizing 19 wards, while the Party of Democracy and Development (Chadema) ended up one ward which is round, Bahati, Manyara.
What happened in the small election is the one that has added Judge Nyalali worth while in the grave, because it has continued to show that the truth of the amount of 80 percent were not ready for a multi-party system.
It has been 25 years since the commission of Judge Nyalali handed the President Mwinyi a report, also this is the 25th year since the system of many political parties that were allowed to allegiance to a few voices.
In its 25th year, it seems clear that even the commission of Judge Nyalali would not have done its research now, perhaps the answers would have had, that only 20 percent of Tanzania only have many parties.
The results of the elections in 19 wards of Tanzania Mainland, didn't even look at the results of the general elections of 2015 which for approximately 40 percent of Tanzania who voted for the opposition parties for the presidency and members of parliament.
The results are not similar to the number of opposition members who are present at the moment which is 32 percent.
The results of the small elections have shown CCM to win by 95.2 percent, while the opposition has carrying 4.8 percent.
On that logic, 25 years after the establishment of a multi-political system, the situation is worse for the opposition parties.
Venezuela seems to have a hard work to do towards the 2020 general elections than it was between 2010 to 2015.
The commitment to the 25 years since Judge Nyalali handed the report of its commission, the results have shown that a big problem that puts it in the difficult state of opposition parties in the country is the absence of commitment to the system.
The reason for a lack of commitment to a multi-political system is or people not to see the benefits of the system themselves or knowing then to suppress them deliberately so that it does not.
Equally in the repeat election, it shows that people don't know the benefits of many parties and they are not ready to remember it.
The real situation has shown that a multi-party system is not friendly to Tanzanian politics.
Friendship is why many conflicts emerged during election times.
The situation wasn't interesting in a small election.
19 wards and one province only have caused a big number, what would it happen if the elections would involve at least five constituencies?
Dfaith in Zanzibar the situation was bad.
There are complaints that agents of opposition parties, CUF, ACT-Wazalendo and Civilizations were removed from the supervisors of the elections in some stations.
The reason for the occurrence is the claim of a number of defections such as the presence of two voters, the presence of voters whose credibility was unprecedented, the faces of other voters were not the same as pictures of the folks. The agents asked when they were released outside.
A small elections in one province and 19 wards caused the tear gas to be used by other state forces.
Various parts of the country was reported to be the existence of tension between the police and voters of different parties.
There is still no understanding there is a problem and it does not concern the ordinary citizens alone.
The improvement of the multi-political system is caused by more than two ways; brought up and received.
The tradition of citizens depend on how the system itself is raised by the laws of the country.
When a multi-party system seems to be an enemy of the dollar, then you will see the citizens fear from it for two hands.
When it comes up to support the opposition parties it becomes the same as a dollar competitor, even if people do not like the extent of the opposition parties, they will be afraid.
It is a must for opposition parties to be a friend of dollars and friendship with it.
Leaders of opposition parties feel free to cooperate with state agencies according to the laws of the country and the agencies, the opposition are not enemies.
The multi-political system is in order to make a democratic stadium in a wider election.
That instead of one party to stop one candidate then it should be a vote of yes or no, there is an airport to choose.
Instead of one party to stop two people then one who gets a lot of votes is the winner, there is a lot of parties that have stopped the candidates with different qualifications and then they say to the voters who are free to choose.
A multi-party system was passed and threatened by the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania together with that of Zanzibar.
Therefore, it is a system that is a must.
Parties are supposed to enter the elections including the same power of participation.
The conflict and violence is an indication of inequality.
The absence of inequality between parties participate in the elections and the tension between the opposition parties, show the right not to be respected.
People are increasing the overall results have shown that in 19 wards that performed in the small elections in Tanzania Mainland, the number of voters had reduced significantly, compared to it was in the general elections of 2015.
One example is the Japanese ward, Dar es Salaam whose voters were reduced by more than two-thirds from the previous year.
Such a situation has occurred in different areas that made the small elections.
In the year 2015, the voters were 16,290 and the elections of January 22, this year, who voted for 5,274 votes.
If you took a total of 16,290 as 100 percent, then those who voted for this year is 32.4 percent, in that sense, 67.6 percent of those voted for the 2015 general elections, did not vote last weekend.
Together with the parties of CCM, Chadema, ACT Wazalendo and CUF seem to have a good campaign and to encourage citizens, still people do not come out in a good number.
Voters have reduced instead of increasing.
The decrease in the number of voters in its translations are people to cut up, that they do not have their expectations in voting boxes.
When citizens stop voting is a scary thing.
Even whoever wins is supposed to wonder the extent of his legitimacy if he has won by a small number of voters.
Luqman Maloto is a journalist, analyst and social adviser, politics and art.
It is the owner of a web site, available on Twitter. Luqmanmaloto.com
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"IT's
"IT's
"IT's
