We are the ones looking for even if they have to forget that I got to forget the team you do.
Ehor is Jameni or manager.
Mym ehr then I'm paying what is the way to care about the direction but the same thing is my best to do and what is the ticket of madrasa University anone mym yeah, make a lot of money for how much money you are.
They lahi, I will give you everything like a mm Job Mister mym Job.
There's no matter to think about it, then you don't know that the classes are the only way of power, the power of power is not very worried, I take a picture for the first day, you see you see if you know if you know if you know if you get a Baby Class and nursery because children are not a lot of you to pray for hope you will start with eight and then depending on as the queues in the neighborhood we will know if you will talk.
Yeah, you are the same as AHH you can't mi what is to link to those of you and we're not interested in you, tell us that there is no noise I don't like the noise.
Now it's not for you or revive your number.
Mym
Ehr
I mean to criticize mother Zainabu is just to accept the noise that there is no noise that you don't only have the only fee but it was very high there is nothing to be what he is.
Mym and not taken for the release
There is no meaning there is nothing about the things to follow up in Vietnam, that is what you go down with the child.
If you are okay with a sign and then I was coming and asked with our colleague Fred's lt; hes Twitter gt; don't see a mym
Mym
When I came to me when I was in my way I come to tell me that I'm on the way I come to tell me that I was on the way I came to my mother and another father to tell me what he is kyoto is trying to come like I am here.
Yes, htt; doesn't give you any report and we should not call it then it is not me to ask why it is why it is really discouraging.
Ohh that's about your things
Those of you know what you know is, and write about it now, I know you told you to be a py.
And involve now and have to increase the annoying snow.
Let me tell me that I told me that I was telling him and we were telling you.
AHH is not mi I explained to me and I didn't want to get I got.
Mym
