"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Interests, local ranks have sparked violent protests in 1964, May 31, 2012
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
In the first part of this article last week, we saw how the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defense at the time, Oscar Kambona, was able to convince the soldiers who were arrested on January 21, 1964, to return to the camp, with a promise to address their complaints.
We saw how the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius K. Nyerere, he was able to escape the State House to avoid the misunderstanding of the rebels who went to look for him, he went to hide in a place known.
The teacher came out suddenly two days later, holding back to power again.
However, four days later, the police responded again.
Why?
Follow this second and last place to get the answer.
The second day after his return to the camp, the rebels seemed happy to see English officers leaving them as promised and Kambona.
But one out of them wasn't happy like others: Sajini Francis Higo Ilogi.
During the funeral of two soldiers on the day, those killed in the street with one Arabs during the rebellion, Sajini Ilogi left the talk about the face.
So, is it because they are not able to implement all he promised?
Is it because he won't be promoted after leading a rebellion?
That day was received reports that the second squad of the army that was in Tabora had been asi, after getting news that Colito's colleagues were asi.
They were possible or they had not received reports that Colito had returned to the camp; or they were aware, but they wanted them to do several things in their squad.
While the Tabora road is continuing with the rebellion, it was received by a text from Kambona, that he had appointed Captain Miranda Sam Hagai Sarat, to be the head of the squad.
At the same time Saracas and other officers were arrested and detained.
Sarkin was married, asked the phone to be sent in a voice; then he gave the order to stand up "the same leg," teach the benchers and shot down.
And they filmed it.
That night, Saracon made plans to fly the English officers to Dar es Salaam and finally their homes.
The event of January 21, and that of Tabora together with the situation in Kenya, Uganda and Zanzibar, made the British government to take additional caution by taking over 2,000 soldiers in East Africa.
So, the submarine called Rhy, in the coast of Dar es Salaam, and another Centaur; which carried the plane, arrived with 600 soldiers.
The third day after the first squad of the first squad on Wednesday, January 23 in the morning, suddenly Nyerere escaped from an open car with Mama Nyerere and the Minister of Internal Affairs, Job Lusinde who visited every part of the city that was affected by rebellion.
On Thursday, January 24, it was well; but on Friday, January 25, talks between the government and the rebels seemed to be broken, they ended again.
Who was the leader of the second rebellion?
Sergeant Higo Ilogi again?
Unlike the January 21 rebellion, which does not involve politicians, nor have a political target, the new rebellion was blocked by his political prisoners.
Security reports showed that the leaders of the council of workers were meeting with the police who were arrested at the Colito Camp, and that those parties had organized a strike at the end of the week to join the police.
The second rebellion was infectious in Kenya and Uganda, as well as the same day, at the same time, and in the same manner.
Jomo Kenyatta and Milton Obote heard the hashtags; they are preparing to call the British Army to shut down the rebellion.
Nyerere did not want.
He did not believe that his own force would not be prosecuted, he and his government.
He started believing when security officers showed a list of prospective ministers, that was organized by the rebels.
One of his close people went further to tell him that he had been asked to accept to be the vice president after the revolution.
A teacher akaloof; we will believe those words, that his government was at risk.
Then, about 11: 30 p.m. on the day, a teacher tweeted at State House, Deputy Ambassador of England, Mister F. Stephen Mills; prompting military support.
And without delay, Mills took a report to London and replied that the requests were accepted.
And Oscar Kambona, went to a race in the British Embassy to look for Bregedia Douglas who was hiding in the country for the whole week, asked for help.
On the night of that day, Douglas and another officer, took it up to the submarine Centaur that was in the coast.
Saturday; January 26; 12: 20 am, six helicopter from the submarine Centaur took 60 soldiers (including Bregedia Douglas) to a nearby Colito Camp.
10 minutes later, at 12: 30 p.m., the submarine, and another war ship, Twitter, which was waiting for the coast; it started attacks by tanks to threaten rebels.
From the distance of 20 meters right now, and with the courage, Douglas escaped with a microphone, that he held his power again; he gave an order to all soldiers to leave the camp with "weapons above" and sit down on the road.
After 10 minutes without seeing something, he started counting, "one, two.... ten," the English soldier fired a rocket to the camp.
The rebels started to surrender.
In the next 10 minutes, 150 soldiers surrendered, and 150 others after one hour.
By 1: 30 p.m., all of them had surrendered; the rebellion was denied in an exercise where five police officers were killed, and five others injured.
There is no English soldier out of 60 who led the fight, who was injured.
And for the whole week of rebellion, at least 17 civilians were killed.
While the army of the British Army controlling the rebels of Tanganyika, in Uganda and Kenya and the army had taken a similar step, time, hours and in the same style to the police who had a question (Uganda), and in the 11th squad of Bark-Lanet (Kenya).
When the reasons given to Sajini Higo Ilogi was able to get out, he was seen in the morning at the International Monetary Fund (Expcoms), sending a written phone to the UN Secretary General (UN), U Thant, to ask for help.
The phone reads: "Tanganyika's forces were abducted by unknown soldiers.
Help quickly bring the UN forces.
Lieutenant Colonel ILOGI, Chief of Force. "
Please go back to our basic question: Who sparked our military coup in 1964?
Oscar Kambona?
John Okello?
Kambona, was the minister responsible for security at the time, where the army was under his ministry.
For this reason, his participation in the first phase, cannot be taken that he had shares or that he knows that plan.
It is his courage that he sent him to deal with that situation.
If you could have had bad intentions to the government; and by considering how he was controlling the situation and the police accused him, he would have come to coup the country where it was in the prison for two consecutive days?.
Is it "Field Marshal" John Okello?
No; he did not have that time, because for the whole period since the revolution of Zanzibar, he was in the documents to protect and strengthen his administration in the Islands due to the threat of his opponent who claimed they did not participate in the revolution.
Okello led the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar for two months in a row before he was excluded.
It is not surprising that the rebellion of these soldiers was able to be infected with their Kenyan counterparts and Uganda, considering that the three countries have been born by the British colonization of the country.
So, for that period, and in the same time, their grievances got to make it credible for their rights and in a similar manner.
I agree with the opinion of Ambassador Abbas Kleist Sykes (quoted in a place in 2001), that, "Tanganyika's rebellion Rifles (ech) earlier in 1964, resulted in a large extent and the delay of the Kizungu's commanders and to promote Africans," as it happened to the police force and other employees in the government.
And that's how it was in Kenya's rebellion and Uganda.
It is not surprising that, the leaders of the Workers Union joined the rebels in the second phase wanting to bring down the government, from the fact that, since the teacher passed the "African disappointing exercise" in January 1963, they had been not sleeping "until it is understood."
As a result of the rebellion, the teacher removed the whole squad of first (Colito Barniks) and to fire 100 police officers of the second squad, Tabora.
He concluded that 10 percent of the 5,000 police officers who were at the country were unable to implement their duties.
More than 400 people were arrested and questioned, including party leaders; and 500 others were arrested under the Law to prevent danger, but many were released.
And the Federation of Workers of Workers in the country (TFL) was canceled, instead it has been formed by the party of NUTA as the ruling party of the ruling party - Tanu.
The Teacher appointed Miranda Sam Hagai as the new Head of the Army, and took the rank to Bregedia.
At the beginning of April 1964, the British Army left, and his position was taken by the third squad of the Nigerian Army, under Lieutenant Colonel James Pam.
Sajini Francis Higo Ilogi was found guilty of the Army and was jailed for 15 years, 13 allies were jailed for five to ten years.
The Swahili said, "every bad thing has its blessings."
Mwalimu added the minimum wage for soldiers, from 105 / = to 240 / = shillings per month.
But the most important thing is that, the rebellion was helping to interrogate and understand the kind of military needed for our country.
'You want to build a new Army completely, we've got to GET the People's Defense Force "(TGT), in the real sense of the Defence Force and for the Citizens.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
