Two days ago, people listening to the news from Tabora where the attendant tried to take the body of their late brother to go to the ground for what they believe that their brother was killed by the police
But today finally, the relatives and relatives of the late hamada, who was alleged to have been killed by police have agreed to take the body of their late brother ready for the funeral while continuing to wait for the results of the investigation of his death that was done by medical investigators from the headquarters of the police, those who were rejected by the investigation that was done by doctors from the referral hospital of Tabora province at 6 o'clock have been satisfied with the investigation that was done by the senior investigation of medical issues in the country, Ahmed churches, from the headquarters of the police force in the country, on the left is to have been following the scandal.
The report
Which will give an initial investigation that was done by doctors in the referral hospital of Tabora province especially in the investigation that was done by the senior inspector of national issues.
Hable refused to leave the police headquarters in the country
The late Hamadi chant died on January twenty-seven this year when he was receiving treatment at the referral hospital of Tabora province that caused many relatives and his fellow businessmen of the holiday claiming that he was killed by being beaten by the police who denied those claims.
And we
We have
You are to take the body of the late to the end
Due to this uncertainty and the relatives of the deceased are sent to take the body of the late until it should be investigation by experts from outside the province, the general elections of you requested a donation from the headquarters of the police force in the country we will take appropriate measures to anyone who is found, caused the death and marikebu for now I cannot say who has caused it.
It is determined by the committee.
Those experts led by the deputy commissioner of the military police force, the guest of honor have arrived in Tabora province and conducted an investigation through the chief physician of Tabora province, the law has explained what they did.
After being satisfied that we have gone down completely.
So, we will reduce the only thing that is only the events.
That was sold from the chief chemist in the laboratory of the chief chemist.
Now
The brothers can have already received as pepper spray after the investigation of the relatives of the deceased came out in front of the journalists and explained their decision that we have forgotten because the body when you are hurt, when you are not completed all that we must take.
To Africans
Mi as a result of the economy taking place for the second time I have been comforted
Indeed
And I have agreed to take the body of the late from Tabora, I request with Mwaibale the servants.
And someone
