May 31, 2012
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
((I request to apologize for starting this part of my discussion with another paramedics.
Parandesi of this week has been forced by the head of words I was appointed for this week's post: OBSIZO.
As I explained at the end of last week's article, I fail to get a Swahili word that will explain to the concept of western word "obscurantism" or "obscurantist."
In fact, there are a lot of concept that we know every day that has not been given an appropriate words in our language, and this is one of those.
In the situation we have, then, I would dare to say that it is fit, occasionally, we should join us, let us go, let us go, let's go with new words from other languages.
Isn't it all the languages, as well as Swahili, where?)))
A man who is described as obscurantist (obscurantist) is the one who thought that he is knowing and he went on to her all his strength, and he was ready to even go to war to defend his "skills".
It is a person who believes the things that can have been called and at the time, and the knowledge of the show is being found, but he does not want to hear or see the whole thing that can lead to its ignorance.
The community can also be jailed and shackled.
In fact, it is a community that goes on anti-anti-anti-anti-corruption systems, because the society is building its religious system for a long time, and put the systematic and mistaken procedures, including law, regulations and traditions that make sure every community community is taking a knee in front of religious beliefs, often by fear to be punished.
All of us have been born in the communities with several faith that marched and instructions together with the publication.
We have developed communities in faith, law, regulations and procedures, basically without having an opportunity to question the need to do so.
In this way, even those instructions that are beneficial, or the prospect of benefits, we follow and view them without knowing what we are doing so.
Many African communities don't allow children to ask a lot of questions, especially if the questions have a direction to highlight the basis of common faith.
When a child wants to know more than he needs to know that he is going, or he will be told it is a rude or a tooor, he does not respect the older, and so on.
The result is that, in many sectors, we have built our communities on the basis of old faith that don't have gays in today's world, and it is not surprising that development we are like.
Our communities don't allow analysts, and without analysts, there are no progress.
I will go back to this before the journey.
This situation has a relationship with issues that I have discussed for some time now, especially better education and health services to our people.
In understanding the problem of obesity and how to deal with the issues of education and health happen directly.
Even in the atmosphere of extreme poverty, in the thick darkness of ignorance and pain, arise in a few light of light that even the power of anti-anti-torture cannot shut down, despite the end of a certain time.
Eventually, they collect and unite the strength and then be a composite with a tight light that is seen everywhere.
That in the University of obilisation as this can come out and eventually having a non-intolerance is due to the great pressure of the agents of change (Agency of change).
There is no agent of a greater change than education, true education that aims to break the shacery of obesity, distraumsy and the light of the human mind.
In this sense, investment in good education is investment in the fight against racism.
We can be conflicting until When they go back home about that called better education (and better we are fighting instead of the leaders pretending to know on our behalf), but you are several things that cannot accept a long debate.
For example, for those relating to the debate we have now, it is impossible to "better education" was the one that makes them get to believe that there are people going through a helicopter from Songea to Tanga.
A person who went through the school to university and got this degree or one, and he still believes that we have Tanzanian people who are creating a helicopter ravuits, that he has gone to school, but education has given him along.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
