We what we want is to remove CCM only "Aug 19, 2015
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
As I had promised in the past article, this week I continues with my analysis on the general elections expected to take place on October 25th this year.
And as it was in the past few posts, my analysis will be in the race for the presidential position.
While in the past article I discussed the opportunity and obstacles to the candidates "two heads, that is Doctor.
John Magufuli of CCM and Edward Lowassa of Chadema / UKAWA this week I will come in more details, with the aim being to use this article to make an analysis to one candidate, and the next week's article will look at the other candidate.
Let me start with Lowassa of Chadema / UKAWA.
Between the past article and this, it is not a secret that the worst news is what is called "flood of Lowassa."
All the activities that involve the politician in that period has protested by a huge crowd of people, from when he took the forms of vying for the presidency in Dar es Salaam to the meetings that was introduced in Mbeya, Arusha and Mwanza.
The numbers of people who are coming out in the activities of Lowassa, whether it is by protesting or attending meetings, it has made great hopes that the way the former prime minister heading to the State House is white.
In line with the big attendance, several members of CCM have left the ruling party and joined Chadema.
But the big one is to move to some of the leaders "who had names" inside CCM.
That protests and meetings are urging many people, that has no debate.
That the upcoming events of the politician will continue to fill people, it is also not an issue of discussion.
Likewise, there are members and more CCM leaders to follow Lowassa in Chadema as a surprise.
We should not allow us to conclude by sure this time is if you have shifted from that of some of the members of CCM and their leaders to follow them, that Chadema will be interpreted in victory in the next general elections on October 25, approximately two months from now.
Despite the presence of great inspiration about registration in the voter register that has been improved by the technology to store a record on computer (Biometric Voter register (short BVR), until this time the National Electoral Commission has not given the full number of those who registered themselves.
But despite that, there are already signs of errors in BVR's issue where they have been released several reports of those who registered to see their names while doing sure.
The size or the smallness of the errors has not been known as the National Electoral Commission (NEC) has not comment on the issue.
Here I will join those two issues above, that is the majority of the people who are coming out in Lowassa's activities and registration exercise BVR.
It comes out to conclude that in large numbers of people who are coming out in the activities of that politician can have its benefit from his party in general, then the first majority of those people, if not all, must be registered to vote.
However, their numbers will remain a history.
But in the experience we have many, registering voting is one issue, succeeding to vote is another issue, and to vote for a certain candidate and the vote to help him is another matter.
I have been talking about the previous articles that one of the biggest benefits to CCM is a biased relationship between him and various public institutions.
And I expect most of your relatives, you have heard the cries of opposition politicians roughly since the start of a multi-party system that those who vote for their votes are punished by the ruling party for the support of public institutions. "
Although all the accusations have continued to remain the allegations, the environmental evidence is heading to signing those accusations.
Personally, I have been following up on the general elections online, particularly on social media.
Recently, I warned Lowassa's fans about their joy as a result of the audience in the public activities that involve that politician.
I reminded me about the previous elections, especially "the speed of (itus Lyatonga) Mrema," the former presidential candidate in the general elections of 1995 through the NCCR-Evolution party, how he used to be popular to fill the mass of people in his meetings, but threatened to have been dropped by the CCM candidate, Benjamin Mkapa.
I also reminded me about the numbers of People that came to the Doctor's campaign meetings.
Doctor Willibrod Slaa, the former presidential candidate on Chadema ticket in the last general elections, in the year 2010, but he fails to meet the CCM candidate, Jakaya Kikwete.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
