Tibet news when women from all nations in the world celebrated their holiday, Hans have continued to be different to women living in the villages due to lack of enough understanding.
That education is given to various groups in their hearts and the people living in the city have not given priority
Due to various challenges that are facing them, however, despite the laws mentioned to oppose the woman Kenyatta, the bull system has continued to make various opportunities including the right to live despite us in the province.
Busega District in the province Simiyu commended us as the way it is to inform these were in Mwanza province but in the province of Busega in Busega district announcing some of the challenges facing women especially living in the villages.
Women's day in the world is sometimes celebrated in the world amid various challenges mentioned to be an obstacle to save a woman against injustice.
Earlier this morning are expected to start with various implementation
In the middle of the village of nyamikoma in Busega district in Simiyu Province.
Various activities are going on on the shores of the largest if it is an aluminy can make people of age and gender are doing this business for their income.
To a large extent who are self-employed here is a big group of women that despite running their daily lives, lt; unk, gt; they admit to know the women's day in the world even though the village is to be evicted
Until the end, you are going to the city, while the village is not going to take part in our responsibilities we are women because we are nights the government really makes this so much, we need to talk with us women
Miraji we want to bring us to the children projects, we do not have all the loans
Public service
We would like to do it.
Technical know how we can understand.
But I have seen you to explain to know the rights of a woman
And not we can
In the middle of the crowd seems to be a mother today a cow while in his daily activities including this mother is also a guardian of the entertainment group and mobilization of political songs.
Let them look again.
Barren
And Old Trafford sitting next to the residents of Tanga, it was noted
That after six candidates:
Those who don't have to ask about the things that I have made on their side are able to use a living life.
Women and women
Mainstream we have elected us when I have never seen him again when I came back to come.
A long time inside saying to me, my people that I have never seen.
A group or we were surprised when the day brings about the importance of protecting the rights of women and gender equality, those rights are not being made when it increased the big wave of the elderly people who is involved with faith in witchcraft and other things we are and when you get there for example, maybe someone is being viewed, maybe someone is being viewed by a speaker going to take food directly to the eyes have not been the Commonwealth.
We go through firewood where our eyes are the red shirts we are told we are witches we are causing bad things
The social welfare officer in Busega district sees a violation of human rights including the rights of women to be implemented as required if the community will get enough education on the side of the government not to know where they were allocated or all the people we are going to be there today to teach the children to sit down so that it can create but if we teach how much they were asked to have them, although others have been expelled from their faith to find out.
Ehr I can't be with.
The commemoration of the women's day in the world takes place on March eight every year for this year was commemorated nationally in Morogoro Province in a slogan that says empowering women implementing while it is now called the rastatt recently.
