Nokia phone, a single one
You put it one day
You will get another free day for his part, the director of Nokia Company, Samson Majwala said that those phones are aiming for the people of every income and easy to use the long walk.
Two July is being sold for phone lines every time that there is a must that socialism is within and the other is outside the time for customers who have two lines will have the ability to use the phone is open from the time of the person died of Next year.
Serengeti beer company, details has announced two winners of a motorcycle and a motorcycle in its tenth draw with one of the traits that are not under arrest.
Those winners have been found through the draw that was played yesterday at the Serengeti beer manager, Allan chtuned in front of the representative from the board of aming in the country.
Mwita
Manyara to the age of twenty-three, a resident of a school in Mwanza Province who is a student of the teaching college, has won a gift of another energetic gift that has also been traumatized that this has given why our three offices that Serengeti is looking for.
And how to participate is that all the ten and eight-year-old projects are reduced to the problem being checked under a threshold, looking for a free character or they will be able to make a number of messages he said.
He is posting those procedures to the number one third one seven and he can win
Cash
Equal to adopt
In the draw, a small entrepreneur from Morogoro Province, Innocent statements aged twenty-five years he was lucky to win a motorcycle gift.
Speaking soon after the draw, he has called on the citizens of more than ten years to continue participating in that promotion since it can uplift the economy.
I reported from the house of love Msuya of ten.
And the Airtel mobile phone company has launched a new service known by the name of a balance if its efforts in fulfilling the intention of continuing to provide freedom to speak to its customers in the country, Said declined.
Airtel Relations Manager Jackson Bana
He told journalists in the city of Dar es Salaam that the balance will enable all Airtel customers to borrow a small balance and pay for a small cost by sending the word balance to one five four.
The service that enables any EPA customer is a bad style to the nation.
It goes down
You pay a little that you are talking more different from the others it is that you are paying a lot of money to buy a lot of money you are talking about, we were the same people, it is not yeah, through its Airtel money service which enables entrepreneurs to invest in its agents in the country by getting two times in June up to July for any transaction that will go.
From the film
Said the pair
Your party
