"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Do you meet the challenges of upbringing and you don't know where to start?
J uma this has been the presence of many major events in the field of child care in our country.
Because it was an event to launch a five-year Government plan in custody for women and children.
This plan shows how it is encouraging to help the parents in implementing their responsibility of raising and giving them their children's needs.
In this article, we will reflect on how you can use the government agencies to help you if you meet the challenges of upbringing.
If the co-parent has abandoned the child and refused to provide services to a child, although his ability.
This is a crime and faced with it go to the community welfare offices, gender desk and children at the police station or give information at the local government offices / village.
The child law gives the authority of 'guidance' of all the all councils of the district, towns and cities.
This means that health services, education and welfare of children in general are under the supervision of these councils.
This includes taking appropriate measures to parents who do not want to fulfill their responsibilities of providing basic services to children including food, accommodation and clothing.
Orphaned children unless support of family members are preparing.
District councils, towns and cities are supposed to set aside money for what?
The Child's law is being read together with the education law gives the following instructions about strokes.
Although the strokes in school is allowed to be legal here in Tanzania, the purpose of Morocco (according to the law) is not to defend the child but to help them make corrections.
That during the provision of these punishment, the child is being treated or in Kiganja (often girls) or matched and dressed in her clothes.
Now if a child has been published on the head, on the back and other parts except those mentioned (cell and in the past), it is a crime.
The reality of things in helping children living in difficult environments including orphans, children with disabilities, etc.
Therefore, the community community, when you meet the orphaned children and he was not getting basic services for lack of support from brothers and family members.
You can give a report to the local government offices or to the social welfare officer so that the child gets his agrees.
If your child has been operated on at home, in school or elsewhere.
Statistics show that one of the three girls here in Tanzania are operated on sexual violence before attaining 18 years.
In seven children, one of them suffer sexual acts before attaining 18 years.
Worse than these actions happen more in our houses and in school where it is expected to be a safe place for the child to live.
It unveiled a child that will undergo these actions, please give a report to the social welfare officer, gender desk and children or call 116 numbers without payments to get professional advice.
If they are in schools in many parts of our country is different from the requirements of the law and the existing guidelines.
We have no intention to obey the law without deadly and many of us have not given time to understand the laws and procedures that protect the interests of our children.
These reports are in every corner and especially on the internet.
Start procedures by reading the law of a child which is now available in Swahili language in order to be in a better position to bring your child.
Good Sunday!
In the opinion and advice to call the number 116, which is special for child services in the country.
This service will not pose payments from all networks in the country.
Also you can see us through our Facebook page: Speak Tanzania, Twitter: @ Semhar and @ sematabia.org
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
