"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Christianity is surprised by Van Persie, you'll see Kiprotich Aug 22, 2012
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The big news of the games last week, was the issue of transfer of a player Robin Van Persie to Manchester United from Arsenal.
The media have written that the salary of that player for a week will be about 500 million shillings in Tanzania.
'It's a lot of money, most of them.
However, in a neighboring country of us, Uganda, our colleague has been rich because of a one-day job.
Called Stephen Kiprotich, the National scientist who won gold medals in the Marathon race of the Olympic championships this year.
Until yesterday, I hear that he had been contributed by stakeholders and various companies an amount of approximately 500 million shillings in Tanzania.
In short, the amount that Van Persie will take a sweat in the whole week, Kiprotich has got it for one day.
Again, he was just running away.
She is ganged.
She is "unbeaten" by fans and more, he has got the money serving his nation and not a club where it is working is not in love but simply for livelihood.
Next week, Van Persie will take over 500 million shillings.
Kiprotich will have to ASUBIRI to other competitions.
If he succeeded, already President Yoweri Museveni has promised that his government will be giving 400,000 dollars to every player who will bring development to his country in a big tournament.
The point that I want to protect you today is that there is a lot of money in the sports sector like each one of us implementing its responsibilities.
If our nation has ended up in the Olympic championships, the reasons for failing that cannot be Filbert Bayi or the National Olympic Committee (TOC) only.
That cause cannot be Selemani Nyambui and the Athletics Association of Tanzania.
The reason cannot Makore a poet with the Tanzania Boxing Federation.
Even our media is also part of the problem.
I do not believe in Tanzania to miss one writer in the Olympic championships that took place in London, England this year.
Even if Tanzania had only seven athletes in the tournament, it was still at least one vessel to report what is going on and can also learn why Ethiopia, Kenya and Uganda have left away from games while they were behind our past.
Our media remain online.
And that's why, I was surprised that one day the journalist asked the question Bayi a question that why the team is doing in Kibaha in summer when Britain is cold.
It showed clear that the writer, again a great writer, did not know that this is during the summer in Europe and that is even the Olympic tournament was recognized as the summer Olympics.
But, if the writer has never been travelling or not taken to the competition, will they identify these things?
This is the geography but it is a must to be better.
Today, our media does not report about the money he is in Kiprotich.
The way he was sleeping and woke up rich because of doing well in athletics.
Youths who want to be athletes are inspired by the success of Kiprotich.
The fact that contributions for this scientist was created and driven by the Ugandan government newspaper of New Vision.
I haven't seen our media reporting that this year, a scientist who brought a lot of money in the world is the Jamaica artist, Usain Bolt.
That until he died last year, Kenyan blogger, Samuel Wanjiru, had already got a gift of more than one million and a half dollars (approximately two and a half billion shillings), in a period of three years!
All of us are talking about big salaries of the only ones.
We forget that people can be angry for playing many other games.
Manny Pacquiao (Pacman) has changed the street that he left in Manila, Philipines, because of the money he got in the boxing game.
It is impossible that Tanzania has threatened athletes.
This is a nation that has created high level athletes such as Bayi, Nyambui, Titus Simba, Habib Kinyogoli, Mwinga Mwanjala, Nzaeli Kyomo and others.
I have faith that are there, so many.
The problem is that we all want to criticize or we would like to be in the blame position but not to take appropriate measures.
Our government is threatening to give a flag when the team wants to leave the gains.
Uganda have promised to give 600 million shillings for every medal.
We are just a flag!
It is a must for the government to appreciate and make enough investment in sports.
It is a must that all the games that can be played here in the country to be played by children to stop.
Three weeks ago, Uganda has got its first champion in the Chess game since it got Uhuru.
Who plays for Chess here in Tanzania?
Anatoly Kasparov, a former champion in the World, made a lot of money because of the game only.
We are here being cursed by Chess is not known.
Our nation has remained only soccer.
Every day soccer.
Every week soccer.
Every year soccer.
We cannot go to this way but it is a must for the government to take appropriate measures to keep the same sector.
When we got the protich, Bolt, Wanjiru, and Pacman, our country will change.
These wealthy people and the economy will go round.
And those living because of the strength of the economy of these athletes, they will respect sports.
Bayan is accused of everyone because of doing badly for our Nation.
But, I request to ask, what is another person who uses a lot of time in promoting athletics here in Tanzania more?
How does the government do to get better athletes?
How do the media do to make people get more than soccer games?
If the journalist doesn't know that this tournament is Summer Olympics, he will give you a normal boy to go to be a scientist?
If Bayi and Nyambui argue as if they are the biggest sports problem here in the country, who would want to be a scientist?
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
