Yet the revelations of her sister is thinking:
It is a woman who today is proud of the great success as it was able to see for quickly, this mother has managed to grow up with the house they had been hit two.
He knows what is completely surrounded by a great Garden
But he has livestock
Cows
Goats
And duck eating
He also recalls that he had a bedroom but only the workers have lost it.
And he has a big children to ensure that one of these houses are made to be the biggest nuisance to receive the whites who are coming from.
To do tour
In our country of Tanzania?
Great success, maybe I tell you that it is a woman who started to wish but the very common mother is a mother who had been employed.
Post and phone as he said and after eating a salary is not enough to start working with entrepreneurship, Mdwony started posting a house of his normal house which he was living.
Today
Even the plot and he has succeeded in a huge amount we are waiting for?
Ye has two heads with a lot of legs more than you have no more legs.
But it is a very common human being if you have talked about very basic things.
We said it as a topic
Which is a place where most of us lose, but it is.
Things need to change in praising the business displine
The discipline in business as well as you see that there is nothing to ask for you to follow up, you can work today tomorrow, the sister didn't do so in the morning, woke up in the morning at the stalls and you've ever worked today, another discipline in the use is not getting a small thing to you, you can never be.
He has listed a lot of things I think and you were keen to listen to them so that you can be able to work on your side and you will be able to move forward, we congratulate you so much so that you can be able to make changes in the economy, that is why we say that our ones have a lot of economic changes that we expect from you so much and to look at our period and if we are saying now we will help those who do.
They want to try and want us to try a little that we will give them if you know our first part is for the small business people and we know if you can make a small business then even if you do not want a big business that we do not start with a little bit because of we aim many Tanzanians who are crying because they don't have capital now you think that twenty years you can produce as I said, please write us
And tell us an analysis will you use in our number.
And then we will communicate with you, you will be the side of writing a positive analysis.
I was confused that it will be our first to step down because our aim is to help people cannot move forward, trying to write your new analysis was Mark you can now come to try and let us see that you can and believe that if you put the intention you will be able to do so, please stay.
Procedures that have been put in terms of writing the process of your analysis and be able to use them.
The criteria and conditions will be considered so much to meet next week
