"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Entrepreneurship groups are an opportunity for low-income earners in recent years, there has been an increase in small groups that involve agricultural entrepreneurs, rearing and different businesses.
These groups are an opportunity for members to reach the goals that for one person.
The union of these entrepreneurs has been the source of education and expertise of modern skills in rearing, agriculture, small businesses and sustainable economy.
It is easy for the group members to look for education and different skills as a result of their needs that will help to increase production and get into the competitive economy that will benefit many and increase employment.
Also, groups are a way to expand the product market for the members themselves.
What they are required to know, the quality of their products are required to be tested well by the small market around them so as to make the opportunity to reach far.
In the group, it is easy to use a few resources together from the group itself, the government or development partners.
There are time members benefit from various issues like small capital, education and skills of making products.
As a result of their unity it becomes easy to reach many customers together with them to benefit from these existing resources.
Making groups that will go hand in hand with the speed of modern economy, there is a need to recognize their needs of business knowledge that are going on and while considering the business environment that is changing.
These knowledge include financial skills, expanding their products and sustainable entrepreneurship training.
Expanding the relationship and build social networks in order to grow the market and get many stakeholders to work with them.
Here is a chance to meet the government as a general stakeholder in development and other institutions that offer funding and entrepreneurial donations.
This relationship becomes a way for members of the group, one individual, to look for additional markets even outside the country.
A note is to avoid the networks that will destroy the group members and to stop them dead or to take them completely.
To create and improve policies and good laws that will protect the interests of the group and its members by giving guidelines and vision of important things to the group is another issue that needs to be given priority.
The policies and laws should talk about the control of party funds, guidelines to leaders and its members.
We put groups with the basis of the rule of policies and law then we will create equal opportunities and benefit all together with meeting the enthusiasm of development.
Groups look at the possibility of investing in joint projects.
The existence of a group is a way of allowing them to have a joint projects that will be used to produce great capital.
The youth are required to be encouraged to join these groups so as to contribute and achieve the efforts to improve economically.
Hilarious as well as creating a short and long-term plans together with the business plan to carry the picture of the group to achieve its goals, including withstand the difficult environment for implementation of plans.
"The existence of many groups is not a crime, the main thing is to ensure these groups have basic issues that we need to access after fulfilling our responsibility.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
