Thank you so much my house if you think of you, a picture Masele we have participated in the US army has made different activities, let us go, he is on the same side that the army will be celebrated like that day, what the army will remember and what is important to the soldiers and their families by phone like today.
Ehn in a day like today
The faces know Shomari, they are often remember the big struggles that the main people fought and won.
There is a big struggle like what happened to the coast
During the second world war
Ehthere is a big struggle as the struggle has taken place, htt; hes tgt; in Vietnam
So many times and the commission does not remember the people who died in the big struggle that we weren't able though they died but they won the laboratory that you get.
He is really grateful for explaining what things are there but there is something that many have been asking even on the internet you are asking that soldiers who have been accused of serving here in America there are certain things that those sponsors like ordinary people may be maybe in transportation in restaurants maybe maybe in studies, what the soldiers have been serving are getting benefits due to the bad things to the government.
Ehr
We hope there are a lot of things but I will speak a few things.
AHH, for example, and who a span of union call it and what do we try to think the fine word
Liwekama bank
People who retired from the army
Many times, for us that the commission's commission we have had members of the army to ask for loans for example if you want to buy a house I want to buy a car becomes easy for us to get loans when we go to normal banks.
Okay, it is understandable that it is understood very well and also on Sunday I see that when a day like today I feel that there are other things and there are restaurants and restaurants here in America that provides food to those soldiers who were able to be able to give food to soldiers who were able to go through in the US army and as well as picture Masele, you can tell us on the other side where there are various challenges, soldiers and restaurants which are grateful for that way to be able to provide food to soldiers who were able to go through in training to do your work, that is something you can understand that it is facing journalists every time maybe there are many challenges you know.
Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; there are a lot of challenges but
I can say in summary
First challenge
Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; it is hours of work
A lot of people working in offices are doing eight hours for instance, you are home
But we are also in the army
Especially when you are outside the country you can work until twenty-four hours.
So it is normal
Another challenge when you have participated in various struggles and have witnessed many injuries and deaths
They are people who are fellow soldiers and soldiers.
There are other people that farmers are concerned about AHH you can't know what they go to the same events when they go back home they are like they have mental problems.
As a result of things he has witnessed and it's true to say the truth
