The husband
A non-HIV infection with a woman with infections can be able to do sex on women
They can't get AIDS for your question but the sentence is not true because a man meets with a woman who has HIV / AIDS
It depends on that the act of marriage will do with him while there is a possibility that you get HIV / AIDS but not because of it.
Except if they will do that act, when a woman is ready, it was revealed well to make the civilization
To say no injuries
Even if he is doing and there is also a man who can get the disease, but the one is quick if they will have met physical and he has got his skills in Dance has signed up even if five until now there is a big possibility of getting infection.
HIV / AIDS for that news that you do love and putting them
Some are saying that you are sleeping soon after doing that act that they can't get problems.
Or that's what you want to find this infection is not true
It depends on that the act of marriage, I have been called for the do of the doctors, I want to ask this is something that causes the stomach decisions during Eddy's life.
Thank you for your question
Pain
What is happening during menstruation, many researchers have done research and they found that there are different things that can result in but the real situation of the person to hear pain when it is caused by what is still not yet known, and this often you find that there are people getting pain when they are in the place.
Their own
A month without having any error in the reproductive way or you can see where some are getting.
Pain
When they are during their menstruation days with any problem in the reproductive system so it can be seen others are feeling so much that up to that.
The whole body and you have got an error with a person who is looking for blasphemy can make some experts say especially in their age those girls who are less men
Sometimes it may be because of
The psychological problem is that they think that when I get into my last days I would have heard the pain so when it comes to true when he is in his month's days, you find you find a problem in the generation.
Neurozone
It's full
It is full of blood there is true to download Competition in blood vessels
To the extent that
This man is getting a lot of pain and others can also find you, maybe he has a chorus.
Her reproductive system can lead to problems such as these two times when he comes to.
His first days of the month
But many times do not be advised
When a man is with severe pain during his month's days so that he can rest and you are required or not that food is blasphemy and you can contribute to the application of the increase.
So in short, I can answer if these are the actual reason why a person is not yet known, others include the horse of the body such as we call the post Gladys with much more likely to cause problems in your days.
Waitwe stars as long as I request to know the doctor in case?
There was one of the dead people being affected by the ability to get HIV / AIDS, when a person for example is going to give support and you found that there are other people who were already infected.
AIDS does not pass the blood that someone who died is likely to get the infection of the virus.
If you don't use the protection for example to wear gloves, therefore people are advised you like to give support in accidents even if it is the dead bodies, you are still supposed to have a donation in accidents even if you are dead, you are still supposed to have a lot of infections through blood even if someone is successful because he is dead this time so we advise someone I would like to save people in accidents which makes gloves in the diseases including the HIV virus.
Until then
No additional
In this section of ask the doctor
You have.
Evening match
