"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Grahamstown: South African city where the feelings of discrimination is still intense on May 31, 2012, there is a big and clear issue among the mixed communities of South African citizens, the remains of racism.
In everyday life, there are still people who are seeing is satisfactory or Zambians, there are those who claim to cry for Africans and who don't have stories and lives of speculation such as coloureds.
When you meet and trying to see a white man, it is normal to be told that you come from Africa, especially after introducing himself that you are Tanzania, Mozambique, Zimbabwe or any African countries.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
For them, South Africa is not part of Africa, perhaps it's a piece of Europe that fell in this continent!
In Grahamstown, the situation may be apparent.
In this town there is a hall of disko named Rats and Paraguay, (mouse and Kasubi).
Here, those visiting are empty Europeans.
His neighbor is at the Equifrium Hall whose opposite is African (black) and their music is the origin of this continent.
This town which is the headquarters of Makana Municipality, on how it is seen is the same as any other one in Europe in the weather of uberity and built.
But as Zambians seem to be more, they believe that is where to them!
When you end up in the middle of this year and you think it has got a real state of life in this nation that has built after through the rule of racist, you will have ever reached a decision; because things are more than that.
Mister Mbuleli Mpongole said that he is a Xhosa and a host in this area, and his work is taking round the tourists.
Without chew, he says: "If you end here you have a real life situation, the real situation is on Twitter.
But before that, he took to the building that was built for a ship as a memory of honor to the thieves that arrived in Africa for 1800 and their contribution and generations to develop the nation of South Africa.
The Building was opened in 1962.
Perhaps in showing that discrimination is still abandoned, Mister Mpumalanga gives a different translation of this building.
He says: "This is a ship that came with it (mastermind), there is a day we will take them to them.
How come the sea and return to them, we don't know, because we are not calling you! "
But he also points out the Anglican church building that was built for 145 years, due to the fact that Africans were carrying bags and other construction equipment by walking on foot and sometimes bread of being fired by animals from the Indian Ocean.
He blamed that the current government, under Blues, has not stopped revenge and if he would have made it.
He asks why the government should give the same amount of allowance for survival in Europeans and Africans (Blacks), despite the fact that during the Blacks regime, they got half of what they were given to white?
In the Swahili area of Makana, that is where the Blacks live.
The majority of them are rapists.
When I was there, I was trying to connect with the Mwenge area you will be at home in Dar es Salaam, but it is different because while South Africa have been organized.
However, life is hohe doesn't go home.
"Life is poor.
Many of these houses are stalls, but for now the government has developed the housing for the disadvantaged ones.
We called Mandela's houses, later it will be called Mbeki's house and I think that for now they will be called Zuma's house; because everyone gets into his name, "says our host Mpumalanga.
These houses are mixed.
There are those that have been built on the support of the government and it seems beautiful, but there are also iron sheets.
The most popular chapter of these are that almost many have electricity and are striving to have domestic furniture, and sometimes sets on television.
Also, this area is the one where alcohol is indigenous, popularly known as the name of the U.S., huts.
Another twist is that, here is no Mchaga store, all of them are forced to go to buy things in big shops known as malls, even if it is a thigh of chicken and chips.
That situation reminded me of the step of Dar es Salaam and Mwanza to dismiss them.
I wonder; the move was for the benefit of who?
Because this is taking place, the shops of this type (malls) were ongoing to take it to the country.
Ms J.W. Bouser is a lecturer at Nelson Mandela University, located in Port Elizabeth.
He says that in these Swahili areas, there is no peace, and it is not safe to visit.
The situation is visible and the fact that they are rare (Zambians) in such places.
When you enter the bar in these areas, where even the music is beaten, you discovered something else; it is that the bottles of beer here is big for more than those that were used to Tanzania for half a liter (500 mililita).
Here is just three quarters of the liter (780mililita), but in the Europeans, the ability to reach 380, although the price is almost one of the most effective differences.
Lord Vulkie Teyise, in charge of the Tita Memorial Center between Waxhosa and Zambians on April 22, is showing part of this center where Blacks were working in the era of the Muslim thieves.
He says no black was allowed to move there more than those arrested against the rulers.
He says that in those fights, also known as Grahamastown war, Blacks were killed.
During the fight, the leader of Xhosa, Nxele was arrested and later went to prison on Robben Island where he died in prison.
It is in the prison where Nelson Mandela has also been jailed.
In another area of this city that has been built, there are Indians and many of their houses are African.
Mapokela says: "I don't know why these people are volunteering, and their houses have this color.
We are our colors we are trying to show that the father of the city has gone to work in mines, therefore the community gets his wife!
But they don't know what they mean.
They are people to engage with each other! "
But maybe their lives are in this municipality, are those of the macheters (Coloreds).
They are their houses are cold and pieces of iron sheets, and that is where drugs are being sold and dirt ended.
It is poor life and nothing you will be compared to us.
Although there is one high school teacher claims that racism stood in South Africa, and that what remains is just a feeling, but the real situation shows that the sin is still in this country with great development in Africa.
Maybe what to ask or ask is President Jacob Zuma's administration has the strength in running this country, and to take this sin?
But another one is that when you see the poor in this country usually is hohoon, because he does not even have a stir.
The big land has been taken by the rich, and the confusion is that they are buying their needs in the alls with great names.
Do we know that the development we are running for?
I ask that; because we have begun to give land to investors, and we are also dismissing them to allow them to pave way for major foreign investors.
"IT's
"IT's
"IT's
"IT's
