"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Those involved in Zanzibar should be punished by the president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein recently has been warned the people of Zanzibar especially the youths on the danger and the dangers of not respecting the law.
While in Pemba he met with the citizens at the celebrations to commemorate 52 years of Revolution and warned those who broke the law that at the end of the day they will find themselves in trouble.
He said the security agencies and especially the police force did not like to bully people, but it has no patience with people who are wearing the law.
This is a good advice of a parent to the youth and especially as the leader of the country because the law must fail and be respected.
By doing so, the excuse of breaking the law is removed.
If citizens see the law is bad and it's not going to do what is needed is to protect and build arguments to make corrections.
However, we should not forget that the issue of respecting the laws of the country is about every citizen and the guest and they are not expected to get hanged among the big and small, rich and poor or the love of someone to the political party or soccer club.
The problem that is in Zanzibar and which is seen to be engaged or not being given the required weight is to be directed to the existing laws.
This trend has caused some people to feel like Zanzibar, there are people who are on the law and they have the right to take their colleagues at their heads and to make them.
Not one or two or three have heard reports of people in their council of talks being attacked and beaten without reasons.
There are some who were hurt and treated for hospitals and in all the events, there is no even one person who was arrested and held responsible for those crimes.
A list of these kinds of events are long.
Some of the council have been broken down on the excuse of making a garden while others that are near those were not touched.
Here it is alleged that it has been used political will and not the laws of the country.
We all remember several events of Zanzibar journalists being threatened and even beaten.
Also, one radio station located in Unguja Town was attacked by those who are told they are hooligans and arrested, but we have not heard that those crimes were arrested.
When there is a situation like this person is asking, these laws in Zanzibar should be allowed to have a group of certain people and it is permission to be filtered by others?
If he said the law must be allowed, but the need to be for everyone and not someone or a group of people seem to be above the law.
Also, it is important for the law to be seen that they are doing the reasons for the accused of violating the ones held quickly as required by the court.
Here, we must remember that someone remains to be a suspect, anyone who has been sentenced to death as a culprit until he was found guilty by the court.
Therefore, the bail of the suspect in different charges except a few, usually the right of the defendant.
The terms of bail some of the times are given the terms of bail which is the same as telling the defendant not to have the right to get bail.
For example, we heard with the right to put on bail is Serikal servants.
In that sense, the people of Zanzibar have been divided in phins, one of the civil servants and the second payments are those who don't work in the government.
This is not a little right and it is not giving the shape of the good system of law and good governance.
He has been in complaints of existence cases and some people are languishing in prison for years as we heard the investigation is not completed or is on the ground to be completed.
This is encouraging the good governance and inappropriate governance of law enforcement, they denounce this trend by telling us, "Justice delayed is Justice denied," that is the right to be released is the same as not being granted.
In order for the law to make the work intended by the citizens to have faith in the law system, it is a must for justice to be done and there is no abuse by anyone inside and outside the court.
The style of people to have the courage and decide to keep their faces and then screaming is against the law and it is unacceptable.
The explanation that those who do that are hooligans and therefore people should ignore them even when their backs are being sold or their houses were found no logic and it is unacceptable.
In Pemba Island, there was a huge destruction of house arrest, the farms of people being attacked and cloves.
Who's the ones involved?
Many are said about the events and what was witnessed is silence like what happened is small things.
These are saying this and those saying that some of the accusations that are heard is thick and are not being ignored.
It is good to clear the weather and the truth of this issue, it is good to be formed a independent commission, it's not for the people of Zanzibar, to look for the only truth to investigate who was involved.
By doing that is everyone who will have faith that the law of Zanzibar do not discriminate or get married to anyone who broke the eyes on this excuse or what.
While we celebrate the 53 years of the revolution whose aim is to put the state of citizens equal to removing discrimination or injustice of any kind, it is good to make an evaluation on how the laws are working in the islands.
That evaluation should have a broader scope and I'm excited about the law, but even how employment and education positions are being given by the government.
Another thing is the issue of the delivery of the Zanzibar identity cards.
This needs to be monitored in detail and the terms of terms will be able to eliminate complaints about the provision of identity cards.
Among the things that want to be monitored in detail is why up to today thousands of people who and their parents have been born in the Island and have never been out of Zanzibar, they are out of their identity cards?
It is surprising that people rated to Zanzibar in recent years and they do not have the graves of their parents in the Islands, they are amba and have their identity cards and become more people of people who were born and left.
The government thought that there are many people who were given identity cards contrary to the law, but we have not heard even one of them or who have given them responsible.
The time has come for everything to look at all the two of the currency and if possible even in the use of the coin rather than to blame one another.
The writer is a political and community analyst.
Twitter: Sasteki @ gmail.com and comments @ scientanch. corez
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
