"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Users know about Britain's withdrawal of foreign ministers from the founders of the EU, France, Germany, Belgium, Italy and Holland in a Joint session yesterday in Berlin to discuss the legacy of the union after Britain withdrew.
Picture: AFP
This is the first time for a country member to withdraw from the union since the establishment of London, England.
As the European nations continues to reflect on the decision of Britain to vote to withdraw from the union, there has been a few concerns that are controversial.
The main concerns that are being discussed is about what is called critical questions which have begun to be buried in order to determine what could happen in the relationship between England and 27 countries that have been caught in that union.
Now the European Union is in shock and it comes to an area that hasn't done.
There is no member who has ever returned since the establishment of that union and section 50 of the European contract provides a few details.
The following are some of the details about the ongoing incident in the world.
What is the meaning of "Brexit" is short of words that mean the possibility of England to withdraw from within 28 countries that are members of the European Union (EU).
This is the first time for England to run the referendum.
The word 'Brexit' was used as part of following an example of the word "Greater" that was used when Greece was close to the Euro.
A question from the Voters were asked, "it is important that Britain continues to remain a member of the European Union or out of the union?
The question was proposed by the British Electoral Commission and agreed with the Government and the country's Parliament.
Why has happened now: The move was done to complete the requirements of the Confedative Party as promised by the British Prime Minister David Cameron who promised to make a referendum if he would be elected again in the 2015 general elections.
Generally the members of Confedative who are now divided over the membership of the EU for approximately 40 years.
The low-ranking system in general wish to leave the EU while others who alia wish to stay in the community.
The importance of the people who suggest Britain's withdrawal believe will support Britain's independence from the regime that is blocking the success of the creation of employment and allowing the country to choose its laws and business friends.
Pro-British membership activists in a community like any other country will help improve the influence of the world in the issues of army and economic security.
Voters deserve a British citizen of over 18 years is the ones that voted.
This includes citizens in England and in other nations of the Commonwealth.
It will take time to leave the EU law number 50 explains that any country member can withdraw but with several conditions.
One of those conditions is that any process of suicide is completed within two years since the first day of starting that process.
In that period England will continue to be accepted by the contract with the EU laws, but it will not participate in any decision.
The things that will be considered before the departure will start talking about the sections of his departure.
Major issues including things like financial regulations which will still be in the city of London, tax for business and the rights of civilian groups in the European Union.
What are the effects that are seen in Britain's withdrawal?
Some believe his withdrawal will encourage other nations to follow the referendum on their areas.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
