"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The way to cut fuel in the vehicle in Dar es Salaam.
They are thinking of resting their vehicles due to the huge burden on the cost of used, and especially the price of oil which is continuing to rise, while the income is not a shortage.
Some can get into the temptation of buying petrol at an easy price in the streets while its quality has been reduced after retailers take them by confusing the fuel of lights and thus being dangerous to the engines.
While the economic situation is rising, it is difficult for many Tanzanians, who see the government's strategy to restrict the expenditure has affected, the Mwananchi newspaper, a solution to enable you continue to use your vehicle in those environments.
The experts who spoke to our writer have explained several techniques to enable the user to avoid using a lot of fuel when he is running and therefore putting costs for the cost of fuel.
Walk while there is no queue "Car remains in the queue, so the vehicle will play down and therefore use a lot of fuel," said the National Institute of Transportation.
Kyando said the queue is one of the biggest reasons why fuel is used in large numbers and therefore it is important for people walking while there are no traffic vehicles.
He said apart from using large numbers, vehicles also use a lot of fuel in queue due to the use of air conditioning.
He said it is important to shut down the air conditioning in the queue so as to protect oil, "If there is a lot of queues and vehicles have been standing, it is good to find AC and a car.
If the queues is going on, don't use AC, set up screens, because in the queues using more fuel if it will leave AC if it is Shia. "
Such comments were made by taxi driver in Buguruni in Dar es Salaam city, Issa Minister Burhan who is keen in using fuel to make sure he gets profit.
"AC is something I'm looking very much because I use a lot of oil while standing in the queue.
Air conditioning causes the engines to use a lot of energy, but if the speed is not using a lot of fuel, it's okay and if you do not call it.
My benefit is due to the preservation of oil, "said Burhan who made that work for eight years now.
For a long journey, use air conditioning, when it causes oil to be lost in the queues, air conditioning is important for a long journey.
Engineer Kyando said that the casings are open to the wind to be flooded and there were in the past and causing a car to use a big force to go ahead, something that causes many fuel.
Many drivers tend to stop screens during the long journey, believing that sleep is lost when the wind comes to the face.
The drivers' habit, another reason for the loss of oil is the habit of drivers of running a vehicle at a fast speed without the reason and taking over the fuel without a order.
"When you add a speed at the accelations, it is going to the procedures according to the needs of your vehicle at the same time," said Hussein Khalfan, senior director of the AMC who are agents of Nissan.
He said the competitions of the competition takes a lot of fuel due to the drivers taking over the fuel for violence so as to ensure they are using a short time.
"The vehicles of the competition can use a lot of fuel until the whole bank for two hours when the fuel can be used for a journey of 700 kilometers," he said and advised drivers to step down the fuel as the journey continues instead of taking over the violence.
He said in the areas like you, the driver does not need to step down the fuel.
The care of the vehicle Experts also said that the care of the vehicle, which is together with working on service will avoid the big use of oil.
"The creator or the owner is required to do a car to check the engines every period that was outlined in a kilometer.
He is supposed to change the weather because if the air did not know well, it will cause disaster to the engines because it will not have a force and if they force them to regain them, "said Engineer Kyando.
Khalfan said the regular inspection helps make the vehicle stop using a lot of fuel.
"Due to the engines of the vehicle using oxygen (oxygen) to burn oil, it is important to inspect oxygen sensor, air filter which can be completely surrounded by causing dirty oxygen to get into combustion Chamber (where petrol is set to produce the power of crack shaft).
Clean air is very important.
Kagan air cleaner, "said Khalfan.
He said the old vehicles were using carctor but modern vehicles are using Fuel injector so it is good to be elected.
The structure of the vehicle, the vehicle is also important in dealing with the ecause of oil, but that would happen before the owner bought it.
"It is a must that the owner to consider the elections of a broad vehicle in front to avoid the wind power that causes them to use a lot of strength to go ahead," said Engineer Kyando.
"It is required a vehicle when it is running the wind back then without being blocked by the car because there was blocking, they have forced it to use a big force to go ahead and therefore use a lot of fuel."
The heavy cargo of cargo also causes a car to use a big force walking and therefore using a lot of fuel.
He also adds to fuel until it is another reason that makes a car to use a lot of fuel without reasons.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
