"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
You are the referee there is no one year of luck or the one that I have been asked so much like this science to end the year and the other start should not have been there, the situation would have been.
I don't know how the situation would have happened to this period, every person laments life has been difficult.
In our mind, especially us that the lives have transformed us, we believe the year has changed to be good for a certain amount.
In my heart there is some relief.
The body comes with a certain power and a spirit of doing great things.
I remember when it reached October last year, every person who asked him to be told this year the last year.
Another, he told me a year that was divided and it becomes very difficult for him.
Many ask them about 2016 they will tell you not to be heard.
This science helps in psychology because now everyone feels like a strong and new hope.
But will you succeed in continuing with faith?
Still like 360 this year to come to an end, is we waiting again to reach October to start giving excuses for this year that it is no different from the previous year.
Now the story that is in the year 2016 was difficult, if this year things will not stay okay, you know when it comes in October it will help them?
Two years this has been very disturbing to me.
That situation will continue until four and the end will say the administration of President John Magufuli did not like me completely, my life has been very difficult.
Basically until now you will have heard that the game is to change the technique because it appears to speed it will be.
The slogan is now working.
Please don't ask me to do it, I don't know.
For example, my condition is difficult when I don't have the job or the cost of the time I asked me because there was a situation.
Those of dezodcast is going on and one don't exist anymore and they don't see Li for coming back soon.
Here is the foundation is to be able to reach a point of life now used or continue to eat the same thing so that the goals that you have done this year will find one year.
One of our goals do not Even have a better life, now it's doing plans to be implemented (Real Usorganize) depending on the wonders of the number of years.
Usually, 2017 is your lucky year.
Lucky is the mix of dedication and position (opportunity).
Don't expect a space when you are preparing for a miracle.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
