"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Careless clothing housing is possible to be very difficult but that is the truth.
Some women have been concerns not only for men, but even to their fellow women around them.
Equally important to write this topic, this is the habit of some of these women not following their bodies and decided to wear their empty clothes publicly.
Some have been doing that on the excuse of going to and when, despite me, they are still in mind.
Now in those they have gone ahead and make a joke even in the house of worship.
Guys in the fashion issue is good to know that, every place there is his approach to the whites that call him 'dress code'.
The office's clothes is not the same as the one that is born in the bury, or the sbury is not the same as the one that is born in the celebration.
The teachers' clothing is not the same as the doctor.
These things are not limited there, as they go to the homes of worship.
In recent years, there has been a new fashion to make houses for worship as part of the beauty competition especially for women.
Worse, you are putting your children clothing that do not go with a Tanzanian culture.
What the naked clothes you are going on, that is what I want to sign up with the children.
Again in the place of worship.
I Don't know exactly what I want to make it there.
We should be sure that each of us is supposed to be clean in front of God but this cleaning does not live to wear trousers, to stop some sensitive areas outside or wearing a short clothes!
I know that all of you are aware of the special clothing to wear in the house of worship and instead you are intentional.
I think this is us with us and not otherwise.
I understand it is not many who are aware of the dangers of crucking clothes, especially when you go to the holy place like in the habahu of God.
And you don't know you don't dare even one day to wear those clothes.
When I talk about madineahu I think everyone is aware that it is religion especially when I aim.
Among those effects first is to build children who were worried about their creator.
For them, they will follow how you do what you are doing and therefore wear those that are not wrong in the church.
And normally the children will not end there.
Because the action of entering and evaluate the church will take a young man, an issue that will bring the hope to them.
In that logic, there will be no ideas of God again, except that the rule of the devil.
Let me say the truth from my heart that, in this I have no problem with the believers of all religious denominations.
Because they are aware of how to wear while in their places of worship.
They do not know exactly like religious books.
And because they don't have the process of confusion during this service, it is still not a big problem.
In these things that are not wrong, I would like to beat him with a couples especially female.
What I understand me is that you have got different types of training for a period not less than a week before marriage.
A class on good clothing that is good on the day of marriage is one of those trainings.
Surprisingly, on the day of the marriage service, you are coming to him on the shoulder.
Is it forgetting or arrogant?
Let's be afraid of your God.
They have not stopped the house of worship.
When you are not part of the dressing room, it is a personality to meet your imagination with your God.
Therefore, it is not badly getting ready to get in that environment.
Wearing what is acceptable to your God and not otherwise.
This issue of trapped 'fashion Police' on the doors of churches is a shame to the believers and the church in general.
Because it does not tell you in mind, you are your colleague instead of praying, and go on the door to inspect who is wearing a bikini?
Badilla!
You are not afraid of your God, tell you as it was ordered in your religious books, if you need to examples with the workers of the church or masista as they wear, that is the right answer for the dressing room that should be born in your own homes.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
