However, when I was with the entertainment that you will be sacked we continue with the program and we are each other and we will end up with it, we will start with the organization telling them what other people are watching the Tanzanians.
Mym in Swahili:
Or
Tell me the beauty of Swahili is what do you want to learn more in Swahili.
Why do I want to learn in Swahili?
Now I want to learn the language here
AHH isn't another, except English on Twitter lt; hes tgt; there is a student woman
All of her son I'm in Kidata, but English as we see river and bring us the shape of messaging and flowers
This is a tt; hes Twitter gt; the novel is a simple system
One of the ones that do not know if you are very simple, you are also happy that you talk about something else people want to know if you don't have a question to the teachers.
The architect of Swahili is Msome.
Karume did not make it hard when signing up, we want me to start to remember the sarcasm that has shown me.
You will communicate the benefits of the teachers, we don't ignore it, I have not been able to say it's bad if one person wanted to know more about Africa in East Africa
We need to learn that those who wants to know how it will use it.
It will not be encouraged to participate we have a church teachers just to apologize to the child to know that unlike most of the importance in daily life and lives of other people like this Chinese are protesting, then it is good for the people of our family and Swahili as many of the development and many people continue to use their language even the Chinese while this time of development of their own country, which is also Swahili in bringing development to why our language is white.
So much even at the time the bed sheets of afrodera I am in Kibaha secondary school, Walter from the University of Dar es Salaam together with Sharifa Selemani from tears, he has not paid the name of Jesus.
Programs
If you want to see you pink, you can kill me by foi
Request and life
The viewer of the new bottles at Victor Elia, who is also the Benin stop and looking at a good culture but also Swahili language is in which I am teaching I am a way used in different sectors in the next Saturday at 8 o'clock in the morning, we will be again in a period of wars and replica is Wednesday at 5 o'clock in the morning, on behalf of all who collaborated with me and called Flora scientana and a good form of programs like the island.
