Great because your children can make it a capital
If you look at the system of the male system which is going on now in different places for now, for example, the Masai tribe is a capital.
When he is in the stomach they have carried pregnant mmmmm then a man can give a cow to the parent of a woman in a parent who will be born after that birth, a woman is already married.
That father who has already got to take a girl will give a cow to the small village after being insufficient.
Fifteen or ten, the girl is married and the bad after he gets a child who cannot be brought down and it's because he is already a wife of a person to make it feel that poverty is the main cause of not doing what she did as a female child to think of things because they are made to be a business capital
For me, I think the biggest thing here is maybe so that we should put it okay and we can be able to take a point of poverty only because of the critics when it comes to the family but when you are in a family does not discriminate a male child
A female child but I think this is more than maybe to help their colleagues
Saba to help Grace and the majority here is a system for the meaning of that
Our families
You find you for the Tanzanian boy
If someone is understood in the family has attained thirty years old but it is still dependent on the family due to the systems that we become.
It won't be a good environment for youth to prepare to be independent in the economy.
He starts to discover themselves because of the age of ten and eight
Who is recognized by our constitution because of a young man does not include a young man at the family level to prepare themselves as well as that is the biggest problem but second.
There are problems in such a system.
Traditional problems of these traditional problems that there are other people using traditional laws like those you said to sell the unborn child
But we don't lie about poverty as poverty is the criterion to make a girl to reach goals because they can.
I realize that poverty in his ability if he is doing an effort, he can tell me at the other time we do not know this week because we continue to complain about poverty, who is the responsibility of removing poverty even if you know that a big percentage are.
The youth should also contact us.
You see until empowerment
The time they are oppressed, they decide.
You may like us male children
Actually you know
He was able to be there that he didn't have a female child, I can't get to Swahili
Time:
Maybe what is doing for many female youth write about development
To achieve their goals is to look at the differences with the male youth in our many African families who are working for a lot of work in home for example, they are all students going to school but coming out after a female child will find out, but when a young girl remains at home at the end of the day to do the Final.
The things he said is very few but compared to the time he used the youth to read with the girl girl, read:
A young man has spent a lot of time he will reach his goals but the girl's daughter becomes a barrier to him even to achieve his goals.
But I think that if I think they have said that there is a lot of work, tweeting.
In his work
He becomes a young man to read is a boy who can be allowed from home to be able to get to his fellow youth to study but also number one at ten o'clock and two at eleven o'clock in the morning, the boy has made a good environment to achieve its goals than bin.
And where you look at the side even where is education
I am dedicated to a traditional example, we can reach here is just a small mind of the ability that is the ability to provide and
That is caused by my parent, a boy is not a boy, because I know they will be news to go to the kitchen or do a lot of academic things that will help him help
Do a good celebration is supposed to be except for the mother of home there is no need to read, I believe this is how young people know about our topic which was saying
What is donate to a female boy
If it reached its goals and is it here
