"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Poem: On the end of their children Jul 05, 2012
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
If there is an incident that has shaken the nation last week is not a strike of doctors, but it will be kidnapped, tortured by an attempt to murder the leader of that strike Doctor.
Stephen Ulimboka.
Last night, the nation was ready and the beginning of the strike, the doctors found himself in another twist which has now begun to take it.
That, there are people to be among us and people who can do anything to anyone and nothing to prevent it.
Contrary to what has been said by Commander Suleiman Kova and a repeat of President Jakaya Kikwete, that the kidnapping is a new issue and it happened to the "first time" the truth is that it has now begun being normal.
Whether it is the kidnapping of the political environment or intolerance.
In politics we already know three cases that until now the perpetrators are not found.
There is a case of the young man of Ubungo who was abducted last night in Igunga District.
The young man called Mbwana Masoud disappeared in mysterious circumstances.
He had gone to Igunga as one of the lobby of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
It was not known where he is up to a few days later, his body was found abandoned with injuries that showed that the young man was shot down before being killed.
Are there people doing their dirty tactics?
Who will forget the incident of the members of parliament of CHADEMA being attacked on midnight and injured again being alleged in front of the police but nobody was arrested until now?
What people have the courage of attacking members of parliament with swords without having some security behind them?
Who is the security guards?
An attack on the Doctor.
Ulimboka indeed confirms that the phrase of evacuation of a person's meat doesn't go to the academic.
The person has not tasted it, he would want to eat again.
I believe there are people who have already lost this blood of activists and they can't stop.
And because these people seem to qualify in the way of suffering and thinking that we should not expect the wrong people to be left active as it was to the Doctor.
Ulimboka.
This thirst of killing people is not new in our continent, nor the other parts of the world, especially where the leaders have no argument to defend themselves more than using force.
Who will forget about Steve Biko in South Africa?
It's not with him he was an activist who will lead young people to demand their rights to discover themselves who they deserve.
Isn't it that the Cameroonian government saw him as their greatest enemy because he is sharing the minds of the people?
She is not the one who was arrested in the hands of the police after being given a glimpse and suffering?
Who has forgotten that Robert Ouko in Kenya whose body was found has been burnt - again this is getting a minister?
People say the Julius Nyerere regime was a dictatorship.
There is someone who can show someone who was born or a sequel of people whose bodies were hurt by suffering because the government or a group of people had been threatening.
Oscar Kambona, Abdallah Fundheard, Kasanga Tumbo and others of Nyerere's opponents have lived and saw old age!
Is today the youth in this style will see old age?
Or all will have to be in exile to be safe?
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Even if we accept the theory that all these actions (including Arumeru East) are made by hooligans, can we believe in any way that our government is prepared to deal with it?
We have forgotten how the Albinos are being abducted and brutal and how it took time to our government to control those acts?
More than 40 albinos have been killed and all have happened under the leaders of those - Kikwete State House, Mwema, as IGP and Rashid Othman as the head of national security.
Who is thinking that this group will be able to control those acts of kidnapping.
If I say that there is a possibility of other people to be hijacked again and that I'll be looking at or see from what happened and be able to reach a conclusion that we do not have a great ability to deal with these actions?
What has raised more, and it seems that our citizens seem to accept, it is that crime issues are reduced to the commission.
Some were against this since the EPA but now it seems to have been accepted that the crime helped the commission!
But what is annoying more than those who are suspected to be involved are the ones who are ami for the commission!
Isn't we seen in Songea?
We saw Tabora?
But why don't we learn and realize that the country will not be taxed or directed by the commission?
If the commission would lead the country there would be no ministers or various institutions that have been formed to do what the commission could do.
The commission is required to be formed by an independent body, it is impossible, for example, the police will be allowed to participate in crime and then the police should be in the commission especially if the ones being mentioned are top officials of that army.
The commission of that way is the peak of the usion of the leaders.
But the most terrible thing is that if it is true, there are people that are used by others to do things like this and it takes more than one week to the police to think to arrest anyone, then the threat of our national security is bigger than we can think.
Think if it would have been affected by that issue is the minister or head of the province.
Just imagine that one of the famous ministers that he disappeared and his morning was found in Mabahill bin taabani, kang is married and overnight have been married.
Imagine if police and security had been a response that we have shown.
Can it take five days or the creation of the commission?
Truly the response of the president would be like this?
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Or let's go ahead more - imagine who has gone to this way is a child of one of the national executive leaders who is mentioned to have been mentioned in the media or is involved with certain things.
Then he was found in a condition that he's been found in the Doctor.
Ulimboka, this is not the whole country we were told to find those who did that act?
Actually, I think the feelings of some people that "the leader of the hunger strike" would be the same for the great child?
This is a Doctor.
Ulimboka reminds us that the corrupt people are not taboo.
They should be corrupt in the government or outside, they do not know what to do.
And because this is true I assure YOU that this is a Doctor.
It is not the last one.
Little and it will go above.
These who have fun will find themselves and complain.
It should be remembered that witches are killing the children of their colleagues and they will be required to kill them.
And it's like those who like spilling the blood of other people.
The day will come and that of them will be dropped as well.
It is not written in a place that a living in Upanga will die in Upanga?
Not to do it easily and think a Doctor.
Ulimboka kicked off.
If his life will be threatened because of this because he was hurt, then you need to know unless we live in different times.
At times that there is no longer trust and everyone is to praise him even if it is one brother.
It is not the same time to live in a "peace, unity, stability and solidarity."
If they have been able to do this to a famous person like Doctor.
Ulimboka, they can do with anyone else; if they have been able to do a lawsuit, it should be remembered even the people will undergo.
The great thing is to look at the stories they will make sense for several times now the famous story is "was walking with a person's wife."
If people think and believe these statements are provided quickly, then we have a big problem because our killers are sitting on us.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
