Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has said it does not recognize leadership changes within the coastal union of Tanga that is claimed to be done by its final party members that took place recently, UEFA reports that was sent by his spokesperson Boniface Wambura has been in the Coastal Union conflict that was chosen by this club's election meeting that is the one that will continue to work.
National official statistics.
The tournament to go but hafai has been launched in Rwanda where Kampala's team is not all of us have been sent to Mister victory of one goal by zero against what we are from Burundi.
The one
The one in front still continue
Looking at the metal rather than some things
Important without Uganda's team
And the second game was between Rwanda which played a new match.
That's what it comes to reply
Dmittent
Three whereby the first game at eight o'clock in the afternoon
To play with the people of the continent between them.
Another person is between the police and Mister world
The total of twenty beauties are expected to climb the stage in the contest for the model of ten tribes and four in the competition that will take place on Friday at the Escape One hall, then the competitions Innocent Melleck Shirima and the representative of the company that is preparing the beauty competition of Lino agencies the finest speaking about the competition that will give the beauties who will participate in the competition have said.
I believe this year after doing well in the year the previous year, it took the year So Kinondoni we will expect a history that is there for years to go back to the most important thing is that it has been given out in large numbers in the competition.
Tusker project children
Who is prepared for a long time in making sure that he gives various entertainment through uniting that in Swahili, the beauties is prepared not to fight which will leave history in the eyes and ears of Tanzanians, there is good when we get washing different talents where you also know that they pay their patriotism for them as Tanzanians and in that competition has a child and has announced.
To maintain discipline in these two days, but another thing we accept the result?
The judges
Judges of this competition is the miss Tanzania, only three days, he will go to a t-shirt to play two and fourteen days.
The beauties who will participate in the race have won by that and they had this to say
Ehhe will help my parents to help pregnant women himself and children to help with the skills of using drugs or email
My young people who are ten and eight women don't understand if you are not interested in the competition like this, you know the people of faith is gone because or personally so as to help a woman in order to get it.
Staff reasons for singing and singing
It is our home
And brothers I read
It's a calendar even the crops in the world
For pregnancy and AIDS
We started with this disaster
This
And Twitter issues
The games from the oral center of the park showed that he has sacrificed to build a modern playground for Chunya District which will be the game of that state, he has given time with the construction plan of six plots that is expected to be built in the disease which is estimated to be more than twenty million shillings until the year the tenth of the six that all six will be ready for the position he reports more.
As you are saying, the innovator of the construction of the modern stadium of Chunya district, deodatus Kinawiro that the stadium will be built by the citizens of Chunya district, has continued to be seen now the farmer has come out to build a football stadium in the ground, it is not that they are being targeted and they use people who want to show the issues of gender diseases in the game of Chunya village, deodatus Kinnon has continued to ask them to have the heart of volunteering to show the gender of the diseases in the game of Chunya village, deodatus Kinney has continued to ask them to have the heart of volunteering in this field, its cost is eight billion but you know and the citizens themselves there is no government money.
We here are building volunteers for themselves, we see.
