Who is carrying CCM Mbeya town next year?
Oct 11, 2014
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
In the general elections of the year 2010, the Revolutionary Party (CCM) lost Mbeya town region in the same environment that caused the province to fall in the NCCR-Evolution Party, in the general elections of many parties in the year 1995.
Polisya has emerged the winner in the 1995 election after defeating the CCM candidate, late Bruno Mpangala, while Joseph Mbilinyi emerge the winner in the 2010 General Election.
In all the two elections are members of CCM who contributed to their party, being the result of groups resulting from the candidates, where members have been divided while each one is defending its candidate.
Among the reasons mentioned to contribute to the anger of the candidates in that party is together with personal interests, many benefit from candidates, therefore the action of their candidate not to vote in opinion polls are usually only one reason, stop using the eating that they got from their candidate.
However, there is another reason, it is a step by some of the leaders to have their people thus demanding the adoption of the excluded candidates by voters, a step that they get affordable when the "injuries" those political leaders are rated to the second side, the opposition.
Different names are mentioned to vie for that constituency through that party in the year, some include the writer of Business Times, Charles Mwakipesile, who in recent years has been close to the politics of that party in Mbeya region.
However, Mwakipesile refused to confirm that saying the time to announce yet and that right now he has focused on working with the party.
"The time still, I am doing the work of the party," says Mwakipesile, when he was required to speak to him in the list of those who showed the intention of vying for that constituency which is currently one of the main strongholds of CHADEMA in the country.
The member who was in charge of three positions in that party, including the member of the general meeting of CCM - the nation representing Mbeya province, a member of the executive council of CCM Mbeya Region and member of the political committee of that party, in this province.
Others are the former chairman of CHADEMA in Mbeya Rural district and the parliamentary candidate twice in Mbeya Rural constituency, Sambwee Shitambala.
In all the two elections he also participated, he was on the right of the current member of parliament of CCM, Pastor Lackson Mwanjali.
The failure twice for Shitambala, while CHADEMA is believed to have the strength in that constituency against CCM and their candidate, they have caused the division within that party, with some of its leaders and members who accused him openly that he was bought so that he will be bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he was bought so that he
However, Shitambala said he is not ready to put his intention openly saying the time is not appropriate to do so, saying; "I have never announced, I am MNEC, is a party leader, I supervise the ethics of the party."
In addition to confirming, the member says the right time comes to people to know if he will pray for or not, but he cannot stop the citizens not mentioning his name and it is possible because of them (citizens) to believe that he can.
Shitambala right now is a member of the executive council of CCM Mbeya Town, after joining from CHADEMA where he fled from CHADEMA, claiming he is tired of racist politics on the basis of the party's regions.
Among the open discrimination that are outlined by that leader is together with the issue of special seats and how his former party has stopped the youths who are using to announce that party in Mbeya Rural district.
Shitambala notes that he was tired of being affected by the way women in that province were done, and the behavior of hooliganism, violence and distrust.
"The groom lives in a group that is like, I wasn't in the group," notes Shitambala being the first time to talk in detail that gave CHADEMA.
He will not talk about the position of his party in the next general elections, especially in Mbeya town region they lost after he was defeated by CHADEMA in the previous elections.
"Basically CCM is the ones that voted for CHADEMA candidate, I know that that took place, more than 75 percent of the votes came out of CCM," notes Shitambala.
The description of Shitambala confirms the claims that the presence of leaders and party members of the party to participate in opposing their party being the anger of their candidate being defeated in the referendum.
His explanation get more strength due to the fact that during that time he was the leader of CHADEMA and also their candidate for Mbeya Rural Constituency, it is clear he understands a lot and he knows many who participated in the party in the 2010 elections.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
