"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The big scars were left in Kapedo but peace will benefit from Kapedo in the border of Baringo county and Turas making headlines this year making headlines in the year 2014 after the assailment of shooting and killing 19 soldiers of the regime.
This prompted the government to start being addressed to taking illegal weapons among the breeders in the area where more than 24 guns were sent.
However, despite the security to enhance security in the area, the locals still lack losses while claiming that security officers who were running the activity destroyed their property and traesa the locals who have spoken to the nation today in a tour of the area last week they told them they passed through the hands of the officers during the peak of that activity.
The officers were also looking for guns that were sent from the officers that were killed.
Locals complained that most of the innocent people were killed, their livestock killed by brutal bullets and their shops being stabbed by the officers.
"The government would take action from suspects instead of punishing people who are not guilty.
Many of us are now living in poor environment after our headquarters is spearheaded, "said Mister Natan Loyeleis, host of Chesakam area.
Business people at the Chemolingot business center in Tiaty, are concerned that their businesses have not been resolved after the activity, since their products were stolen and others were burnt by the officers.
Mister Paul Lotudo, one of the business people, says that he lost more than 700,000 shillings during that operation after his overall store was reduced.
"We were surprised how legitimate business such as these are being used by the theft of livestock.
The operation that it had been the economy of the Pok community he said.
The locals said that the return to the area lak that the peace of Tm if the ones that lost the stations are overwhelmed so as to renew it.
Mr Napang'ole Lukwaso business of livestock in the gullaby says that he was 2 million shillings during ope according to the Ribkwo / Kositei, the officers voted in the ninth and created 240 more than 50 shops at the time.
He mentioned the areas that were killed such as Che Naudo, Rio'o, Chesitet, Akbutatis while madu Buholingot and Nginyan "why all our livestock have decided to live with our neighbors but oper affected a lot from the economy is livestock," said Mister Here's President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kapedo after the flowers ordered that operation "I'm here today for the officers who were the most of the names of those who killed the officers.
The government is here and stern measures will be taken to those who broke the law, "said Mister Kenyatta who is seen with anger.
Most of the pollution reports, theft and torture of the hosts emerged for the first time, the former inspector general of police David Kimaiyo claimed that the animals were killed following a shot of bullets between security officers and assailants of Pokot.
The KDF who accused the operation also denied the claims of their officers being involved in the violence despite complaints.
In a press release at the time, KDF denied claiming that his officers had already left the areas mentioned where theft and suffering were reported.
The locals also complained that the officers left them in the area which they said they recently killed three children who were caught up on livestock.
The 19 officers who were killed were heading to the process of carrying a car that had been burnt in the incident earlier in the area of the departments near Kapedo.
The security situation for now has been strengthened in Kapedo area following many months of peaceful meetings led by leaders and athletes from the Ufa Valley.
The investigation conducted by the National Today in the region noted that the Tunisian communities as they live on the same way are now living with a tweet @ ke.nationmedia.com
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
