Specialist doctors at Muhumbili National Hospital has met and held a meeting with the executive director of that hospital, guarantee Marina Njanced to sell us together with other things to strike some of the doctors who are going on in the hospital and formed a special committee for the purpose of meeting with Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, on the left Knowledge has organized the following report.
Muhumbili National policy arriving here to meet with the management of the hospital to discuss several issues including the ongoing strike in the hospital.
In that meeting that journalists were not required to participate in the hall for approximately three hours where these doctors came from journalists to get what was being discussed inside the meeting with patience, I got an opportunity to visit the emergency services unit at Muhimbili National Hospital where doctors from the army of the citizens of Tanzania, Tanzania, Tanzania, Tanzania and Tanzania.
I also managed to pass through some hospitals and get opinions from some of the patients in Tanga.
Shamin Khan work to tell us once the service is not mentioned.
Why UDOM they get that ahead of your minute
Take a take into consideration that they are going to be punished, I don't know
Let's go, we continue to suffer just and let us explain us.
Twitter lt; unk, gt; the statement begins with the doctors who came out to advise that they should have a heart of patriotism for the reason?
Actually, there is a conflict but wahenga is saying that there is no long time without the object, I think this will end up to the end, because Aligaesha is a spokesperson of the National Hospital on Muhumbili National Hospital to know what was caused by specialist doctors and leadership of Muhumbili National Hospital.
The executive director saw that it is good for Pakistan.
Specialist doctors and doctors
Taken to Muhumbili
Education to talk just a few things about this.
And he had to get a good opportunity to talk to them
So the son is good for the meeting to be at least.
In order to see what they are with.
What is it?
Truly our soldier of the exhibition of suggested that truly a good story
And it's not flattering.
So why they saw it best to stay on the table with the government
There are ways that you can solve the conflict so that more activities in the normal state today to improve and let us work as usual while refusing to now get eggs and patients continuing to wait for services although the number of patients appeared to be not normal
At the same time, the party of the employees of the central government and health TUGHE has issued a statement urging the government to hold talks with the chosen committee of doctors and nurses so as to end the differences.
And aurora Uledi Mussa
