"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The rights of reproductive rights in the law of work in Tanzania here in the rights of reproductive rights is the right that enables a woman to fulfill his responsibilities of sell and to fulfill its responsibilities of reproductive health and to work or to produce without being discriminated against or losing employment.
The reproductive holiday is one of the rights of reproductive rights, the mother and father a time to provide important care to the child in the first months of his life, including showing them.
There is also an employee's holiday with an employee to rest and therefore help his body back to health and normal condition after giving birth.
In that logic, it is important for the employer and an employee to understand the rights and responsibilities in the implementation of the law.
Give a report.
An employee is supposed to bring him his employer the intention of taking a maternity leave at least three months before the date of the speculation of giving birth while adding an illustration of the doctor on pregnancy.
The reproductive holiday can be taken four weeks before giving birth or early, if there is a confirmation of the doctor that it is important to do so for the health of the mother or child.
The mother has the right to be given a wedding holiday not less than 84 days of payment.
Also, who gave birth to a more than one child (twins or more) is supposed to be given a 100 days holiday for payment.
If a child is dead.
A woman has the right to be given a 84-day reproductive holiday with payments if her child will die in a period of one year since birth.
However, the employer is supposed to give an employee an employee of only four days of birth in the whole employment period.
When will they go to work.
An employee is not allowed to go back to work in the first six weeks since giving birth except when he will be allowed to do so by the doctor.
He also comes back to work, a mother has shown the right to be given two hours a day during the work of his child.
To work tonight.
A pregnant woman and a mother has shown not to work on night from two months before and after giving birth, or any time he shows him for the doctor's certificate, which explains that his condition does not allow him to work overnight.
The mother's holiday is an employee.
The employment law gives a holiday of not less than three days worth the father of a child who was born.
That those days should be taken during the first one week since the birth of a child.
Normally the 3-day holiday is usually given immediately in circulation of a year without caring about the number of children who will be born in that period.
I mean the holiday comes from once every year even if the father has the children they are getting more than once in the relevant year.
The holiday gives the father a chance to serve the mother and child, to help the mother to build a good foundation of making a child and also look for the needs of the family.
The father of a child who was born can also be given at least 4 days of payment, at the time of being raped by the child, the death of a child or the death of his partner.
The 4-day holiday is usually given immediately in the second holiday of the year, regardless of the number of events that came out in that period.
However, the employer can approve an employee to take more days without payments according to the problem he got.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
