It is our
But most of the teachers in the call have lost
Instead, they are looking for that teaching is work
Because someone has graduated from grade four.
He has not reached the level of success of going to join form five and six studies, he is deciding that because I have followed up in form five and six months I can go to the teaching college to learn so I can get the job because he becomes a call for that mi nasoma but I would like to write in this teaching call.
And then
This call for teachers
Four
Being misled by some of the people that teaching is a hard work, therefore it has maintained some of the people who are not involved in it.
Twitter so that it has been their great job but the people who actually fall within their hearts as mi I need to go to be a very few teachers.
I am asking only to say that teaching work is a call like other calls but only.
People are changing yesterday that teaching is a job like any other job, even trying to make sure that they can get his own interests and instead it is not that she needs to teach the children not to do with the group of people who do not know how to read about this issue in preparation for the students who started working in the past eight years, you find a lot of books but it's really difficult to prepare for students who were registered to do a national exams again, I think that's why they are given a lot of work so that it is very difficult to prepare the students that were registered to do a national exams again, I think that's why they are being given.
And we know what should be done for breakfast that the level of education is not enough.
What I see the government needs
Whether it should place it as give permission to a few people, So every writer is required to start his book as a book of textbooks is used to be introduced to the whole country.
And it's not that every school has its own book which can use because we look at the exam, it is the whole nation they are doing one exam and you are not even though you are coming from a book so that some of the students who are due to the changing of those books, I have used another book of maybe Oct reports the exams are supported in the company Limited so that the government is required to look at all journalists who are involved in organizing a book of textbooks not to be used by something that is something that is not the whole then to be understood.
I see it here for the government to create a environment that is a friend
For
A environment that is a friend to teachers and student
For the purpose to be able to overcome this problem is good for the government as it is looking at
The problem is there.
The environment for example, I consider there are many primary schools in there, you find maybe the day has launched and the wind
That, as the class remains open for a long time, the government has not been renovated when the students and when it comes to seven hours, it needs that in the period and fail to stay in the classroom, a student needs to go home.
In order to be a mystery now in Tabora, what should be done?
First thing
The government
Do not have a good plan about the education sector
First thing
Like there?
Minister that is heard of power
I must look at first in the past followed, I don't know how to change it for example now there is a procedure
This afternoon up to seven hours their partners with hiding
It does not bother him
The student skills because what will happen if the calculations
Now in the AHH we don't have the way it seems to be doing So the answer should be found not now they are told to be hiding in the answer the money is given, is a student who is credited when he gets to learn what and you have heard about the scholars who are alleged to be teachers here in the country and be able to pass it down here.
This is now an opportunity for my analysis to you, you know what will happen to raise the level.
For me I see her.
