"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Reading, reading again is the life of the journalist to the journalist, class one was arrested.
Archives don't know Kufuli.
Students don't go on holiday.
The teachers didn't wait.
To ask and the response is the style of life.
Reading is like a awa!
Studying for a new one.
Reminding me so that not to forget.
Asking for more knowledge.
To take it more so as to fill the treasure of knowledge, skills and techniques.
Seeking to remain professional.
December 2016 was a month to help or enable the Citizen Communications Limited (MCL) to prepare for a lot of work and better for the year 2017.
This time, that led the preparation of the journalists was MCL Relations Manager.
In the middle of December, before many don't have to go to "eat the holiday," he tweeted and handed over to every writer.
It was this: You received a writing.
Sign a sign that has got.
You leave it.
You need to read carefully and use its content to prepare news by considering the criteria and conditions.
Write this is a list of instructions, and at the same time, the criteria for testing the work of the writer to write and edit what he wants to be a news.
This list is important to the writer.
He can use asking questions, research and react.
It is this list which the relations manager of MCL, refused to journalists so that everyone should have the same instructions about finding information and respect them so that they can be news.
Given instructions and evaluation during the last holidays and the beginning of the year; they aim to tell the journalists not to forget them in celebration and forget them; but remain at work, imagination and testing their minds and their hands.
Let's look at the list they were given to the journalists.
Here he will not follow the flow of numbers.
We shall go through punch.
Andry wants a writer to ask whether the reports have come with weight and the value of being the news.
Not enough, then continue to collect information and organizing the news.
What the writer has written and it's called, it is answering all important questions - what is happening or has happened, about who or what, where, where and why?
Andlive wants you to show the importance of what you write and give answers to the high profile questions; for example, about the main characters, who benefit, the poor benefit from what they report.
The writer is supposed to ensure that what he has written in a special context and its history is understandable so that the readers can be able to unite the events even to predicted the following.
All of this involve the writer and journalism.
If there is a place where the writer is not putting it; then do not specify it or give me a writer to me; or not to wait for the recovery of the necessary information to make it news.
The list of instructions and criteria is asking if it has shown all the information to prove what you write; it is asking if it has shown a list of the sources of information - people or control and if you have struggled to ask the perpetrators or all stakeholders in the issue that they reported.
For many years there has been a problem of journalists to say and believe that there are two sides in everything; every issue.
This is not true.
Neither is there four sides "like the world."
Each issue has a lot of sides as it is looking for the information he produces.
The husband was in trouble with his wife, not only those involved in the fight.
There is a neighbor who decided; the wanjia who witnessed the fight started; a child who remember the fight started yesterday or the day before yesterday; a delegate who remembers him in front of him in the street office and one of them broke the offense; the neighbors who go to sleep with noise-related noise.
It is not enough to ask two people and put in the pocket that the work is over.
There are many sides.
The list of instructions and criteria that are celebrating daily, is one of the guidelines for the media that are under Nation Media Group (NMG) including MC.
Stay away: You have mentioned other sources of information so that you write to be misunderstood?
How have you put your story to a special audience and it is not a jumper?
Your readers do not have important questions which you answer?
What are you writing is true?
Unfortunately?
It is understandable - language?
You are reading your work and to clarify before going to it to be the news?
The writer is the social media editor of Mwananchi Communications Limited, publication of The Citizen, the newspaper newspapers and this.
In questions and concerns about the media, contacted by the phone: 0713614872 or 0763670229; e-Mail: A stable @ ioo.com or nicambwage @ tz.nationmedia.com
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
