CCM will be history with this nonsense Dec 30, 2015
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Last week I said that it is impossible to have a political party that wants the consent to lead the poor people then it should be running as a rich party.
For a long time now CCM has been running its political issues as it does not know the importance of those who are led or who got consent to rule.
The party that has decided to leave his ideology of liberation and loss of ideology, it will not be able to continue doing so, because those who decide whether or not to be in power is the last decision.
For several years there has been a tension in the ruling party about what is needed to happen in every aspect to be political, economic or social.
The tension that was there and which will still continue the existence of the situation that we witnessed in the general election campaigns that brought him to power the fifth term government of Doctor John Magufuli.
No doubt, even a little that the ones who call themselves blood members are aware of that and they have already made an evaluation to know why the party whose candidate was winning for a landslide in the past years suddenly, getting a 58 percent victory which is a sign of the collapse of the party's popularity.
There is no doubt that the technique that he used Doctor Magufuli during the campaign to market himself without leaning against his party was good and invented with political professionalism.
I know there are some who will not be impressed by the fact that it had the candidate that he was presenting himself as him but the truth, you will discover the truth and that is when that candidate will emerge with victory.
After that victory, one issue is very clear and very important to CCM, it is that after that happened?
Is the party a nanny to stay silent and pretending that it doesn't know what happened?
What has happened to what happened now, which way is right to assured them to remain in power as the ruling party in the coming elections?
Evaluation of the situation with the expectations of the party in the future is an important thing that should be done by calm heads without papara or mage.
It should be remembered that CCM before the system of many political parties to be returned here in the country was the party.
The meaning of the party is a political system which the party is not only one in the politics of the concerned country.
That party is what we stand by the government to implement the policies that are derived from the ideology of the party.
The party does not have the last term in every issue of political and social life in the concerned country.
Nothing is being done by the government that the party has not accepted.
That administration system made sure that the party has a strong and great ability to even continue the government in every sector and that is the reason they were formed secretariat of various economic, security, money etc.
The secretary of the secretary were the main units of the party that we can compare with what is known as the day of the day to open up (think tanks).
These are teams that are made by experts who have great ability to enact policies that are taken to government officials to resolve them in actions.
The party to hold the power of government leadership means that nothing has not been given the blessings of the party that can be implemented in the country.
That is how the situation was before the political reforms of our country in ninety years and for sure the conclusion was in the amendments of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania which agreed to be returned to the political system of many parties here in the country.
It is clear that CCM was not prepared to enter the political system of many parties and its results are that many things done to be done just without a good procedure that would be assured of even in the political competition.
The party which had the ideology that is in charge of the interests of the weak, farmers and the workers is to be released on the hands of the pari-colonial agents.
That took place in an environment in which the international paramedics had been united around the world and there was every kind of pressure to make sure the political parties of the left-wing political parties as it was the Party of Revolution are telling the orders and run their minds.
CCM still got a lot of application in a very basic thing that is ideology.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
