"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Our minds were blocked, then keys lost to Aug 15, 2012
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"Let's go back and who was born with him," died. "
"No, we don't ogwa but I think our movies were blocked, and the keys have land."
Those are some of the statements that begin to take our ears to the ears of Tanzania to discuss the future of the country.
If you hear those statements, you can end laughing and resolve them as a joke.
But you have taken time to reflect, you can join them with those people.
Currently, how can you explain the "wisdom" of the Olympic Committee to fill out more leaders of athletes in the convoy of our representatives in the Olympic competitions of the summer which ended the day before yesterday in London, here in England?
While our colleagues are coming back with several medals, while Ugandans are proud of a gold medal, we have continued to vote on the "reputation" of our being the head of this madness.
But you thought that the decade in our participation in the Olympics, then listen to this "great" from our Parliament we call him "glorious."
Last week, the deputy speaker of parliament, Honorable Job Ndugai explained to the citizens that some of their representatives in parliament (members of parliament) have been getting into the sessions of the legislative body holding alcohol and non-cigarettes.
Before we have gone far to discuss this terrible report is good we remind one another that according to the recent amendments, the honorable members of parliament are paid 11 million shillings per month.
It is important to mention that level so that when we discuss these people to have an understanding that together with the poverty of our country, we have decided to give them their honorable members.
In some way I congratulate the Deputy Speaker Ndugai for bringing up his eyes on the question that I think many citizens have been asking, "why some of the honorable leaders seem to be in parliament while the session continues?"
Online has been full of photos of "butter sleep in parliament" and there are many honorable members who like to change the parliament to be part of sleep.
Some of us saw the pictures of that kind, we tried to make it hope that maybe the honorable members are overwhelmed with sleep because "they are focusing on how to serve their voters, and perhaps the country in general, effectively."
Likewise, Ndugai's statement has helped us give us a light on the contributions of some of the members of parliament that a citizen cannot be blamed for the role of Bongo Star Search for the talent of hits.
Instead, but that's the truth itself, some of the honorable members takes advantage of contributing an argument to show their competence of ceezing, insulting and even devastating.
But what happened in the Job is "advocacy" that, (I quote) "members of parliament are people like other people, they have a habit like the other human beings, there are some who in the way I feel to go to the parliament especially the sessions from the afternoon they have made beer."
First, our lawmakers are not the same as "other People."
It is "other people" how many people are called "honorable"?
And how many are the allowances for fulfilling their duties (despite being paid salary in their positions)?
And it's "some people," how many people are paid, though significantly, they are more informative, blasphemy and other propaganda that do not help a Tanzanian?
Ndugai is not right to claim that members of parliament who visit the parliament are understood "they have a habit like the other human beings."
As a student is not allowed to enter the classroom as I understand.
Even in the drinks "baamedi" is not allowed to get to work.
Now those "human beings like others" tells us the deputy speaker from the planet?
Then for an absentiment is the fact that the deputy speaker is aware that there are members of parliament to go to the parliamentary sessions if they understand but they don't have any steps but he is waiting until he gets a chance to place the issue in an interview with the television station.
This is a weak leader.
Although we can congratulate him for "leaving us the secret of what is happening in parliament" but the bond that he was given is not pointing the finger (in a sense of noting that there are members of parliament, but to take appropriate measures against "criminals".
And it's not like I used the Word "criminals" unfortunately.
Not certainly.
The person who is paid 11 million shillings as a salary of representing a citizen, then he decided to do that representation while he got several beer, or he has stolen a non-cigarette smoking?) or he has given certain things ("flour" -drug abuse?), he does not have a criminal.
It is a robber who causes people to live with problems in order to maintain its interests in the expectation that those interests will bring success in work but he is threatening to implement his responsibilities while having a "profit head" (kit)!
In one of my articles in the past, I put my stand that the largest salaries of our MPs is a robbery in the day.
And now the robbery is proven by the ridiculous of some of the honorable members that ignore the principles of parliament and their responsibilities, and to appear in parliament to understand.
But there is one basic question that every Tanzanian is supposed to ask ourselves, "how did it take a place to some of the parliamentary elections in parliament."
One reader of this magazine, Omary Abdallah, a Tanzanian who lives in Germany, used a message through Facebook that he advised that instead of continuing to blame the bad leaders, we need us to look at our weaknesses that makes us choose leaders not to stand up (for example they drink).
In short, the reader summarizes that the nation has been plagued by fraud and Values.
Back to the parliamentary campaign.
You'll see the candidate "coming from sweat in the body and the evil horses" to destroy the voters how he cares for them.
And in our thinking of thinking, we did not questioning whether the "bitterness" of the candidate is for our interests or his stomach (and maybe "small house").
The results are the ones that we are told they are representing them when they are drinking, smoking or feeding them.
But also, in this form of addicted to some of the members of parliament, I see the income of the honorable members to be among the factors to inform their responsibilities.
In a normal environment, a person who is given a lot of money for his needs can end up doing incredible things.
As the diaspora is witnessing some of the scientists, for example, who are paid millions of money, and there is an appropriate time to show that "bugs" that are done by some of them are caused by plenty of money that do not meet their normal needs.
Additional lawsuits seems to have been met by the public.
While doctors and teachers were told the government does not have money to improve the benefits and the environment of their work, we have not been given basic reasons to increase the salaries of members of parliament who already had huge salaries.
The performance of many of them is not known and even "little" what they were being given before new salaries.
It should be remembered that millions of our members of parliament are the money for the taxpayer who most of them are poor.
There is every reason for not only to condemn "exploitation" but also opposing it all.
Now, as we allow the parliamentary seat to be a direct approach to the wealth, then we will expect to see our elections in front of us and all kinds of folks among those who want to be part of the "project of chap chap" (GET-Rich-quick scheme).
In a normal state, who does not want to be paid at least a few thousand shillings for the sleeping work while you have two three beers in the head?
It's like going to the bar then unpaid.
I request it should be understood that not every member of parliament has its responsibility.
There are a few patriotic artists who recognize their responsibilities.
Some of them have threatened to "adopt" by Kiti's speaker for "violating the rule of Parliament (isomed: To defend the interests of voters in an unprecedented way to the leaders).
These few heroes are brilliant, as they are married out of fulfilling their responsibilities, they are witnessing some of the ones left to continue with sessions when they were sleeping due to a drink, non-cigarette smoking or getting certain things.
I'm hoping for a return to the questions that I quoted in the beginning of this article.
Tumerogwa and who killed him in a ogwa then died, or our minds were shut down?
I request you to reply but your answer should be in the ballot box in the next elections.
Where is there a broad way
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
