"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Zanzibar: Next budget support citizens... Jun 01, 2012
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Every ordinary citizen is going to war.
He is fighting for life.
Every day in Unguja town you will find people who do not have employment to leave the streets or in their house.
The pockets of their rice will be empty with their heads and their minds to find ways of getting next food.
When you go to the farm will find the same situation so that the weakness are facing the citizens.
When you go to Pemba, the things came from it.
In general, many of the people of Zanzibar have remained as they don't know what they should do so that they can get the ways of intimidation.
It is a great exam that you find.
Undoubtedly it is not a visitor in Zanzibar but this close years has been changed.
The responsibility of reducing or closing away it completely is the government and especially it is the minister of finance and his ministry.
The minister gets the opportunity when he presented the government's budget in the House of Representatives.
Next month the Minister of Finance of Zanzibar, Yusuf Omar Mzee, will submit the first budget of the national government in the special sessions of the House of Representatives.
As it is for the budget fees, that will explain the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the government and it will also put strategies to combat poverty, to promote the economy and to bring development in general.
The people of Zanzibar are hoping that the budget will be very different from those in the past decades which have contributed to protecting this current state of Mchafonte economically.
We have already used to the budget when it was presented to the House of Representatives to hear the government that it was introduced as the economy of Zanzibar has been inking and growing.
The government provides its official statistics to try to confirm that.
Sadly, it is that the status of the lives of citizens or are bringing up to the way or to sabotage.
Therefore, the explanation of the growth of the economy are empty stories because it cannot be confirmed.
This is because there is a huge weakness in the collection of independent statistics, that is those that are not given by the government.
The country's finance minister is facing a lot of challenges when he prepared the budget of this year.
The other challenges are short, sometimes for an average period and others for a long time.
First, in a short period of time, he is taking responsibility to address the issue of deficit of government funds.
The remaining challenges, that is those of the average and long time period, of course is to implement the plans that was organized or that will be prepared by the government so as to enable the economy of Zanzibar to get relief and start growing.
The people of Zanzibar know that the future of them is good because the long-term economic growth of the island is good.
They have that belief because they say they will increase investment from outside and they are focusing on the expectations of the creation of independent economic areas.
There are signs or other signs that are also encouraging, like, for example, hope to be found in fuel.
However, it is important that the economic disease affecting the citizens are given medicine in the June budget.
It is important to show that this government's policies do not differentiate between the previous governments, that these policies tend to serve the citizens.
Secondly, it is important that it will be done so that the people of Zanzibar can donate to the future but their economic and social welfare.
If we have already forgotten in this mid-fielder, the National Union needs, again for emergencies, having a "easy food policy" so as to meet the daily needs to enable the citizens to get food.
Other things that need to be investigated and tested keenly is the standards of tax and taxes, transport costs and more taxes twice - and Tanzania Revenue Authority and the Tanzania Revenue Authority.
The people of Zanzibar have the desire to see how their finance minister will be playing political parties about the leadership of the economy.
They have that desire because of the state of things that is right now, that minister has no ability to read that he will know the standards of income tax, customs tax, currency activities and banks, delivery of industries and businesses and the whole issue of the central bank.
He also said that the minister has no way to grab international funds that are provided by institutions like those of the World Bank and the Department of International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The current situation continues to implement it in implementing the long-term plans to boycott the national government's economy.
Neither the government will not be able to bring development in the economy of independent areas.
Indeed, the economic system of free areas is needed for the islands of Unguja and Pemba and not in areas of Fumba and Micheweni alone because Zanzibar is a country with a small area.
In fact, when Zanzibar was with the economy of the independent area, an independent area of the economy was both the two islands and the effectiveness found on the two islands.
Neema spread across the world.
It is important to remind "EM that in the colonial era of Zanzibar, it was insufficient without depending on the colonial state.
Therefore, it was able to donate its social services, it was able to pay the salaries of its workers, building hospitals and secondary schools.
Likewise, the government was able to form the infrastructure that brought him at the same time.
So that it can be able to take all the steps of meaning in the economic and social sectors, and even the political, the government of the national union does not have tricks but to start a quick discussion inside or outside the new constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania that will start being used for five years after being accepted.
The aim of that discussion should be to bring about the authority and the economic and social power of Zanzibar which have been divided for a period of 47 years in the union.
Unfortunately, the coalition government did not use the power to take the whole project in Zanzibar with the flow of economy to its citizens.
The coalition government up to now has been the most active member of parliament whenever this defect is mentioned.
The power of Zanzibar that brought in the union should not be resolved then Zanzibar will not be able to save his economy and the economy will continue to sabotage and even courts.
At the moment the economy of Zanzibar has a lot of irregularities: A large number of people who do not have employment, a large number of people who don't have income to enable them to use money, prices of food, oil and other products.
We must also remember that Tanzania mainland is not a big business partner of Zanzibar as it is in China, for example.
The current situation is that Tanzania mainland is involved or connected to the economy of Zanzibar on the network of law and regulations which are in Zanzibar the ability to control his economy will be.
Therefore, it cannot make a good wall when you want to donate to its social welfare.
Then there is an issue of corruption.
This is a tragedy that the United Nations government has the ability to eliminate and it does not require the excuse of returning to power from the coalition.
Corruption has become a cancer that has spread across Zanzibar and the Minister of Finance must use every way to fight.
There would be reliable and reliable statistics of corruption in the country and how it kills the economy of Zanzibar.
The government claims that Zanzibar's economy is growing by six percent (6%) every year.
Corruption is growing, growing at the same level or more?
In the past Zanzibar did not have corruption as it is now.
This disaster has continued due to the uroho of the government servants, the department that was directed by the government service that has employed several thousands of staff, bureaucracy that have been able to use money that would be used instead of using education and health services and also help the fuel especially in terms of paying the high prices of food.
That's the beginning of the first government of the National Union in Zanzibar, it must prove that it is following the new numbers and not the past.
The people will be waiting for the results of that budget and to look at how it will affect the non-employment, poor and poor poor.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
