"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The translations of a translation is an act of making certain information from the original language written to the language.
The translation is usually with the aim of trying to transfer the message, meaning and all the communication of communication and communication from different languages.
This is not easy even though, and the proof is reditation that a few translations available today in the world, especially mid-mid-fielder, are unprecedented.
So, it seems that in order for a translation to be done in its authenticity, several things must be noted: First, a secret must be made for both the languages, meaning the language and the language is targeted; not in the ability to make a character and pair of communication, but also the ability of emotional and cultural ability.
The ability to make a character is to make a sentence that is correct and it is acceptable in the use of the language itself.
And the communication capacity is for someone to present his idea and understood.
However, sometimes a person can be known in communication although his statement is not correct to a character, the application and culture.
The application's ability is to ensure the use of the language that he uses certain language structure in accordance with the taboo and traditions that are acceptable in certain languages.
Second, if possible, the best to be given to this skills of translations on the basis of interpretations and especially theories.
In addition, the secret should have been going through and heard in different theories and knowing what methods; in which way and what translations is to meet certain translations.
Third, the secret is supposed to understand especially the aim of translating some work so that he can choose the type of translation needed in the implementation of his work.
Four, the secrets will also be able to test the cultural and social space that is among the two languages that they have used.
This is important because there is a great opportunity between the two cultures of those languages, that's when it becomes difficult to get good and real translation as required.
But as a communication tool stems from a source of certain culture and that's also an illustration of the Community.
Because different communities are different from the culture and therefore, it must be the difficulty of translating one report to the other.
Watch for example how it would be difficult to transmit these statements from Swahili to English: "Lila and fila will not be peaceful," "Mgalla muue and his right to pe," "the grandmother of a lot of salt" and "broken me."
In this situation, an article or literary report becomes more difficult to translate, in terms of literature very closely with the culture of people and so they ask a lot of statements that explain the shape of the culture.
Isitosit, literature as any art, has a creative direction and emphasis on rappers.
It does not say it does not say it does not say, therefore it's the dark.
First, the secrets are forced to detonate a trap of mystery and the puzzles that is set by the author of the literary work; and then he will get a word or the right phrase and the right thing is close to the puzzles of language.
That is why we add a good translation of Fortunatus Kawegere of Animal Farm, Wanyama and the translations of Julius Nyerere of Julius Cumer - Julius Kaisari and Merchants of Venice-Mabepari of Venus.
Art is clear that the translation of the work of artwork needs a secret to a certain extent, to be keen or collaborating closely as the artist was writing.
But maybe the question would be asked: Is the translations?
Why should the people be able to find a word or a statement from one language until without doubt the importance of a translation that was discovered in the past.
Think about the issue of spreading and spreading information in the world of today that has been like a village because of globalization.
They are also changing ideas, culture, science, technology and different solution that require translation.
But perhaps the most important thing here is a translation in education.
Swahili language will be the language of education in our education system one day.
Then we will take a secret of education books from different languages that park knowledge and different professions of education.
Undoubtedly you will receive the need to be the champions of translation well for the purpose of developing Swahili language as well as a common language of Kiswahili. alex.ngure @ ioo.com
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
