"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
CHADEMA beats CCM in Igunga Aug 22, 2012
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The Revolutionary Party (CCM) has lost a parliamentary seat again, after the member of parliament of Igunga, Tabora province, Doctor.
Auctioneer Kafumu being stripped of that position by the high court of Tabora Region.
The Doctor.
The agent has been stripped of the parliamentary seat after the trial filed against his victory yesterday Tuesday by the judge who was listening to the case, Mary Nsimbo Shearlier.
The case against the Doctor.
Kafumu was opened by the former parliamentary candidate on CHADEMA ticket, teachers, Joseph Kashindye, in the case to oppose Kafumu's parliamentary seat, joined the Attorney General and the former general election supervisor, Protace Magayane.
However, despite that case depressing the Doctor.
Kafumu, at the time of the process of listening to the case Kafumu showed concern against Judge Shearlier, who also ignored the concern against him.
In the results of the small election which was held after the former member of parliament of Igunga, Rostam Aziz, resignation, Kafumu was announced as the winner of that seat by getting approximately 26,484 votes which is equivalent to 50 percent of all votes.
The close opponent of the Doctor.
Kafumu was teachers in Kashindye who had 23,260 votes which are 44 percent of all the votes.
Voting in the small election that had a political tension was held on October 2nd, last year.
Due to that decision of the court, Doctor.
The agent has been quoted saying that he is waiting for his party's decision if they will appeal to oppose those results or not.
He explained that for a period that is not a member of parliament will return to his work of expertise in minerals.
He has been excluded from the Doctor's parliamentary seat.
Kafumu is a second blow to the Revolutionary Party.
The first blow was to improve the parliamentary seat of Sumbawanga Town member of parliament, Aeshi Hilaly.
The case to oppose the parliamentary candidate of Aeshi was opened by his close opponent, teachers Norbert Yamamoto (CHADEMA) and the verdict of the case that had 68 pages read by the Supreme Court judge in Mbeya region, Betwell Mmila.
That judgment of Sumbawanga town was preceded by another judgment against the parliamentary results of the former member of parliament of Arusha Town, Godbless Lema.
In the parliamentary judgment of Arusha town, Lema has already decided to appeal against that judgment, an appeal that is still in the process.
On the side of Sumbawanga town judgment, CCM has yet to appeal and there is reports that the small elections in that province can be announced a few months from now.
It hasn't been made clear about the following CCM decision as an appeal to oppose the results of the Igunga judgment or not.
The secretary of ideology and propagation of CCM, Nape Nnauye has talked about that issue saying he is waiting for reading the verdict of that case and then give his party's stand.
In another step, at the time of writing this post, CHADEMA leaders were unable to be found to talk about that judgment.
Tundu Lissu who is a lawyer of that party, when he was called for a phone called without answers and later fail completely.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
