"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
We end the year for hatred and disputes Jun 01, 2012
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
One of the things that we need to think about when we are heading to the year 2008, it is a step that we did as people and as a country.
Let alone expansion of discussion about good governance (good leadership?) which is good and important, there are things that we have to deal with them as well as Tanzania.
We have discussed the issue of corruption and it has come to it clear that the expectations of citizens cannot be achieved in the environment and the style of dealing with the concerned problems that has been in use.
In the 1980s, the former Prime Minister Edward Sokoine appeared to be successful in attending "middlemen" and "economic sabotage."
But the system used to address the problem was a basic shortage that led to even some of the "economic crimes" to be proven to have been treated.
And there was also a problem of creating certain permanent views in the relevant circumstances.
Suddenly it was seen and even started making the concept that those involved in entrepreneurship were not far from economic crimes.
They were made in different socks and put up people according to their public reflection as it has been built.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
It is also clear that since the early 1990s when it was passed, the Zanzibar Declaration was made a national request on what we were being supervised as a Tanzanian.
Instead of loving the country first than other things we started to like more parties; we started to love more money; we started to love our tribes; we will begin to love our more, n.k.
As a result, some of us are not sure how many of us - let alone the soldiers who are in that job - we will be ready to go back to the front line if a day we are called to go to war.
I'm convinced to believe that day they will receive Yuda who will say they are not Tanzania.
They say the war does not concern them.
They will give up their lives and their families and leaving their poor relatives fighting against the results of the war.
I remember the day the terrorists stormed two hotels in India the way the head of the anti-terrorism unit was a victim; he wore a metal cap, a tweet to prevent bullets and expression inside the hotel.
She was killed in a shot.
TV showed the time he had to join his young people to get into one of Taj Mahal hotel, and just after the police help to remove his dead bodies.
I still remember the head of the whole American fire unit on the 11th of September as a victim of one of the victims in the ground.
The head of the soccer club was found inside the building when it was collapsed.
These events confirm the behavior of a citizen showing its great love for the national interests and the greatest gift than his soul.
Can we still be convinced there are reasons to make sure that all Tanzanians should have love with their country at all times, in any environment, without themselves or questioning the validity of their love?
Can we prove to us that those who have given bail to make great decisions on our behalf as citizens have a true love with this country to the extent of being ready to volunteer in the broader public interests?
How many of those who have given bail have proved in their actions, without themselves or turning into it, that they have a patriotic patriotism and whoever in the eyes of the public?
And if their actions are influence we are questioning their patriotism there are reasons that make them get stuck in the form of qualifications to represent or lead them?
Is it a different form of view or look at the basis that makes us feel free?
Are those who passed on the measure of patriotism is things or things (values) which give them the strength of love and appreciate their country?
Will they also love and appreciate their country all the time and in any environment without themselves or turning into it?
Are these different reflections among the diverse groups in our society today indicate what?
What is the thing that gives the group the inspiration of them to believe they are right and we must protect us in the war that began under the hashtag?
While we continue to discuss various issues that concern the nation, there is a slow fire in our society.
We have not discussed this fire with the necessary weight.
There are already people who have started to be remanded in the form of view.
And the situation is now not very different from how it started in Rwanda when the citizens decided to be able to face the box that brought him to each other and its origin.
Today, Tanzania has already been identified that they are a certain group.
And almost every Tanzanian will be forced to be forced (or forced) to get into certain group depending on the position or personal interests.
It is not the aim of this column to be predicted, but there are indications that currently there are groups of Tanzania, it will be addicted to the extent that it is impossible to be lack of conspiracy to begin to finalize.
And when the order to finalize will reach a place to solve certain characters, this country has officially closed the page of his peace book.
There are two major things to happen.
The first one is that we as a nation to sit down with our differences, among the primary and those of using the stomach, we need to discuss how things that make us need to be Tanzania and why should we believe that we will be ready to fight for even remaining.
In this discussion, we make sure that we promote transparency and good intentions to appreciate the first country instead of holding onto the groups and interests, it is not happening.
But this debate doesn't end up in talks.
To an end by creating our constitution to put it clear that no human being will be allowed to play for.
This debate will ensure that we go back to our curriculum from nursery up to universities to invest in children and our youth, the national basis and dignity of humanity so that the work of corruption should not be great as it is.
The second thing, which we request that it will end aside, it is that we will continue to stimulate the fire of hatred and tensions that we have decided to build among us because of our selfishness and we will go to a place we shall begin to lie.
In this second issue, every group will be led by a good victory, then we will have taken this country in trouble.
History will put a very humiliating memory of our contribution to define this country.
To ask Theoneste Bagosora who was found guilty of organizing a mass murder in Rwanda.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
