"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
These are the reasons for many youths to fail in work interviews when many youths were facing a problem of not confident the amount of failing to use their talents, that challenge has been the cause of many to fail in interviews (interview) at the time of asking for work.
Last week I spoke to the director of one company to highlight the workers from Arusha, Ismail Nassary who told me that the ability of Tanzania to express themselves in interviews is a problem despite being many who have appropriate education and experience at work.
He insists that his company usually takes the responsibility of teaching how to express themselves when they go to interview.
The big problem said that it is not confident for the citizens of Tanzania, an issue that makes them lack of employment they want.
He continues to clarify that one of the questions that don't get hanged as required is the one that wants to tell him who is (question: Tell US about yourself).
He says that the question is the only opportunity for the man to market himself according to the qualifications that he is doing and why he should be given work instead of another person.
He says many have been threatening to explain their names, all schools they read until graduating, then they conclude by saying "that's All."
The director says that the question is broad calls for a man and other things to explain his reputation in the work he has requested.
On the details of that director, it is clear that there is still a big request for professionalism and confidence to the students that complete different colleges.
That is why there is still fear of implementing the EAC agreement on the free speech of people (Free Movement) and employment because many opportunities will be taken by Kenyans and Ugandans whose English language is adding confidence.
What makes a lot of confidence in Tanzania is an important speaker of English language.
Many have the professionalism required but they are unable to confirm that they know and they have the ability to work involved.
Interview needs preparations and know well the work that you are asking.
When you get in interviews and Ukawa you are preparing for an amount of enough to fail and remain criticize that those who have worked on bribery they have more ability than you.
The fashion perspective during interviews are crucial.
There are two main benefits of wearing well during the interview; first, it is adding confidence.
Several research has revealed that the good people in front of people think more than those who don't like.
Secondly, it gives you an important point during the interview.
When you go to the interview room, the first step will highlight your view.
Don't be inspired they will believe that it is for the work that you ask even if you have all other qualifications.
It is important to have a good view during the interview so that you can find a chance that you expect.
Apart from the intent of getting work, it makes them even people around you to have a positive view on you.
Together with all important preparations, confidence is the weapon that is supposed to break during the interview.
And things that give him a courage during the interview is to know well the work he has requested and to know English language in order to communicate well and to highlight them.
But it has been a problem for Many People when interviews are happening in the language.
Despite Tanzania, we use English language in learning of secondary education and universities, many don't use this language to speak.
For example, some of the work offered these days will tell the applicant's reputation to speak and write English language.
Talking to writing is two different things.
For many, we know English of writing but talking with fluency is a problem.
This is caused by that we did not use that language regularly in talks.
We must look at the habit of speaking English regularly especially students so as to place themselves in a good position to use that language.
In addition to the importance of our great language of Swahili, we still cannot ignore English because it has been connected with the system of our life.
By recognizing that weakness, the government introduced the Employment Services Agency (Taesa) which one of its responsibilities is to prepare the youth for interviews.
This agency is important but many youths do not use them as a link to their employers.
There is still a chance to learn and make corrections when there is nowhere well.
If a youth struggled to learn something new daily especially for reading books.
Please keep the habit of reading books regularly.
Peter Elias is the author of this newspaper.
Twitter: 0763891422
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
