"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The careless behavior of parents affect the growth of the children, one of my students had told me that she desires for her children to look at the Swahili films, because they don't have ethics but he is unable to fulfill his dream because the neighbors and some of his relatives are disappointed.
"The teacher I wish you so much my children will look at this film, one day he came to my son and asked me this mother's meaning?
I told him that he is a child, my son refuses and said why the artist X was calling the artist Y Baby? "He told me.
If a parent should control the use of communication agencies because they can destroy your child.
Agencies have been used well to have a great contribution to the development of Mwanao.
They are programs for children with mental and moral children.
These programs to be Swahili or other foreign languages are supposed to be given a great opportunity instead of the incredible programs that we have not helped any child.
We are also parents who we won at the end of the week then children are not happy.
Our work is to look at news reports from Al Jazeera, BBC, CNN and other international channels.
When we finish the news we move to the England league, and we celebrate the day with Bundesliga.
We do not hesitate to look at news and different games, but we must remember that your children should be given an opportunity to watch Tv and considering that most of the children are in the end of the week.
Your habit of holding onto 'remote control' and repression of your children to watch Tv has developed the habit of selfishness and not to cooperate with others.
Don't also be defended by your young children as a big child when you leave him with the quote of managing television until it will come back.
It can also provide an opportunity for your children to watch Tv to neighbors where he can learn similar behaviors.
Recently, we have witnessed the emergence of a generation with characteristics of Ukakasi.
Behaviors that have been a nuisance on the streets, school and home.
Unfortunately no one is trying to know what the cause of these amazing behavior by their youth.
Many parents have threatened to mark the movements of their youth without knowing how to take action against the problem.
There are also parents whose responsibility of upbringing has defeated and decided to leave the globalisation of their children.
These are the parents who praised their male youth that they are going to go and when they get hair, bleeding ears, laying on the disco hall, wearing a mileball.
The fact is that there is a great relationship between the successive Child and his character in general.
This is the fact that many parents don't understand or have knowledge, but do not understand.
Experience shows that students doing well in school have been caused by the upbringing that consider ethics from their parents and the community that surround them.
The decline in education level especially in primary schools has been contributed by the upbringing of parents to their children.
Currently, we are witnessing a big number of class seven students finishing without knowing reading and writing.
In addition to that there are other reasons that contribute to that situation of decline in the success of children, but parents can't help them with that problem.
The main reason that contribute to the bad development of the child is absenteeism for retailers and permanent.
The problem of absenteeism affects students whose parents do not have time to monitor closely the development of their child and education.
I had to ask one teacher in Mwanza; is how many parents arriving to school at least once to ask for the development of their children?
"There are parents who come, but they are very few who don't have even 10 in a total of more than 400 children we have here, even when you called them in the sessions of many schools they don't know," he said.
Regarding the relationship of good behavior and success in class, this teacher continues to say: "In the whole period of my service as teachers, I have witnessed many students doing well are those with good behavior and those doing badly are those with behavior and behavior to tackle them."
His point is supported by another teacher from Hai District who said: "We become a close teachers and students whose parents are following the progress of their children and provide close partnership to teachers."
Shades Ndhlovu is a stakeholder of education and lecturer at St John University.
0756681371
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
