There is a function of n _ i _ c
Ohh is where I think I am so grateful or not I thought the day I had told me it has been postponed because it was so simple
Ehhe is there.
Uhuh will I think we don't think we won't.
Mym
Ati was a Talent for a mother's mother, let's look for the virtual assets we were given, then it is fascinating that there is blowers that Market as a radical Market we get the defence this time was Competition.
How to do a mm there, how did she get into the school mm when it came into the year?
That comes to why stations but we must not be able to find a tweet while the colle or the ka is the right to reach tomorrow
It's not going into the crush, the price of around may be the cause of crush Competition for three months of Last time we went to the john on July and AHH we got the day above the hashtags
When you are now coming up with the university while I come to compete or at this time coming up to do what the mym is halo and then let's say that anyone can get.
Mym
Uhuh is not Competition
Ohh to be told is we Forward now that we should know the other people and ka there are these people.
If anyone can get into it, it is not a must for security it must be that the school's studies should even if you feel like that but you want to know if those austers do we get to the moment you want to wait until the Next year the cause is crush.
Ehr
Mym then I wanted to get when I received it, I don't say that I don't say I don't want to say we should not vote for you, let's go back to where you go to you and tomorrow is to be a religion to show what happened in the country.
Halo mym
Now it's not in k _ u they've ever started the scandal now not to know your phone and m _ the ten you buy it was a pister and TWO hundred Bob ehit to pay it to be their account in Nairobi I won't give out how they can use it and not see that one person wants to use m _ money that cord while Cthere.
About the one you have given that, not there is a transaction, the number is crush and letters maniper now, that is the best to go to the internet so also that Kitale gave you a register and that's what I think this is the password I don't think it is more than you.
To Jerusalem maybe the number then used as password mym
When I am I am not mine was using it here in Sweden unaclear what I will get if you get to account, they will use there, they will use you to use your name now if you are in the group clapping as you can get a group or individual if it is a group not you know you will get the first one with even the register if you do not know if you can't know if you will get back and create if you will fill the TIN formation.
Ehrohh someone can go as a group
Ehhe and mym ehrohh then now the case for this week is coming up when a person is arrested.
Mym
SA is just crush with Jane with Competition
So that is until another year and then you can now get out that you don't go to school when you go to ask him and then what a person benefited from?
When you clap or costs for me, I can ask for it, I don't have.
It's ok.
SA know you are the most coast of lt; hes tgt; but you are Swahili today as you're watching the ball of ball Stephen and you understand the meaning and you understand the Market I go and then there is a question then there is a question then there is a Mem card that you want to answer you and is good to buy if Salon should apply to you.
I can.
Ohh yeah, those things are wrong with you, so your wife is there and mym ehhe.
Mym ehhe, so it becomes something a good thing is being sold at 6 o'clock in the same time, it is a must for a fool.
When I try to hear what I will tell you about it.
It's not what I will tell you as also using it above.
The same
