"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The harvest of the plantations are being taken to shut down the dangers of lack of food in the past season, was being led by the coalition of events while some of the areas receiving the harvest.
This situation was contributed by climate change due to several issues, the main contribution of these changes being environmental destruction as a result of getting careless trees, delivery of dangerous gas from industries.
First, some of the areas witnessed rain in large numbers that it poured during harvesting and this situation caused the harvesting and contributing food in the farm.
The other areas didn't receive the rain completely, the plants went down soon after publication.
The weather department issued an announcement that there would be a risk of food shortages in Africa and the Asian continent are some of the ones mentioned.
This time I take the opportunity to give an opportunity to all who succeeded to get something.
This is not the time to think things to sell yields.
A reminder of Samuel, a bond scandal is not a joke ASEMAVVE on the head of CORE about the scandal of bond to be taken by humor.
As the opposition leader, their responsibility is to look and criticize the ruling government.
The issue of corruption has become a song in this country.
Twaweza said Mister Raila Odinga only criticizes the government of Honorable Kenyatta but he should be sure of it.
The government should listen and consider his term as he has not mentioned some of those involved in the scandal.
University of Coffee
The University of Somali University (CUE) is not to be taken by the country's university education commission (CUE) is not to be taken by any institution that holds high-level training in various sectors of conflicts in the community, and that it cares for our youth the tradition of many African nations to feel poor to see corruption in the country for now.
Most of the young people have been quoted claiming that they can't stand up and get out of corruption.
The issue that has left me a lot of attention.
This is now the idea of developing young people with poor vision in the country and to sabotage the nation's economy.
The claims that they made these youths do not have a stand because most of them claimed that everyone is involved, even us Twaweza.
The government was volunteering to destroy illegal alcohol, most of the beneficiaries were young people.
It is the responsibility of the government to explain the public how the allocation of those funds are run by projects implemented.
GIDRAPH Mwangi (MC, Nairobi elite)
Ten institutions of the university that were ordered by the commission have every reason to follow the order.
Lack of adequate resources and basic infrastructure is one of the challenges that hit the universities emerged and contributed to the level of education in the country.
My mission to the commission is to have a thorough investigation into every university crisis between various communities in the country has continued to destroy the innocent citizens.
The conflicts arising from the ownership of resources has continued to tremendous.
The efforts to bring these classes together have been hardly fruit.
Kelvin Kihara Njoki, close together so as to ensure that our scholars are being given my high school studies.
GIDRAPH Mwangi KIMC, Nairobi chap chap is empty words?
In every occasion, there are those who benefit from some point and others are crying in their hands.
In an indication of many development projects that benefited from various projects are continuing to vote for Mutua.
However, there are voices of cry from citizens that are opposing the leadership of Governor Mutua.
Some of the locals saying that the style of performance performance is one of the words without actions.
Veronica MUM of John Okello, the University of Cups, judges to deal with corruption in the country has been a chronic issue that is censored because it is the one that destroyed this country and Kenyans too.
The Police department is some of the units affected by this issue.
Another report published in the Nation suggest that the traffic police unit takes over three hundred thousand shillings a day.
I take this opportunity thanks to the judges' board and the judge for their day before yesterday against the judges and the judge who are associated with corruption scandals and lack of justice.
Your daughters, Nairobi
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
