Step up to the best teachers if the procedure gets to others what do they get in.
Ehhe to do Comedy
There is
The number that is used is one because there are groups that already have already been elected to join and have a teaching training there are about a thousand youth.
Yes
More than six hundred thousand young people have got the desire for those who have.
They have taken two stem cells only these questions that we recognize those of the first time chosen by the Ministry of Education if they remained as second Selection but
Halo brought when your colleagues were beginning to edit on it was not surprised that they will join the next nine.
And these are already their names, we did not need to ask then there are spots
Of the students who were asked to join form five in the lake form five in secondary schools and enough opportunity to a group of about five hundred thousand students, and we have created the names on our website that anyone in those.
To pick the college
He comes to the committee to pick the university and he will get a chance to join teaching if he wants to study the rice and the third group now we have and anyone who said in the past, the groups wants to join teaching now, they can apply through the website, there are two ways you need to download it because they are not going to go to your website, we have our system joins the system of the examinations by writing the number we know your results.
And if others have the ability to apply directly to the internet, it is that if you are going on with the corrupt so that if you are going on with the corrupt, if you are going to get the internet if it is different from the internet, it is a network of the council I will have the sound of how many bacteria should be the Citizen and the network of a joint admission system double-double Road Plot Site
Dot dot nine
Cathbert otitis
Why should those who want to say to the racist
Finding a big group in the video
You are doing so
It is an advantage that hasn't been put up when we go to give them mym there are people who don't want to report to the stations because you are coming to give you and not we have lost someone.
Therefore, why is this time they depend on so by wanting to pick up the opportunity to choose where I'm in the minutes where he can go and another one can say that he is in Tanga, he will go to Iringa because he had studies in Iringa where our brother will help him.
It is to bring up a friend to put as a winner in the position of choosing there.
My question is there.
You find that there is a big group chairpersons, you know what it happens only we need to choose one and the writer who are there is giving them three chances of the elections so if they will have banana next to it, maybe the team seems to take more students more than the ability.
So another criterion used is that they are dying because of their own quality so those of the top
For fish to come up to chat and then your second choice to sue the result?
Look for what kind of original groups we have discussed there are a few teachers who believe in me is the haze.
Now, the reporter there are three questions that have also broken the first group and a diploma in education to be a child who will read for a period of three years
There is another group that will read a diploma in primary education
There is rice
But the science
Or is the teachers to expect them for three years is not the second group, the third group is a diploma in my basic education.
Why are those groups that are there and as he explains the executive secretary
The names of the students thus the ones found from TAMISEMI who are supposed to be the ones that were being found in the family of TAMISEMI
The report has been taken back to debts that several months women with those who have been asking to come true to them are supposed to apply for tourists from twenty-month anniversary every month the servants have already entered the system to submit prayers.
And a person to rest.
