Ehr Kenyatta, a brush is a resident of here living in hope but lack of hospitals in the neighborhood is forcing him and more than twenty others with a problem if the latter would follow this service in the neighboring villages.
If things are not well there is a lot of challenges that this period is able to confirm the years learn
And meaning to save
Crops and little medicine you will find that what is the moment the aid wants.
There are a lot of complaints are the victim of AIDS, and are encouraged to get a bit of medicine.
He was taken to him.
It's not supposed to be three ways of money that you would like to go back behind the foundation that is found
And the government
Grounds together with other services they deserve to be that candidate or our employee of the department, I request I request a little to pay it.
In actions, we are following up, there are Africans we do not want to read, we want to read a person in an act that is where we as an institution we are going to go and office will have two thousand resolutions and we talk to them, we will continue with them to set up five thousand resolutions not to keep going on time until the economy including the impact of young people are meeting the most popular game in America, he had a translators of this village to enable them to sustain themselves economically, maybe all four systems in the United States.
Like the field that goes with you and you said that we will call them the pepper spray.
Those people so that they can be able to do their lives to be better in their economy so as to have a week to get rid of poverty and recovery of their little life, Millard Memba, CHADEMA, especially the women Empowerment of Iran.
The voice of life and he will not be on the line that allows it to be a price.
Pay want to tell us if we can okay, you buy chicken you will build and stalls shall continue with you and help the people who will not have you.
The sun is the needs
Her every time and I took it to the mother's problem here the problem of water demanding that he has other plans to do life in detention.
I think that we still don't have women to lack water, they will have enough time to do other economic activities and be able to sustain themselves with the aim and our aim is to look for projects such as rearing chicken to mend them so that they get income from the wave of poverty that has hit the nation as a whole
Possibly in your village, the situation is difficult than here
And what do you think that the changes are needed to be done.
Certainly the changes are in your hands inspired by the knowledge you got about different places.
A concrete plan that allows the foundation of development to be for one person, the family and the nation in general.
Beko
