"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Ulimbus of Ulimbiki Aug 22, 2012 by Good Citizen.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
To the Minister of Mikel and speke, Uzitoni Street, Bongo.
Lover Frank, has started a lover!
I thought we have agreed to put my salary for the construction of our house.
Now this is the idea of a modern television from where?
When I try to explain that we all agree with me and refused to receive calls.
Is it such a lover?
I know you like to look at the ball on good television and it was shocked but sometimes... and makes it really a way to solve the problem?
After all the years?
Eniwei, I don't want to even think that, let me continue with it.
And why is Ulimban and it's not Olympic.
Or is it because we have us with us.
I am not a scientist but really we can do a two-week practice so that we should let us do for two years?
Our pot and sardines can compete with a special diet of athletes there?
Or we see that the number of police officers will decide the number of medal.
The officers!
Don't have a lover.
However, I was in the competition together with the details of the life of the players.
I was surprised to see how they come out for succeeding.
But after being punished, I think the problem is not only preparations.
Even the way we look for people has no errors.
One guy brought him a proposal that he wanted the boss to give him to the minister of walks and games.
Since I was left alone at home, I got an opportunity to take it after reading and handouts.
Let's give your thoughts here.
Honorable Minister, after checking the participation of our athletes in Ulimbiki, I request to give my contribution of ideas on how to improve our participation and to ensure that our athletes go back with a medal instead of being alive.
Again, Honorable Minister believe that it is easy.
Look at what kind of games and ask ourselves if our people can't play this games.
Give us candles.
We do not have that kind of people?
It's not that we are our traditional ethnic groups.
When we get those champions in their home and give them lessons they can't get into Ulimbiki and from a medal?
Here, there are water games.
Competitions of using different types of churches.
Mador and carriers.
Our fishing experts do not tell us here?
Can they go so far and it will be very small, if you give them modern hand, who will be able to compete with them?
Targeting the target.
Where are our soldiers where they are unable to get even one to target the target at the international level?
Now the enemy smoking, want?
This without forgetting running.
Who has never seen Haile Gebreselassie?
His hand has come up with a result of carrying his books when he fled to school.
Now he became the world champion from that exercise.
We have many children who are still running a kilometer up to school?
Potting apart do not have books to carry but carry a brick, or firewood for the teachers.
Here is no even one to compete with Kenyans and bloggers?
This and do not forget the talents of our sisters.
The day before yesterday I look at one on her head.
The technique used is the same way to raise the weight in Ulimbiki.
We cannot start a bucket competition until we find our champions to go there?
And the youth that increase sacks in the buses or to carry the market, or who are smoking in the market, do not have the muscles to compete?
Not finished Honorable Minister.
These teenagers, and a bicycle carrying ten times of their own weight, given little training to compete in a bicycle race?
You don't know that your ethnic group is to jump... now.
And without forgetting that our aggression were discovered.
I tell you Usain Bolt does not discriminate in front of these.
Even before not standing for those who have finished the race.
He will not have no reason to save it again and he will be a model for the aggression.
They are in the love of sports and the construction of a nation Basi, I found this mind because I loved his thoughts, then I went back to the bathroom.
Again I heard the boss's car, however, I had to run as Bolt so that the letter should stop before he was confiscated.
And you know the boss did?
He stopped his eyes and then aked it up and bowled.
"Pumbaf!
Who will work to look for these if they are not given all the allowances for finishing all the money provided for sports?
Who is ready to leave the tradition of "our white football games" and bring in our homosexual behavior in the national competitions.
The gentle.
The lifting of buckets.
Competition from the canoe.
Competition for winding and so on.
Wants tweets?
Other people sir.
Photograph: Let's put my memories! "
Then even when the guy came back to know the fate of his letter, the boss told him to go to the ministry of the walk then he described the boss as he broke up until he was buried.
But how do you have a lover?
She has no good idea.
The problem is that we don't appreciate our people.
We're still struggling with the people of another country then saying we are the poor country that is why... what poverty is we have the rich people?
That is every day we ignore the human resources, and to value the resources that is why the number of officers are competing in the number of players themselves.
But it is also in all our plans.
In the villages who appreciate the villager's ideas?
We have seen many plans as many as you are coming back to us because they are coming up with them without knowing that the fool of our environment is ourselves?
Please even the Bible because the orders were ten, those who have a command, and the project is devastating us, we don't know what we don't know.
Destroy it.
Otherwise, if we cannot identify good people for the Ulimbos, then we should start our country and the games we know us different from that of the world.
I suggest the following competition: The laundering.
The one who snatched more quickly gets a medal.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The opposition for a long time during the parliament.
And also, the ability to give a speech for a long time.
Without forgetting our village colleagues and the youth.
The ability to sit in half a brick without being intimidated.
The ability to spend a piece of centuries.
I know things like that can be enough for viewers but potentially.
We will get our Heroes.
He wants more than your television, Hidaya.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
