Yes, you know that at the time of Islamic research, Tanzania has strongly criticized the police force on claims that it is the one that contributes to the continued because of different types in the country due to not taking appropriate measures to the secretary general of the community, Sheikh Ponda Issa Ponda has given an example that those with the religious aim that happened in Mbagala in the city had been given a few days ago to those authorities I was called to blame in that case of censored the source.
Dennis masalanga and more information
That's why we say even let's look at a look at all.
We where our leaders
They are telling these things in a way that gives a huge contribution in bringing in the okay dress.
There is no doubt that there are claims that we've been given up again by the artist to give their condolences
Watch the hour and leadership by going to the church
Without seeing it, you must have.
They were good then they found themselves shared by the police and the police.
Conferences here
So as to get life, but second.
Which reveals the cause of people are going to go.
This Sheikh Ponda Issa Ponda at a meeting with journalists in tomorrow to sell me to forget about the moral crime incident that comes to Mbagala in Dar es Salaam, after the debate of children causing himself to read a religious book of a religion to condemn and cause confusion that caused the coalition, the issue of police using a big force is to bring more attention to the community and those institutions, while President Kikwete is accused of what was described by Sheikh Ponda to be unable to supervise the conflict of religious conflicts.
The leader steal a lot.
Fraud that does not mean to pay but if you see their performance
Above we say they won't accept that the citizens cannot accept that medicine
Real family members or anatrace
The network has compared to the humiliation of various religions that can be handled by religious leaders and the government to sit together and discuss those issues that are not normal for the Tanzanian community, however, some of the humanitarian groups are going against them and retaliation for such events that translates to the country on a religious basis and the three-air pollution.
