A number of children will be shocked to go to their normal class and then money after finishing the service we are able to have a meeting that we met after work
Also ehr
Ehorehr
Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; we talked about a few words which are the parents we need to meet and what the parents die because there is a parent who lost her parent and we do not know what we are doing and we should be able to meet with a person who doesn't know now, we want to meet and let us know if we participate in each other.
Ehhe halo
Ohh ehhe mym made a few thousand jobs outside the same time, so it wasn't good because it did not get to the great charles to come okay, therefore, it's not just like that we should come, even if we are coming, we should even know what we are coming, even know what we are coming and even know what we are coming from Kenya like halo.
I didn't get in English when the children were many and they were traumatic.
Now that way I do when I called the parents' meetings, what can I do?
My mom and truly mym
In the third month we want to waite in the third month because of that AHH will be mi mym a children's meeting also for the fourth month where children need to do the high school insurance.
Now it is a must for parents to know what to know and know what it continues and we want to give it to you to give money even if it's not a lot of money but the money that will be in support we will only give you a copy.
Okay but Whether malaria
The same
The same time now and now has said that it has been organized, according to Pastor says Church mi I will not bring down three hours starting from the time he does not want until five hours what will happen on Sunday the day.
Ehr
We have not heard that but there is a meeting who is doing c _ P _ a Wednesday at ten o'clock and I think I had to explain if the leaders of what is different in the church, he said that and from the third month
Ehr
Okay okay, he says from the march, it will be three hours until five and a half hours or then people are going to Home now not, I don't know how you don't know what will happen, even if you start announcing the haiya.
And then later
The church will be celebrating five hours
Haiya
It's just fine.
Now we have to go down to talk with us because there are these children who come alone in the church and there are those who come up with parents now they are not a different group, there are those who are coming up with them and they are coming up to those who are coming up to five and a half hours as if AHH will get if the doors are closed.
Ehhe and ehr
Okay
The names mm halo mym kibaba as the door has been closed now, how will we organize itself, we will not go to the top five hours such as we stand up until we should prepare to go even if it is two hours earlier.
Now, we will have to look at this year even in contrast to that more years like those are the pastor has said mym
This work will be I will be remembering early then I go back to sleep
When we get tired without the bedroom who like sleep should go back to travel.
I will go to six hours, but it's hard to sleep on Sunday, it's hard to sleep on Sunday, it's hard for you to go.
It's hard for others if they talk
He has heard that news
Who should look at that news
Let's ask if he has decided to have reached two hours from five hours.
And as he is in the house for six hours he will stay in order to stay in the order, if he will not plan he will be charged with the people coming up but maybe he will get a precedent washing there as they remain there with a mm mym ehhe could not end.
Mym AHH I will make the world to create another whole world
And when I find it?
Ehr but now they will probably be back later at eight o'clock in the past nine o'clock and there will be another service after that, it will be from two hours until hours if it will be after one.
When I don't know if there will be first sa I don't know.
