Most of the areas you want to do this game continue on you so many areas to be a contribution to the teachers themselves as these people who got the opportunity to serve the card he was taught is the first thing.
But it is the government's position as it is one of them.
Make sure that the infrastructure
Playing for the game?
In a special school because sports are not playing for all the teams that are playing in special schools, those others have already given their games to play for that first one is for something that starting from a special school, the village government that it will put the area and unfortunately, the area of playing this game is less than twenty meters long by setting up an amount of first one.
But let me say that balls that are being played.
Too expensive
So the preparations should be that
A deliberate decision to take place so as to make sure that the good equipment to play is available here in the country and sometimes we ask the government to benefit because they are being played for disabled people.
The tax procedure then you could be able to reduce because something that makes us very much in the country and the tax of sports equipment that are now added to now iron sheets and pain and also you will find talents going on.
On the top of the ball almost one hundred thousand shillings it starts to put up iron sheets which you can sell for two hundred thousand shillings and a book sometimes.
Availability of money in our activities is not great to that.
But you know it again
It's continuing to disclose her in the tournament
You ask the government that when you go to this tournament and be there?
Then we do a process to communicate with other countries or other organizations or other global communities.
Let's see now that the youth can choose and I don't know where we go to play first to play in East Africa but also we need the scope of going to the Olympics, we will be doing justice for the game to do justice for people with disabilities
But at the end of which it is best to request the government will continue to provide training to teachers feel the problem with their children at different levels in order to raise awareness and with two children now they will get to wear and play but playing for knowing that now they are going to the international competition.
However, what is Kiganja
That's standing by the chief sports officer from the office of the prime minister, TAMISEMI, when he completed the decision and a lot of asking him to ask him because of that game, most of the game has been so shocked that you would like to know that the game that you have to look for a lot from experts who contribute to this topic which have been taught in the middle of the week it will be ready to talk to the topic again.
My challenge
The Mayor
He requested the citizens of accidents in blind children and that their needs are important and sports is one of the treatments.
Sports is one of the treatments for children
Those with disabilities
As delegates elected.
The industry is very important to our talents.
Costs but we request that they are available
Available for children to participate
People can be able to participate in the competition so give.
Broad stakeholders involved in youth and children with the meaning that other sports officers come from together with the education officers
Of accidents, the disabled children are blind and looking for the needs of because there are many needs of the bobo player if there are spectacles, there are glasses that are supposed to be decided by the money so in the meantime, the schools will not be able to get things like that therefore we depend on that the big stakeholders in these children are a great job of education to thank you in a style.
