Kaseba and Magufuli
Mi think I'm a Story.
Because I think Tanzanians had never forgotten me even even when they had the leadership
Leadership book
There was something called down
Everyone responds to us that his department is clean.
For his own benefit
So for Magufuli to come here with the tweet
To do what he is doing to say the truth, I wanted the day Tanzanians we don't know where I went to eat I was in the dark.
Let us know where we are going?
Although this time we don't have Deo, but at least we create a foundation for knowing where we're going on.
No one didn't have a system
Any tweet
It is run as true as the government
Everyone is working for him
And if you look forward, you'll see many people seem to have the ability in the Diaspora.
Something that is seen many years of response
He will be.
That of the event like yesterday started this, he has not finished, he does not know what he does doing, I do not know if we haven't started a certain way, if we haven't started doing something like Twitter htt; unk, gt; the former presidents or we are now doing what we have done and other way out in five years every day you feel like we have a profit because we need some basic things for a day even if they know what they need to live in everything among them being food and otherwise stop Magufuli well.
BY there are people you know when they do things like this there are little people who will be angry
Due to the situation that they were used to be used but in general, the poor people are satisfied with the performance of our president john alcohol Magufuli for a little reason even if you look at the government attitude has been different from the previous period
People work with dedication and for these hundred days
They have seen a lot of things on both sides in terms of taxes on the side of schools in schools.
There are challenges here and there but the eye comes after time
We believe that things will be good.
When the administration passed, we were very disappointed by entrepreneurs.
We were peace
And even our economy had gone down in the meantime, there is no Tanzanian is not that he desires in his match and every Tanzanian has the right to live in his country and if they violated the law of the country.
Now or his status spoke that the Site or the city police find out the work of making mi say that we are supporting it means that six of the city police are looking for the work and the father of the city to look for adjustments to the father of the nation, but now we know that he is doing well because it is not good because you say that he is doing it is still bad for example as a hospital that he knew if walk there is still a performance still below.
