"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Bishop has compared President Magufuli and Jesus Christ, the retired bishop of the Pentekoste Church (FPCT) Singida town, Doctor.
Paul Samuel has said the issue of the government of Doctor.
John Magufuli insisting on the payment of tax and tax is the implementation of the instructions of Jesus Christ, therefore the believers and the citizens in general, are required to obey and consider their responsibilities.
While building his strength in his motion, he said according to the holy book of God of the Bible Warumi 13 (don't 1-14), it shows Jesus Christ's lobby for the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA).
Bishop Paul said in Warumi 13 has noted that they are paying taxes and tax, it is the workers of God to have their rights, a person of tax, tax, a person of tax, tax.
The Doctor.
Paul has said that the day before yesterday when he was surprised at the normal service which was also attended by the commander of the police force in the province, ACP Debest Daudi Maguimba.
While insisting, he said that because the tax payment has been given all the blessings of the Almighty God, believers of various religious denominations should be on the forefront to obey the directive of God of paying the tax that was legal without shurti.
"The government of President Magufuli in this issue of charge of tax payment and tax, is doing well that is in front of us the believers of the religion and the citizens in general, it is to pay taxes and tax at a time, so that our country can move forward.
These things to avoid paying tax or tax, to be evicted, "he said.
Regarding the charge of tax and tax Dk.Paul, he said that in the Bible (Luka Saint 3-12-17) says that they charge tax / tax was ordered to not get a big ze that will be against the law as ordered.
He clarified, he said that the employees of TRA, in the implementation of their responsibilities, are required to charge tax and tax in accordance with the law, regulations and procedures put in place and not otherwise.
"If they charge taxes or huge tax that is contrary to the law, they will have to look at the ministry, that action is not just a human with good ethics is not going on, but it will not be good for the Almighty God," he said.
Bye, the police force, Doctor.
Paul has said that in the book of Warumi 3 on the 14th line, has urged the police in implementing their responsibilities, accusing a person or not rapists in cases of lies.
They will also be educated and the salary they are paid.
"The commander of the words that were given by the servant of God Yohana, puts it in every police officer, conservatives and his salary.
It means that he should not have greed for bribery and also to write to citizens a case, but he will implement his responsibilities according to his work contract, "he said.
The Doctor.
Paul used that opportunity to commend the police force in Singida province for his efforts to control criminal acts that can not produce peace and stability.
"I commend his unique commander commander Maguimba for creating a new culture of talking to believers of religious denominations in their homes.
Also for your decision to control the crime before it happens.
In short, you want signs of violence, it should be dealt with early before it brings the effects.
We are the church in support of this.
May God bless you, "said Dk.Paul.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
