"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
For Zanzibar not a magnitude, even Uskochi are Jun 01, 2012
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Last week, first Minister (first Minister, rank which is as Prime Minister) of Uskochi, Alex Salmond, launched the campaign of the Scottish Nationalist Party (SNP) to mobilize the "No" in the referendum (opinion polls) for freedom of this country that is expected to take place in the future.
Uskochi's argument with Britain (in the sense of what is called the United Kingdom of great Britain-England, Uskochi and Wales- and Northern Ireland) has been upset for a long time and has got more strength after Salmond and SNP came into power in 2007.
Basically, the main policy of that politician and his party was to ensure that ultimately Uskochi is building away from England.
When he came to power, the SNP explained that they have a plan to make a referendum to hear the reactions of Somkochi about the idea of secession.
However, an obstacle that they have been facing, since the beginning is the fact that despite the differences here and there, it is difficult to sketch the line to divide the Sunchi and other Britons.
The clashes in nearly every aspect of life makes these people become one more than different.
And while preparing this post, Salmond has got a "bad news" from the prosecutor's opinion) popular here in England, Peter Kellner, President of YouGov's referendum.
According to Kellner, a referendum conducted by YouGov last Friday shows that while only 33 percent of Somkochi want "freedom" (secession), 57 percent want Uskochi to remain part of England.
The opinion prosecutor has warned Salmond that "he has a long mountain to climb" to reverse the majority of the Somalans about their country's secession and Britain.
Likewise, he explained that there are "several threats that can contribute to many people to oppose the idea of secession, and he gave an example of arguments like investors to withdraw from Uskochi (in lack of sure if Uskochi will decide to use the currency after secession, Britain can start a crime (austerity measures) that will affect the economy of Uskochi.
In addition, Salmond has publicly revealed that other fear that threaten Sunchi to support the idea of secession is together with the high cost of running the country (especially during this period where the world's economy is known) such as sustaining a full force, embassy offices and the cost of running public service institutions (Civil service).
Basically, in any exercise of voting, the state of not sure or fear of "in front of how it will be" enough to make many voters decide to remain in the party or the current structure (if it is a referendum on certain thing).
This strategy is being used by the ruling party (including CCM) in the elections where the message is like "we are not in the bowl." (In the meaning of the party you know is better than what is promising only without having the active examples of the leadership of the country).
However, Salmond and SNP are continuing with their efforts while making sure that the great wealth of Uskochi (there are oil in the North Sea) will enable them to afford the cost of running the country if Somkochi will agree with the idea of separation with Britain.
Meanwhile, Uskochi, at the end of the week at home has been faced with sad news where the protest against the coalition in Zanzibar turned into a massive riots.
As I explained in my message of Global Voices articles (audio Messages, that can hear here http: / / goo.gl / r6ngT), the riots in Zanzibar and the whole issue of union is supposed to be monitored with a broader view.
Personally, I see that the origin of the problem of the United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar is its founders, that is the late father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Abeid Karume.
Here I request it should be understood.
The idea of the coalition was good for considering different reasons, the largest, as the closeness of the roots of the mainland and the Island.
But the problem that maybe was contributed by the political environment at the time, Nyerere and Karume thought that their consent was representing the consent of the people of Zanzibar.
There is a "wisdom" one of the English saying that "a good thing is not a must to be beneficial.
For example, while giving a lot of food to a hungry man is a good thing but his results can lead to even the death of a hungry man who threatened to get a lot of food. "
Yes, eating a lot of food is dangerous, and that is why people pass away or they have not seen a long time begins food to a hot drink (ridge or tea).
Now, the idea of the union was good but not to get the consent of many that is where you are there now.
For a long time there has been complaints about the union, especially among the people of Zanzibar.
The main argument has been that they are broken, they are oppressed and the others are going further and claimed the aim of the union was "to grow Zanzibar."
Unfortunately, the politics of Zanzibar have a difference in a certain level and in the mainland.
In the Island, religion has a unique opportunity in politics.
So, most of the political issues can also carry religious sentiments, something that without crime can negotiate.
I would like to insist that together with the dangers that can come out in mix religion and politics, experience and history have shown that the wisdom and the interests of the community being placed in front of personal feelings, religion may not have effects in politics.
In the United States, for example, religion still has a unique opportunity.
Perhaps the best example of how religion can not destroy politics is Germany where the Kansela Angela Merkel (Christian Democratic Union-CDU) is a Christian.
Cold is the largest political party in the nation.
Likewise, the ruling party in Turkey, Justice and Development Party, AKP, is a Muslim party.
However, that party has succeeded to make Turkey continue to be a non-religious nation.
Even here in the United Kingdom, the Queen who is the head of the country (respect) of the Anglican church, and although Christianity is as a "national religion" but the country is run by a "global religion" and not religious.
However, the problem of religion is the fact that despite touching the personal feelings of believer, religious issues do not require scientific confirmation (or global).
Unlike religion, politics is the issue of more ideology than faith (although faith in ideology can make the supporters of the party see the importance of religion).
Likewise, religious issues include "future life after all of the world" while politics is focused on current issues or not here in the world.
The tragedy comes when a believer in religion starts to believe that he is against the coalition, for example, he is doing spiritual work and get the creator.
It is difficult to control this kind of person because even his movements broke his life, or threatened to die, he believes that he will be paid by his creator.
Basically the violence that happened in Zanzibar have been contributed by our politicians who significantly have been talking about what is known as "fear of the founders of the union when the coalition is being ignored in their hands."
Instead of dealing with the problems of the union and get solutions to permanent solutions, our leaders have been focusing more on trying to tell us that they are dealing with it because they have refused to know about it.
We have had a Commission of coalition nuisances for the years to go back but its effectiveness has become more provocative than the reality.
Let's stop the hypocrisy, "noise" for demanding the change of the coalition structure (and even those to be released) cannot be.... to ignore or have a "eternal commission" to address those problems without solutions.
But another is to suck on the Zionists, hatred against their colleagues on the excuse of the problems of the union.
In Zanzibar, a number of politicians have dared to claim that they are going for the people of Zanzibar to miss employment.
But that is just a sequence of accusations of that kind, because in the past they have been accused of being the ones that led to AIDS in the island.
Because until this time I am preparing this article, the situation in the island has not changed, I request I conclude by giving a proposal on the importance of having a referendum that will compensate the offense that was done in the past to look for the consent of the citizens about the union.
If the referendum will decide to have three governments, then that should be.
If it is decided that the coalition should be done, then it should be that (by the way, the breath of the coalition does not mean to die in Tanzania Mainland or Zanzibar, as the breath of marriage doesn't mean the death of the husband or wife who was divorced with his colleague).
Finally, when I urge our leaders to speed up the referendum I believe it will help to bring a lasting solution to the problems of our union, it is very important for both the two governments (the union and of Zanzibar) to take a stern action against the terrorists who sell "legitimate claims about the union" that the reason for attacking them and burning churches and its properties.
They do not make these criminals not to look for a drawn coalition but like the seeds of religious tensions between Christians and Muslims.
God bless Tanzania
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
