"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Mbeya City are now tarmac on the corner of Dec 27, 2012
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The dream of the residents of Mbeya City to see changes and important improvements in the infrastructure sector, it has finally been fulfilled after the completion of one of the roads that are ongoing at the moment in that town.
The most important road that was completed recently, is the Airport- Samora, which serves residents of Ice area, or Airport, as it is known for the majority, which is complete with a tarmac.
However, together with that road to be completed and therefore easing travel communication between those areas, the fear that the citizens are about the accident.
"And we now have people after listening to the tarmac roads.
In fact, it's like I dream as well, it will help to transport our crops from farms.
We are producing Mbeya City for vegetables and fruits, "says a resident of Swaya town after the road was placed on a tarmac class on Saturday last week.
Swaya town is on the outskirts of Mbeya city, and it is popular for vegetables, their main market in the middle of the city, and therefore for the citizens of that area to their importance is transportation of their produce easily and faster.
Apart from the transportation of food production from Swaya Ward, the completion of that road is a great comfort to the students studying in Samora Secondary School who were forced to walk on foot by approximately two kilometers per day due to lack of transport between the Mafiat station and in the school where the new road is threatening.
That road of 1.24 kilometers, known as Airport- Samora Road, is part of the roads with a length of 28 kilometers that are based in the construction of the roads of that city at a tarmac level that started in November last year and is expected to be completed in June next year.
The adviser from Techniplan SpA- Itali, M. Haq, says he is satisfied with the quality of work that was shown by the company that builds the road of CICO China.
He says the level of quality and efficiency of the work they showed technicians at the construction of that road is hoping for the work to be completed at the time set and on the quality they agreed on the contract.
The view of that expert is similar to the citizens of Mbeya town who explained openly being satisfied with the quality of that road by looking at only, with some of the engineers from different cities that are in that project in the country, they noted that the level has confirmed the control of the tender for some of the perpetrators saving famous as "ten percent."
"Here there is no" ten percent, "that is why even the president of the company has come, again with his wife, it has proven" ten percent "that the contractors, not less than 40 percent of all the work payments, that is why they are paying for them," says one engineer from one of the cities in the country.
According to the acting secretary general, the Office of the Prime Minister (Education), Tuesday Sagini, the councils of all the cities in the country, seven municipal councils and the headquarters of Dodoma (CDA), benefit from the plan of improving towns in the country that is being implemented by funds from the World Bank (WB).
According to Sagini, the program will cost more than 200 billion shillings, it is about the construction of road infrastructure, markets, madampo, buses and improving the environment.
He says together with other things, that the implementation of those projects are different from depending on the needs of every city and the municipality.
Those roads are a great comfort to the residents of Mbeya City and that province in general, where now they are supporting this year 2012 with three major projects of pride, because of Songwe International Airport, Mwanjelwa is and tarmac roads that are ongoing in the city.
The completion of the Airport in Samora, makes it open to the hopes of the residents of that town who previously bought up, to the extent that it was not surprising to find themselves on the village's legitimacy of their city's status, the main reason being to see things going well like they had expected, and especially when they were compared to the years before promotion.
It is on the basis, some of those citizens in their village, they are not aware of the government of President Jakaya Kikwete for good development activities that will implement in Mbeya province, and especially the improvement of road infrastructure in that city.
The Songwe Airport together with Mwanjelwa is expected to be launched at any time from now, while the construction of tarmac roads in that town will be ongoing but some of its will be completed ready to reach June next year, having a length of 28 kilometers.
Since December 13th this year, Songwe Airport started being used, and according to the manager of the stadium, Valentino Kadeha, the only thing expected is the official launch that is expected to be done by President Kikwete.
However, construction is only one thing in strengthening the road infrastructure in the city, the foundation is its protection, something that is a big problem, not to Mbeya City alone but for the whole nation.
According to the Director of Mbeya City, Juma Iddi, the preparations have taken place about the care of those roads, including meeting with the leaders of the ward and the streets and explain to their responsibility in overseeing the care of those roads, including a careless waste, where the city will ensure that waste more than "maguba" that are in the road, and that even the citizens have been educated already.
"Citizens must know that these funds (used to improve the infrastructure of Mbeya City) is a loan from the World Bank, so we will come to pay," said Iddi.
In this issue of conserving the infrastructure of community services, the acting secretary general, Sagini, has ordered local government authorities in the country to supervise the small laws that are available on environmental cleanliness so as to protect the road in the country which he says cost a lot of money.
In addition to the construction of road infrastructure, the program of improving Mbeya City (face lifting) is also about the construction of the main bus station of passengers and cargo in the Nane Nane area, road lights and the waste water (land fill).
The roads that are being built in money from the World Bank were divided into two phases.
The first phase will involve 13.2 kilometers on the road starts in Sae through the electricity station of TANESCO to the University of Theater Kisanji (TEKU) together with the Airport through Jacaranda to the fuel station in the Forest.
Other roads in that phase is that Commissioner Road which begins at the Uhuru Stadium to Weru Garden to Uzbelow, block T starts to Kabwe heading to the Church of KKKT Luanda, up to SIDO and Oil Station Com Soweto, and the beginning of the Sea (TANESCO) to the Clinic of Ituha.
The construction of the roads will also involve the gutter of water and small bridges of churches, the purchase of two cars for the management of the road, one gas plant and another one of drawing a baby and stones that is known as bold.
The second phase of the program will have 14.6 kilometers and it will involve the second road in the Source area and its bus station, road starts at CCM, it was asked to go to VETA until the slaughterhouse, before meeting with the ones that came to Ilemi and heading to the road to the Uyole area and the road of the Provincial Hospital starts at Yyo mini Super Market.
The other in the second phase is together with the one starts at the new Forest which will collaborate with the Airport to Sae, Igaissance road starts at Mbeya- Tukuyu, to the Health Center Igwal Secondary School.
It is in the second phase, where it will be built at the University of Passengers and goods in the Nane Nane area, a hole of waste in the meaning of DAMPs will be sung, the purchase of a balance of measuring weight in the hole of waste, three vehicles of waste (side loaders), four cars of throwing rubbish (skip Master), 109 containers of carrying the waste (skip bucket), three small cars and collecting 200 rubbish.
According to the Director of Mbeya City, in the second phase they will also make pictures of the city's housing (satellite Image) which will help improve the collection of tax collection, and more will be released training to executives about the collection of revenue, and to put a computer system for operations of the council of that city.
In that special program of improving the road infrastructure, Mbeya City cannot depend on the only money from the World Bank, but it will build eight kilometers to the tarmac that were using money from its revenue sources.
The roads include the Kambarage starts at K's Hospital to the Parents of Meta Hospital and a small bus station of Meta, the road's library, all the roads going to City Park, the roads of Source: Tanu, the third and fourth, visitors Street and Nonde Street, a parking lot from the Sombrero Hotel and the area of City Pub and small bus stations.
By using his money, Mbeya city will build ten kilometers of the road to the level of ChangKisarawe where in the year will be installed, whereby it will be the beginning of its sustainable plan of building ten kilometers for tarmac roads every year.
Among the long-term concerns in the city of Mbeya, include lack of traffic lights where together with long-term noise from citizens were placed on one road in the city center.
However, that problem will remain a history, because it is already a replacement project on the main road of Tanzania- Zambia is complete and lit up.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
