The money we get is buying good medicine we can have.
We're going to buy cars
When we talk to last year we were that we need us to be given alcohol to adults who have alcohol on each other and we request that we will get a lot of three hundred million so we can finish selling two, we will be able to do a lot of things to ask ourselves to buy a car, we will also be able to get money and the other one will go ahead of us at the moment, so it will be a car they are looking for a few people.
Taking drugs
Those who are also looking at thirty years you are going through now what we are doing is instead of buying things that have a cost again to use that fund is the claims of citizens to benefit from things are going on well even if using those funds to repair our centers to get if they have gone down, we can do a lot of things my all my things we can put solar those that are not on closed and we have also been able to read a huge refrigerator.
But we have a car system for the purpose of using all the things
Which will be put on the same way as a big event you can find a lot of money to come back to the citizens who are different from other places that will depend on sixty and twenty percent as we were told that in the session goes directly in other uses of the drugs, you find it has been given a small chance to represent that reputation last week and other uses later but they are coming.
And we have been told that one chicken savings in the whole year Stima but what is happening will make when they speak to people, they need a bad name and I am trying to make you or I don't see if a rabbit is not my mind very well but I am making it so that the citizens can see something that is easy for them to do I would be able to walk a lot of members of the members but another one that succeeded in a difference.
And at the beginning we reached, we should not agree to agree with the three major things the president is supposed to tell us to do the work of reducing poverty then diseases together with ignorance, but tell us what we do with me and I saw for it.
So it may be the same
Stronger than me and it's easy to spot everyone can do.
That is why our slogan says one chicken treatment the whole year
One cannot inge
And we Paul bosses
And my in-law and your children or they should stand for eight people who are treated ten shillings
It has never happened in other community groups, there are students of primary and secondary schools but it has taken a lot of elders
Many take actions against them
You know what we have and we have to do the job of raising our citizens that you do about the luxury issue must manage the manifesto of our revolutionary party says by centres fifteen
Thirty percent of the citizens in every district the whole country have joined.
Health Insurance Jan Pictures: We are doing that is to implement the Labour Party manifesto but we Take notice of the party.
To say the party has put our manifesto open to all that I have been excited to continue to be excited
They should be exempted for free
They do that but also to get good services to small children, they do not have a must and it is free when you get to find a check what we are doing is to ensure three things are done.
First, there are children who are treated.
The free colleagues for all free children to the elderly have agreed
The village to pay the elders that are coming from because the pictures will talk to you as a gift is required to contribute to that and therefore in the village there is tax for alcohol and the decline so it is the second day for the year so they did not take care of but in the village in every village of gay bread.
Five goalkeepers and five goalkeepers
Together with those living in the villages in our digital money they contribute to five shillings
So if you see bread has been six.
So they don't use that bread and it is now setting up to normal, we have told them because it is very well that things seems to have put in the villages, they have received it and other projects that you only tell them that you get the income that you get coal, you can only pay a lot of money and we have seen to do that.
Let us end that photos
Like twenty
So I went to pay for their children
So in that we have done.
