"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Improve health and income by multrosely Patrick Jonathan, Mwananchi Rosella is a lot of supplements such as fold, and chocaine.
For many years, this was widely used in the continents of Asia, South America, Caribbean and Europe.
Rosella is one of the crops that have a lot of spending and in a different way.
Some of their roselfish uses include making juice, wine, oil, selosi.
Rosella is also used to prevent the body and various diseases such as cancer, liver and lack of nutrition.
It also helps to reduce Bethlehem and treat blood pressure.
What are the qualities of the roselfies?
His leaves can be eaten as vegetables, their business and is used at home.
You are growing and it reaches a length of 3.5 meters in the season.
Stem cells and its branches have already been dropped, other features are football, and divided into three to seven places, next to them as a Portuguese.
You have a green color, black to red.
The flowers are great with red and yellow.
It has a long root and give flowers at the summer.
It is also accusing the land with chemical chemicals and the bottom as well as diseases.
The type of rosella Zao la rosella has been given different types of names according to the areas and the people of the areas they were going to be good.
For example, the red shirts are known as the choreat in Dodoma and other areas, while the coastal region of Tanzania is called a hell.
Primarily there are two types of rosella Rosella is divided into groups (names) which are known professionally by people in different areas.
Professionally is known as Hibiscus sabddfa: This is a rosella which has a red and yellow scarf.
Those warnings are born.
The other kind is Hibiscus Webster.
This type of rosella is planted mostly for the hashtag (fibres) but the warning is not released.
The way to improve their wives, this issue is affecting the Tropical storm between 1500 millimeters and 2000 for a year.
There should be a total of 600 meters away from the sea.
It is their distraction and moisture, flooding, strong winds and drinking water.
Rosella is regarded as the soil of sand from the water that leaves me easily.
However, it can grow in different types of soil.
They require regular operations to remove the shadow and leaves.
When you want to climb, you need baskets, fertilizer, soil, sand, while if you follow these steps; the land is good to go down to the amount of 20 centres, drilling holes in the bottle of 15 and Dar es Salaam.
Crosses 11-22 hectares is good to climb the seeds to the lyrics, the organizers in the first month is very important.
Fertilizer of natural fertilizer should be used and helps the production of changing crops is used especially because of the admiration that he has ended up in the root.
You can change and green.
For small farms at home, crosses and then take it into a 1-meter line.
Fortunately, the seeds will be eradicated from a temple then you are on the farm with 1.3 meters to 2.6 meters and the lines of 2 to 3 meters.
The diseases that are big for this is a fog (fungus): There are different types of fog that celebrates in the roots and leaves.
Treat, moisture drugs that are used to control and remove fog on the produce as soon as possible.
You can use drugs to protest before the explosion of fool.
The supervision of the farm is important especially the organizers, cut off, washing, washing, replacement, fertilizer, control of insects.
All of it is important in the preservation of the rosella farm so as to be sure of the best harvest.
The fruit extraction and warning takes place three weeks after the flowers were killed.
It is advisable to be warning after boiling the fruits.
Courtesy of a tear gas
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
