Now in the way to the end of the broadcast we look at a lot and you're talking about physical fever but also the spiritual service provider for those medical services, as well as we have talked about it and ask them about the best and eating.
Many times it has been people who are suffering from the people.
We see hurt Somali even their foods
They eat food that is not eating good food and electricity is a relationship.
Between consumption and spiritual leaders
However, because Someans all over the world is not just the Somalato you will see in mind what I see in mind.
Not immune from the buibui
The public service, though food can find out that it has five hundred tribes but it seems to be twenty years old.
Where was the problem.
Human beings have a lot of things inside her ears and the spiritual situation he has the body and also.
A man who is tweeted
Sitting next well he became in spiritual affairs and that is why the Somali church is to mobilize in the general health
A total of police
In the meaning that a human being is on the health of a person depends on what he is eating, for example, maybe he is eating a lot of things from whether or we do not have a lot of things, if we do not have the ability to understand only things up to the weak, so you will find that when we speak about the health of the truth is to avoid all the things that I hope # lt; unk, gt; that is indeed we do.
Doctors are choosing men to say the issues like grandfather as to carry the secretary ready.
And in that way now someone has lt; unk, gt; to have good health and ideas
However, your ability to understand the difficulty because sir in his studies he is using the fight
Now that is the ability to diagnose when you are okay
That is where his relationship with God
For what is required by ILO to do a person to have faith that we can also be able to do its issue that has its relationship with other people also Tabora chose to leave good or they are using his speech.
They explained about the food and they asked me very well.
The reporter of the word of God I have taught us very clearly what is happening to the adventista Somabato, the beauty is that we are teaching and many other denominations like you said now it is now other close users but yesterday you read the word well in some of the things they have been taught by the human being, that is something we teach them and ladies to get dirty pictures now we look at the side of the newspapers of the newspapers before it is maintained I have received.
Hell
