"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The farming of Mtama
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Whten by sebastianmaresi
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Mtama is a group of small seeds of cereal or cereal, which by the scientific name is known as (Sorgthat bicolor), it is a lot of crops all over the world for food and lishe.Mtama provides a lot of crops even in a situation that is not suitable for agriculture for other types of cereal crops.
Mtama has a great ability to endure drought.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
When Mtama can be used for blankets and be eaten as it is, run and used with snow, making drinks such as beer, get bread, and other types of folks.
Mmea of millet has also been used for the sake of livestock of livestock such as hay fever and cabbage.
Mtama is very well in an environment with an average of 400 millimeters and 700 millimeters of rain for a year.
Millet has also violated the water levels, and you can be measured in places with many rains.
Mtama is also the best part of the average temperature of 18 ° C, so as to be able to ota well, and an amount of 25-30 ° C to grow well.
Mtama cannot allow the snow.
Mtama can grow in all kinds of soil.
In a large extent, it is the best way in the soil of a follow-up, but also in the soil which has a little amount of a mixture of newborn.
When Mtama can't allow the squeeze on soil from pH 5.0-8.5, and is facing salt than it is maize.
The types of millet in general there are more than 30 types of millet that protect themselves as food.
Mtama is a good branch in summer.
Therefore, it is wrong in the parts of Africa.
In the past years, his agriculture was left often for maize because maize brings much more than acres.
But at the time of drought, it is a loss of people to return to rudi in the farming of millet.
The types of millet are different according to his colors, there is white, red, and woke up.
The natural seeds are usually shaken by ease, but the harvest is usually poor compared to modern seeds.
However, modern types that are produced at affordable prices are planted by following the regulations of better farming.
Serena: It's a punch of woke up.
This type is branch in the area with moderate rains and mature in a period of 110 days.
This type usually stem cells and roots, where it can produce an amount of 3,000 kilograms for one hectares.
Where are needed 5 kilograms of seeds for one hectares.
This type has the ability to deal with the disease, flashing, and the bedroom of the leaves.
Seredo: This is another kind of punk, and it is recommended to be cultivated in a 1,500-meter area from the sea.
This type usually expanded after 71 days and they are mature in a 120 days period.
This type is usually long, and it has the ability to produce 5000 kilograms for one hectares.
It has the ability to deal with the disease, flags, path in leaves, and the bedroom of the leaves.
Gadam: It works well in places where it is not a lot.
In many countries, for example Kenya, this type of millet is used to make beer and also for food.
But this kind of devastation of the leaves.
Indeed and Wahi: These are two types of millet that are manufactured by the Ilonga Agricultural Research Center for growing trees in the plantations.
The seeds have a yellow scarf in the lips.
The two types of flour is suitable for cooking.
The production of farm leaves the farm so as to make it easier to ease them.
If the farm is educated by a tractor, it has to get to its own and if it has been prepared for a hog, the soil is supposed to be reduced to the amount of a tree in the lines without stopping, it needs 7 to 8 kilograms of hectares and tree planting, you need 8 kilograms to 10 hectares.
A tree can rise in the haze before heavy rains, or when the rain starts or, while the rains are deployed.
Detail: Planting in the dust CM 5.0 - 6.0; planting in soil with moisture CM 2.5 CM (CM) in the line and line with 20 CM between stem cells and stem cells; the area of Makame: Cm75x cm20 or CM 90 x cm30.
Fertilizer: Different types of fertilizer and biogas are used to increase the soil of soil Samadi: It needs to be distributed on the farm and split down or put into the lines and confusion before planting.
The proposed amount is 5-10 tons of hectares and to weko a month before planting.
Fertilizers Kabla climbing: NGOP, 20: 20: 0, 23: 23: 0 at 20kg N and 20 kilograms P2O5 kilograms of eka, fwekus during planting and before planting seeds.
Top dressing: 20 Per Cent of fertilizer of Urea CAN.
Follow up the plants and make sure it is placed when there is enough moisture to make the fertilizers well Pure: It should be done twice.
The first organizers to happen 2-3 after the seeds to ota.
Drugs to kill the hype that can be used is Lasso or Gesaprim (before kuota) and 2,4 D (after kuota).
Blowing up costs to be reached by 3-4 weeks after eating and dizziness when the soil has enough mouse to reduce the effects of plants.
Destructive podes: (I) Nemona soccata) effects are from 7 to 30 days after the ota.
Viluwiluwi eat inside the mea and caused signs of mousdies.
The delay in planting is increasing the effects. (II) Vitaly (Stem borers Chilo partellus) Daly is a small flow in the pair.
Viluwiluwi highlights: Fantic plants shows modies (hearts).
Prevent the rise as soon as to pull out and burn the past decade, using the fantastic seeds of sprinkling of diseases such as the type of the Bulgock cells that are placed in plants in the age of 4 weeks to prevent "folding of seeds and cannabis (i) Sorgie midge (Contarina Wehicola) the effects are brought up by the magnitude of the seeds and centre of seeds and bringing the effects of drugs such as Endosulfan, Ambush, Marshal or Karate.
The pest of insects in the storage warehouses is like bathroom and nondo. (I) Broad-maize (Sitophilus zeamais) and Bothilus - Sitophilus).
Open and unwildly destroyed the seeds and make it not without any use.
To prevent harvesting early it has been actively used to use storage stores with quality and which will pass the air well, clean up the story and put medicine for 6 weeks before harvesting.
Medicine for drugs such as Actulic Super, Malathion or pyrethrum dust.
The plane has a plane as it is going on, as well.
Blocking the early seeds if it is mature as one in the nearest areas. You use the lines of torches such as ribbons, aluminum foils, the region. The cocktail of a cashtag to make a voice when a hashtag started harvesting time when a hashtag is to destroy the area of multiple jets.
NB: Getting the magazine click here.
Communications: 0754407774
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
