"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The referee who tries to stand up to the international level same as the hero Sylvester Kirby is rare to meet the netball team referees especially in homosexual areas.
But in Kitale's area, there was one folks who continues to do his things on the soccer stage.
Veronica Sangok (Fever) revealed that he can do this work that he has peaceful since early childhood and without any biology.
But it is amazing even further the secret of his efficiency; he admire the referee of the international level, Sylvester Kiran.
She's born three children.
And if the whole world has been born with the blood of soccer, while Sangok continues to vote, her husband and her child breakfast is playing for the MOI Star and MOI-Star Youth.
The father dancing number seven or nine, her child caught the road in the column.
This lady who has received the reputation is not insufficient for a short time, he has said that when you meet with this referee and the skull, you can't believe he can officiate the match.
The referee was born in 1986 in Kilima village, MOI's Bridge where he understood and started his primary school studies in Kilima School.
While in the primary school he started sha until the provincial level.
After doing a class eight examination, he joined the high school of St playing football, but later he started playing soccer in class seven.
He played for his school and even moved to the lawyer of Anne Kapsabet where he continued with kabee.
He completed the school studies for now, he is a nursery school teachers.
Before deciding to go to the training of urefa, he was one of the leaders of MOI Stars, a team that her husband is great striker, where he is holding the position of the Registrar.
He started as a fan where every international Sylvester Kirby from here MOI's Bridge.
His work was interesting when I wish me one day I will reach his level, "says Veronica.
Veronica was heading to the school when he was looking at a match especially when Kirkle had gone through.
"I was impressed by the work of the high school referee went to a nursery school in Nairobi.
In an experiment between the 12 sisters, she recalled the first.
He is saying that it is the only five fees who finished those races.
In the Final he got 77.7 points to be the highest marks.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
