"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
For this hard work, Lukuvi the only one cannot be helped to help the land sector in the country for years is going through great changes, where its value we are, it is rising every day.
There is a possibility that a few people who know well about the real value of the land that is a large part has not been tested since independence.
If you want to know the real value of land, try to make investment, be private in that sector, then you'll see and undoubtedly you will be surprised.
In urban and rural, nowadays the land is a resources that is being vied for too much, it has been a source of reasons for many conflicts and sometimes even disasters, people have met, others have got permanent disability.
Unlike maybe during the previous phase, the land has been given a new view, we see his minister, William Lukuvi and his assistant, Angelina Mabula who went round in every corner of the country have turned out to be in conflicts.
Laiti I could give an award or medal to the minister who did a good job in the year 2016, no doubt Lukuvi would be sold first.
I would have changed, of course with his assistants, although not all, by trying to say the fact that all of them have been told that you are sent, to the extent that every place where Lukuvi has met with one type of conflict or land problems.
I believe, Lukuvi admits, is one of the close aides of President John Magufuli who is no doubt happy.
It is an enemy of land owners, including the leaders, where the club has changed, they use, some of them have been done to land, others are required to develop, otherwise it will go with water!
The leaders, including the local government, villages in the country will have not like Lukuvi because of stealing the cry, sitting on their income sources.
They don't know.
Those who constructed in many areas in the city, including Dar es Salaam, if you remove them in a few areas that were tested and passed, they have passed away.
I understand how they participated in one way or another in the allocation of land, plots or farms whose owners face conflicts.
Some I believe that they are not like Lukuvi is the agents of plots and farms.
Some of them started the pockets of their pockets, although their days have come at the end.
Some of them ignored customers who wanted land for their use of different types.
Also, experts, among the urban planning, land officers before the arrival of Lukuvi were bosses, seeing it was in sweat and these days have become small.
Some of them lived in the verness, they found themselves in the land or intellectual ownership of plots, plantations, documents that took many years to receive, although these days I was told we should give it.
As I explained earlier, the land sector is cross-cutting and ministries, many laws, has been conflicts, conflicts since the country got its independence 55 years ago.
Why the conflicts of land does not end?
A few who benefited, including the leaders, clever, among the scholars that killed the real value of land, brought it up or for buying, get free, and later they sell them through local officials, villages and agents, some of them are richest.
That wealth that was found through the land, which we have been given to be a public property, you have left behind many conflicts that I have been told the Lake Region is leading in the country.
Buyers of plots or farms for many years have been hurt, although they are now seeing light.
As a result, the sector appeared to have a nuisance, the aka of evil and pain of many citizens, who wanted to invest in one way or another.
The land, a curse, we have been told in the stories of religion that Kaini had killed and bury his brother, Abel on the ground and the curse has raised a majority of the world.
We are told those who were asked to bring him the best harvest from the land so that they can be swept away, they are blamed.
Many years later, the land that is very sensitive resources have continued to attract many to today.
Look, a person who has invested in that sector in mind has the opportunity to live well, although in the urban side, the value of land has made it a way of causing disaster between farmers and breeders.
I ask, now our generation are praying for the land, we are looking for one another, what will we leave the kids, our grandchildren of the future?
The answer to this question is to set aside today, I guess it is our duty to all of us as a community to start looking at the land for a new view than it is now.
We asked Lukuvi that he is walking the country and the whole country to solve a lot of land problems in urban and rural areas, we think he has nothing to do.
I would have advised Lukuvi, whose friend since the age we met at the National Youth League (UV-CCM), along the Morogoro road, not afraid but icker.
In that, Lukuvi has to understand that he has remained a leader with a stand, he will not stand up on that sector in that new perspective, thinking about how to change some of the laws governing that sector.
I advise that the issue of getting documents to every owner of the land, plot or farm in the city and the villages should be given a new view, should be heard, if possible to use information available on these days easily to the public Identification Authority (Nida), the National Electoral Commission (NEC) or Rita to enable all land owners to get documents.
The system of reviewing the ownership of different levels should be looked afresh so as to enable land to be resources that help in Tanzania to develop, borrow the bank or financial institutions that are trusted, not to be sold as it is now.
My advice is to be monitored by the laws of that sector, to remove bureaucracy and great power to some people, including leaders and executives of the sector, that needs a national discussion.
I do not want to believe that the issue to prepare and provide documents of plots or land to happen in the House or in the regional offices, it is important that the council should not be the authority of the agents of managing access to documents so as to help them get documents easily and generous in the collection of government.
Along with that, the use of commercial land, construction of big buildings in the country, it is also a must that its laws should be handled in order for land taxes and buildings to the council to make sense, benefits to the country.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
