Halo the third from the three timber and five of the timber and we have seen five from the timber.
I see you had the tomatoes that you are being sold to the tomatoes that you are sold to them.
And the teeth are also coming to pass here they were selling one fifty and I haven't taken, he said, when I read it, I didn't know I can't give something to me and how many times it took it.
Why
Ehhe mym mym AHH would be a loss yesterday was even the one in the body of Nelson was ten mym ehhe visitors
I saw Nelson okay to see that ten AHH had been selling fifty and I saw it is of something but he has said that he will bring another and I saw the mosques were selling and one of the very big seat.
Little
When that match may have many benefits, this will bring about the benefit of one big fifty, you know that I was two, I am saying that one kilograms is when I am one is Forty five Forty five mym, that's the same Chelsea I will take the loss to the AHH last year, I have brought a lot of attention and they have finished and finished building.
Okay who is ready for a house you say I'm standing here, they are still making a fifty.
Ohh each AHH is expensive.
So, I have seen yesterday that has brought so many things today now.
And mangoes
Even if you don't end you still do not just make you just make you tell you, you don't know you are still talking now, he says that he does not continue to make a toilet then let us go on the house
Ok, I hear you hear mym ehhe and ehler I hear.
Ok as I listen to hear the mym mym halo talk, you will make it back to call it this morning
Halo we now
Tomorrow we will go to the market
Tomorrow we will go and we will go to the market tomorrow we will go to the market.
Ehit is it to prove that the person who accepts palm, such as mi simt
When I'll show you I will go through, even when you are called even when I ask you, I'll tell you the same.
Because I will buy vegetables in the onions and keep me up to the potatoes and fail to carry sa will have.
Network is the one that showed halo we showed people they were selling it today halo people were selling how many were selling them today.
How many times
How many times you are now, but that would you know you don't give it, it doesn't give it not it does not give the marriage to the marriage they were selling how many of them were selling it for the four hundred and forth, but it can give it that it will bring coal it will bring development to it.
Four hundred are the kind of kind of kind.
Twitter lt; hes tgt; wealor Next month, I am out of the second month in the second month as I am out now saying I am out of the door ehhe halo
Keeping me feel that you are in a house if you wanted to house the house to stand out because of the house no Network is out of a thousand.
Ehhe is not to bring coal AT least, he would have caused coal.
And in the second month it is not this time, it is the second month it will bring you the second month and it will bring you the same way you will be the same as if this is coming.
How many times do it mean that coal is okay to tell me, I know I will bring the wedding I want first to cooking you, first cooking I want first to cooking.
It's not that you will bring everything you don't need a phone and we are talking to Mister for the ten minutes not to say why you are talking about, so mm you eat what is so happy that you don't know my son
Ehorg will end how many hours
Ehr
