"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Listen to me, the secret I know as Mussa Juma, Mwananchi mjuma @ scientanchi.co.z Alphonce Simbu, was not known, but after holding the fifth position in the Marathon in the Olympic Games of Rio de Janeiro 2016, then its popularity began to hold momentum.
That was August.
Five months later, that is January this, he won the Mumbai Standard Chartered Marathon race, the competition that brought together 37,000 athletes and among them, 32 were officially invited to the world standards, participating in the international competition.
Simbu did not care for the athletes from Kenya and Ethiopia and other parts of the world, ran away and spent 2: 09: 32 only leaves the championship of Kenyans, in the international race.
Dr. Mikiki spoke to Simbu's wife, Rehema Daudi 22, explaining what the secret of her husband's success in the race.
The question: I understand that Alphonce Simbu is a mumeo, and he has been working with the athletics, he started to be heard more in the 2016 Olympic Games, what is the secret of success?
Rehema: My husband's secrets do well in his tournament, is his discipline in exercise.
Simbu likes to do exercises with everything that he has been told by his coaches, he has been doing a lot of practice and I'm grateful that she is crying.
There is nothing else for his success is exercise.
Question: But often women are restrictions, that celebrities are found in training at the training, how is this?
Rehema: (He gets a bit) no, I don't say... Simbu is very free and the fact I know his practice schedule, he is going to the training and coming from the exercises he returns home, he rest.
That's about caring about his fitness schedule allows me to do well.
Question: His life is in general, what others do like the life to conform with their achievements, how do you think this?
Rehema: The truth, as well as doing well, Simbu is living a normal life, my husband in fact I'm grateful she has no headquarters, living a very common man.
The question: Usually, he wishes to eat very much food?
Rehema: Simbu likes a lot of maize and stones.
They tend to catch up and sometimes with fruit.
He does not have a lot of things about his health, not a person of meat or beer, the truth is a lot of food.
The question: Apart from the Olympics in the fifth position, how did it happen when it was said Simbu won Mumbai Marathon?
Rehema: I was very happy since I like athletics.
I remember when I was at the primary school I fled the athletics.
I like athletics even this child would like to stop and be a good scientist.
The question: I know the winner of Mumbai Marathon is getting a gift of 42,000 dollars more than 90million shillings, if today this is the burden of this burden here, will they do it?
Rehema: (He is eka...) really!
I don't know... but if he is getting us to improve our lives and especially our house we are building, but aah, I can't know what we will do because he has not been handed over but first I think it is improving our house and business since I was doing the business of a salon.
After an interview with his wife, spill Mikiki spoke to Simbu in relation to the competition and says Mumbai Marathon, is the biggest and popular Asia and on the level of the International Athletics Federation and that those races have Silver's second largest group.
Speaking in a special interview at his home in Ngateu district in Arumeru District, Arusha Province, Simbu says it was not an easy job of defeating the athletes of Kenya and Ethiopia.
He says Kenyans were being led by a prominent blogger, Kosua Kiplir who held the second position by using 2: 09: 58, followed by another blogger Eliud Bargetuny who spent 2: 11: 39 and the fourth place was buried by Kenyan Jacob Chesar who spent 2: 11: 36 and holding a fifth position.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
