Non-productive will not make Z'bar generous Nov 11, 2015
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Next week I will continue with this week's article about this election to be a lesson.
Today I saw to say a little about the challenges in the Zanzibar elections.
Let me start by saying that the 2015 elections have given a big lesson as a nation, we have learned more like the people and citizens, and that we have not been put in a big attempt, it can be lost, usterity of our colleagues may have gone down and there are some of our colleagues, not all, their decisions are more emotional and not the logic.
Our leaders have also developed themselves well and most of us know their real colors.
Sure in one way or another we have been confronted here by everyone because the citizen has a contribution to us here.
Our dollar and its agencies also have a contribution in bringing us here, our political parties have also a great contribution to us here, here we are not a good place, we don't want to be proud of the level of people to be in public, not to respect, not loving, not trust, a large extent of selfishness and hatred and everyone to avoid responsibility from citizens to citizens.
Let us start accountable if one person, we ask ourselves and think about where everyone is wrong and we don't have a simple response that our minds will start to give us like, it is a government, it is a political party, it's rich, it is a certain tribe, it is a certain region, it is certain religion or sect.
When you get there, if it is a parent I will tell you that when the last time you explained to your children the beauty of their country in Tanzania?
When did they tell you how Tanzania is a unique country in Africa and the world?
And if you are a citizen to come out and start giving a finger to others I will ask when when the last time you participated in your local government sessions and you will participate to identify the opportunities and obstacles for development "Opportunities and obstacles for Development (O & OD)" in your region?
Or has it been opposed by your activities is waiting for the trend of arguments during the 2020 campaign?
The start of the government, it starts to be a keen citizen now.
Zanzibar has failed, wisdom will rise to Zanzibar elections which was held one day by the elections of the United Republic on October 25.
According to the Constitution of the United Republic and the Constitution of Zanzibar, these two elections are different and do not have any relationship.
Speaking about the authority in this elections are being managed by two different authorities, returning to the constitution of the Republic, article 4 that talks about "authorities of the country" in the meaning of the United Republic under the National Electoral Commission (NEC) that involves the elections of the president of the Republic, members of parliament of the Republic of the Republic and the Mwadians of the Tanzania mainland.
The Zanzibar authorities under the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) has a bond of coordinating the elections of the president of Zanzibar, members of the House of Representatives and councilors.
In the two different elections, both parties are supposed to put its managers all over the country to manage election activities that are constitutional and legally they have the authority.
The translation of this explanation is that even Zanzibar National Electoral Commission (NEC) presented officials in every station to supervise and run the elections of the president of the United Republic and the republic.
Alongside NEC, ZEC put its officers to supervise and run the elections of the president of Zanzibar, representatives and councilors in all stations in Zanzibar.
Even the stations is one area but it is two different authorities.
While the results of the election results going on under the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) received several issues which in one way or the other led to the chairman of the Electoral Commission of Zanzibar to delete the presidential elections, representatives and councilors.
The chairperson of ZEC, brother Jecha has given more than eight reasons, I will explain a few reasons, first, when the exercise is continuing with delegates inside the commission failed to "know each other" in a lighter language while Tanzania Mainland, the delegates of ZEC were left with a fight.
The chairman is going further to say the delegates of ZEC were killed by homosexuals and started running the fields, if it is not enough the delegates of ZEC will go back to their allegiance and to start flying the flag of their political parties.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
