It is not a must
To follow there are diseases like diabetes
Diabetes diseases
Also
Patients live directly but the disease, like in the family there are diseases such as therefore the possibility of children and other youths to get the disease are very easy for diseases and also where parents got money at a young age
Saba of the years
You can hope that there are big girls also that children have to be infected with those diseases.
In the spots but secret tomorrow from a big age that even from sixty years of age, he will not depend on it.
But it's not what we say when we say the diseases to live with diseases that are called in the generation and.
Professionally, these diseases are calling for Jim
So what we need in Swahili?
So these diseases can pass through a mother
To a child
Or you sit down to the father and go to their child, the two parents, I would like to be a child by a name called jasmine, a client, the wearing of beauty glasses is an impact on the wearing of beauty glasses in general
This is because they are for example glasses of the sun
Then there are more benefits more than the effects because what is tested for?
Ehr and a lot of beauty questions?
Ehit is a common mirror
This is what you don't be
Offline, but there are some things that you don't be maybe because a special thing for preventing the sun becomes glasses, if you are in mind if you have to wear glasses without fulfilling it as well.
If you have no effects on the past, wearing glasses on the eyes because that's when I got problems from the eyes
It depends on whether there is someone or eyes but maybe a reading period.
Ehhe therefore gives me a learning place and there is someone who is in the eyes of the devil is those who have glasses for all the time
So this person deserves to wear glasses for all the time giving glasses but before the beauty can get problems because even the meaning of beauty does not have a good conversation for the sake of it because the effects will come because the effects will come because the effects will come because the effects will come because the effects are coming because the effects will come because the effects are coming because they are the ones of beauty but harvest will come because they don't use the eyes of the eyes that I don't want to use by the name of the child, do not get sleep there is a lot of health effects in general there are many effects.
For not getting sleep
For one of them is enough to think well
Not getting enough sleep because you know the course of htt; hes tgt; in general it will not be more effective because the ability of thinking is not okay but I don't get sleep for a long time can also cause a lot of ideas that are also something that is not good for human life and you can get diseases to end other effects.
So it's good in general we will get enough sleep in the whole person is seven hours until eight hours could be enough for many reasons why the person gets a victory
As he said that sleep will not get an aesthetic, but with a lot of ideas also about the show to win.
But also there are various drugs
Which people are using which can cause someone to sleep at a big age, when you have gone from here for sixty years and continue to get sleep but apart from the lt; hes Twitter gt; someone can sleep because of his work.
He is threatened to blah blah, but it was because of their activities so the situation
Enough, sir, his work that he made the bed led to the camera is anger to Freddy and the situation in this section of the doctor.
