Secretary of the ministry of health guarantee Doctor Mpoki
Waiting
Waiting for a minister has said that the government is planning to increase the distribution of medicine to health centers, let's listen to the journalists last month after rumors emerged that the lack of medicine and medical equipment
It was rampant
For now
The real access to medicine is waiting for the same as fifty percent and third.
Because of one hundred and five important medicines in store, there is no seventy-one medicine for those drugs and others are at the service centers.
The availability of medicine will be strengthened more in October this year.
Now.
And the Sea of medicine uses long-term contracts
And they don't want the framework.
In order to strengthen the availability of medicine Now
Are they needed according to money is found
And as we'd like to insist.
That ehorimbi already has received approximately twenty billion shillings.
Which will help in ensuring that we continue to have these drugs as I have spoken earlier.
Now that is the minister or secretary in the ministry of health Doctor Mpoki Ulisubisya
Speaking about the issue and how the government of President Kohn alcohol Magufuli
It is dealing with last year the Sea of medicine in Tanzania is known as Hemed.
It was reported by various media outlets in the country to stop the delivery of drugs
Which is important for the government's health institutions until when the debt of ninety billion shillings would be paid by those institutions but the spokesperson of the Sea of medicine in that country, Etty Kusiluka
Holding that despite the complaints of lack of medicine, it has enough medicine, Etty Kusiluka lets tell us now this lack in some of the hospital centers continues to be talked about?
Medicine is not a hospital not to end the medicine no medicine
Medical stores, there are drugs that have started to enter and requested the medical stations when they start asking the video
And how long will it take to all hospitals and institutions require
A three-day job to buy medicine to protect and distribute for helosi are spreading drugs due to the application that they voted for.
The request for all the hospitals that have brought in prayers
Going on the drugs that are being spread and taken to those in the world
We have been rumors that if one year passed, it said that those who maybe have not paid.
The money that they were.
They are supposed to pay they will not get those drugs, there is a fact that those rumors are being waited is to ensure that a Tanzanian citizen gets treatment and that is why even if you hear those who had no weapons were given medicine for the exercise and take medicine to them.
It continues as usual, other issues of paying debts that I have left us we are doing with communication
They pay those minerals from the time and when they get the money who say that they do not get medicine, maybe it is just a time but this issue will be opened here recently when you go to the concerned hospital, there is no medicine to ask where the area also requested and asked them that they gave them drugs.
Unless otherwise
If it has been forced to see how it is to see how it gets to us when it comes to it.
Hospital lack of medicine does not mean that in a medical store there is no medicine where the government or those hospitals have no money to bring some medicine to be given by the minister maybe the situation is now.
At war if a hospital doesn't make medicine has continued every government's health center and government hospitals.
Which has continued to get money from the hospital where the university is being viewed as their accounts have money then given medicine but not that they are giving money to be buried about getting drugs that happens is that the government's budget and isolation and put on their accounts were given to jail but they also have other income sources that they can add to where it comes to.
The other revenue, which include the spot-spot of the prosecutors.
Basket Fund things like that they can add to where they feel that they have more medicine needs but hospitals like hospitals do not Direct to buy medicine has increased more than using money that are defended by the government
So the money that they are getting extra which from other revenue sources can come to them and buy additional drugs
We continue to give medicine to drugs not to bring that their accounts did not like enough.
That is why I tell you that we are looking at more.
Health, a citizen's health is not the same as something else or food or something that is health that is why even the people complaining, we need to live together and that even his account if a small number we wait but other things get missing, maybe therefore you are being called an unprecedented person and he is gay you to tell you go your account doesn't have money not to do so.
