Education cover the national image, the identity of its people Feb 05, 2015
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
I have given an example of how the families of the critics are determined to invest in their children's education.
Even if it is a family that brought together the father and mother who loved a luxury in their first youth (before they give birth) the couple will not change when they are faced with the issue of raising their children and give them everything that will assure them good upbringing and life of efficiency.
This means that they will make sure that children get a good place to get to the right, clean housing, good accommodation, food and adequate nutrition, the protection of the disease, testing of their health frequently, and the quality of behavior that will enable them to be good in their lives.
Then, education.
Education is together with the good upbringing that they are getting children in their home, in the community that they left, in the village or street and also in school.
The school has been an agent of the family and the community of the village or estate in the activities of developing a child education where parents can't go forward in the borders of the family and the village community or the street cannot be advanced in its borders.
Parents and family members are fulfilling their responsibility until their limit.
The community of the village and street communities are fulfilling their responsibilities until they are studying, and the child is going to school where the responsibility of the continuation of education and child care is received by the teachers and other servants of that institution of education.
From the family, village, street to school and college, all of this is a continuation of the main activity of bringing and creating a community community who will be beneficial to him, for his family, in his village or its neighborhood, and for the whole nation and even a wide range of international community and the whole world.
That is how they found teachers with qualifications, they are hically, public servants who have improved, leaders who leave their points in the community, the defending of every good thing by opponents of all the evil in the world.
They all take a look at the steps I've seen above.
If you read biographical (stories of life) of people like Mafate Gandhi, Jawaharlal Neil, Julius Nyerere, Nelson Mandela, Martin Luther King Jr and others, we get an image of the people who were exposed through all the steps to reach their youth of good work in the world.
The most important is that they were taken care of the care of justice, equality and dignity.
Their actions with young people have shown the qualifications that were caused by the way they were coming from childhood.
(By who wants to follow this, there are many biographical books here in the country and in neighboring countries, Europe, the United States and Asia that show how senior leaders were raised and educated.
Now here in the country, it is found in the book of a youth at edinburgh University, Thomas Molony, who writes about the life of childhood and youth of Julius Nyerere: Nyerere, the Every years.
Molony is getting into a more sensitive environment that grew up Nyerere, a culture that brought up, training from mother and other family members, the content of his initial education, and later in secondary school, and also to the University of edinburgh, Uskochi.
Parents, close relatives, the village of the village, the teachers who met with them in school and in colleges, both were one of the knowledge, skills, education, and not stole them in Kambarage and became the same to his death).
Contrary, you are visible from the qualifications that are contrary to those that I mentioned by.
Many children who were born and tortured in the families of thieves and who were not lucky to get tired of the village communities or the street, they are crying in theft and finally, they will be big thieves, criminals and corrupt, because that is the knowledge they got, and that is the education they got.
Silika of theft will make it sometimes to be his own assets if he has lost a person to marry him.
The same for a child who is born and raised in the environment of conflict and conflicts in the family or street and in the village.
Wherever he is and the fight will go, and without a fight he will make it.
When we say that a child can't know, that's what it means.
There are true stories of human children being raised by animals like fox and babe, and they were found with the behavior of those guardians.
So it is very important for the upbringing of the children of any nation prepared, supervised, coordinated and controlled so that it can be possible for education and training, behavior and behavior of the people of this nation to conform to and those that are not big so that the country should not have a strong character.
I've got to ask, and until now I ask: This is what is introducing the national football of Tanzania?
It's hospitality?
'It's gentle.'
He's a weak defense?
Is it credibility and truth?
What is the quality of education for our children?
Is it patriotism that makes love for the country and its people?
Is it the defense of the weak and hatred against injustice and oppression?
Or is the violence to the weak?
Is it lies, fraud, tension, tension and hypocrisy?
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
