Completely, we know my conversation with me
One in fact, we have seen not in blood we will look like a success in the bibs.
Go back to our conversations for now to succeed in the new year
You can have this subject of succeeding through what should I do?
I want different positions you want to know your people who are tired of different goods of life
What do we do?
Ehit crown people to succeed in a total.
Bibly through the first time they are required to trust God that we do not teach the areas of worship for himself after you believe in God, all the percentage that God can succeed and they are not convinced to do something so that these people arrived to go to the decorations that help the camps.
There is a child who comes to all levels
In this world if he is not told by the people
It takes a member of parliament to take serious responsibilities to the president I take a person or all you must know Mister we need one of the positions there are words of being told the aides with that.
You can't emerge, it is a must that the Bible is written by the source of everything is to hear that people are required to respect the issue that they should show that the service will help with God's success you can make anyone else.
He was organized to be rich of matoke but God has told us that the rich and the people succeed in the money you receive what is there not to succeed
Regarding God's worry, he is giving out that the president will not be given even if it is a must.
We don't have a person who is running for presidency and fail and then starts again another father.
He threw him for watching and from.
Honorable Nelson Mandela passed through difficult problems but he was still a difficult president but it was still a president even when you see an end at the end of the day.
He has gone through hard but it has not been easy to take that measure of the one to be told only even a step but we are still living with food as a god, he has been given gifts not a leader you will take a snack of the word.
On the left Martha you will continue with him here, I have made it in a heart of only in the area to succeed if God asks if someone is going to respect the word of God's word he likes.
Only when it is blessed with money we must be reached by it.
Now I would like to ask my fellow Tanzanians and the current viewers who we are getting in the whole exercise of starting a new year to be followed by many people, their thoughts are coming from the general election of being a member of parliament gets information even when the councilor wants when he is doing because he is doing that the president wants everyone wants to go to the office, everyone wants to request my fellow Tanzanians.
In Masasi, I can't come up
They try to attract nationalists that do not have SudanRevolts
Chickens follow the reports of Congo that walk the sentences but even Somalia should look at
When it comes first to vie for the presidency, it is due to the cause of causing the country to act to the problems of why.
A man should even learn and watch and follow and monitor the information and posts even if you don't have it, it will not be easy to be on the side of Chenge because I look for the honorable president since he went to power it is prepared well and it is Diamond.
Now and you are not Even a lt; unk, gt;
