"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Employee is supposed to avoid dangerous environment at work, we have seen many times some of the workers implementing their responsibilities, in a difficult environment.
Therefore, an employee is implementing its responsibilities in the environment that tells the procedures while others don't know that their environment affects their health.
Together with that, many workers listen to a certain person, who was working in the factory or the company died there is no even one of the workers who took action against the cause of that death.
Employee should be an employee or a task, it is his right to know about some of the chemicals that are in the industry, which are killed by causing various effects of cancer.
Most workers circulate and die before their age, by thinking that the right is a sin and by thinking that the value of their personality is low because of poverty or because of lack of education.
Some of the employers think they have the right to reduce the value of its workers, so that they can get a financial well.
Several workers in the country have lost links or their lives, matched because of the haze of mining in mines.
These effects are not only workers, but even the residents around the mines.
There is a large number of employees who today are working in a difficult environment that is going on.
Many people are exposed to their employers in an environment that has been surrounded by poison without caring, because they want to get great benefits.
Today you pass through some industries and even some of the bloggers here in the country, you will discover people they are being toxic or explicit in believing that they have a small value or bigger than other human beings.
This is known that people work in that kind of environment, simply because of wanting money and believing that they will live a hard life and their families leave.
Some industries often find workers in the Environment to protect themselves AT risk, such as equipment to prevent dirty weather, special shoes, work clothing or cap when it is where the leader is visiting the factory.
Leaving workers are told to be lazy and continue with work as it is their traditions.
The employee who accepts this environment is that he has not recognized and do not know his rights.
The workers remember that the environment is slower and often you are lying because you don't know your wives fall and die suddenly at work.
But when they hear a certain person who was working at work he died, and did not even ask about the death of a fellow worker that was caused by what.
The workers are suffering from knowing that chemical, dust and many others in industries are killed by giving them a slower disease.
It is very important for the workers to know this issue that in this world where more people are continuing to give up and worry more, understand their rights.
Most importantly, most of them are paid small salaries that don't meet their needs.
Therefore, it will not receive even immediately, some employers are overseeing the safety of their employees at a high level, because by doing so, they should use additional costs so as to reduce profits.
It is about the employee himself asking him about his safety in work.
If there are signs of small security, it is good for the employee to try to look for the ways of suicide and finding other activities.
There is difficulty in getting employment or changing activities, but if there are many workers think their children and others who depend on them will be affected.
Citizens are waiting for the Workers Compensation Fund (WCF) which was started according to section 5 of the Workers Compensation Fund.
20 of the year 2008, dealing with compensation to employees in the public and private sector in Tanzania Mainland who will use, suffering or died from work.
WCF started work officially on July 1, 2015.
The main aim of the establishment of the Workers Compensation Fund is to address the issues of compensation to employees who are in the public and private sector in Tanzania Mainland, who will use, suffering or died at work.
According to the second section of the Workers Compensation Fund for 20 percent of the year 2008, the perpetrators of the fund are employers of the public and private sector in the country.
Christian Gaya is the founder of the HomPension Fund and pension adviser. (Gayagmc @ poo.com or 0655131341)
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
