"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The southern provinces has all the qualifications to be a special region in the southern region of Tanzania includes the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara which for many years was behind development due to bad infrastructure especially roads.
In the 1990s and back behind it was not an incredible thing to use more than two weeks for road transport for a journey from Dar es Salaam to Lindi or Mtwara, while at the moment it is six to seven hours.
That situation was caused by poor conditions of the road and the absence of a bridge and a reliable ferry in Rufiji district.
The speed of development in that provinces was very small to the extent that for the civil servants who were relocated to the provinces they saw as if they are being given punishment by their employers.
In recent years, especially from the year 2000, the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara, has been a great attraction for the purpose of living with investments in the agricultural sector, industries and business.
Those from different provinces in the country have been moving quickly in this regions and involved in agriculture, rearing and business.
For this period the government intends to sincerely build the economy of industries, it is good to look at how it can use the opportunities available in this area.
Southern provinces have both features and opportunities to carry OUT the industrial economy to our Nation.
Those things, first in the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara has a big land that will not be used in production activities.
South Africa's land has no conflicts and it is fit for economic activities.
In that situation then if it will be given special strategies is enough opportunity for investment in agriculture, livestock and industries.
The presence of a big and powerful land, enough rain, tambarare is an attraction of modern farming, rearing and construction of industries for farming and livestock.
Another opportunity is the port of Mtwara which has the longest natural gas.
The port of Mtwara is enough opportunity for the importation of natural resources from Mtwara and also transportation of goods to the country.
It can be used as a door to be able to go to industrial products from this provinces and also lead to various natural resources.
The port of Mtwara has a big area which can be used for expansion and construction of infrastructure to improve.
Natural gas is another opportunity to guarantee a source of reliable energy for the use of big industries, small and homes.
Also additional gas of natural gas, manufactured by publication can be transported to outside the country through the port of Mtwara.
It is easy to attract investors to come to start industries in the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara, where it is where the natural gas of generating electricity for the purpose of industries.
It is also a way to be able to revive and build other industrialized industries to increase the value instead of being sold with crude in foreign countries.
Other opportunities for this regions are production of cashew nuts, cooking and sunflower.
The production of this produce is an enough impetus for the start of factories of destroying cashew nuts and to decide the oil and sunflower oil.
Farmers can be encouraged to grow up in large numbers, sunflower and cashew nuts and then to make sure the reliable market and a good price for those crops.
It is easy to revive cashew nuts in the provinces of Lindi, Mtwara and Tunduru District than starting to build new industries in those provinces or other provinces in the country.
Geographical in the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara, it borders the neighboring country of Mozambique which has good relations with Tanzania and therefore the industrial products that will be produced in this regions will have a good market in the northern provinces of Mozambique.
On that logic, then it is a clear thing that these provinces have all opportunities to be done to be the special region of the economy of industries here in Tanzania.
It will be surprising if the government will continue to attract investors to continue building industries in Dar es Salaam while in the southern provinces there are all opportunities in Dar es Salaam.
South African residents should take advantage of these economic opportunities.
Joshua Mnuchin is an analyst for economic and Social issues.
(0787696900 or joshuamused in jail @ ioo.com)
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
