"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
2016 was a year of disgraceful sports in sports, Mister Makongoro, the Citizen, directed @ mwananchi.corez today is 366 days for the year 2016, while in a bid to welcome the new year 2017.
The end of that year is to welcome the new year 2017 that every person, people, institutions, organization, companies are planning according to the procedure and what has been planned to achieve goals.
While in the year 2016 when you end, we can say it wasn't a success in sports, and the only success is to win the Champions Cup championship for women who Kili Queens.
Kili Queens beat Kenya 2-1 in the final match that was played in Kampala, Uganda.
The year of losses in the year 2016 was a loss, because among the 50 games that will be played in the country is the women's soccer to take the Trophy of Chalchange and Mbwana Samatta to take the award for the best player in Africa for a player who plays soccer in Africa.
The award of Samatta Africa has announced Tanzania international after winning that award on January 7 entertaining Baghdad Boundja, the striker of Etoile du Sahel of Algeria and goalkeeper, Robert Kadiaba of TP Mazembe of Congo which was playing for the year at the time before he joined Genk in Belgium.
"There is no dispute, in 2016, Samatta is the only player in Tanzania soccer, he is the only player who managed to play the Europa League, this is an example to be followed in our soccer and our 2016 hero," explains soccer analyst Ally Mayay.
The championship of Kili Queens Chalchange, despite several challenges, the Tanzania Mainland Women's soccer squad (Kilimanjaro Queens) fought and put a record of being the only team that won the Champions League this year.
The former coach of that team, Rogasian Kaijage said that team despite protecting the country in the year 2016, but it has lost support and pressure because it has been understood as a 'street child'.
"Laiti Kilimanjaro Queens or Twiga Stars being given support, every day I say this is the team that can take Tanzania to the World Cup, check in 2016 if it is not itself, Tanzania wouldn't support the year without a cup," he says.
Serengeti Boys, Alphonce Felix, tried in 2016, Serengeti Boys tried to 'give me' success in 2016 after breathing in the quest for tickets to qualify for the African finals for youths under 17 years despite being released in the final match with Congo.
Serengeti was stuck in a humiliating step in sports at the end after being defeated by Congo Brazzaville 1-0 away, thus making the results that 3-3 with Congo Brazzaville to qualify for a away goal after Serengeti scored 3-2 goals in Dar es Salaam city.
This year also, the artist, Alphonce Felix tried to return Tanzania on the Olympic map despite taking a medal that ended the fifth position in the Marathon race.
President of the Tanzania Athletics Federation (RT), Anthony Mtaka, spoke about that position as the beginning of success in that game and insisted that it has never happened in a period of several years.
The secretary general of the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC), Filbert Bayi explained that the results are the catalyst for long-term preparations and insisted that parties and the government invested in preparation, Tanzania will perform well in the coming games.
Alphonce entered the list of the top five marathon of the Olympics of Rio 2016 in Brazil, running for 2: 11: 15 left for 2: 71 minutes and the champion of those races, Eliud Kipchoge from Kenya.
The year of shame, Taifa Stars, Ngorongoro Heroes and Yanga Taifa Stars was eliminated early in the process of searching for tickets to qualify for the finals of Africa when the heroes who were the one to expect Tanzania in soccer in the Olympic Games unable to do justice for that opportunity for not participating.
The secretary general of the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC), Filbert Bayi said they did not understand what TFF did not pay for Ngorongoro Heroes in the process of finding the Olympic standards.
"We told TFF about the participation of Ngorongoro, those reports they know but themselves did not concern them, you can't impose them," said Bayi.
The others tried 2016 are Yanga and Azam.
Yanga was given to the African Champions League and entered the Federation Cup where the water was very long as Azam was released early in the Federation Cup.
The other games was in ICU 2016 in a year which was difficult for games like boxing, swimming, tennis, Won, hands, basketball, Magongo, kabee, golf, a high table, netball, lifting the items and other 30 other games that will be played in the country 2016.
The National Boxing Team has finished in the year with the slogan of 'wal here' without participating in any international competition accompanied by the national netball team.
Other games such as Iron, hands, lifting up the blinders, Magongo, a bicycle, and a bicycle was to take place in a near stop as it ended up in the international field.
The former chairperson of BMT, Colonel Iddi Kipnis has admitted 2016 to be a bad year in the family of athletes.
"There was no emphasis on the awareness of leaders in search of success, this has contributed to international attention, but I would assure you of Tanzania, I start a journey to look for the success of sports by organizing youths, who wants to join me and the doors are open," he said.
MO, Manji to buy Simba and Yanga this year also ends by leaving the memory of business people, Mohamed Dewji (MO) and Yusuf Manji wanting to buy Simba and Yanga clubs.
However, they met with various challenges, it explained that their decision did not follow the constitution before the National Sports Council (BMT) to prevent and want every step to start afresh and be participatory.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
