South Africa is planning a better life in the village of Lsupported Mbozi, Jul 24, 2013 by Good Citizen in News
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The invitation was born or Uyole, 03, as explained professionally, it is a type of beans in Mbeya province, but to the citizens of Lsupported village in Mbozi district, it is a name that is treated for livestock and even their houses to live.
The wave of the villagers to give livestock and their houses the name of that type of beans are coming from some of them buying cows or building houses due to the money they got after selling those beans.
The popularity of the beans, the type of beans has emerged as a sudden after the recovery of a reliable market in South Africa where the farmers of the French county through their groups have gone into a contract with one company from that country that requires the beans.
The needs of the company from South Africa is 5,000 tons of beans for the year and according to the chairman of the Association of Cooperatives (AMCOS) of that village, those needs have resulted from the company being given a tender with their government to feed the school in that country.
The market of the beans has been found through a special program to connect farmers and markets of beans and maize which is known in short of Sapphire.
Sapphire is one of the programs that are implemented under the project of developing maize and Maharage using a way that does not involve the soil and markets in Mbeya Region, being implemented through the sponsorship of the African Revolution (AGRA- Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa).
The program which in English is known as "Intensifying maize and beans Production Through improved soil health and marketing in Mbeya Region," it is also involved with good farming for maize and beans, including the use of good seeds to the area, the correct use of input, time to climb and consider the position.
According to the project manager, who is also a researcher from the Uyole Agricultural Research Institute (Uyole), Mmari William, the needs of that type of beans in South Africa, comes from its main reputation of not making acids.
It is stated that the type of beans were taken to South Africa and Tanzania, who were working in mines in the country, to attract more citizens from there due to the reputation of the acids (acid) together with his good flavor.
However, it was not easy for those farmers to accept to get into the farming of a contract with the aim of producing in large numbers of beans due to their experiences about agricultural production projects.
The farmers still have memories of the crops like pivica, which they have been encouraged to grow in large numbers where there is a reliable market but it was not so.
"The farmers agreed later, after the buyer gave 18 tons of seeds for the beans," says Mmari.
The harvest of the beans in the month of March, this year was motivation to the farmers of that village of French as well as neighboring villages to enter with more strength in the farming of the beans, being after the buyer bought all the farmers who have been smoking a different money and it was before getting into the contract with the buyer.
Joseph Mungai is adorned with one of the farmers who benefited through the farming of the beans, who also after completing the construction of his house has given the name of the beans, Mwasipenjele.
The victim says he started the beans in December last year after he was convinced by the experts of that soil health project, and after hesitation tried to tried.
"This year I have seen that the beans are business, they said that they have its market and actually I got the market," says the farmer then adds; "you are behind the market was Mlowo, and you will meet with it there is that, I have got a lot of that day then it is 5,000 shillings for a plastic bucket of 20 kilograms."
The farmer notes that the price that they agreed with the buyer from South Africa is 800 shillings for kilograms, thus in the capacity of a plastic bucket from the market in that district, it means he is leaving 16,000 shillings again without the cost of transportation instead of 5,000 shillings while being forced to travel more than twenty kilometers to follow the market.
"This time, I have attracted me, the guys who follow him here," he is adorned with the analysis of the use of the money he had received due to the sale of beans saying, "I have finished my house that you see here, I have bought for a child and the rest of 101,300 shillings we used for local use."
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
