"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
I would be Jerry Muro, Now I would do this week ago, the Citizen's newspaper team did an interview with Yanga's chairman Yusuf Manji as two days after being elected to continue holding that position in that club for a period of four years to come in accordance with the constitution.
In that interview, Manji spoke about various development issues and advice to the sports sector, politics and economy and giving a note.
When I was among the team's team, among the things that I saw him out from his heart is an issue of being shown in the team's matches saying it has reduced the revenue significantly.
He said the revenue have decreased since people are waiting to look for the ball in the bar and also in the 'wondering' people were looking for 500 shillings.
Manji said it is good for the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) to remain with their contract with Azam and they will not pay many shillings for every match so that they pay them and give them freedom.
Manji went further by saying that it has caused a reduction of the cost of fans to go to the field and to reduce the club's revenue.
Also, he complained about a few clever thought about the system of selling equipment such as jersey, snow, socks and bukta as a problem because they are making equipment with the logo of Yanga and using them to benefit themselves instead of the club.
He said that in a large extent, Yanga has got a loss and forced him to increase 2.5 billion shillings to achieve different issues until winning the premier league championship, FA Cup, participation in the Champions League until the Federation Cup and now is a step of groups.
Now, together with that Manji said in an interview, it is possible that it was recognized inside Yanga that there is a loss that has been found and a reduction in revenue.
As a result of that situation, what should be done; it was in the mind of a harshman to fill holes in this Confederation Cup matches because it has already been found.
For that situation, I would be the information officer of Yanga, Jerry Muro, I would manage this to take place: First, I would advise the formation of a committee to manage this income of people with integrity.
You will not like the special cards that will be sold to special people for the purpose of contributing to Yanga and there is a match for the match.
The cards would have been sold maybe by 1 million or more that it would also involve themselves as food or drinks, and it is in a special area.
Secondly; I would have checked the fee of entries that because running the competition is a cost, those with the middle capacity and they will pay them as 200,000 shillings and they have their approach to their area.
There are people who have bitterness for their team, they will pay them.
Similarly, other areas can be 100,000 and 50,000 shillings and there will also be special services according to the funds of the people in that area.
The area of all, here the entrance could be 10,000 shillings.
I know it will be very high, but it is known, entertainment.
Even in the European matches, basketball is expected to reach 10 million shillings.
Third; we will get people to fill the stadium for the money?
I would like to air the favorite radio broadcast, I don't want to tell you, it is known, every time the announcement is in the air as well as on TV, I would go to ask TV or radio sponsorship of those advertisements together with using sports programs to promote more than encing people.
Four; Mara after going back, I would record the voices of players and send to radio, he describes himself and says her to encourage fans, even the coach and those who do not know Swahili, I would have secret behind their comments.
Five; for a different day, I would have passed the press conference to explain the strategy of Yanga, as well as being defeated, the direction is short, why are they imprisoned and what is done.
The last meeting I would have made today Monday, because tomorrow is to write Yanga that he plays with TP Mazembe, the big news I know it will be what I will be said and that will have planned to happen, the procedure of entering and everything related to the match, including those with special cards and special entries and others.
Six; I could advise the leadership of Yanga to request the sponsors, Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) at least to do 'Road show' by yesterday, Monday and tomorrow Tuesday to Temeke, Ilala and Kinondoni to encourage, encouraging people to come to the field.
Saba; I could advise leaders, they will also help at least sports newspapers through sponsors, to announce their products by providing advertisements for the match being adorned with pictures of the players, all is encouraging and inspiring.
So, don't I take the stadium?
Not only for this match, both matches.
You are so many but for those seven, I believe that I will be helping Manji and his leadership and I have fulfilled my responsibility as the information officer spreading propaganda to promote the match and good for the club for the benefit of the club.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
