"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
Citizens rights are important, they deserve to live and are predicted to be involved in poaching of elephants in order to get them to the law.
That operation was done by several M-four officers in the past four years, the government started operation to fight against the presence of national parks and national parks, the citizens force and special wildlife force that were given instructions of that work.
Unfortunately, the training and instructions didn't help them; the police failed to make good citizens and criminals - all of them were placed in a single source of poachers.
As a result of some of the officers not from the criminals and those who are not criminals, not following justice or using the law during the operation, people found in possession of livestock and who were running agricultural activities in the park were arrested; they were harassed and some were killed.
Not only that, the livestock that was arrested was banned for several days without being given leaves or water.
It is sad to see that despite the incident that was attacked and caused four senior ministers to resign, other soldiers, this time of Suma JKT have killed four people and injured five others.
The police who had been in the forest of Meru district in Arumeru District, Arusha Province have led to the deaths of those people after beating the fire bullets in an event to arrest their livestock and take it to the government's government.
Apart from the four breeders being killed, five colleagues including a 13-year-old child who is in class three at the Oldonyosexual Primary School were injured by fire bullets.
The child Isaiah Thomas (13) who was supposed to be in the classroom continuing with his studies and his colleagues are now fighting for his life in the hospital after being shot in the back of what is claimed is violence between breeders and Suma JKT who had been in the forest of Meru.
Thomasa who was admitted at the Mount Meru Hospital has been transferred to KCMC Referral Hospital after his condition worsened.
The doctor who was listening to says that the child started showing signs of producing, starting from the legs to the legs due to the bullet that was shot seen to be deadly, thus requiring more treatment.
The situation now causes the future of the life of that child to be volatile.
Likewise, that situation causes the government to cater for the treatment of that child.
We advise that soldiers are being sent to arrest the livestock or people on claims of getting into areas that are not allowed to comply with the law, caring for justice and protecting the life so that the suspects should be released by the law.
The police should follow the law and arrest criminals by taking them to court instead of taking them to the law and caused the deaths of civilians.
We know that the work has its own challenges; some criminals have made good citizens or others pretending that they want to help the police but they have turned out and cause their effects.
If that is known then the police must increase professionalism to deal with all kinds of criminals so that they are forced to use a bullet to have the legitimacy of doing so.
We advise fire bullets to be used only after first using rubber bullets, shooting in the air and firing tear gas.
However, we advise the citizens to stop taking care of the law in order to deal with the soldiers because by doing so they can be able to bring the effects including death.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
