Many viewers close to thirty database Story is African, we visit the National security College here in Dar es Salaam where we want to look and learn how things are going on at the college and check on how the station can promote Tanzanian tourism to report at the executive director today, the news is suffering and continued.
My name I would like to read is the acting chief executive officer of the National Institute of Tourism physique.
There is a relationship between the sheer and this university or other places like Temeke, the history of the National Institute of Tourism starts from one thousand and nine thousand shillings while there was being launched as part of the new Africa hotel at the time preparing for the people of service in a hotel.
And it was a short course for three months at the reception
Preparation of the organizers in preservation of houses and teaching of teachers
In one thousand, seventy-two hundred thousand shillings has blessed us to have succeeded in the buildings that they thought at that time being in Dar es Salaam.
And a transformed name is a hotel for hotels in the hotel
When it is set up under the tourism organization, it was called Tanzania, which was losing.
It's going on to pay taxes
That's the reception of AHH Production they have a house
And preparation of food
It went like that up to one hundred and seven hundred names during the week I have been handed over
Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism
And then it will be called the Story well
It will continue to pay taxes
And the level of certificate for Twitter workers
While the tourism sector continues to grow up with the needs of organizing services in the hotel and maybe the father is increasing, so the government may see it is good for now to end the station two thousand and only one will succeed.
Temeke in the port of the port for that half the port about the star
I haven't lost it.
Women sit down
Because of us
The same buildings will see one side with a college also we call a call
The other hand is covered.
Going on
Two and third after seeing that there is a need to improve the government to see there is water to improve services.
Equivalent to customers in hotels and restaurants and all other places does not support his own piece of the center, through its thirty-year law of the government agents of the year, let me have seven.
Striving to bed one two and three beds as a government agent with the aim of providing training in nearby fields and to help also do research and advice so the main aim to ensure that the training offered in this center meet the need for customers that are given to people who have the UK skills and experience.
If they are depending on the customers' college of tourism, it is projected that all those who like to join the studies in the next field will take them registered to produce a topic for accommodation, then then we are currently being theft in Nairobi, the picture because all is at the certificate level and one of the forms of joining Mwanza in Dar es Salaam city at the National Tourism College in Nairobi Road, I have moved to Mwanza, the wildlife college of Zanzibar in Dar es Salaam at the university of tourism, a garden together with the Temeke campuses that is in involved in the minute or call the number here.
