And where are you?
Today I am at work, that I have not talked to him for a long time but I thought he will get into Town tomorrow, I thought if possible it would be very safe when I felt the price on the rain, it was just two hundred for a lot of money.
And Freddy: Where is it?
He comes to Town tomorrow and we are eating a tradition today, not I was heard, it was a very small price I wanted me to tell us that I have now told me when it was introduced and you are coming up with how many hours
Mmm then that person survived.
I will come to twelve hours at the evening or at one hour the AHH will end up with the hours I will end my work as long or something at ten o'clock this time I let me know because this time I work with a little mm AHH is not that I told me I'm at work for how many hours you will make you.
AHH and the money will be done
When I go to work at this time it is from you, you know what I know and what I don't know I got out and what I don't know I got out and it cannot be the money now it will come out this time and how many hours and a half AHH should I do because I am not set up.
No.
Science AHH but it is also not a must we should give lunch at 7 o'clock in the ai, not what we know about the closing of the child, please stop it
And now he tells me lunch I will close to learn that you know me in lunch
Since we must have lunch between other people
Ohh, the other people in mi I am a food to now mi know my hours and my stomach is the same you know
No, we should know it is seven o'clock.
AHH your hours is also not a must for everyone's hours
On the end of eight hours, I will closed down a green shirt to look at the day before yesterday that is there.
AHH also ten hours you can eat lunch you can find themselves on you.
We are afraid, they would be angry in Town where we were here in Town, I know I don't know cooking everything I have done on the family where I want to go to coast or what I don't know.
Ehhe ehorehhe was going through your grandmother to hear your grandmother you will immediately get abusive to improve her and where you love her, who's your wife, no you see if the writer of the fuel can't happen to the love you get to it.
I am a love mym john AHH the day I paid love to remain at the way he will be teaching anything to me and didn't give me anything to them.
It's not good that it should be that it is not that every hour is what he does not know is enough for the house
Ehr again, you may still return to their return, he didn't get away from the fare it was to why and it must be done.
Ehr you must have already paid me what was it?
Ehr you must be able to find a mym above your parents, reading our we can make sure where he has done.
He did not know that the child of the country to enter the country, I got to the farms where he wants sugarcane, it is just the only one to believe it's not another one that has been set on trees and what is that to enter the leaves, let alone three months at the Mnazi Mmoja.
Tell you what?
Ehr but not you know the first we can mi leaves leaves, it can also be high prices not even when we know it's not going to bring us a crush leaves us because we know what Noble's neighbors can crush as a mym.
Ati
When I was, I believe it is the same while on how you wear you or it is our months, I got the Mnazi Mmoja and that something that is provided inside, it was that us is not Mnazi Mmoja Nancy there is Mnazi Mmoja the effects are not the Mnazi Mmoja.
And us is ivory is alcohol that has gone to Mnazi alcohol.
What is one electricity, maybe Madnow isn't you know, you don't know the mi I have since the continent is not you know while you know what you are doing now
It is water AHH false.
Ehr
