"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
The way the parents we live with its impact on the values of children in the life of parents involve words, actions, behavior and traditions of the parents that are used in running their daily lives in their families and the community that surround them in general.
The relationship between parents, neighbors, relatives, relatives and friends and how it gets to visitors, etc.
It all affects the growth of children's behavior in two different sectors; positive impact and negative consequences.
We all know children significantly learn from their parents.
What they see is doing a parent, they also work.
A variety of psychology and growth of the child describes the mazon as a family leader (role model).
He should be an example to be followed by the children, I respect especially when he is in front of the children by doing good deeds that are supposed to be followed by the children and the beautiful communities that surround them.
To pick the words to speak ahead of her children especially when he is angry.
Children are not born and abusive and saying, they get from the communities around them.
Everyday life, small acts and words create a reflection on the children on life, language and relationships... "your words are your actions, your actions, your behavior, your behavior and traditions are your life," is the quote of a philosopher and father of India's nation, Mafate Gandhi.
As a result of the words of this philosopher, then behavior, traditions and actions are the real picture of human life that is seen in front of the eyes of other people and this is based on the upbringing of his child.
The brain of a human being has been forced to receive and keep in all the records that you received.
Economic experts say the youngest child has a lot of potential to receive information, protecting and remembering what he saw at ease than even the whole person and this is because the child is thinking about the only time that is different from the whole person who thinks the behavior and traditions of parents in three times: The next year.
This one in mind is used to help confusion of various challenges in life.
Unlike it appears to be taken, the child's upbringing is not limited to giving an important needs like food, accommodation, housing, clothing, education and health, but it involves themselves to build the foundation of life that will ensure that for now and later, he has said or did not read the parent has a great opportunity to implement this important role in the child's upbringing.
Birth is not work, work to raise.
They killed early our hearts.
A rare legacy gets a child from a parent is how to live with the world.
Therefore, the parent has a great responsibility of implementing this.
Let us start to live as parents because there is a wind to forget, continue to chatting with your friends and your friends as they use violent words in the ears of children including arguing in front of children, in this way it will destroy the whole future of the growth of their children.
It will cost a lot of time to impose disciplinary action against the children who were raised in this environment.
These children don't have answers to adults and usually have discipline problems while in school.
Their relationship with teachers are not good and often do not get close support from the teachers and the end they are unable to continue well.
In the opinion and advice to call the number 116, which is special for child services in the country.
This service will not pose payments from all networks in the country.
Also you can see us through our Facebook page: Speak Tanzania; Twitter: @ Semhar and @ sematabia.org
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
