I am in the street from the English-language channel Washington d _ c close to our radio player and through this one time where we are looking at here in the phone in more details, we are trying to address and get more details and the expansion of each other than usual in the hands of Sunday Shomari, in collaboration with my fellow musician and on the side of the phone lines we will be in Mkuranga in Kenya and our author.
In detail today we begin directly with the report of human rights human Rights Watch the accident, therefore explains that the operation but lost their whereabouts in the past two years in the hands of anti-terrorism forces in Kenya forces have arrested thirty-eight people linked to al-Shabaab terror group.
But no one out of these was shot on trial
Family members are saying they don't know how their detained relatives should not be compared to the security agencies or their relatives at the stadium and despite the reports that those lost were in the hands of the army officers.
The show is also ten dead bodies in dowry and government departments.
Adding more fear for those who went to where they are now considering food, according to human rights observers
Now then talk more details we have tried to look for the coordinator of the National Human Rights Commission in Kenya
Meanwhile, Mister George Bush laura and George Mrara has led to wanting to know how it comes first, what is the areas where these people are dying in Kenya and maybe an interpreter as well as speaking before that George morara is the deputy chairperson of the human rights commission in Kenya which is what we are with him in the phone lines I return to you Sunday.
Thank you so much recently.
AHH indeed we as a human rights commission in Kenya the information we have
And
This is as a result?
A study that we as a commission we made last year where we watched AHH war of disappearing rary in Kenya
I am looking to write a report that is mistaken called "lt; unk, gt; hero and the policy is delayed
And in the report we included war.
Mym, more than eighty-hundred and hot one do not know where they are until now
And also more than twenty-five people who lost their lives in AHH that we call Exhibition tomorrow or rary murder
And so the case which were presented maybe is what can be implemented at this time maybe what is the steps that you want to take and maybe you know they are involved.
It is now a step that we have taken because we as a commission we have cooperation.
AHH very close to the one that we call is the police council or the police.
Police oversight of authority
The news we got, we were able to cooperate with this council to give a report about the visa.
And they take a step that they will do more investigation to ensure that if there are police who were involved in legal action
The second thing that we have done is that we have met with the chief inspector of police
Twitter lt; hes Twitter gt; saying the head coach of the police and we discussed it
AHH incidents of our research
We know that there are some Kenyans who say that their family has gone missing.
And let us fulfill?
AHH's need for police to be on the forefront to ensure that they do research or are conducting investigations to ensure that those who have lt; hes Twitter gt; have made a report on the commission
AHH confirms that according to the law in Kenya
Lord MOI
