Gender violence still uncertainty Nov 28, 2013
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
On November 25, this year, we started 16 days of opposing gender violence.
16 days of opposing gender violence is an international campaign that started at the first meeting of the Women's Global Leadership Institute (Women's Global Leadership Institute), sponsored by the Association of Women's Global Leadership Center (Center for Women's Global Leadership), in 1991.
Participants chose on November 25, International Day Against Women Against Women, and December 10, World Human Rights Day, in order to involve violence against women and human rights as well as encouraging that violence as violation of human rights.
The 16-Day period is also looking for another important Day, including November 29, which is the Day for Human Rights Defenders, December first, World AIDS Day and December 6, a Memorial for Montreal.
Violence against women is a violation of human rights, it's a humanitarian crisis in society and a barrier to reach equality, development, security and peace.
The words "violence against women" and "gender violence" are used to meaning the sequence of violence taking place against women, resulting from lack of gender equality and the minimum of women in society compared to men.
In 1993, the United Nations Declaration on eradicate violence against women as: "Any act of sexual violence that causes or can cause pain or physical abuse, sexual or mental pain for women, including threats, forced or being denied freedom taking place in the community or in personal life."
It is estimated that one of the three women in the world will face certain types of gender violence in his life.
Therefore it is very clear that against gender violence is women, although it is not a must that this violence is done by the only men.
The goal of these 16 days is against gender violence, but many days have been taken to protest against violence against women.
And a limited view is violence by men to women.
But the real situation and events of the day and especially here in Tanzania show very different, to the extent of making gender violence to be a uncertainty.
Even if you look at the international human rights contracts and the resolutions reached within the United Nations to deal with violence against women and that need the government to take action against women, including the agreement to eradicate types of crimes against women (CEDAW, 1979), the agreement to eradicate violence against women, including the agreement to eradicate drugs against women (CEDAW, 1979), an agreement to eradicate violence against women, including the agreement to eradicate those groups of women, peace and security (2000) and other others.
A big wave of oppress the domestic workers that a big percentage are girls that makes a lot of a t-shirt the whole concept of gender violence.
Harassment is largely implemented by women.
Although at some point, these domestic workers are oppressed and sexually assaulted by men, like sexually harassing or selling small houses, but severe pain against their personality and their freedom are loved by women.
But, in a certain amount is run by women.
Those who bring young girls in one place and especially in big towns and using them sexually, it is a certain kind of culture in Mara province, where women are married with the aim of having girls using them sexually and earning children.
This culture is known as Nyumbantobu.
In this culture, a girl who is married to a woman, has no freedom of any kind and his body or with the children that he is doing.
This is the type of gender violence, who although they are being treated for women, but not the violence of men.
"The number of men arriving at the police station complaining of being beaten and their wives began growing rapidly in Dar es Salaam city," that was said by the acting police officer, Adolphina Chialo, when he was speaking at a meeting of the commemoration of 16 days of opposing gender violence, coordinated by women organization in law and development (WiLDAF).
The research that was done on November 22, this year, at the Mercy Club in Dar es Salaam, has increased in the darkness of the issue of gender violence.
Six women who work in the bar had different opinions and against gender violence.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
"But I'm not Going to do it.
