It is going.
Interesting, sir, apart from what we call for you for you to be able.
Ukawa to encourage your fellow youth and many people
That there is a great benefit of owning the networks and use the networks that it is not only a must to do other things that are not wrong in the community but if you are keen.
You can get income as soon as they struggle to find employment to the youth we only have a good time to be able to run business now than it was ten years ago
The remittances of that
We do not lie to a very common man aw, it is Kota when you take away away the whites to the stadium.
From the press follows a truck you don't need a strike called Ben and that will lead dirty mountain to how can you make your relationship with those of the products every day they go back.
How can you make a relationship to an extent that when the visitors would benefit me, I want to be called.
Now social media can do it something
The right of that number of fifty tourists here I have left that every day there should not be the whites that globalization Jimmy in their country has revealed that every man has come with the hype that he calls now how it starts to bring those mothers.
That we have come up with just five word of talk
Living in his way, Constable has left your colleagues in America AHH has been your work and the work you are doing.
There he was speaking in disaster
As his star, those friends claiming to come up
They want to see him
If you want to see you in time.
As an artist, sir.
Succeeding
Because we can't let us use the internet to be taken?
Tell me your eyes to take it now, how will you be announced to be announced to be given to small things that we are doing every day to benefit themselves
We were with Mike thanks very much, I think of course the youth are following closely so we start with a big paper, Innocent Mungi, very close to you, the donation I will talk about it very well and there is nothing we say now is to help the industry we are recording and airing the aircraft.
There is a communication channel and there is a link to communication services you can get television on radio.
Amen in a phone you can get radio on what technology has signed
The people who were studio in the radio can be following are following the announcements and people sent a message that you do not get the attention on twitter, people have communication starts when someone is in the studio, but people are Kibiti in his period using the message now it reaches a place where we started to see even in the radio programs here in the moment, people are sending messages with messages.
Which is very difficult early in the difficulty of that ehr to an ordinary person cannot solve and you find someone reading here says not mi
It is Mike, you find you going to listen to Mister.
Now this situation was contributed by the small professionalism of communication services the communication authority has the ability of example
In order to prevent such a centre like that you do to feel like or be blocked, but we look at our development still in technology, I will not accept you now below.
We know the whites are saying that we have brought up, there are people who are not used to live with us but come from.
Not having anything until using phones will go to the internet so there is a sense of people wanting to use those services without even looking at its use, I think the reader will agree with me on Twitter orleans bed they have the terms of joining them and explains that there are a hall I think I say ten and seven years there are ten and four years.
According to our colleague in care of their communities, that is someone you tell you that you will be taught how to comment on the public to comment on the internet now, while there is someone who has never been taught about how to comment on the public on the internet now, while there is someone who has never been taught to come to the internet, what is the moment that you are getting into the phone begins, the phone starts to broadcast when you feel that there is no one that you need to know but also it is the first situation that these social media wants now that we the first campaign focused on making two major things.
To enable people to know that
In-law or social media
It's like that in the past we were sitting at the buinge, they call it 'I don't know if they were at the binge on the bottom of the Zionist trees when there are the elderly until today they are drinking it, it's just depending on that they are saying that they are going to go up for us now there was a place where Israel live there is nothing else to get and there are other football things that are talking about different things.
They are different from which we are called Physical Social media.
Now people came out than had to insult the public as it is in the Grade.
They don't know that you are insulting now on social media that it has been connected to computers and all phones in the world that have internet.
Why do we know that we don't know that first but second there is something called SELF Regulation and responsibility.
Personally and look at what is good to do, of Course we wanted people to understand that everything you have and I on Facebook there are friends I have arrived.
I see I cannot add to others that I say something or five thousand you feel.
One other than it.
Those of all his friends will see that they have gone home like comment, Kiswaga so that it is making the spread of a large group and people are now aware of the effects that we could have been there.
A certain group of people who have Abuse are making use of communication to social media
