Welcome to our discussion, I don't understand with me, lucypatrick _ e with young people and topics that we will talk about today's day is that young people are using the opportunities that they are getting in their lives near why they are called Catherine tooli.
Five, what is the best and I don't know what they are getting received well for a good example, all the students know one minute Boom we call a loan to get a loan, many students know that you will get a loan to get a loan so that you can be able to increase the size and later maybe it can be entrepreneur or even though it is something of the meaning but he did not give the head of this big scientist who gets going to use he is gone to do shopping drinking alcohol when he was shocked.
This young man should use me, he will use well that is if the youth use my money was done but two things that you have never thought about the series of posting you have left afresh in the negative side, you know these days you try to blame the government that he doesn't enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to enable you to
The environment for them to come out to be self-employed as the government has not called a good environment from the university to be self-employed is possible to be dependent or the government is going to produce a nation of people who are coming to be dependent on Tanzania and Tanzania.
It wouldn't be a university we thought that from the university to self-employed while on the street, we must be able to get employment since registering a white number r cid as we get problems.
It's going to say it's a fraud on social media
As a young man or the day that is not good because men had to be monitored, I can discuss to get out, but we look at that side the citizens that the government is unable to organize his youth well so that I think I have said afresh and the structure of curriculum.
It's not enough for us to be independent, take an example of a lesson you know also mi in a cultural style of fish
Mi is a Tanzanian, there is no need to train you to tell you that is the team of Msimbazi River in irrigation farming through software So that the training is?
Another one should tell us to say the farming of maize yesterday or even think about it at home
Because Dodoma was surrounded by
I find the desire to bring in the maize I will go to the street every kasoma to study the child he will listen to class four to three hours if sikosei is taught to provide electricity using battery and battery.
To pick up the Rivers, I don't know he is making my grandfather to make the men feel like to make men
And the youth who we have finished technical education in the evening you could come to be self-employed more to electricity and reduce the problem of sports, Tanzania will not be able to wear except increasing many readers in Tanzania.
It is the first class teachers to do Fresh from School to someone.
He was living with her father until I am not with her.
He was a college of bogus that we had given.
The integrity that we want to ring there is Mziray the Best wants to sell his recommendation, a whole person who is full of upbringing because you find the teachers and the student being used there.
We see the Chinese to come to invest here for us and why are the use of why they should not be sent to them here and us see you want to make sure there are young people in Kariakoo to get Chinese.
Completely selling flowers _ selling FIFA will do one job that the economy and it is removing that number of economy of Tanzania has been in a certain extent but you see you still have a very difficult life and I think if a young man who is a young man who is the main job of the nation had been prioritized in the issue of agriculture like agriculture is the head of the back.
Tanzanians
We link to the plantations until this hour since we got here, there are many areas until this time we have not reached the forest but the government has decided to give money and invest in the benefits of agriculture and take the youth like that.
.
That's a good thing because a young man in the air and discover you can work then I think a person who does work I don't think if he can be convinced there is no good goal that I am convinced there is no good goal that I am supposed to have a family in which way or it is required.
I mean, I wouldn't use fourth when he used to form a form that he will be doing stupid in class six to consider the studies because I don't have an animal to make many youths fail to use the opportunity.
One of the misconceptions that they had been given dire to tell God that maybe he should be a leader.
A small village but now he knows that the young man who was vying for him in the leadership level may be ogwa or those people who maybe were fighting with the following day.
Mi think the main reason that yesterday the washing machine is also a bad system or in the commission.
You find you as a young man for later you want to be engineer
But a parent should have explained to him and he is thinking for later to have everything he needs.
Go back in kasome maybe?
You will be read we didn't financiers in expectations that the teachers can't help him
As a result of why this poverty is at home because he can be depending on something in these times, a Tanzanian is going to read as engineer.
He believes that if you want to go to study teaching you will help the family but also to be self-employed
Let's ask you a nation later in their lives but there is no such thing for our many families.
This young man is unable to reach what he calls young people who are required to use your thoughts in which they Put the best from who?
For example, a young man may be able to get education for his studies and national ideas in general
But the parent or the sun
He has no capacity in developing I was there.
The resources are not.
Hundred told me
But mi is a young man who is afraid to tell his wife he was crops and that one cow can take the shape since the benefit of my life I told me that the father has not told me that they are wrong with the theft and the issue that several coming down to tell me that a cow's house is a luxury tomorrow we will do?
Now we need to stop so I know that I have been taken to read it up to me.
Mi think that
Be peace
So personally that a person is that to achieve goals
We should not give up and we should know that everything is.
It is a must that you be reached as if you pass the areas saving the private goals, we are the youth that we believe and we participated in the area where we will cause us to do a good things that I can call for now we have then we should use you.
If they do not have the same, I want to read then toxic.
Because there are other people who can follow up until you want to be who doesn't know that, that is the rest of us, if the youth must understand that what we need but find out from my heart, then let us use the position we have.
To achieve goals but also for our families, parents should realize that we are things that will look for later in the opportunity to build good muscles to be able to reach.
Social end, let's stop the concept of a young man who is looking for Brother in making it
The World later post worked hard by asking the Course he puts on it.
A young man is also an opportunity to read at that time when he came from, he sees clean things to check every day because he knows home.
Thing
Next?
I am given Jackson the opportunity for the use of technology as youths we use it accordingly, there are better people, he uses social networks for the purpose.
Very benefits that
They do
In studies, there are some who do a discussion of discussion in how many students are meeting, they have a confrontation of ideas, who are meeting where women are meeting, but now there are some people that you find that because of a large number of people and they have said that especially for these countries where you say not to use the cupboard, you find a lot of young people that show up on the things we sell for them.
The reason I didn't know that this case has come soon to see that we don't know the effects of his hands, that is why you will find that someone from home has gone to work, he is eating that instead of using that time to serve as it is customers like maybe.
It's satellite
The branch is time when she uses you to get into the internet maybe I will be informed.
As Facebook maybe
Tira should maybe see them and you find that you find that.
There are others also on the second side with them.
Online at this time but it was a job hours and he was supposed to use time for overnight.
Now you find that the customers have come in.
When you need the services you can be able from skin, the concerned company is so busy while believing that we have found that the loss has come in approximately three because of the first.
