<1>	F2, ARMY BAWAL MAG-RELAX By Elech Dawa July 19, 2016Kahit nasa tuktok ng team standings ang RC Cola-Army ay ­patuloy pa rin silang ­magiging ­mabalasik sa laro para hindi malaglag sa kina­lalagyan.	F2, Army not allowed to relax by Elech Dawa July 19, 2016 even if the RC Cola-Army are on top of team standings they will continue to be fierce in the game in order to not drop from the standing.
<2>	“Other teams are now preparing for us,” saad ni RC Cola-Army coach Kungfu Reyes.	"other teams are now preparing for us," stated RC Cola-Army coach Kungfu Reyes.
<3>	“We can’t afford to be complacent. We have to do our part and prepare because ­other teams are getting more serious to beat us.”	"we can't afford to be complacent. we have to do our part and prepare because other teams are getting more serious to beat us."
<4>	Tatangkain ng Lady Troopers na kalusin ang Generika mamayang sa Batangas City Coliseum sa Batangas para manatili sa unahan ng standings ng Philippine Superliga All-Filipino Conference women’s volleyball tournament.	the Lady Troopers will attempt to rattle Generika later at Batangas City Coliseum in Batangas to remain at the top of the standings in the Philippine Super League All-Filipino Conference women's volleyball tournament.
<5>	Hawak ng RC Cola-­Army ang 5-0 baraha, kasalo sa unahan ang F2 Logistics na pakay din pagpagin ang Petron Tri-Activ Spikers sa unang laro.	the RC Cola-Army holds the 5-0 card, sharing the top with F2 Logistics that also aims to shake off the Petron Tri-Activ Spikers in the first game.
<6>	“Petron is a dangerous team.” sabi ni F2 Logistics coach Ramil de Jesus.	"Petron is a dangerous team," said F2 Logistics coach Ramil de Jesus.
<7>	“We know that it wants to get back on top. So we have to work hard and be ready for all the challenges they will throw at us.”	"we know that it wants to get back on top. so we have to work hard and be ready for all the challenges they will throw at us."
<8>	Sa 4-1, puwedeng umakyat sa unahan ang Tri-Activ Spikers.	at 4-1, the Tri-Activ Spikers can climb to the top.
<9>	Samantala, ipapakilala din mamaya ang pang-apat na miyembro ng PSL All-Star team na sasabak sa FIVB Women’s Club World Championship sa Manila sa Oct.	meanwhile, to be introduced later is the fourth member of the PSL All-Star team that will join the FIVB Women's Club World Championship in Manila on October
<10>	18-23 pagkatapos ng first game.	18-23 after the first game.
<11>	Unang binigyan ng “Golden Tickets” sina RC Cola-Army teammates Rachel Anne Daquis at Jovelyn Gonzaga at Kim Fajardo ng F2 Logistics.	RC Cola-Army teammates Rachel Anne Daquis and Jovelyn Gonzaga and Kim Fajardo of F2 Logistics were the first given "golden tickets".
<12>	Ang mga powerhouse na bansang kasali sa prestihiyosong event ay ang reigning champion Rexona Ades ng Brazil, European titlist Pomi Casalmaggiore ng Italy at Asian supremo Bangkok Glass ng Thailand.	the powerhouse countries part of this prestigious event are reigning champion Rexona Ades of Brazil, European titlist Pomi Casalmaggiore of Italy and Asian Supremo Bangkok Glass of Thailand.
