<1>	Bagong gusali ng Romblon District Hospital, naitayo na	new building of Romblon District Hospital, already built.
<2>	December 19, 2016 Dinnes M. Manzo	December 19, 2016 Dinnes M. Manzo
<3>	ROMBLON, Romblon, Dis. 19 (PIA) --- Siyento porsyento ng tapos ang bagong gusali ng Romblon District Hospital (RDH) sa bayan ng Romblon kung saan inaasahang mapapasinayaan na ngayong Disyembre 2016.	Romblon, Romblon, December 19 (PIA) - the new building of Romblon District Hospital (RDH) in the town of Romblon, which is expected to be inaugurated this December 2016, is one hundred percent finished.
<4>	Ang proyektong ito ay pinondohan ng P38,567,224.80 mula sa Department of Health-Health Facilities Enhancement Program (DOH-HFEP).	this project was funded with 38,567,224.80 pesos from the Department of Health-Health Facilities Enhancement Program (DOH-HFEP).
<5>	Ang tatlong palapag na gusali ay inaasahang makakapag-bibigay ng magagandang serbisyong medikal para sa mga taga-Romblon, Romblon at maging sa mga karatig na island municipality nito gaya ng Sibuyan, Corcuera at Banton.	the three-story building is expected to provide good medical service for citizens of Romblon, Romblon and even to its neighboring island municipalities like Sibuyan, Corcuera and Banton.
<6>	Ang bagong gusali ng RDH ay planong paglagyan ng mga bagong pasilidad gaya ng X-ray, CT scan, labor and delivery room, operation rooms, Neonatal Intensive Care rooms, patient wards at private rooms.	the new building of RDH is planned to be equipped with new facilities like X-ray, CT scan, labor and delivery room, operation rooms, neonatal intensive care rooms, patient wards and private rooms.
<7>	Ang nasabing gusali ay makakatulong para mapunan ang kakulangan sa patuloy na pagdami ng populasyon ng Romblon at kaya na nitong mad-accommodate ng mas maraming pasyente. (DM/PIA-MIMAROPA/Romblon)	the said building will help fulfill the shortage with the continuous population growth of Romblon, because it can already accommodate more patients. (DM/PIA-MIMAROPA/Romblon)
