Sunday, September 16, 2012
be selective with relationships
tell me who your friends are, and I'll tell you who you are.
21- commit to mingle and be cooperative with the people who are able to help and value you.
two are the main options in life: accept your situation despite no good changes happening, or accept the truth that it is your responsibility to improve yourself.
and that will only happen if you are intentionally selective of the people around and spend time with you every day.
we have heard this, "do not include the rotten mango in the basket of mangoes because the others will be contaminated."
in all fields or any activity; like players of basketball, members of an organization, or even a group participating in a contest, they are together as one team.
there is unity, cooperation and helping one another.
the reputation of the group is carefully looked after, but in the group there appears someone with a personal agenda or hidden desire.
this is the 'rotten mango' that affects everyone, destructive and poisoning the morale of the whole group.
as early as possible it is separated so it cannot harm the group.
people like these are avoided, instead of helping are the ones who cause harm.
their pastime is to be jealous, criticize and slander their neighbor.
nice when in front of you but a traitor behind your back.
no respect for the character of others, just to obtain the desired benefit or fame.
these kinds of people are avoided at all costs, because it is their hobby to find sympathizers.
if your decision is to just go with the flow, remember that its current is downwards and not across, which usually carries garbage along the way and bitterness in life.
and in the end, you will just wake up doing the actions of your other companions.
we are free to select the straight path, and it can only be achieved through honest people.
if you want to ensure success, surround yourself with successful people.
and if you want to always achieve failure, align yourself and hang out with people who have a grudge against the world, always complaining, critical, like gossip and shows with no sense.
they are optimists and voluntarily accepted the lack of hope.
do not heed the jibe of others that you do not know how to get along, it is just their technique for you to sympathize with them.
you cannot change their thinking, the only thing you have control of is yourself.
you will be criticized and be picked at for being selfish in your avoidance of them and you cannot do anything about it.
what you can only do is decide how to live the right life set for you.
remember: all of us have the capacity to choose which people we will hang out and have relationships with.
in the end, these choices create who we are and what our fate will be.
in relationships, only two choices are set for you: one, in the environment you are accustomed to, to be like them, voluntarily following and agreeing to be liked by all.
second, to be you in your desired ideal personality and create a difference for others.
whether good or bad, it is like a rushing river, heading only to one direction and you cannot go back anymore.
why?
because whatever you have impressed and welded on your mind is difficult to erase, it will need an extreme change in personality, to destroy and vanish the old attitude.
and at this point, there are too many of us with no skill and further continue what we are used to and like.
if we are picky with our relationships; our connection with our loved ones, friends, and colleagues becomes deep, close and meaningful.
it can make our relationships with them clean and pure, and strengthen our self-confidence.
10 importance of relationships in the community
1- it is good for your health.
studies show that having a good group or association has a huge benefit in your life, it maintains your health, keeps you away from boredom, weakening of the mind and depression.
2- you find new acquaintances.
it widens your circle of friends and strengthens your influence in the community.
it will help you a lot in maintaining your value and opportunities if adversities come to your life.
3-you get new friends.
you have opportunities to discover friends who will collaborate with you in meaningful activities and can help the association and even yourself.
4- you learn new skills.
in volunteering for community service you are able to study the tasks assigned to you.
as a committee member - you learn public governance, planning a business, carrying out the regulations of the association, etc.
5- it is good for the community.
as long as many people help each other in tasks, they learn to be familiar with how things are done in their environment, those who want to join and cooperate for the improvement of their community further increase in number
6- you can follow your interests or things you are delighted by.
whatever your favorite activities or hobbies, there are also people with the same interest as yours and want to connect over it.
join groups about it to support each other and share your passion.
7- you can improve your qualities.
if you are a member of an organization and hold a position, it is additional information in your qualifications and reputation.
you can use it as basis in transferring or getting a new job so that your meaningful service to the community can be known.
8- you learn to be strong and tough.
in your experience helping or cooperating in the community, your rights and influence in those positioned in the government and administration spread so your ambitions to help the community can be heard.
9- you can make contributions.
as a citizen, making a difference in your fellow countrymen, surroundings, and community is a noble mission that will improve one another.
10-it is good for our country the Philippines.
we need a strong and powerful society for everyone, where the government and economy help each other and do not run everything, and there is a society with their own organizations for the strong desire to improve the community.
you are not able to continue taking the straight path and end up in a twisted destination.
clearly choose the people who will be with you in your journey, the true reflection of your desires is in your right move.
if there are questions, there are answers.
do you choose your acquaintances based on what they can help you with?
-do you give in order to receive?
and expect something in return or payment for the help you did?
-do you believe that other people like you because of what you give to them?
-as much as possible you do not want to accept anything from others, because you worry that you will owe them a favor?
-are you not contented until you have control over the attitude of others?
-do you waste and calculate how to make others obey according to your wants?
-do you neglect yourself in attending to the welfare of others?
and worry double about their problems every day?
-are you forced to give when you are asked?
after the day has passed; the good question to ask ourselves, will decide the kind of people we encounter today, that will become the type of our personality.
we only become interested in them when their attitude awakens a similar attitude we possess.
deciding is easy once we know what we value more in life.
success or failure?
victory or defeat?
happy or sad?
joy or grief?
whichever of these, it is in your power to choose.
and it will become your destiny.
Jesse Guevara
City of Balanga, Bataan
subscribe to the 31 important topics:
strong self-respect and special love
