<no-speech>
the roundabout route has been opened for traffic in Bayanihan Park Balibago here in the city of Angeles .
the roundabout route which was funded by the Clark Development Corporation and costs fifteen million pesos according to their invitation to bid document which is part of their preparation for the APEC summit next year .
according to Juan Miguel Fuentes APEC Project Management Office Chairman of C_D_C the roundabout route project is a big help to reduce traffic going to the free port zone and S_M City Clark .
the roundabout route here in Clark is a product of a study to solve the problem in traffic here .
traffic basically because of the volume of vehicles here because this is the bottleneck of all the employees who are entering Clark and S_M .
which numbers at Clark alone is already seventy thousand .
seven -- seventy-five thousand and so you can just imagine on a daily basis the people who are entering .
so we had to a -- we have to address the volume of vehicles which are entering and exiting here in this area what ?
C_D_C Vice President for Operations Franco Madlangbayan adds that this project will have a huge impact not only for the preparation of the city for the twenty fifteen APEC Summit .
one of the major projects in preparation for the APEC Summit next year .
now -- but this is not only for the APEC right ?
<no-speech>
this is for the -- give a permanent solution as mentioned earlier by Red the traffic congestion here in the area of McArthur Highway entering here at the Clark .
though the said project is not yet finished this has been made to open to alleviate the traffic and hasten its construction .
this is also one way to practice the motorists as well as the riding public to the new regulations to be implemented by the Angeles City Traffic Management Division .
according to Attorney Joseph Jeffrey Miranda newly assigned O_I_C of ACTEMO they are going to intensify the organization of traffic in the whole city by fixing the roads .
putting traffic enforcers in the place which has large volumes of vehicles especially during rush hours .
and most of all a thorough implementation of traffic laws .
so huge -- this is a huge thing this this -- this traffic circle can help in -- in organizing our traffic situation here in this area in Balibago .
so that's huge .
is that wide right ?
five lanes these are five lanes .
so we cannot -- the the our objective is to have a free flowing traffic here so our vehicles can go straight way ahead .
according to Mayor Ed Pamintuan it is time to restore the order and sanity of the roads in the city of Angeles .
this will also cause inconvenience to some but the greater good for the majority is the principle and guidance in implementing these laws .
<no-speech>
for the storm %incomplete
