the D_O_H has announced that past eleven this morning nurse B of Banga South Cotabato is negative of MERS-CoV .
<no-speech>
together with close friends and relatives the good news is announced to nurse B's family in Banga .
<no-speech>
but nurse B is alarmed when he learned her father has already interacted with other people .
and you are free .
(()) .
(()) .
according to D_O_H a negative result in a MERS-CoV test to nurse B was already released last night which caused overwhelming joy to her family .
the story of Mang Leon a barangay captain the challenge that they had been through in the past three days was intense .
but it is also difficult if you are confined or quarantined .
because you cannot do anything I am very worried ma'am .
so then I said this must be the feeling of a person while he -- is isolated lonely .
because even when eating I cannot almost eat .
I am really thinking of what is going to happen to me .
<foreign><foreign> ah my feeling of happiness <foreign> aside from a daughter who is a nurse and her husband another seven in their family are quarantined including Elmer who has been absent from his classes for few days .
I want to see my friends .
the members of the family poured out their bad feelings because of the incorrect reports of the media and the people who judged and were disgusted at them .
slightly mad and the feelings are bad to the media -- to those who gave an information wrong information .
actually it was still being monitored .
there is no -- no -- truth yet .
but hopefully the -- could be taken back the people would not be afraid anymore .
hopefully let us get rid from our minds that you are disgusted on us especially to me .
hopefully not me .
hopefully that will be get rid off because it was already declared that she was negative ma'am .
Captain Piliado went to Davao to fetch his daughter and her husband .
but the remaining three members of the family will remain in the isolation room of S_P_M_C in Davao while waiting for the results of the test .
the family is expecting their way of life to become normal again which is strengthened by one of -- the biggest challenge in their family .
