<1>	STAR ITINULAK NG PHOENIX By Ramil Cruz	Star pushed by Phoenix by Ramil Cruz
<2>	September 3, 2016	September 3, 2016
<3>	Kinailangang lumi­yab ng Phoenix Fuel Masters sa second half upang pigi­lin ang pag-aalsa ng Star at angkinin ang 106-93 panalo at itulak ang Hotshots sa balag ng ala­nganin kagabi sa Oppo PBA Governor’s Cup sa SMART-Araneta Coliseum.	Phoenix Fuel Masters had to fire up on the second half to stop the rebellion of Star and claim the 106-93 win and push the Hotshots to the edge of uncertainty last night during the Oppo PBA Governor's Cup at the SMART-Araneta Coliseum.
<4>	Nagpiyesta si import Eugene Phelps, nang umiskor ng 45 points at may malaking 17 rebounds para sa Phoenix, na naupo sa sixth place tangan ang 4-4 win-loss card.	import Eugene Phelps rejoiced, after scoring 45 points and huge 17 rebounds for Phoenix, which sat sixth place holding a 4-4 win-loss card.
<5>	Maging si Willy Wilson ay malaki ang na­ging kontribusyon, nang mag-ambag ng double- double – 13 points at 11 rebounds, habang sina Cyrus Baguio at Ronjay Buenafe ay may tig-11 markers.	even Willy Wilson made a huge contribution, giving double- double - 13 points and 11 rebounds, while Cyrus Baguio and Ronjay Buenafe had 11 markers each.
<6>	Nagpakawala ang Star ng 19-0 run sa second half, subalit kinapos sa huli tungo sa kanilang ikalimang sunod na kabiguan at malaglag sa 1-7 sa standings.	Star unleashed a 19-0 run on the second half, however it was not enough in the end because of their fifth consecutive failure and fell 1-7 in the standings.
<7>	“We have high res­pects for Star they’re a Grandslam team.	"we have high respects for Star they're a grand slam team.
<8>	Even if we’re up 20 I’m still scared ‘coz at any point in time they can come back.	even if we're up 20 I'm still scared 'coz at any point in time they can come back.
<9>	Slowly but surely the team is maturing hopefully we’re peaking at the right time,” ani Fuelmasters coach Ariel Vanguardia.	slowly but surely the team is maturing hopefully we're peaking at the right time," said Fuelmasters coach Ariel Vanguardia.
<10>	“We need one more para maka-quarterfinals, hopefully we can gut it out.	"we need one more to join the quarterfinals, hopefully we can gut it out.
<11>	I’m happy we’re able to hurdle this.”	I'm happy we're able to hurdle this."
<12>	Samantala, darayo ngayon sa Batangas City ang hostilidad para sa Petron Blaze Saturday Special sa five o’clock lone game ng TNT KaTropa (7-1) at defending champion San Miguel Beer (6-2).	meanwhile, visiting today at Batangas city is the hospitality for the Petron Blaze Saturday Special at the five o'clock lone game of TNT KaTropa (7-1) and defending champion San Miguel Beer (6-2).
<13>	Kokontakin ng Texters ang second straight win at eight overall para mapormalisa ang daong sa Top Four finish sa eli­minations na may twice-to-beat incentive pagsapit ng quarterfinals.	Texters aims for a second straight win and eight overall to formalize a spot in the top four finish at the eliminations which will have a twice-to-beat incentive come quarterfinals.
<14>	Third consecutive victory at seventh overall ang itatagay ng Beermen upang makalapit din sa nabanggit na insentibo.	third consecutive victory and seventh overall is what the Beermen will toast to get closer to the said incentive.
<15>	Alpas ang TNTK sa GlobalPort nu’ng Miyerkules 122-120 samantalang lusot din ang SMB sa Meralco nang araw na ‘yun 110-106.	TNTK broke free of GlobalPort last Wednesday with 122-120 while SMB passed Meralco on the same day with 110-106.
