<1>	Jersey ni Shaquille isinabit sa Miami December 24, 2016Nangako noong 2006 si Shaquille O’Neal na bibigyan ng first NBA championship ang Miami at pasasalamatan siya ng Heat, maaaring sa ­huling pagkakataon sa pagriretiro ng kanyang No.	Shaquille's jersey was hanged in Miami December 24, 2016, Shaquille O'Neal promised in 2006 that he will give Miami its first NBA championship and the Heat will give him thanks, it may the last time in retirement of his number.
<2>	32 jersey.	32 jersey.
<3>	Itinaas ang jersey sa rafters sa maemosyon pero minsan nakakataba ng puso na seremonyas na kabibilangan ng ina ni O’Neal na si Lucille, pumasok sa court na nasa scaled-down 18-wheel truck.	the jersey was raised on the rafters in an emotional but heartwarming ceremony which included O'Neal's mother, Lucille who entered the court on a scaled-down 18-wheel truck.
<4>	Miniature version – nasa parting ibaba ng kanan ay may katagang “Diesel Power” na nakasulat sa side – ang minsang nagda-drive si O’Neal sa bayan na inis­yal niyang pinangakuan noong 2004.	miniature version - near the bottom-right side the words "Diesel Power" were written - O'Neal once drives around the town initially he made a promise to in 2004.
<5>	Pero ang pinakamagandang bagay sa ga­bing ‘yun ay nang mag-rally sa 19-point second-quarter deficit ang Miami upang hakbangan ang dating team ni O’Neal, ang Los Angeles Lakers, 115-107, at kalsuhan ang three- game losing skid.	but the most beautiful thing that night was when Miami rallied on the 19-point second quarter deficit to pass O'Neal's former team, the Los Angeles Lakers, 115-107, and wedge the three-game losing skid.
<6>	Sinuklian ni O’Neal ang mga salita Biyernes (Manila time), sa pag-thank you kay Heat boss Pat Riley gayundin sa kanyang teammates, lalo na kay star guard Dwyane Wade, na na­ging kalahating parte ng club’s one-two“When you win championships, it becomes contagious.	O'Neal repaid the words on Friday (Manila time) by thanking the Heat's boss Pat Riley along with his teammates especially the star guard Dwayne Wade, who is the half-part of the club's one-two "When you win championships, it becomes contagious".
<7>	I felt like I still had a lot to give I just needed another piece.	I felt like I still had a lot to give I just needed another piece.
<8>	D-Wade was that piece,” bulalas ni O’Neal.	D-Wade was that piece," exclaimed O'Neal.
<9>	“It was already his team so I wasn’t going to redecorate the Christmas tree.”	"it was already his team so I wasn't going to redecorate the Christmas tree."
<10>	Narinig ni Heat coach Erik Spoelstra, na ang team ay iwan ng seven points sa halftime, at sinabing nagpalakas-loob ang acceptance speech ni Shaq sa kanila.	Heat coach Erik Spoelstra heard, the team was behind by seven points at halftime, and said that Shaq's acceptance speech gave them courage.
<11>	“It was like going down memory lane.	"it was like going down memory lane.
<12>	It felt like 2006,” wika niya.	"it felt like 2006," he said.
<13>	“Shaq engaged the entire crowd with incredible class.	"Shaq engaged the entire crowd with incredible class."
<14>	“Our players were sitting there with eyes wide open.	"our players were sitting there with eyes wide open."
<15>	They saw a vision of what we’re trying to build and what the arena is like when you have a legitimate championship-contending team.	they saw a vision of what we're trying to build and what the arena is like when you have a legitimate championship-contending team.
<16>	It was a special presentation.”	"it was a special presentation."
