<1>	Inmates sa Odiongan District Jail, sumailalim sa libreng PTB X-Ray Screening	inmates in Odiongan District Jail, underwent a free PTB X-Ray Screening
<2>	March 24, 2016 Dinnes M. Manzo	March 24, 2016 Dinnes M. Manzo
<3>	ODIONGAN, Romblon, Mar 24 (PIA) --- Mahigit 100 bilanggo sa Odiongan District Jail ang sumailalim kamakailan sa libreng PTB X-Ray Screening upang masuri ang kondisyon ng kalusugan ng mga ito partikular na sa sakit na tuberculosis at pneumonia.	Odiongan, Romblon March 24 (PIA) - more than 100 inmates in Odiongan District Jail have undergone recently in a free PTB X-Ray Screening to examine their health condition particularly for tuberculosis and pneumonia illnesses.
<4>	ginunita ngayong araw.	commemorated this day.
<5>	Ang nasabing aktibidad ay bilang pakikiisa ng Bureau of Jail Management and Penology (BJMP)-Romblon sa World TB Day na gugunitain sa ika-24 ng Marso.	the said activity is in cooperation with the Bureau of Jail Management and Penology (BJMP) - Romblon for the World TB Day which will be commemorated on the 24th of March.
<6>	Ayon sa pamunuan ng Odiongan District Jail, layunin ng nasabing aktibidad na masuri at matiyak na walang sakit na TB ang mga nakapiit sa naturang bilangguan upang agad na magamot ang sinumang maaaring magpositibo sa sakit na ito.	according to the leadership of the Odiongan District Jail, the objective of the activity is to examine and ensure that those who are imprisoned in the said jail have no TB illness to quickly treat whoever might be positive in this disease.
<7>	Sa isinagawang TB Mass Screening ang lahat ng inmates ay sumailalim sa radiographic at TB laboratory diagnostic procedure (Sputum AFB Smear and Gene Xpert Test).	on the TB Mass Screening conducted, all inmates underwent through the radiographic and TB laboratory diagnostic procedure (Sputum AFB Smear and Gene Xpert Test).
<8>	Nagpapasalamat ang BJMP- Romblon sa mga ahensiyang nakatuwang nito sa pagsasakatuparan ng naturang aktibidad na kinabibilangan ng Multisectoral Stakeholders' Alliance in Romblon (MSA), Innovation & Multisectoral Partnership to Achieve Control of Tuberculosis (IMPACT), Philippine Business for Social Progress (PBSP), DOH IVB Provincial Health Office at Romblon Provincial Hospital (RPH) TB DOTS/PMDT - STC facility. (DM/PIA-IVB/Romblon)	the BJMP-Romblon is thanking the agencies that it has partnered with for the realization the said activity which is involved by the Multisectoral Stakeholders' Alliance in Romblon (MSA), Innovation and Multisectoral Partnership to Achieve Control of Tuberculosis (IMPACT), Philippine Business for Sectoral Progress (PBSP), DOH IVB Provincial Health Office and Romblon Provincial Hospital (RPH) TB DOTS/PMDT - STC facility. (DM/PIA-IVB/Romblon)
