<1>	KAABANG-ABANG! By Elech Dawa	anticipated! by Elech Dawa
<2>	October 25, 2016	October 25, 2016
<3>	Sumugod si Association of Boxing Allian­ces of the Philippines president Ricky Vargas sa Ultra, Pasig City kahapon upang mag-file ng kanyang kandida­tura bilang presidente ng Philippine Olympic Committee.	Association of the Philippines president, Ricky Vargas, rushed to Ultra, Pasig city yesterday to file his candidacy for president of the Philippine Olympic Committee.
<4>	Sinamahan nina ­cycling president Bambol Tolentino at muay thai head Lucas Managuelod si Maynilad chief Vargas sa POC headquarters at umabot sila sa deadline.	President Bambol Tolentino and Muay Thai head, Lucas Managuelod, came with Maynilad chief Vargas in POC headquarters, and reached the deadline.
<5>	Matapos ang walong taon, nagkaroon ng kalaban si incumbent president Jose “Peping” Cojuangco Jr., na hawak ang trono mula pa noong 2004.	after eight years, incumbent president Jose "Peping" Cojuangco Junior who had the throne since 2004, finally has an opponent.
<6>	Ayon kay 64-year-old Vargas, hindi nito mahindian ang mga taong gusto ng pagbabago sa POC at naniniwala itong marami ang susuporta sa kanya pagdating ng eleksyon sa darating na Nobyembre 25.	according to 64-year-old Vargas, he can't say no to people who wants change in POC, and he believes that many will support him in the upcoming election this November 25.
<7>	Inamin ni Vargas na marami ang tikom ang bibig at natatakot magsalita, pero ramdam niya na naghihintay lamang ng tamang pagkakataon ang national sports associations para suportahan siya.	Vargas admitted that many are tongue-tied and are scared to speak, but he feels that National Sports Association is just waiting for the right time to support him.
<8>	“The 12-year dispensation has made them fearful of coming out,” ani Vargas, “They have the numbers out of fear but not out of volun­tariness,”Ang mga team ni Vargas na tatakbo ay sina Tagaytay congressman Tolentino (chairman), Mana­guelod (second VP) at Sonny Barrios ng basketball (treasurer).	"the 12-year dispensation has made them fearful of coming out," said Vargas, "they have the numbers out of fear but not out of volunteerism," Vargas' teams who will run are Tagaytay congressman Tolentino (chairman), Managuelod (second VP), and Sonny Barrios of basketball (treasurer).
<9>	Sasabak din sa elek­syon sina Negros congressman Albee Benitez (1st VP) at Ting Ledesma ng table-tennis (auditor).	Negros Congressman, Albee Benitez (1st VP), and Ting Ledesma of table-tennis (auditor) will also run in the election.
<10>	Samantala, sisiyasa­tin pa ng mabuti ang eligibility sa pagtakbo ng mga kandidato sa ng election committee sa pangunguna ni former International Olympic Committee representative to the Philip­pines Frank Eli­zalde, Bernie Oca ng La Salle at Abono party list Rep. Conrado Estrella.	all the while, eligibility of candidates to run will be carefully investigated by the election committee led by former International Olympic Committee representative to the Philippines, Frank Elizalde, Bernie Oca of La Salle, and Abono party list Representative Conrado Estrella.
<11>	Nakasaad sa rules, ang candidate para sa president ay kailangan ay active member sa bi-monthly General Assembly.	it was stated in the rules that a candidate for presidency has to be an active member in the bi-monthly General Assembly.
