betrayed the boss!
we are the boss of President Nonynoy Aquino, that's what I know.
because that's what he keeps saying.
that is why we expect, brother, that as boss of PNoy, he'll follow our advice, requests, and comments.
and of course, whoever betrays their boss would seem like they betrayed PNoy as well.
but if we investigate on the events now, I feel something different.
because were were already betrayed by his people, but PNoy was just neglectful.
his bosses are being stepped all over, but it doesn't affect PNoy.
it got me thinking, are we really the boss of the President?
or even from the start, we were just deceived and led to believe a lie?
let's notice it.
Energy Secretary Jericho Petilla promised that if he can't bring back the electricity to the victims of Yolanda until last Christmas, he'll resign.
that is why, when his promise wasn't made, Petilla indeed resigned and admitted that he's a failure, liar, and has no ability to do his job.
but what did PNoy to this person who lied to the people?
didn't accept the resignation of Petilla!
this animal and thick-faced Petilla didn't even make an "irrevocable resignation!"
pwe!
there's more.
in stealing money from his boss where SARO of Department of Budget and Management was faked, PNoy pretended to have it investigated.
but when results came out, it were "driver and janitors" believed to have colluded in the millions anomaly!
in a right mind, it's clear that we're being betrayed because it's impossible for a driver and a janitor to do this big of an anomaly.
but feel it, PNoy is just quiet!
even worse.
the bosses of the president who were stepped all over by Yolanda continue to hold on to the promise that they will be built "bunkhouses" for temporary shelter while they're slowly recovering from the tragedy.
but what DPWH secretary built for them weren't houses for people.
but in fact, a cage for animals!
look how "bunkhouses" lived in by whole families, who are sadly victims, are very small compared to where that traitor Napoles lives in.
king-inaaaa!
this is what's worse.
the President personally stated that from now on, he won't mind the comments (and advice?) of his bosses!
is there such a thing?
