<no-speech>
at this point let us go back first to the discussion about the decision of the FIBA central board that China will be the host nation for the twenty nineteen FIBA World Cup .
we will talk to Chiqui Roa-Puno from Tokyo Japan .
Chiqui what can you identify as the main reason for the Philippines' loss against China for the hosting rights of FIBA ?
<no-speech>
well I thing this is a case Lucie of what China is really proud of and is boasting about is their experience and their know-how on how to really -- to release these large international events .
so maybe it really made an impression on FIBA and they repeatedly said that they were promising more for this coming FIBA twenty nineteen and they really stressed the fact that they never go back on their promises on their promises .
that's probably one thing and maybe it is also because it is easy for us to be dramatic and emotional since we are seeing our fellow countrymen .
but we need to remember that those we are speaking to are not all Filipinos and they are also considering many other things .
I also have here Lucie Quinito Henson who is also part of the delegation .
you know Quinito we are talking about Lucie is asking if you think what has been like the most -- factor that -- that really has has decided or -- thought about it twenty-six man panel and first and foremost why it takes them so long to make a decision ?
well Chiqui Lucie what I think -- I think it is not yet our time .
what we did in our presentation is we have raised the level of playing field .
we have not matched China in terms of resources and facilities because we already know we are an underdog .
this fight David versus Goliath .
what we have done is a leap of faith .
and we almost were there because as you have said Chiqui they had two-timed delay before they have announced the decision because had a difficulty .
the easier decision would have been to hand it to China right away .
but because the presentation of the Philippines is so beautiful they way we said it with a heart is so beautiful our love for basketball .
so the central board has also realized before they gave the decision .
but I think Chiqui well in the end it was hard and fast rules of resources .
uhm .
of who is bigger of who has more hotel rooms of who has more venues that is discussed in the central board and it is given to China .
I think they also had a difficulty to take their emotions out of the equation because they themselves in China said they are also moved by our presentation .
perhaps the FIBA panel also had a difficulty to try to get that out of their heads and really think you know along the lines of pragmatism or practicality .
let us also call coach Chot Reyes who worked very hard of course with coach Chot in our presentation .
Chot you know China also told you that they were impressed by our presentation but in the end it didn't go our way .
yeah it was Yao Ming himself who told me that our presentation was far better that their presentation .
seriously he said unfortunately you know it wasn't enough .
somehow I was nervous when I saw the final recap videos well .
the -- the recap videos were infra versus infra .
infra of China versus our infra .
there was no heart in the final videos so I got nervous there .
I said the fight seems to be infra to infra .
so we lost .
but with the long time we have been waiting with the beautiful reception with the beautiful reception even worldwide in the social media did you feel positive after our presentation ?
yes so like we had overtime well .
it went to double overtime and the central board members themselves came one by one to us .
and they really told how close it was and how a difficult decision it was for them .
they had told it themselves they came to us here .
ah one by one so you know it just shows how difficult this decision is and how -- how close we were so it is regretfully wasted .
but still thank you to all of our fellowmen those prayers of yours those tweet of yours your messages .
our siblings in T_V five you know our digital five T_V five news staffs sports five with all the work we have made it to trend worldwide it was unbelievable .
well Chot let us also call Secretary Jimenez of the Department of Tourism who was also a part of this .
sir ?
<no-speech>
of course we did not get the result that we wanted okay ?
yes .
what do you think we should have done differently if anything at all in our presentation ?
well I cannot offhand thing of anything we would have done differently I think .
I think when you looked back at it the disappoint is really more that we probably should more strongly communicate not just here but in the near future .
our our strength in our ability to actually have the facilities the manpower and the planning skills to host this kind of event .
secretary we were up against the giant in China but yet we made it close right .
what were the factors that actually made it a close fight ?
well I think you -- you have to understand that basketball is at its very core very competitive therefore very emotional exercise .
very emotional human exercise .
and the Filipinos are as they say the most skilled basketball fans in the world .
they know their basketball .
and the reason why we got to this point is precisely because on the strength of that we had a story to tell .
the Filipinos cannot fall more in love with the basketball than they already are .
that is really really felt .
yes so the next step is really getting the rest of the world to fall in love with it again .
yes thank you very much .
and we're kind of hoping that we would do that yes .
thank you very much for your time mister secretary .
we also want to talk to Quinito .
here is Lou Diamond Phillips was also part of our our presentation .
yeah how are you taking this ?
what are your thoughts at this time ?
first of all I am still incredibly -- incredibly proud of this delegation .
you know we -- we left our hearts on the court .
we fought a good fight did everything that we could .
and you know China is -- is obviously a very impressive and very you know very worthy opponent .
but I -- I feel like we have nothing to be ashamed of nothing to regret and we will steer the course keep fighting a good fight and hopefully one day bring it home to the Philippines .
well Lou when you're up there what was the reaction you felt from the people as you were speaking ?
I to be quite honest and you know I've been on stage before I've done this I thought they were with us .
I saw smiles .
I saw excitement .
I saw great interest and intrigue in what we were doing .
so I know that our message got through .
<no-speech>
I -- I could not even begin to -- to understand what difference you know considerations and what -- what the the international jury was looking for .
obviously we just got edged out .
what I will say is that the decision was to laid twice .
we had to wait for -- for you know the this decision from the jury .
so I know I know we made them think .
I know we made them talk and this was not an easy decision for them .
so I know that the Philippines put you know our best foot forward .
I also think we we made every Filipino once again proud of their heritage today .
thank you so much for your time .
thank you .
thank you .
we are also with Mister Sonny Barrios our S_V_P president today .
sir yes .
the emotions here right now are overwhelming when the ups and the downs were seen .
I think it is fair to say is it true correct to say that we are really just depending that we are waiting .
everybody had a feeling that we were going to get it .
well yes .
we were while waiting for the decision even -- inside the coffee break room everybody was saying we had a better presentation including some of our Chinese friends .
and when the -- when our Q and A group came out and we talked about how it went they said nothing happened like they say we can't answer properly no .
so we were really hoping for the best but they said in basketball that's how the ball bounces right and %incomplete
looking forward Mister Barrios we are sport .
looking forward Mister Barrios no .
okay we did not get the hosting rights for the twenty nineteen FIBA World Cup but we are facing the FIBA Asia Championships .
will this make us -- will this kind of decision very disappointing one will make -- will this make us strive stronger to win the championship in Changsa ?
well we should .
what adversity is to us I don't want to say it is easy for us but we always rise to the challenge Quinito .
and I think we are resilient enough and our hearts fighting for the Philippines will prevail .
thank you .
thank you very much Mister Sonny Barrios .
thank you Mister Barrios .
once again congratulations you -- congratulations to us .
you know Quinito just to summarize what happened here .
I think it wasn't all entirely a lost because there was like a renewed fervor in our pride of being a Filipino .
we saw that in the trending worldwide and different tweets and messages on -- on social media that it is really felt by Filipinos that even if we didn't get the FIBA twenty nineteen we have many things we can be proud of .
well what Lou Diamond Phillips said just earlier was good right .
he said nothing to be ashamed of .
remember right when the bidding process started there were eight countries .
the others were eliminated only two were left Philippines and China .
we were up against giants right from the start .
we eliminated Germany France Lithuania we and China were left .
then we gave China a good fight .
China is a giant China is Goliath this time they do did prevail but David will still prevail later on I'm sure .
and I think we still did make an impression we were noticed by the whole world only for that reason we shouldn't be too sad and I know that our chairman Manny V Pangilinan is of course has mixed emotions too today .
we will try to talk to him later because for sure really he is still thinking about what happened as with everybody else .
that for now is the we will finish here for now Lucie and later we will probably get the opinion of Manny V Pangilinan and give that to you .
bask to you yes Chiqui we will wait for that interview with M_V_P because of course we also have many questions here because our hearts too are bleeding so we want to hear straight from the horse's mouth like they say what he thinks about the decision .
alright thanks to you Chiqui Roa-Puno live from Tokyo Japan .
<no-speech>
be sure to comeback .
