bounce!!!: Kim d., the video makes the blood boil! by Joe Barrameda September 7, 2016 apart from being one of the sexiest Filipina today, kapuso sweetheart Kim Domingo is also good in singing, dancing.
Kim proved that she is not just a sexy actress/model, because she now has an album, and her single know me from GMA records can be heard, available in Spotify and iTunes.
she also has a segment in bubble gang where they also dance with her co-Bubbles every Friday night.
"others do not know that I can sing. this is why I also like to share, because I really like singing. this is why here in my single, I plan to surprise everyone because this music video is super sexy, I will be dancing too.
and also, 'its sound is international. so, it is not like other songs."
those who did that music video together with Kim also said, what she did there is excessively warming to the blood, ha!
Kim should also be expected in the movie Mang Kepweng returns together with versatile actor Vhong Navarro where it is planned to be included in the Metro Manila Film Festival.
Jackie and Precy, skillful in caring!
our suspicions then were correct that Jackie Ejercito will be replacing her mom who is former senator Loi Ejercito Estrada as chairman of mare foundation that in then 1996 was started by Doctor Loi and her female friends.
lately we often see Jackie visible in the activities of the mare in the depressed area in Manila whose mayor is now his father president Erap.
Jackie has a soft spot for the seniors and children.
Jackie becomes emotional when they are talked about.
that is why she has good feelings and helps them lovingly through the mare foundation.
anyway, this morning (September 7), on the 50th birthday, there is a big event in Manila, for the kids, grandfathers/grandmothers, and for the new members of mare! Doctor Loi will be transferring the chairmanship of mare to Jackie.
she will be helped by wife of senator Jinggoy Estrada who is Precy as vice chairman.
we were witnesses on how the two take care of and look after the children.
Gladys, does not feel left out with Ai Ai, Marian! Gladys Reyes it cannot be denied that the happiness given by the number one Sunday noontime habit of the country that is Sunday Pinasaya is unique. kapuso comedian Gladys Guevarra agrees to this, and according to her, she found a new family with a purpose to bring happiness to many viewers, like Marian Rivera and comedy queen Ai Ai delas Alas.
"it is happy sometimes we eat together, change clothes together.
it is okay. the bonding we achieved is different. we were happy then, we were like temporary visitors. now, we are included as regular hosts. also to my colleagues, we have a new group, troop. because in SPS, you won't feel that you are new, you are left out. no. it is really fun," Gladys said.
Tom, Denis is his inspiration
Max at Tom Tom Rodrigues is delighted that he became a member of the luminary talent group of Popoy Caritativo.
in his family they are six siblings and he is the eldest.
in luminary he is called older brother.
Dennis Trillo is the inspiration of Tom as an actor and on how he came successful.
starting from when Tom transferred to GMA his showbiz career quickly developed.
and he is big time because he circled the three biggest networks.
"I have circled the three networks (2, 5 and 7) and I'm extremely lucky because of that, my understanding of this industry became wider because there is a lot I have worked with, I was exposed. for example my relationship with luminary boys would not happen if I did not go here. and I am very lucky, I am very blessed where I am and I am just been so happy, extremely. that's why I am so thankful. anyway, the results was of the pilot episode of someone to watch over me of Lovi Poe and Max Collins were excellent, ha!"
