by making props for cosplayers Aldrin is able to show his talent and creativity even if he hasn't formally studied this kind of thing .
<no-speech>
so when did you learn props like this ?
actually when I first started to learn it was in it's as if I just learned by looking at other cosplayers because before everyone started five years ago or so because I started five years ago uh huh and I thought the costumes were cool like I also wanted to make them .
uh huh .
yeah so here it is it seems okay -- what I'm doing seems okay .
accuracy and precision are what cosplayers are looking for in the costumes that they are wearing .
the closer it is to the character being copied the more comfortable and confident a cosplayer is .
actually um if you're gonna ask me accuracy-wise it was very accurate um he got it .
just from here the embroidery details uh huh also this is where they will all be embossed right ?
because that's really it especially on this part .
because usually for others who have -- M_T_O for things like this they are not able to get the right size uh huh or the actual height of the cosplayers uh huh because usually if the cosplayer is small it would be too big here so it's like uh huh it doesn't become accurate .
so it's really nice he was able to capture everything especially with the shield .
it's just right if we're gonna I'm going to hold it .
it fits me well are you excited about the event I'm really excited .
Belle did you see her .
<no-speech>
from what I have observed being a cosplay props and costume maker is no joke .
since the clients are fanatics they are usually meticulous with details and they have high bases in quality .
with those for example what is the most difficult part of creating ?
um in my opinion it is the size comparison depending on the person mm because sometimes like what Jaime said sometimes -- the size varies the cosplayer is small then what he will wear is big -- really big so you need to make a lot of adjustments .
so normally that's where I have difficulty especially since these things are really freehand uh huh it has no -- it has no measurements uh huh this is really (()) your way of creating .
uh huh then when it's wrong you need to do it again so you can meet the demand of the customer what is the most difficult costume or props that you have made ?
I think it was when my friend and I we made a seven-foot sword .
seven-foot and they extend to eight feet because it was for a convention it was like (()) from a character uh huh that was really big -- the sword was really big .
uh huh .
then we made it for three days because our customer seemed to be in a hurry too .
uh huh .
so we were able to make -- make it we made it on time uh huh I think that was the most difficult .
because Aldrin is also a cosplayer he understands the big expenses of each cosplayer in order to achieve the outfit that they want .
so when there are cosplayers who approach him it's not that's because some are really expensive because of -- what do you call this their labor umm so as me there are -- the cosplayer really has this as his passion and hobby what I want is for me to enjoy while others are able to -- enjoy getting the costumes that they want to be made at a low cost uh huh at the low cost uh huh sometimes when people are about to approach uh huh they want to cosplay this character but it's very expensive so they need to back out because they won't fit oops no -- they cannot afford the price .
uh huh so I just help them if they want to do cosplay or normally I would teach them if if they want .
it's like it's becoming your sideline too ?
<no-speech>
looks like it yes at least at least you're earning and then -- you like it you are enjoying it and then you like what you are doing .
in this trade the date or deadline when the props created by a props maker is also important that way there will be time to change or switch the design according to the preference of the client .
like a complain deadline right ?
<no-speech>
name for maybe we will finish it as soon as possible as soon as possible how many weeks is that ?
Jane said is like one month or so .
one month that's okay for you ?
it will do yes .
but if rush for -- how many days is rush for you because it is (()) .
that one she asked me to rush for this yes .
around one week or so .
one week um one week is already rush that is already rush so that supposedly you need at least two weeks .
around two weeks or -- three ?
a month .
a month .
oh .
how long it takes to do um .
what takes longest in creating these the -- drying ?
drying is easy yes it's really the carving yes because sometimes it's trial and error too .
if the size is wrong you will repeat again yes like this -- I made its blade is its carving .
yes .
there is a side I got wrong because it's two as you can see two are the yes its carving is two I made a mistake with one so well I needed to repeat it .
if the design is wrong the customer complains yes too .
customer is as much as possible is accurate what they want to be made yes .
for the convenience of his client Aldrin should also know the materials that he must use .
usually cost play conventions last two up to four hours depending on the program and size of the gathering .
it's like a hot metal because before at first before I knew what materials I needed to use yes is I just really used a cutter yes as in the time -- the time took three times longer .
yes .
now it's not .
I learned that technique where you can use hot iron in yes carving this in order to carve like these yes to speed up my work because I cannot finish it if I just carve and carve yes .
wave it around sir it should yes be stiffer .
its outer outer part is like rubber .
yes .
then I coated it with like plastic yes plastic plastic solution .
yes .
so this .
this doesn't have let's go it doesn't have -- let's go -- comparison back then .
(()) okay so it's like math right ?
because sometimes those who commission is they want the finishing of the painting is yes even .
then they want shiny yes they don't want to like commission a costume is like flat yes its color is flat .
so the others really want it shiny .
if with Jane's there is already form and only details are missing Charmaigne will still have to add details to the costume and props that she wants to wear and use .
with mine Mary Jane was just confused actually with the commission yes so mine is only a sword .
because the character is more on dress only yes but (()) .
yes .
so that's also the reason why we are meeting with here now in order to (()) the character too .
