<1>	TNT, Ginebra agawan sa top seeding By Ramil Cruz	TNT, Ginebra in rivalry for the top seeding by Ramil Cruz
<2>	September 18, 2016	September 18, 2016
<3>	Parehong pasok na sa top four finish na may twice to beat bonus sa quarterfinals ang TNT, Ginebra at San Miguel sa sayad sa sahig ng tabing ng PBA Governors’ Cup 11-game eliminations ngayon sa Alonte Sports Arena sa Biñan City.	both entering the top four finish with twice-to-beat bonus in the quarterfinals are TNT, Ginebra, and San Miguel, barely making it to the ranking, of the PBA Governors Cup 11-game eliminations today at the Alonte Sports Arena in Binan City.
<4>	Kaya top elims honor­ at pride na lang ang naka­taya sa pukpukang league leading TNT (9-1) at ­second running Ginebra (8-2) sa 6:45 main game.	which why for top eliminations, honor and pride are the only things at stake in the hard-hitting league with leading TNT (9-1) and second running Ginebra (8-2) in the 6:45 main game
<5>	Hindi na rin matitinag sa third spot ang defending champion San Miguel (7-3) na ipaparada si dating Best Import Elijah Millsap manalo-matalo sa 4:30 p.m. match sa eliminated na at nasa ilalim na Blackwater (1-9).	unshakeable in the third spot are the defending champion San Miguel (7-3) who will parade the former best import Elijah Millsap win-lose on the 4:30 p. m. match against eliminated and bottom ranked Blackwater (1-9).
<6>	Pero para sa isa sa coaches ng dalawang protagonistang Ginebra at TNT, baka ma­ging pinakamagarang dikdikan pa rin ang no bearing game para sa top seeding pa-playoffs ng 41s season ending conference.	but for one of the coaches of the two protagonists Ginebra and TNT, this no bearing game may be the most extravagant fight for the top seeding playoffs of 41s season ending conference.
<7>	“I don’t think either team is going to give an inch,” deklara sa text message ni Gin Kings coach Tim Cone.	"I don't think either team is going to give an inch," Gin Kings coach Tim Cone declared via text message.
<8>	“It could turn out to be the best non-bearing game in history.	"it could turn out to be the best non-bearing game in history.
<9>	“We’d be honored to be the top seed.”	"we'd be honored to be the top seed."
<10>	Second hottest team ang TNT sa pagsikwat sa huling tatlong oposisyon, huli kontra sa Star nu’ng Linggo sa Mall of Asia Arena 115-105.	second hottest team for rising against their last three oppositions is TNT, the last one was against Star back in Sunday at Mall of Asia Arena 115-105.
<11>	Pinakamainit sa ­lahat ang Gin Kings at ang Alaska.	hottest among all is Gin Kings and Alaska
<12>	Latest victim ng crowd favorite ang Phoenix sa Ynares Center-Antipolo nu’ng Miyerkules, 96-87.	latest victim of the crowd favorite was Phoenix at Ynares Center-Antipolo back in Wednesday, 96-87.
<13>	“They take it upon themselves that they know that they have to keep their level of play on a high,” sambit naman ni KaTropa coach Jong ­Uichico sa kampo niya na nagkalat sa huling tatlong kumperensya pabangon sa kasalukuyan.	"they take it upon themselves that they know that they have to keep their level of play on a high," mentioned KaTropa coach Jong Uichico to his camp which spread the last three conference up until the present.
<14>	“I think Ginebra will be the real test.	"I think Ginebra will be the real test.
<15>	We might not meet them in the Top Four, but, for sure, if we go to the next round, we could,” dagdag pa niya.	we might not meet them in the top four, but, for sure, if we go to the next round, we could," he added.
<16>	Mangunguna sa alak ang backcourt ito nina Scottie Thompson na himalang top rebounde­r ng team, LA Tenorio at Sol Mercado, at si Justin Browlee samantalang sa telecommunications ay ang 1-2 punch na sina Jayson Castro at Ranidel de Ocampo, at si Mychal Ammons.	leading the gin are the backcourt Scottie Thompson who is miraculously the top rebounder of the team, LA Tenoro and Sol Mercado, and Justin Browlee, meanwhile, in the telecommunications are the 1-2 punch Jayson Castro and Ranidel de Ocampi, and Mychal Ammons.
