Friday, December 25, 2015
the word that took a human form ...
face of the mercy of god: reflection for Christmas day year c - December 25, 2015 - jubilee year of mercy
happy incarnation of "verbo" to all of you!
a unique greeting right?
because greeting "merry Christmas" or "merry Christmas!" is getting old.
so let's change it "for a change" as they say!
but if we look at it it really is the meaning of Christmas.
the incarnation of the son of God that is also called "the mystery of incarnation." on the mass of the day during Christmas the gospel always reminds us of this truth.
"in the beginning there is the word.
God is with the word and the word is God ...
the word became human and he lived in our midst."
this is the statement of Saint John in the introduction of his gospel.
the word of God took human form.
it is difficult to understand this truth!
there was a story once of a man who prayed to the Lord because his pet pigs have died.
they were what he used as livelihood for his family so he implored to God to save his pigs from death.
God answered and said: "sure, tomorrow your pet pigs will get better but there is one condition, tomorrow when you wake up you will see yourself in the pen of the pigs.
you will eat, sleep, and roll in the dirt with them, in simpler terms...
you will become a pig too!"
the man was made to think and after a few moments prayed: "Lord, please just take my pigs!"
hehehe... if you were placed in his situation, will you agree to become a pig?
if we think about it humans and pigs are both animals.
the man is just superior because he is an animal that thinks!
remove his ability to think and he will act like an animal!
so a man becoming a pig is not that impossible.
but God becoming human is not comprehended by normal thinking.
how can the creator lower himself and become a creation?
only God can think of that!
why did God want to become a creation despite his greatness?
what Saint John said is this...
"such is the love of God for the world that he gave his only son."
(John 3:16) so that is the reason for God becoming a creation: because of the greatness of his love for us sinners!
brothers, every Christmas God reminds us of his great gift: his only son...
Jesus, who took human form!
what is your gift to him?
if God sacrificed for me it is perhaps only right that I also sacrifice for him.
I should answer his loyalty with loyalty, his love with my love.
have I done any good for my neighbor this Christmas?
have I set time for my family to spend time with them this Christmas?
have I greeted the people I have grudges for?
have I forgiven those who have wronged me?
the word incarnate challenges us to make our love realistic.
show through action the incarnation of the word!
and now in the jubilee year of mercy we have the chance to make "incarnate" the word of God through sharing his mercy.
the word incarnate that is in the persona of the child born in Bethlehem is the face of the mercy of God.
let us ask that we also become the "face of his mercy" to our neighbor.
"merciful like the father" is the theme of the jubilee year of mercy.
each one of us is called to become like Jesus. the face of the mercy of the father.
