Hebrews series 29: Abraham, amazing faith by Zayith Hebron November 8, 2016 "by faith Abraham, when called, obeyed to go to the place he will receive as an inheritance; and he went without knowing where he will go."
by faith he migrated to the promise land like every other lands, and settled in tents with Isaac and Jacob, both heirs of the same promise.
"for he relies on the city with foundations, which was planned and built by God."
(Hebrews 11:8-10) Abraham is brave, courageous. he did not doubt the promises of his God. and sometimes he displays weakness and fear, his faith that God is faithful and will not neglect him remained.
how can he doubt God?
is it not that his wife got pregnant at the age of 99? normally, Sarah should no longer be able to give birth because of very old age.
but they were chosen by God to give birth to the people of Israel, and by his son Isaac the promises will be fulfilled.
"I will make you a great nation, I will bless you, I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and curse those who curse you; and with you all the families of the earth will be blessed."
(Genesis 12: 2-3) from the descendants of Abraham, to the people of Israel, the Messiah who died on the cross for the salvation of all mankind. that Messiah is the Lord Jesus; son of God in the flesh, born of Mary, born in a manger in Bethlehem and grew up in the town of Nazareth. Abraham had no idea that his role will be great in the plan of salvation that God has laid for the whole world? with the exceeding love of God-Adonai for man, he did not allow the descendants of Adam and Eve to remain submerged in sin. to stay in that state would mean to stay in under the curse of eternal death; eternal death in hell; eternal separation from the true God. God needed to send a Savior; Jesus was the one who played that role. and all those things are in the heart and mind of the Creator when he ordered Abraham to "leave... your land, your relatives, the house of your father, and go to the land that I will show you."
(Genesis 12:1) how about you, friend, what do you think? will you obey God if you were in Abraham's position? packing your things to travel to a place you don't know? naturally thinking, that is difficult, right? there is more amazing in the faith of Abraham. when God commanded him to kill his beloved son Isaac and offer him in Moriah mountain. child sacrifice or human sacrifice were being done by the people of Canaan. there is still no declaration of the commandments of God through Moses so Abraham probably thought that God really wanted him to kill his son. but how about the promise? God said that through Isaac his descendants will multiply.
this is the reason that the writer of Hebrews speaks of regarding what is running in the mind of Abraham at those times: "he believed that from the dead God can bring back a man to life..." (Hebrews 11:19) Amazing faith.
the reward: God sent an angel to stop Abraham from making the offering.
Abraham died without seeing the completion of the promises of the Lord to him. this is because he only considered himself as a foreigner and wanderer in the surface of the earth.
his true home is in the presence of God.
friend, this is an eye-opener for us; one important reminder. if the writer of Hebrews gave Abraham, Abel, Enoch at Noah as strong in the faith they should precede, God has the same message for us.
Abraham did not rely in his material possessions, in his country, in his own family.
he relied only in God and he succeeded in his journey in this world.
let's check ourselves: is that the kind of faith we are thirsty to have? how much do we love the Lord Jesus?
does it mean our everything?
hard questions; only the Holy Spirit can move our lives to give us the faith pure in the sight of God.
draw near to Jesus to be saved, and to know the true God.
Shalom and God bless!
