<1>	Play ‘N Learn sa Rizal Day By Ramil Cruz	Play 'N Learn on Rizal Day by Ramil Cruz
<2>	December 26, 2016	December 26, 2016
<3>	Napwersa ang Philippine Sports Commission na pagbigyan ang daan-daang kahilingan ng mga tagasunod ng Laro’t-Saya sa Parke, PLAY ‘N LEARN para magdaos ng isang espesyal na edisyon ng family-oriented at community grassroots sports development program kasabay ng Rizal Day sa Biyernes, Dec. 30, sa Luneta.	the Philippine Sports Commission was forced to grant the request of hundreds of followers of Fun and Games at the Park, Play 'N Learn, to hold a special edition family-oriented and community grassroots sports development program at the same time as Rizal Day on Friday, December 30 at Luneta.
<4>	Inihayag ito ni PSC chairman Butch Ramirez sa pamamagitan ni PSC program, research and development division chief Dr. Lauro Domingo, Jr. na siya ring LSP project manager pagkagaling sa Walk A Mile with the Senior Citizens sa 8th Wonders of the World-Vigan City noong Dec. 22 at sa Dagupan City (Dec 23).	this was stated by PSC Chairman Butch Ramirez through PSC Program Research and Development Division Chief Doctor Lauro Domingo, Junior, who was also the LSP project manager, after coming from the Walk A Mile with the Senior Citizens at the 8th Wonder of the World, Vigan City, last December 22 and at Dagupan City (December 23).
<5>	“Marami kasi ang nag-re-request sa aming FB Page at saka tumatawag sa opisina na ituloy ang programa so we will hold one more day for them bago matapos ang taon,” sabi ni Domingo.	"many are requesting on our FB page and calling our office to push through with the program, so we will hold one more day for them before the year ends," said Domingo.
<6>	“Pampagpag-taba raw sabi ng mga regular participants natin dahil sa magkakasunod na kainan mula Noche Buena hanggang bago mag-New Year,” panapos niya.	"to lose fats, said our regular participants, because of the consecutive feasts from Noche Buena until before New Year," he finished.
