<1>	Clinton, may pneumonia	Clinton, has pneumonia
<2>	September 12, 2016	September 12, 2016
<3>	“Overheated and dehydrated.”Ito ang nakitang dahilan ng mga doktor kaya agad na umalis si Hillary Clinton nitong Linggo sa seremonya ng 9/11 anniversary (Ang pag-atake sa Amerika ng teroristang al-Qaeda noong Setyembre 11, 2001).	"overheated and dehydrated." this was the reason seen by the doctors that is why Hillary Clinton quickly left the 9/11 ceremony last Sunday (the attack in America by the terrorist Al-Qaeda last September 11, 2001).
<4>	Ang 68-anyos na si Clinton, isang US Democratic presidential candidate, ay nasuring may pneumonia kamakailan.	the 68-year old Clinton, a US democratic presidential candidate, was recently diagnosed with pneumonia.
<5>	Kasunod nito sinabi ng kanyang campaign official na kinansela nila ang kanilang kampanya sa California dahil sa kalagayan ni Clinton.	following this, his campaign official said that they canceled their campaign in California because of Clinton's condition.
<6>	“Secretary Clinton has been experiencing a cough related to allergies.	"Secretary Clinton has been experiencing a cough related to allergies.
<7>	On Friday, during follow-up evaluation of her prolonged cough, she was diagnosed with pneumonia,” ayon sa internist na si Dr. Lisa Bardack sa kanyang statement.	on Friday, during follow-up evaluation of her prolonged cough, she was diagnosed with pneumonia," according to her internist Doctor Lisa Bardack in her statement.
<8>	“She was put on antibiotics, and advised to rest and modify her schedule.”	"she was put on antibiotics, and advised to rest and modify her schedule."
<9>	Ang pneumonia ay isang impeksyon sa baga at kadalasang ito’y bacterial infection kumakalat matapos ang pagkakaroon ng sipon o flu virus.	pneumonia is an infection in the lungs and is usually a bacterial infection that spreads after having a cold or flu virus.
<10>	Nakita sa video na inaalalayan si Clinton papunta sa kanyang van matapos na umalis sa nasabing okasyon.	it can be seen in the video that Clinton was being supported on the way to her van after leaving the said occasion.
<11>	Ang kalusugan ngayon ni Clinton ay sinisilip ng kanyang Republican opponents na hindi siya fit para manungkulan sa pamahalaan at labanan ang Islamic State militants.	Clinton's health is being monitored by her republican opponents that she is no longer fit to serve in the government and fight the Islamic state militants.
<12>	Ngunit ayon kay Bardack noong nakaraang buwan, “She’s in excellent health and fit to serve as president of the United States”.	but Bardack stated last month, "she's in excellent health and fit to serve as president of the United States".
<13>	Si Clinton ay dalawang taong mas bata sa Republican presidential nominee na si Donald Trump.	Clinton is two years younger than the republican presidential nominee Donald Trump.
