<no-speech>
Pope Francis condemns the wasteful culture of people around the world in his previous statement in Saint Peter's Square .
according to that Saint Pope the throwing of excess food is the same as robbing the poor .
but in the Philippines not all leftovers are wasted .
because the food thrown in the garbage is dusted off and served again .
reactions mixed with our brothers who gambles their health and lives in every bite .
<no-speech>
<no-speech>
Eril starts checking garbage cans in the afternoon with his friend Lester .
<no-speech>
they tread Quirino highway in Quezon city .
<no-speech>
they check every bag that they see if it has plastic bottles or cans that could be sold .
but their true motive is to look for thrown food to shake off .
Eril is from Masbate and has been in this situation for three years .
he tried his luck in Manila .
<no-speech>
I also experience hardships in the province .
I went here in Manila to look for a job .
to have a stable job to send money in the province .
<no-speech>
now in the heaps of garbage bags does he find what will fill his empty stomach .
a leftover banana cue and chicken bones will be their dinner .
what will you do with that ?
after boiling it we could make soup out of it if someone wants to have soup .
they wanted to have adobo .
<no-speech>
when they arrived the waiting shed where they were living they boiled the chicken first .
and then removed the water .
they also put vinegar soy sauce and MSG powder and then cooked it with fire .
the friends then made the banana cue as appetizers .
directly eat it it's not spoiled and it's even wrapped with a plastic .
<no-speech>
when it was cooked Eril Lester and another companion in the waiting shed then divided the chicken adobo .
you might say I just need to get by the hunger that's why I'll force myself to eat even if it's already in the trash .
<no-speech>
their continuous eating of dirty food also because of the big food waste of various establishments daily .
according to the study of Food and Nutrition Research Institute of F_N_R an estimate of one thousand two hundred tons of food are put to waste daily and the biggest percentage is rice .
<no-speech>
more so twenty-two grams of food are wasted by one person in one day .
we discovered that if you save the amount of waste because of the rice waste this waste and this is an example of we'll allot it for the needs of the street children .
it will turn out that we can give around sixty-four to sixty-five pesos per street child which is a big amount to meet the needs of the children .
<no-speech>
according to Eli his stomach has sometimes ached as a result of eating dirty food .
because of those dirty food the leftover chicken I already ate that last night .
maybe around seven and around nine I already felt that my stomach was aching .
this is not just the pain this was really from what I ate .
around ten the pain was not constant it was slightly gone .
because of his consumption of dirty food it's possible that he can get severe diarrhea or poisoning .
according to Doctor Gerald Abergos a sociologist .
the trash that was taken advantage by beggars like Eli is the establishments' responsibility .
it's sad that leftover food which is considered waste by some people can be used and is still being used by other people so it could fill an empty stomach and also as nourishment in his daily life .
it is not normal for food that has been thrown away to be considered edible .
hopefully restaurants and fast food chains would think that it's in their social responsibility for this food waste to be disposed in a proper manner wherein people won't -- take interest in it anymore .
of all the industries they are the ones who know that food that has been mixed and thrown away is bad for the health .
<no-speech>
as the government's action presidential decree number eight five six or the code on sanitation was implemented .
<no-speech>
wherein those who are caught gathering a leftover food can be imprisoned for six months and pay a fine of one thousand pesos .
even if he's scared of going to jail Eril said he needed to eat .
even if they say that it's filthy you're not doing anything wrong anyway .
it might be embarrassing but in my mind I know that what I'm doing is not wrong .
which is why as long as there are people who are wasteful with food Eril will not go hungry .
a bitter reality that he will forcefully accept .
I am Renz Ongkiko .
