<1>	WALANG MAKAKAPANTAY KAY COACH BABY	nothing compares to Coach Baby
<2>	August 23, 2016	August 23, 2016
<3>	Dalawang oras pagkatapos parangalan ng PBA ang pumanaw nang si coach Virgilio ‘Baby’ Dalupan, halu-halong emosyon ang inilabas ng isa sa coaches na umiidolo sa kanya.	two hours after the PBA honored deceased coach Virgilio "Baby" Dalupan, one of the coaches who idolized him expressed mixed emotions.
<4>	“First of all, I just want to say I’m honored that we were able to do this in Baby’s Tribute Day, and get the win,” bungad ni coach Tim Cone matapos kubabawan ng kanyang Ginebra ang Rain or Shine 101-87 sa Governors Cup sa Smart Araneta Coliseum nitong Linggo.	"first of all, I just want to say I'm honored that we were able to do this in Baby's tribute day, and get the win," Coach Tim Cone started after his Ginebra defeated Rain or Shine 101-87 in the Governors Cup in Smart Araneta Coliseum this Sunday.
<5>	Matagal nang sinasabi ni Cone na sobrang fan siya ng maalamat na coach na binawian na ng buhay noong Miyerkules sa edad 92.	Cone has long said that he is a big fan of the legendary coach who passed away on Wednesday at the age of 92.
<6>	May koleksiyon na 52 championships si Dalupan mula sa halos lahat ng antas ng basketball, 15 dito sa PBA.	Dalupan has a collection of 52 championships from almost all levels of basketball, 15 of these in the PBA.
<7>	Bago ang laro, nabanggit ni Cone na magandang alay kay Dalupan kung manalo ang Gin Kings sa Elasto Painters.	before the game, Cone mentioned that if the Gin Kings won against the Elasto Painters it would be a good offering to Dalupan.
<8>	Sinamahan ni Cone at ng kanyang Gin Kings at ni Yeng Guiao at kanyang E-Painters si PBA commissioner Chito Narvasa, Allan Caidic, Atoy Co at Alvin Patrimonio – players na kumatawan sa PBA teams na tinimunan ni Dalupan – nang patunugin ang final buzzer para sa coach na binansagang El Maestro.	Cone joined his Gin Kings and Yeng Guiao his E-Painters with PBA commissioner Chito Narvasa, Allan Caidic, Atoy Co and Alvin Patrimonio - players representing PBA teams helmed by Dalupan - when the final buzzer was sounded for the coach nicknamed El Maestro.
<9>	“After my father, Baby was a real second in terms of being the kind of person I wanted to emulate, in terms of life, in terms of accomplishments, I terms of the kind of person he was,” lahad ni Cone.	"after my father, Baby was a real second in terms of being the kind of person I wanted to emulate, in terms of life, in terms of accomplishments, I terms of the kind of person he was," Cone revealed.
<10>	Habang nakikilala ni Cone si coach Baby, lalo lang niya itong hinangaan.	as Cone got to know Coach Baby, he admired him even more.
<11>	“And I not only got to know him, but I got to know his family, and you can measure a man by his family.	"and I not only got to know him, but I got to know his family, and you can measure a man by his family.
<12>	He’s had a real good family life, and I’m really proud,” dagdag ni Cone.	he's had a real good family life, and I'm really proud," added Cone.
<13>	“He’s 92 years old, and he had a great life.	"he's 92 years old, and he had a great life.
<14>	What more can you ask for?	what more can you ask for?
<15>	So that’s the guy that I’d like to emulate.”	so that's the guy that I'd like to emulate."
<16>	Ang record ni Dalupan sa PBA titles, nabasag na ni Cone na may 18 total.	Dalupan's record of PBA titles, Cone has broken with a total of 18.
<17>	Pero may diin si Cone: “Nobody can surpass Baby.”	but Cone stressed: "nobody can surpass Baby."
