<1>	Lady Troopers problemado kay Daquis By Elech Dawa August 4, 2016Sasagupa ang suga­tang RC Cola-Army sa humaharurot na Foton sa semifinals ng Philippine Superliga All-Filipino Conference na dadayo sa Malolos Sports and Convention Center ngayon.	Lady Troopers having trouble with Daquis by Elech Dawa August 4, 2016. the injured RC Cola-Army will the battling the unstoppable Foton at the semifinals of the Philippine Super League All-Filipino Conference which will be held at the Malolos Sports and Convention Center.
<2>	Pinaghalong maasa­hang veterans at matitikas na rookies ang ipinarada ng Lady Troopers at isa sa heavyweights sa pagsisimula ng torneo, pero bigla ay naubusan at dalawang sunod na pinalupasay ng F2 Logistics sa umpisa ng second round.	a mix of reliable veterans and strong rookies were paraded by the Lady Troopers and one of the heavyweights at the beginning of the tournament, but they suddenly lost players and were brought to their knees two times by F2 Logistics at the beginning of the second round.
<3>	At sa first set ng laban kontra Foton sa La Salle Lipa Sentrum noong isang linggo, inabot ng left foot injury ang pambato ng Army na si Rachel Anne Daquis.	during the first set versus Foton on the La Salle Lipa Sentrup last week, the star player of the Army, Rachelle Anne Daquis, received a left foot injury.
<4>	Day to day si Daquis, bagama’t inaasahang aabutin ng at least two weeks bago makarekober sa injury.	Daquis is day to day , although it is expected that it would reach at least two weeks before she can recover from the injury.
<5>	Laglag sa No. 4 ang Lady Troopers, nasa No. 1 ang Tornadoes.	the Lady Troopers dropped to number 4, the Tornadoes are on number 1.
<6>	“Now we have a big problem,” lahad ni RC Cola-Army coach Kungfu Reyes.	"now we have a big problem," admitted the RC Cola-Army coach, Kungfu Reyes.
<7>	“How can we replace Rachel’s production of around 15 to 17 points a game?”	"how can we replace Rachel's production of around 15 to 17 points a game?"
<8>	Problemang malaki, dahil nag-iinit na ang Foton na pagkatapos talunin ang Army ay magkasunod ding itinumba ang Petron at F2.	a big problem, because Foton is heating up after defeating Army, they also defeated Petron and F2 successively.
