Wednesday, July 6, 2016
the grass and the stone: a new kind of fable in the times of Digong.
the grass and the stone: a new kind of fable in the times of Digong.
by Gregorio V. Bituin Junior
the grass and the stone are happily talking with each other in a park.
when suddenly a sparrow came.
the sparrow said, "friends, may I interview you?"
before that, I interviewed a few beings and ask them what makes them happy.
but most of them said that they are now happy.
I asked the worm if he is happy.
he said he's not happy because he doesn't have beautiful wings like that of a butterfly.
I asked the butterfly if he is happy.
he told me that he's not happy because he is still not able to sip from the most beautiful rose in the garden.
I asked the rose if he is happy.
he said that he is not happy because the young man that would pick and give him to the fairest young lady is still to come.
I ask you, my friend grass and stone, are you happy?
the grass answered, "I am happy for what I am now."
not paying attention to the heat of the sun or the drops of rain.
it's nice to feel the breeze of the wind.
I am happy because I am me.
the stone said. "I am a stone and I help to make living better."
foundation of houses and buildings, used as gravel, construction material and many more.
"I am happy with my purpose in the world."
the grass added, "however, before you came we were talking about how we are not happy with the things that are happening with many other beings in the world."
the humans uses our names for their vices.
they call the marijuana that they smoke weed which often becomes the reason for the destruction of their future."
the stone added, "the same as well, stone is what they call the vice named meth that causes the future of many people to be destroyed.
the grass spoke again, "I am happy the way I am, but I wish that the humans would stop ruining my good name."
"I have the same thoughts," said the stone.
the sparrow answered, "it is possible that your names would be cleared soon."
because the police are now capturing those who uses grass and stone.
"those who use your names for wrong will die, if not, they will be imprisoned"
in unison the grass and stone answered, "we really hope that our names would be cleared. we will wait for that day to come"
