<1>	15 SUNDALO NALAGAS VS ASG By Al Jacinto, Betchai ­Julian	15 soldiers fallen versus ASG by Al Jacinto, Betchai Julian
<2>	August 31, 2016	August 31, 2016
<3>	Philippine soldiers carry caskets containing bodies of colleagues killed in an encounter with Muslim extremist Abu Sayyaf group, into a C-130 cargo plane at Jolo airport in Sulu province on the island of Mindanao, on August 30, 2016.	Philippine soldiers carry caskets containing bodies of colleagues killed in an encounter with Muslim extremist Abu Sayyaf group, into a C-130 cargo plane at Jolo airport in Sulu province on the island of Mindanao, on August 30, 2016.
<4>	ZAMBOANGA CITY — Inanunsyo kahapon ng militar na 15 sundalo at 27 miyembro ng Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG) ang patay sa matin­ding sagupaan sa Sulu, isa sa 5 lalawigan ng Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM).	Zamboanga city - the military announced yesterday that 15 soldiers and 27 member of the Abu Sayyaf group (ASG) were killed in an intense battle in Sulu, one of 5 provinces in the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM).
<5>	Umabot rin sa isang dosenang sundalo mula sa Army ang sugatan sa sagupaang naganap nitong Lunes ng hapon sa bayan ng Patikul, isa sa mga kilalang kuta ng Abu Sayyaf na sumusuporta sa Islamic State (IS).	it amounted to one dozen soldiers from the army were wounded in the battle that happened this Monday afternoon in the town of Patikul, one of the known fort of Abu Sayyaf that supports the Islamic state (IS).
<6>	Patuloy pa rin kahapon ang opensiba ng militar at kinakanyon ng mga sundalo ang mga taguan ng Abu Sayyaf na sabit sa serye ng ransom kidnappings sa Sabah, Malaysia.	the military offensive still continued yesterday and the soldiers are firing canons at the hideouts of the Abu Sayyaf who are involved in the series of ransom kidnappings in Sabah, Malaysia.
<7>	Kinumpirma rin ni Armed Forces of the ­Philippines (AFP) Chief General Ricardo Visaya ang naturang ulat ng Western Mindanao Command at sinabing “Fifteen soldiers made the ultimate sacrifice while twelve o­thers were wounded following series of intense skirmishes in Sulu.	Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) chief general Ricardo Visaya also confirmed the said report of the western Mindanao command and said "fifteen soldiers made the ultimate sacrifice while twelve others were wounded following series of intense skirmishes in Sulu.
<8>	As we gaze at the natio­nal flag that flies at half-mast anew, soldiers knew that one too many heroes among them has again offered his life – that others may live.	As we gaze at the national flag that flies at half-mast anew, soldiers knew that one too many heroes among them has again offered his life - that others may live.
<9>	Much as every soldier, sailor, marine or airman knows that laying down one’s life is all part and parcel of their job, we in the AFP vow to pursue this battle to conclusion.”	Much as every soldier, sailor, marine or airman knows that laying down one's life is all part and parcel of their job, we in the AFP vow to pursue this battle to conclusion."
<10>	Kabilang sa mga nasawi sa labanan ay si Lt.	included in those who dies in the fight is lieutenant
<11>	Ernan Gusto, at karamihan sa mga ito ay mula sa 32nd Infantry Battalion na tinambangan ng Abu Sayyaf sa Patikul.	Ernan Gusto, and majority of them are from the 32nd Infantry Battalion who were ambushed by the Abu Sayyaf in Patikul.
<12>	Ipi­nadala ang mga battalion doon upang tapusin ang Abu Sayyaf.	the battalion were sent there to finish the Abu Sayyaf.
<13>	Hindi pamil­yar ang mga sundalo sa terrain ng Patikul kung kaya’t mistulang sinagupa ng mga ito si Kamatayan.	the soldiers were not familiar with the terrain in Patikul which is why they seemed to have battled death.
<14>	May sagupaan rin sa bayan ng Talipao at iba pang bahagi ng Sulu.	there was also a battle in the town of Talipao and other parts of Sulu.
<15>	Kabilang rin sa nasawing sundalo ay si Pfc. Jison Falcasantos na pinugutan ng Abu Sayyaf at nakuha pa ng mga rebelde ang kanyang cellphone na siyang ginamit sa pag-text sa pamilya sa Zambo­anga City upang sabihin na pinutulan nila ng ulo ito.	included also in the soldiers who died is Pfc. Jison Falcasantos who was beheaded by the Abu Sayyaf and even his cellphone was taken by the rebels and used to text his family in Zamboanga city to say that he was beheaded.
