<no-speech>
the simple swelling of the eye of three year old Jared resulted in fever again .
according to the doctors the disease that infected the child is possibly dengue .
but when thoroughly examined it turns out that Jared was already hit with a serious kidney disease .
<no-speech>
former O_F_W Edwin Gabion was already forty-three years old when he had his own family .
he might not have been lucky in life as a spouse but he was left with a single treasure that is more important than anything else .
<no-speech>
three year old son Jared .
wish my wife was here so there's two of us guiding our child and not just me for everything .
your son arrived something came something was lost too .
despite persevering to raise his only son alone he was still challenged by circumstances .
Jared was hit by a serious condition .
<no-speech>
the kid Jared is naturally cheerful .
just a smile and he can already wipe out his father's sadness about the breaking up of their family .
<no-speech>
which is why Edwin immediately noticed the sudden lethargy of his child since eye swelling took over his smiles .
I bathed him in the morning .
I assumed his eyes simply reddened .
maybe got some soap or because it's painful .
that afternoon he had a fever already .
the next day it was the other eye .
I thought it was just sore eyes just the normal one but -- his fever kept on returning .
sometimes it hit thirty-eight point four .
we immediately brought him to the hospital in Bago Bantay .
<no-speech>
supposedly he might have dengue .
we may need to confine him .
the money he saved is not enough to be able to confine Jared in the hospital .
even if Edwin is aware of the complications dengue might bring to the body of Jared he couldn't do anything .
<no-speech>
here Edwin called for help .
<no-speech>
there was a call to (()) a child supposedly has a fever and then his eyes are swollen or swollen .
we will go to him today so that we can diagnose him better .
<no-speech>
(()) .
he is swollen .
a disease ?
a disease .
the child is healthy if you will just look in the eye the child has no problem .
but when we held him it's there we started to see his real problems .
okay open the eyes .
really red (()) how is that .
he didn't have dust in the eye .
bring out your tongue -- bring out the tongue .
big -- big even your tonsil is swollen .
<no-speech>
he might not be able to speak but the extreme pain that he has been bearing for a week is obvious in Jared's face .
<no-speech>
they said the fever for around two to three days is a possibility of dengue .
but when the eye was checked it is a bit swollen a bit swollen and then reddish let us look there may be infection there .
he was not chubby he was swelling .
he was swollen .
so that is when -- when we really checked if the child has problems in his kidneys .
just after a moment the pitiful child burst into tears .
<no-speech>
<no-speech>
that was the time we decided to rush Jared in the closest hospital .
<no-speech>
Jared acquired a sickness called acute glomerulonephritis in which in this sickness there was swelling in the kidney .
salt is being retained in the body .
so that is why when they eat salty foods their swelling will worsen .
.
it is also possible that the previous doctor thought it the child has dengue due to the same symptoms of having blood in the urine .
Edwin was advised to carefully monitor the taking of medicines of his son to prevent possible worsening of the child's kidney condition .
<no-speech>
<no-speech>
who as a parent would like to see their child getting hurt especially if he is still a baby .
he said Daddy I'm okay now I am no longer sick .
seems like he is also encouraging himself that he doesn't want me to worry like I'm okay don't worry Daddy because I am now healed .
he even shows his thumbs up like this .
ten months have passed and we went back to see Jared .
with continuous medical treatment his condition is slowly improving and now preparing for the upcoming school year .
I see my child playing playful I am happy with those kind of things and also when he eats every now and then he's a big eater .
that is why I no longer gets sad .
the father-and-son are thankful to the people who did not let them down in spite of the challenges they went through .
I am thankful to rescue five for not neglecting us .
so I focus only on my child he is my life .
