but no sir not (()) sir .
Ma'am Loraine this is my last question because discrimination equality and others have been the discussion do you think it could be favorable if a transgender will join the society of real women -- who were born women physically for their rights ?
it is okay Sir -- yes for me I don't Sir see you know if they will join the group of women but I don't see any Sir difference there because they look really feminine and and their their act you know feelings and their physical .
yes .
for me there's none but of course somehow it's still in the minds of other people if he was before .
yes .
maybe in the future the society might accept it but as of now society is still conservative perhaps slowly .
yes yes maybe in the future yes there's no problem especially if it's already started by by -- the -- in in in the United States -- it's already started sometimes if it's already started by bigger countries later on we'll be following ah yes Ma'am Loraine thank you for your time and again good morning to you .
what can you say that he finds you very pretty thank you Ma'am Loraine .
<no-speech>
it's a delight to hear that somehow there's a possibility of acceptance in a beauty pageant even in the Philippines Ma'am Loraine has a point that perhaps it's still not the time .
mhm .
we have different points of view I however feel that this is the right time in order for it to be talked about .
mhm .
to be discussed .
mhm .
issues or discourses especially that it's about gender preference and sexual orientation because it's clear that the majority have little knowledge about the differences of transgender lesbians gays or bisexuals (()) .
my last question is won't there be more discrimination if we allow them to join for example in the twenty candidates one of them is transgender .
won't she be discriminated more if I say they might even introduce you by hey this is the transgender won't that be the look if we do it now ?
because this seems like you might say before we have beauty standards before we have the whites or yes .
it's always the Europeans that wins in the Miss Universe .
mhm .
if you put an African woman or with a darker skin it's the same thing won't she be talked about because she's the deviant mhm okay .
aren't there Africans or darker skin wins if that's the case you just have to be yourself and stand out if you can right Trixie thank you very much .
she is a student of the University of the Philippines and her major is .
European Language European Language .
twenty-six years old there might be those who will apply there .
thank you thanks a lot to you Trixie .
in our poll question do you favor for the approval for transgender people to join in a beauty contest for women ?
those who said yes oh my are still very few Trixie .
perhaps it's not yet time and those who said no is at ninety-six percent .
viewers discrimination has no place in our society .
people should not breed because of their belief or religion .
shouldn't -- a person shouldn't be discriminated because of his looks or as the result of his disability .
and we're not arguing .
people should not be the target of discrimination because of their gender or sexual preference .
we can't deny that the population of lesbian gays bisexual and transgender is increasing .
my gay friend even joked that they're not giving birth but their increase is unstoppable .
that's why their influence to insist their rights especially in equality is going stronger .
however I don't believe with all due respect that allowing transgenders to join the beauty pageant for women will boost their rights .
on the contrary this might even heighten the discrimination against them .
again this is just my opinion .
even if we say that they're as beautiful or more beautiful than a real woman .
even if we say that they're as smart or smarter than a real woman .
a transgender Miss Universe contestant might even be subjected more to insults .
the one I mentioned earlier that are as beautiful or as smart or more beautiful or smarter Trixie may be one of them .
every time I just mention her name this is my worry it's inevitable for her to be typecast as an unoriginal Eva .
even if we go back to the original concept of Miss Universe beauty pageant this is really just for biological women .
viewers we do not run out of beauty pageants for transgenders .
for me just there for now .
the one for women should be given to real women .
