militarization in Quezon and the struggle of the Mercy Mission
by Pher Pasion
July 4, 2012
the citizens of Southern Tagalog assertively objected to the militarization in their place.
(Pher Pasion)
March of this year when the intensified militarization in Southern Quezon began.
this is the first time when this huge number of military troops was deployed in the said place, more than Martial Law, according to Save Bondoc Peninsula Movement (SBPM).
around 4,000 soldiers from the eight battalion are scattered now in the province of Quezon where they are concentrated in the two districts of Southern Quezon which has a scope of 22 municipalities.
this has pushed different organization, party-list, and other individuals to join the eight-day Mercy Mission and Peace Caravan in the province as an answer to the worsening cases of violations of human rights brought by militarization.
the goal of the said mission is to give services such as medical, dental, relief operations, fact-finding, cultural and psycho-social therapy and ecumenical services to the estimated 1,500 residents in Southern Quezon and Bondoc Peninsula.
warm welcome
a warm welcome through a public forum of the delegates of the Mercy Mission in the University of the Philippines in Diliman.
(Pher Pasion)
after their eight-day mission, the Mercy Mission revealed what they had experienced in a public forum in the University of the Philippines before they went to Times Street in the house of President Benigno Aquino III.
after this, they also protested in front of the Department of National Defense (DND) to condemn and expose the Oplan Bayanihan.
according to the Mercy Mission, they have recorded up to 128 cases of violations of human rights, including 16 killings and three forced abduction.
this has not included those who do not want to be recorded due to a fear that the military might get back to them.
"by just going there, we are already met black propaganda and they hooked this mission as part of the New People's Army (NPA).
told by the citizens who witnessed, the military had linked this, distributed flyers which are destructive to us.
and the soldiers blocked us three times.
had put nails on the road to pierce through our vehicles," according to Orly Marcellana, spokesperson of SBPM.
some which are recorded by Karapatan are cases similar to Mylene Santua, a mass leader who is forcibly abducted by the military.
even in going home, Mylene was trailed off, where her children experienced threats.
similar to what happened to Dominic and Mark (whose identity is hidden for security) who are kidnapped by suspected soldiers after they attended a wedding.
those who abducted them have introduced themselves as NPA and was looking for "Ka Jun" from them and asking where the M16 was hidden.
when they could not press them because they were innocent, the two were released and asked to whom they would take side: NPA or soldiers.
they answered that they would take the side of the soldiers because of fear.
last March 30, the Philippine National Police (PNP) summoned about 14 people through the barangay.
most of them did not go because of fear.
others are visited to their houses and searched them out, have been looking for a criminal.
"the farmers are afraid because they could not stay in the farm until dark or go earlier because of a fear that they will be suspected as NPA.
these are summoned to go to the camp and if they would not, they would be put in the Order of Battle.
if you do not want to become a CAFGU (Civilian Auxiliary Geographical Unit), automatically an NPA for them, stated by Marcellana.
while the Mercy Mission itself is trailed off by the military, taken with photos and videos especially the mass leaders, according to the SBPM.
"the soldiers threatened the citizens that if they would go to us (Mercy Mission), chaos will happen.
they are preparing to sabotage us," Marcella added.
according to Marcellana, the military even took their equipment to be used for the medical and relief operations, and the military suddenly had their own medical and relief operations.
kid, kid, the one who will be caught, a pawn
the Children's Rehabilitation Center (CRC) conducted a psychological therapy to children who experienced militarization in Barangay
Talisay in the municipality of San Andre and San Francisco, Quezon.
about 200 children aged five to 16 years old from elementary to high school have undergone counselling.
most of them are victims of forced evacuation because of militarization.
"the children are acquiring fear if the soldiers are mentioned.
shown in their outputs such as in drawings are their worry and fear of the military.
some of them have experienced direct violence where their houses are entered by the military and have been asked if their parents are NPA and if there are guns hidden," according to Jacqueline Ruiz, executive director of CRC.
Ruiz added, the utilization of schools are causing trauma to the children where the soldiers go while carrying their guns.
some of the children are commanded by the soldiers to buy cigarettes, liquor, and to fetch water for the soldiers to take a bath for P5.00.
"the children are afraid in going to school due to this.
children fear that similar to their playmates', their parents will be gone, might be abducted or killed.
even the soldiers are still far, already afraid and hiding," Ruiz added.
where the Mercy Mission itself was held, there are military who are surveying to observe the groups conducting the said mission and even took photos.
"the military does not look at anyone even a kid.
five children have died under Aquino, an evidence that the violation of human rights especially for children continues," Ruiz asserted.
mask of the Oplan Bayanihan
according to Marcellana, the deployment of military to Quezon is a protection of the interest of the local and foreign ruling class.
"the huge hacienda are here in Quezon such as those owned by Danding Cojuangco, Victor-Reyes and James Murray who is a foreigner.
their hacienda and ranches are close to each other," Marcellana stated.
Marcellana explained, a loss of farmlands for the farmers brought by the outright claim of landlords and foreigners, so, the people's struggle continues for the genuine agrarian reform.
the intensified fight of the people is one of the bright reasons in having battalions of military in the place.
Marcellana added, the goal also of the military is to protect the interest of the mining companies which is surely be objected by the citizens affected by the destructive way of mining.
"what we need is not the military, but a genuine agrarian reform and public service," Marcellana asserted.
a successful mission
despite the violent welcome of the military to the Mercy Mission, this is still a success, according to SBPM.
"despite their threats and black propaganda against us, the citizens of Quezon will not be stopped from going to the Mercy Mission.
a lot of countrymen are still served in medical and dental as well as children who have undergone counselling," according to SBPM.
according to the group, this is only the beginning in helping those who are destructed by militarization and revelation of the real face of Oplan Bayanihan of Aquino which is also targeting the civilian against the NPA.
the group still fears the continuing violence in the stay of the military in the place.
