<1>	PBA lalong lalakas — Non	PBA gets stronger -non
<2>	Posted by: James Ty III	posted by James Ty III
<3>	on August 12, 2015	on August 12, 2015
<4>	in Sports	in sports
<5>	NANINIWALA ang bagong tserman ng Board of Governors ng Philippine Basketball Association na si Robert Non ng San Miguel Corporation na lalong sisigla ang liga sa pagdaos ng ika-41 na season nito simula sa Oktubre.	the new chairman of the Board of Governors of the Philippine Basketball Association Robert Non of San Miguel Corporation believes the league gets stronger in the celebration of its 41st season starting on October.
<6>	Muling nahirang ng PBA board si Non bilang tserman kapalit ni Patrick Gregorio sa pagsisimula ng planning session ng lupon sa Tokyo, Japan.	Non is reappointed by PBA as chairman in replacement of Patrick Gregorio in the beginning of the planning session of the committee in Tokyo, Japan.
<7>	“We’ve long envisioned the PBA to be a way of life among Filipinos,” wika ni Non na huling naging tserman noong 2012.	"we've long envisioned the PBA to be a way of life among Filipinos," Non said who formerly became a chairman last 2012.
<8>	“We want to sustain that attitude by giving the fans what they crave for – our product which is exciting, thrilling basketball.”	"we want to sustain that attitude by giving the fans what they crave for - our product which exciting, thrilling basketball."
<9>	“Chairman Patrick Gregorio’s tenure was a success story in the PBA and we’d like to sustain that growth.”	Chairman Patrick Gregorio's tenure was a success story in the PBA and we'd like to sustain that growth."
<10>	Iniulat ni Gregorio na umabot sa mahigit P200 milyon ang gate receipts ng PBA sa huling season na natapos noong Hulyo.	Gregorio reported that the gate receipts of the PBA in the last season which was concluded last July reached more than P200 million.
<11>	Kabilang nito ay ang 52,612 na kataong nanood ng opening ceremonies ng 2014-15 season noong Oktubre sa Philippine Arena sa Bocaue, Bulacan.	included here is the 52, 612 people who watched the opening ceremonies last 2014-15 season last October in the Philippine Arena in Bocaue, Bulacan.
<12>	Magiging vice-chairman ng lupon si Erick Arejola ng Globalport habang si Ramoncito Fernandez ng North Luzon Expressway ay magiging ingat-yaman.	Erick Arejola will become the vice-chairman of the Globalport while Ramoncito Fernandez of North Luzon Expressway will become the treasurer.
<13>	Pormal na naging komisyuner si Chito Narvasa kapalit ni Chito Salud na magiging pangulo at CEO ng PBA.	Chito Narvasa formally becomes the commissioner as replacement of Chito Salud who will become the president and CEO of PBA.
<14>	Inaasahang pag-uusapan sa planning session ng PBA board ang magiging format ng tatlong komperensiya sa bagong season, pati na rin ang height limit ng mga imports para sa Commissioner’s Cup at Governors’ Cup.	the format of the three conferences of the new season is expected to be discussed in the planning season of the PBA board as well as the height limit of the imports for the Commissioner's Cup and Governor's Cup.
<15>	Samantala, sinabi ni Non na nangako si Narvasa na lalo niyang pagbubutihin ang officiating sa PBA na ilang beses na binatikos ng mga coaches ng liga.	meanwhile, Non said that Narvasa promised that he will be better in officiating the PBA which has been criticized by the league coaches many times.
<16>	“Officiating, more or less, was discussed, as well as some other matters he would like to bring up with the board later on,” dagdag ni Non.	"officiating, more or less, was discussed, as well as some other matters he would like to bring up with the board later on," Non added.
<17>	Tatagal ang planning session ng PBA board hanggang sa Agosto 13 at ang rookie draft ng liga ay gagawin sa Agosto 23 sa Robinson’s Place Manila.	the planning season of the PBA will last until August 12 and the rookie draft of the league will be conducted on August 23 in Robinson's Place Manila.
<18>	Magbubukas ang bagong PBA season sa Oktubre 18. (James Ty III)	the new PBA season will open on October 18. (James Ty III)
