<1>	Coach Yeng tawid sa NLEX By Ramil Cruz	coach Yeng crosses to NLEX by Ramil Cruz
<2>	October 6, 2016	October 6, 2016
<3>	Sa sorpresang rigodon sa nalalapit na baba ng kurtina ng 41st season ng PBA, tumawid si elite coach Yeng Guiao sa NLEX mula Rain or Shine.	when curtains are about to draw to a close in the surprise Rigodon of the 41st season of the PBA, coach Yeng Guiao crossed NLEX from Rain or Shine.
<4>	Ipinalit kay Guiao si Caloy Garcia na dati ring head coach ng Elasto Painters.	Guiao was replaced by Caloy Garcia who was also a former head coach of Elasto Painters.
<5>	Kasama sa paglipat ni Guiao, 57, sa Road Warriors para sa susunod na season sa November ang isang corporate position sabay sa paghalili niya kay Boyet Fernandez na walang naging bunga ang dalawang taong pagtimon sa team.	included in Guiao's (57) transfer to the Road Warriors for the next season in November is a corporate position along with his succession of Boyet Fernandez whose two years of managing the team has not bear fruit.
<6>	Ang NLEX ay nasa ilalim ng higanteng MVP Group of Companies.	NLEX is under the giant MVP Group of Companies.
<7>	“We tried our best to retain coach Yeng but he was offered there a position that is not just about coaching but to help people in their corporate social responsibility program,” pahayag kahapon ni Rain or Shine co- owner Raymond Yu.	"we tried our best to retain coach Yeng but he was offered there a position that is not just about coaching but to help people in their corporate responsibility program," stated yesterday by Rain or Shine co-owner Raymond Yu.
<8>	“We are happy for him but sad that he’s living.”	"we are happy for him but sad that he's living."
<9>	Sa anim na taon niya sa team, narendahan ni Guiao sa anim na Finals stints ang E-Painters tu­ngo sa dalawang titulo, kasama ang sa taong itong midseason Commissio­ner’s Cup.	in his six years in the team, Guiao steered the E-Painters to six finals stints towards two titles, including this year's midseason Commissioner's Cup.
<10>	Hindi umabot ang Road Warriors sa semifinals sa nakaraang anim na conference sa liga makalipas magdomina sa farm league na PBA D-League.	the Road Warriors did not reach the semifinals in the previous six conferences in the league after dominating in the farm league of PBA D-League.
<11>	Panlima sa mga matatagumpay na coach sa PBA si Guiao sa naipong pitong korona — dalawa sa Swift at tatlo pa sa Red Bull.	Guiao is the fifth successful coaches of the PBA for the 7 crowns he gathered - two for the Swift and three for the Red Bull.
<12>	Minsang na rin siyang naging national coach.	he had been a national coach once.
<13>	May isang taon pang natitirang kontrata si Fernandez na pwedeng bumaba sa assistant coach o magpa-buy out ng kontrata.	Fernandez has still one year remaining contract which can be lowered to assistant coach or to buy out the contract.
<14>	Kapapaso lang ng kontrata, hindi na tinanggap ni Guiao ang alok na three-year extension nina Yu at co- owner Terry Que.	the contract just expired, Guiao did not accept Yu and co-owner Terry Que's offer for a three-year extension.
