<1>	‘The Truth’ Vera MMA king paBy Elech Dawa December 4, 2016Nanatiling hari pa rin ng ONE:Championship heavyweights division si Filipino-American Brandon “The Truth” Vera matapos pabagsakin ang dambuhalang si Hideki Sekine kamakalawa ng gabi sa Mall of Asia Arena.	"The Truth" Vera MMA still a king by Elech Dawa December 4, 2016 Filipino-American Brandon "The Truth" Vera remains to be the king of ONE: Championship heavyweights division after toppling down the giant Hideki Sekine yesterday evening at the Mall of Asia Arena.
<2>	Umiskor ng technical knockout si 39 -year-old MMA star Vera matapos matadyakan si Japanese fighter sa sikmura at saka niratrat ng suntok upang hablutin ang pangatlong sunod na panalo dito sa Pilipinas at maipagtanggol ang kanyang titulo sa ONE: Championship Age of Domination.	the 39-year-old MMA star Vera scored a technical knockout after kicking the Japanese fighter on the stomach and showering him with punches to snatch the third consecutive win here in the Philippines and defend his title in ONE: Championship Age of Domination.
<3>	“Malakas siya gusto niya kaming maglaban sa ground but noone can take my kicks.”	"he is strong, he wants us to fight on the ground but no one can take my kicks."
<4>	wika ni Vera.	Vera said.
<5>	Pinalamon muna ni Vera ng sipa sa mukha si Sekine at saka kumunekta sa katawan dahilan upang matumba ang malapad na hapon bago ginulpi sa suntok.	Vera had Sekine devour the kicks on his face first and then, connects to his body; the reason for the huge Japanese to fall before he is hit with punches.
<6>	“That knee came off of him almost taking me down, so I didn’t even realize that crushed his nose,” pag-amin ni Vera.	"that knee came off of him almost taking me down, so I didn't even realize that crushed nose," Vera admitted.
<7>	Samantala, nanaig naman si Filipino fighter Honorio Banario laban kay Rajinder Singh Meena ng India habang tinaob ni Pinoy MMA fighter Edward Kelly si Su Noto ng Indonesia.	meanwhile, the Filipino fighter Honorio Banario won against Rajinder Singh Meena of India while the Filipino MMA fighter Edward Kelly defeated Su Noto of Indonesia.
<8>	Sa co-main event, kahit basag ang ilong lumaban ng sabayan si Bibiano Fernandez ng Brazil upang talunin sa five-round split decision si Australian prospect Reece McLaren sa bantamweight division.	in the co-main event, Bibiano Fernandez of Brazil fought simultaneously even with a broken nose to defeat the Australian prospect Reece McLaren in the five-round split decision in the bantamweight division.
