<1>	Harden napikon sa Mavs December 29, 2016DALLAS (AP) — Isa sa walong technicals sa laro ay itinawag kay James Harden, uminit ang bakbakan nang tawagan ng flagrant foul si Dallas center Andrew Bogut sa nilatag na hard screen na yumanig sa Houston guard.	Harden hotheaded on Mavs December 29, 2016 Dallas (AP) - one of the eight technicalities in the game is called for James Harden, the fight became heated when the Dallas Center Andrew Bogut was called for a flagrant which was shown on the hard screen that shook the Houston guard.
<2>	Sa kabila ng 34 points at madaliang 123-107 panalo na dahilan para walisin ng Rockets sa apat na laro ngayong season ang Mavericks Martes ng gabi, nagmamaktol pa rin si Harden.	despite the 34 points and the quick 123-107 win which caused the Rockets to sweep the Mavericks in the four games this season, Tuesday night, Harden is annoyingly stomping his feet.
<3>	“That other team was trippin’ tonight, just disrespectful, unprofessional, players and coaches,” giit ni Harden.	"that other team was trippin' tonight, just disrespectful unprofessional, players and coaches," Harden insisted.
<4>	“I don’t know what was their problem, but I think that got us going. They wanted to throw a little cheap shot and just woke us up a little bit and it was over from there.”	"I don't know what was their problem, but I think that got us going. they wanted to throw a little cheap and just woke us up a little bit and it was over from there."
<5>	Tulad ni Harden, pikon din si Bogut sa unang laro matapos lumiban ng 11 dahil sa right knee injury. Natawagan siya sa se­cond quarter nang halos kumpletuhin na ng Houston ang 16-0 run para kumawala sa 37-all tie.	similar to Harden, Bogut is also ill-tempered in the first game after his absence at 11 because of a right knee injury. he was called on the second quarter when the Houston almost completed the 16-0 run to get away from the 37-all tie.
<6>	Nag-double-dribble si Har­den matapos sumalpok sa balikat ng 7-foot, 260-pound na si Bogut.	Harden made a double dribble after he slammed at the shoulder of the 7-foot, 260 pound Bogut.
<7>	Ejected si Trevor Ariza matapos ang ikalawang T sa break pagkatapos ng third quarter, nang umabot sa limang technicals ang itinawag.	Trevor Ariza was ejected on the second T at the break after the third quarter, when the one called reached 5 technicalities.
<8>	Pagkatapos ng laro, inabangan pa ni Ariza sa labas ng Dallas locker room si Mavericks center Salah Mejri.	after the game, Ariza waited for Mavericks center Salah Mejri outside the Dallas locker room.
<9>	Siniguro ng security na hindi mag-aabot ang dalawa matapos magsagutan sa laro na nag-resulta sa unang T ni Ariza.	the security made sure that the two would not catch each other after they had a quarrel in the game which resulted to Ariza's first T.
<10>	May limang Ts ang Houston, tatlo sa Dallas.	the Houston has five Ts, three for Dallas.
