war of aggression by US, opposed by OFWs
by Darius Galang
March 18, 2012
departure of American troops in the countries US is at war with, is being wished by OFWs and their families and supporters.
they are putting into danger the lives of OFWs at Syria and other countries meddled at by the US.
(Darius Galang)
in the 17th year anniversary of the death of Flor Contemplacion, the Overseas Filipino Workers (OFW) are pleading the end of war of aggression by the United States, especially in the Middle East where thousands of migrant Filipinos are located.
on March 17, the group Migrante International, together with female OFWs who came from the country Syria, families of OFWs, and other sectors, went to Mendiola to plead for the departure of American troops at Syria and other countries.
"the migrants and the families need to unite against the interference of the US government wherever in the world," stated Garry Martinez, president of Migrante International.
"if not abuse, violence and war are caused by this, lives of our migrant Filipinos are always endangered."
one OFW survivor from Syria (Darius Galang)
thousands of Filipinos remain in danger at the Middle East because of the conflict.
Migrante shared the death of Meran Prieira Montezor, a 23 year old native of Camarines Sur, at Homs, Syria in the middle of an ambush.
with the Filipino is the child of her employer when their car got rained down by bullets by unknown people.
Martinez pleads for a more active and systematic regress to the country of the OFWs.
he also challenged President Aquino to position against the intervention of US-NATO forces at Syria.
in the end, Migrante insisted the cease of the Labor Export Policy and encouraged the administration to create more jobs within the country.
"while there are lack of land, no work within the country, and continued increase in the prices of goods, Filipinos are forced to leave the country even though there is a worldwide economic crisis.
OFWs are constantly put into imminent danger.
this is one cycle that would not stop unless no fundamental social reform is put into action," ends Martinez.
President Aquino, condemned for not taking a position on the US-NATO war of aggression in Syria and for continuing the labor export policy which puts the OFWs in danger.
(Darius Galang)
