<1>	USA Team kulang sa superstars June 12, 2016	USA Team lacks superstars June 12, 2016
<2>	HOUSTON — Nahanay si James Harden sa humahabang pangalan ng mga NBA stars na umaayaw maglaro sa 31st Summer Olympic Games 2016 sa Agosto 5-21 sa Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.	Houston - James Harden is queued in the lengthening list of names of NBA stars who refuse to play in the 31st Summer Olympic Games 2016 in August 5-21 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
<3>	Inamin noong Sabado (Manila time) ni Harden na nakipag-ugnayan na siya USA Basketball at pinabatid niyang hindi aniya siya makakalaro sa Rio, ang anunsyo niya’y ilang oras lang ang pagitan sa pag-pull out din ni Russell Westbrook.	Harden admitted last Saturday (Manila time) that he has coordinated with the USA Basketball and informed that he cannot play in Rio; his announcement has only a few hour difference when Russell Westbrook pulled out.
<4>	Nag-withdrew rin sa linggong ito si Stephen Curry.	Stephen Curry also withdrew this week.
<5>	Nakalaro na si Harden sa US na mga humarbat ng gold sa 2012 London Olympics at 2014 Spain Basketball World Cup at sa statement na pinalabas ng Houston Rockets nilarawan niya ang karanaasaan doon na, “most meaningful personal and professional accomplishments of my life.”	Harden has already played for US who harvested gold in 2012 London Olympics and 2014 Spain Basketball World Cup and in the statement released by Houston Rockets, he illustrated his experience there as the "most meaningful personal and professional accomplishments of my life."
<6>	Walang binigay na rason ang All-Star guard sa kanyang desisyon at umaasang makakalaro pa rin siya ulit sa susunod na mga panahon.	the All-Star guard did not give any reason for his decision and expects that he can still play again in the next seasons.
<7>	Nauna pa sa grupo na nagpasabing di siya pwede sa American quintet sa Rio si Russell Westbrook, ang sumunod kay Stephen Curry na tumanggi makaraan siyang makunsidera.	Russell Westbrook already lead the group in telling that he is not available for the American quintet in Rio, followed by Stephen Curry who refused after he was considered.
<8>	Matapos kumunsulta sa kanyang pamilya, inihayag ni Westbrook ang desisyong mag-pass muna sa pagsama sa koponan ng Amerika.	after consulting his family, Westbrook announced the decision to decline in joining the American team.
<9>	“This was not an easy decision, as representing my country at the World Championships in 2010 and the Olympics in 2012 were career highlights for me,” kuda ni Westbrook.	"this was not an easy decision, as representing my country at the World Championships in 2010 and the Olympics in 2012 were career highlights for me," Westbrook concluded.
<10>	“I look forward to future opportunities as a member of USA Basketball.”	"I look forward to future opportunities as a member of USA Basketball."
<11>	Noong nakaraang linggo lang ay inihayag din ni NBA back-to-back MVP Stephen Curry ang desisyong lumiban din sa pagsama sa USA Team sa Rio Games.	last weekend, NBA back-to-back MVP Stephen Curry announced the decision to decline in joining the USA Team in Rio Games.
