Ombudsman: Makati most transparent city
December 13, 2014
written by Attorney
Jay De Castro published in Opinion Read: 1170 this Thursday, the Office of the Ombudsman identified the administration of Mayor Junjun Binay for its success to eradicate or minimize "red tape" in setting up a business in Makati, that gave its investors an easy and fast registration of new businesses or renewal of business permits to the city.
the Ombudsman gave a Blue Certification or the highest grade to Makati, as recognition for a fast, systematic and no bribery in giving out business registrations and permits to those who are venturing into business in the city, considered as the primary financial business district in the country.
the award was given by PACPO (Public Assistance and Corruption Prevention Office) of Ombudsman that studies and seeks for a solution to anomalies, corruption, and wrong system regarding setting up businesses, so it can be eradicated and have a decent and successful business venture in the country.
in the three cities compared by Ombudsman (Taguig, Marikina, and Makati), the city that was formerly governed by Vice-President Jejomar Binay, was chosen as the most efficient in issuing relevant licenses to new businesses in the richest city in Metro Manila.
the bases by the Ombudsman in choosing Makati are information technology, level of customer convenience or satisfaction and its system that guarantees approval of license, wherein investors do not need to bribe fixers.
Assistant Ombudsman Evelyn Baliton gave the Blue Certification Award to Mayor Junjun Binay in its office in Makati, where the mayor said that doing business in Makati is transparent and he is happy on the recognition by the Ombudsman itself about its systematic and no corruption involved in putting up a business in their city.
the systematic business creation in the city of Makati that brings it progress is also the fruit of the diligence and honest work of its administrator, Attorney Jun Mendoza, who serves tirelessly, together with Mayor Junjun, for the welfare and goodness of the people in their city.
- in relation to this, the said award that was given by the Ombudsman to the city, can be regarded as a positive news for the people of Makati, because as everyone knows Vice President Jojo Binay was criticized unabatedly by three senators, Alan Peter Cayetano, Antonio Trillanes and Koko Pimentel in the past months about the alleged anomalous contracts and business ventures in Makati.
it is not unknown from our fellow countrymen that ever since, every time the 2016 presidential elections is discussed, VP Binay is the only one leading the presidential surveys.
because of this, two of the senators of the Nacionalista Party, Cayetano and Trillanes, who signified their intention to run for president and vice president in 2016 did not waste time to let their name be known by ruining the name of VP Jejomar Binay.
based on the results of the previous surveys, it can be said that the three senators were successful in their ruination of VP Binay, because there was a reduction or decrease in the rating of the Vice President.
on the other hand, their vilification also proved something. their rating did not increase or improve in the previous surveys of SWS and Pulse Asia, in fact both of them who leads the defamation of VP Binay, got the lowest positions as candidates for president and vice-president in 2016.
VP Jejomar Binay still remained ahead in the latest survey for president candidates in 2016.
the presidential election in May 2016 is still more than a year and a half away.
when it comes, our people would tire of hearing about the accusations against VP Binay, because they know that these accusations are from the mouths of the candidates in 2016 and therefore, it is clearly just politicizing.
when that time comes, what will be talked about are the statistics like the award given by Ombudsman, which proves that no corruption is involved to have a business in Makati and because of this it is the richest city in the whole Philippines.
