<1>	Bayan ng Romblon, nagkamit ng 3 parangal sa larangan ng nutrisyon	town of Romblon, earned 3 awards in the field of nutrition
<2>	November 10, 2016 Dinnes M. Manzo	November 10, 2016 Dinnes M. Manzo
<3>	ROMBLON, Romblon, Nob. 10 (PIA) --- Tatlong parangal ang nakamit ng bayan ng Romblon sa katatapos lamang na 2016 Regional Nutrition Awarding Ceremony na ginanap sa The Heritage Hotel sa lungsod ng Pasay kahapon.	Romblon, Romblon, November 10 (PIA) - the town of Romblon received three awards in the recent 2016 Regional Nutrition Awarding Ceremony held at The Heritage Hotel in the city of Pasay yesterday.
<4>	Ang bayan ng Romblon ay tinanghal na 2015 Municipal nutrition Green Banner Awardee at 2015 Most Outstanding Municipality in the Province dahil sa pagiging most outstanding implementer nito sa mga programang pang-nutrisiyon .	the town of Romblon was recognized as the 2015 Municipal Nutrition Green Banner Awardee and 2015 most Outstanding Municipality in the Province due to being the most outstanding implementer of nutrition programs.
<5>	Ayon sa Regional Nutrition Evaluation Team (RNET), ang regional outstanding nutrition program implementer at Green Banner award ay iginagawad sa bayan, lungsod o lalawigan na may outstanding performance o natatanging pagsasakatuparan ng local nutrition action plan.	according to the Regional Nutrition Evaluation Team (RNET), the regional outstanding nutrition program implementer and Green Banner award are given to the town, city or province with the most outstanding performance or unique implementation of the local nutrition action plan.
<6>	Tinanghal ding 2015 Outstanding Municipal Nutrition Action Officer (MNAO) si Antonia M. Moaje ng Romblon, Romblon kung saan siya ay napabilang sa mga finalist para Regional Outstanding Municipal Nutrition Action Officer.	Antonia M. Moaje of Romblon, Romblon was also awarded as 2015 Outstanding Municipal Nutrition Action Officer (MNAO) wherein she is included in the finalists for Regional Outstanding Municipal Nutrition Action Officer.
<7>	Personal na dumalo sina Mayor Mariano M. Mateo at Antonia M. Moaje sa awarding ceremony upang tanggapin ang nakamtang parangal ng pamahalaang bayan ng Romblon.	Mayor Mariano M. Mateo and Antonia M. Moaje personally attended the awarding ceremony to receive the award earned by the municipal government of Romblon.
<8>	(DM/PIA-MIMAROPA/Romblon)	(DM/PIA-MIMAROPA/Romblon)
