<1>	Petron sinamantala ng RC Cola-ArmyBy Elech Dawa	Petron taken advantage by RC Cola-Army by Elech Dawa
<2>	July 14, 2016	July 14, 2016
<3>	Walang kalawang na pinakita ang RC Cola-Army, suwabe ang inilaro para ambusin sa straight sets ang Petron 25-22, 25-23, 25-11 sa Philippine Superliga All-Filipino Conference women’s volleyball sa FilOil Flying V Center sa San Juan.	RC Cola-Army showed no rustiness, suavely played to ambush the straight sets of Petron 25-22, 25-23, 25-11 in the Philippine Super League All-Filipino Conference women's volleyball at FilOils Flying V Center in San Juan.
<4>	Nakipagdikdikan ang Lady Troopers sa first two sets, bago sinamantala ang errors at malamyang reception ng Tri-Activ Spikers sa third tungo sa panalo.	Lady Troopers fought head-to-head during the first two sets before taking advantage of the errors and lousy reception of the Tri-Activ Spikers during the third resulting to a win.
<5>	Kinolekta ng RC Cola- Army ang pang-apat na sunod na panalo para makibuhol sa F2 Logistics sa lide­rato ng torneo na suportado ng KLab Cyscorpions, Asics, Mikasa, Mueller, Senoh, at official broadcaster TV5.	RC Cola-Army collected their fourth consecutive wins to cross paths with F2 Logistics in the leading the tournament supported by KLab Cyscorpions, Asics, Mikasa, Mueller, Senoh, and official broadcaster TV5.
<6>	Pagkatapos ng 3-0 start, natikman ng Petron ang unang talo.	after the 3-0 start, Petron tasted their first loss.
<7>	Inatake nina Jovelyn Gonzaga at Rachel Anne Daquis ang depensa ng reigning champions sa loob ng 75-minute battle.	attacks were delivered by Jovelyn Gonzaga and Rachel Anne Daquis to the defense of the reigning champions within the 75-minute battle.
<8>	Tumapos si Gonzaga ng 13 kills at pares ng blocks, may 10 si Daquis para sa Lady Troopers.	Gonzaga ended with 13 kills and pairs of blocks, while Daquis has 10 for the Lady Troopers.
<9>	“We’re not good, we’re just lucky,” pakli ni RC Cola-Army coach Kungfu Reyes.	"we're not good, we're just lucky," said in a retort by RC Cola-Army coach Kungfu Reyes.
<10>	“It just so happened that we were at the right place at the right time.”	"it just so happened that we were at the right place at the right time."
<11>	Nagsumite ng nine points si Remy Palma para pangunahan ang Petron.	nine points were submitted by Remy Palma to lead the Petron.
<12>	Nadiyeta sa katiting na two points si opposite hitter Aiza Maizo-Pontillas.	dieting to a measly two points was opposite hitter Aiza Maizo-Pontillas.
