worth of honesty
heed the message and do not judge the one who said it.
although most people nowadays have their own personal desires, there are others who are very selfish and do not care about what will happen.
some overcharge the price of their service or products.
there are those who replaces the materials with low quality ones and does sloppy work.
oftentimes you will get abused and cheated in return even though you have paid the agreed price.
it is very fortunate if you are able to meet a worker, carpenter, mechanic, doctor or a businessman who is honest in their work with others.
a man who is soon to wed went to a well known tailor and asked if he could make a set of clothes for him with the clothing material he has.
after the tailor has finished measuring the cloth he said sadly, "I am sorry mister, the cloth you brought is not enough."
it is not enough to produce a set."
the man was shocked with what the tailor has said and immediately took the cloth and went out the of tailor's shop while shaking his head.
he was on his way home when he passed by a small tailor's shop.
he quickly went inside and asked the tailor if he could make a set of clothes for him with the material he has.
after measuring the cloth, "I could make you a set of clothes with this!" the tailor answered.
a week passed and the man returned to pay for his set of clothes.
he put on the clothes and he felt that the size was right for him so he quickly paid the remaining balance.
but when he was about to leave the shop, he noticed a young boy wearing a pair of pants with the same type of cloth he has.
when the tailor saw how surprised the man was, he was embarrassed and explained, "please forgive me, because the cloth you brought was too much for a set of clothes and it would no longer be of use to you, I decided to make a pair of pants for my son."
even though the man felt a bit angry because of what the tailor did, he decided not to mind it at all because of the nice set of clothes he made for him.
the man went back to the first tailor to show him the beautiful set of clothes from the clothing material, which as per the tailor, was not enough.
the tailor took a closer look on how the clothes were made, he pointed out the size and how it was sewed while the man goes on telling him that instead of the material being short, the material was more than enough and was even able to make a pair of pants for a child out of the excess.
the first tailor was not even impressed and did not even blinked with what he heard from the man, and arrogantly replied, "no doubt mister, the material you had will have an excess for one child."
"for me, this is lacking in size because my son is a young man and is already 25 years old."
