Living by the Honor Code: My personal experience (Part 3)
we, the military, are exposed to the real outside world during the time when we are interacting with the community where we are moving in.
because we needed to interact with the civilians and even the agencies of the government, there we are seeing the difference of the ideal environment in an institution such as the PMA and the reality that we need to face outside.
my experience in my field assignment in San Miguel, Bulacan is the first challenge for me on how to stand by the Honor Code learned in the Philippine Military Academy.
in the story I have shared first, my ears fumed when I have watched the segment in Magandang Gabi Bayan where the Army was accused to have received P500.00 per truck from the illegal quarry operators in Mt. Mabio.
for me, that was indecency and disrespect not only to our honor as soldier but to the whole Armed Forces.
how would it be if the military will be known as corrupt boys?
while I am in service, I am not going to allow that to happen.
our conversation with Captain Ado bore fruit when the 7th Scout Ranger Company already got a document that deputized us to arrest the trucks with loads of tea rose marble.
for us, that was an easy mission.
even if the bandits, who are difficult to search because of good skills in hiding, are outwitted by us, why not those noisy trucks?
starting then, we have been arresting the trucks one by one which are forcing to load tea rose marble.
we have been immediately bringing this to the PENRO office in Malolos to be turned-over to them.
but the bitter part is, we are hearing the news that those we have tiresomely caught are released and also vanished like bubbles.
seems there is magic why it happened.
because of that, we decided that the trucks we caught will be brought to Fort Magsaysay.
because there in camp, there is also a Task Force whose in support of the DENR to protect the environment.
so we wanted that the turn-overs of the trucks would be there because the bosses there do not have settlements at 71D on those times.
the game of the quarry operators and our rank became a cat and mouse chase.
they made tactics such as using new roads to pass through.
good thing, those angry residents themselves pointed to us where and when to anticipate the illegal quarry operators who are playing tag and chase with us.
to make sure their use of dynamite itself would be stopped and the quarry of rocks there in the quarry site itself, I decided to patrol to surprise them there.
in summary, we surprised the people there in the quarry site itself and confiscated their equipment as well as their explosives and low-powered firearms.
that incident became a signal to stop the quarry operations in the place which became the reason why a part of the mountain was largely cleft off.
I felt their anger at the stoppage that we have done against their disrespect towards nature.
the settlement
it was afternoon then when there were two visitors who had been arriving to visit me in the office.
by chance, on those hours, I was with my Company Commander who is Lt Aquino and his colleague Lieutenant Jono Pasamonte.
our First Sergeant who is Msg Rufo Guige approached us who had first talked to the visitor who was then waiting at a store outside.
"sir, one quarry operator is there.
has brought alcohol and foods," he said.
"might want to make a settlement because we caught his new truck which is now in Fort Magsaysay."
two of my upperclassmen had smiled and had immediately thought of a dark plan.
"we would do this, Harold.
you sit at my table and pretend you are the CO.
just listen to whatever they say and decide on it," said Lieutenant Aquino.
"we will be listening here in the room.
do it well," Lieutenant Pasamonte added who had been laughing while quickly entering the room beside the office itself.
I took my favorite rattan and leaned it beside the table.
"first, let them in and I will wait for them here inside," as I also tell Msg Guigue, my good First Sergeant.
bowed down and seemed shy, the two fat men entered our office.
I looked at them from head to foot.
the man with golden jewelries worn and a cellphone tucked in.
my feeling then seemed that they were going to spread gloom in our camp.
one had naughty eyes and seemed to have been estimating my look.
"good afternoon, sir.
the CO of the Rangers here is still too young.
oh, I thought of the same age as ours," flattery of the one of them who was distinctly from Bulacan when he spoke.
"Good afternoon too.
what can I do for you since you happened to pass by here in my camp?"
"like this, we just wanted to make friends with you.
we have brought lobster here and Black Label, you are going to like these," Mr. Jewelry said who was panting while speaking, who seemed to be going to have a heart attack due to obesity.
"Oh, I'm sorry.
in fact, I do not drink.
it is not my type to drink but I eat lobsters.
nevertheless, let's make this direct. what is your purpose in seeing me?"
I noticed they were shrugging elbows at each other on their seats.
pushing each other as to who will be the one to speak.
seems Mr. Jewelry is forced again to speak.
"Sir, we want to plead if it is possible to return our truck which is in Fort Magsaysay.
we also want to continue our small livelihood which was stopped," he said.
brother, about the truck, you claim it there at Fort Magsaysay.
you are charged with illegal quarrying.
how is it, because Mt. Mabio is a protected area.
did you not have any conscience to cleave and destroy it?"
"we understand it is prohibited, sir.
that can be discussed similar to what we do with our friends who are officials here.
and... so sir, not to be forward, we can set aside for you P5,000.00 per truck that we fill."
that's it.
my anger is too much because of the offer that I become part of their foolery by accepting bribery.
just imagine, a minimum of 5 trucks being loaded in one night.
rapid way of getting rich, just closing an eye!
"mister, I do not care about your money.
do not teach us foolishness.
did you see that rattan?
do not wait for that to be used in decision-making!"
in that moment, Lieutenant Pasamonte could no longer resist going out from his hiding place.
"son of a gun, what do you really want?"
as if having seen a tiger, the two visitors stood up quickly and went out through the door.
"no, sir.
no, Sir.
don't.
just let it be!"
when the vehicles of the two revved up, my two upperclassmen in PMA laughed hilariously.
"you are a frightening CO!
that is right, do not be swayed by those fools!"
for the first time last 1996, the marble operations in Mt. Mabio which is part of the Biak na Bato National Park completely stopped.
I thought, perhaps the soul of Emilio Aguinaldo is smiling because of the success that we have achieved in those times.
