hey "Joe" Yasay!
it sounds that 'yankee' will be sent away today!
posted by Jerry Yap
on February 13, 2017
in disturbing
Secretary Perfecto Yasay seems to dance on shards in the hearing that will be conducted by the powerful Commission on Appointments (CA) on February 22 for his appointment as secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA).
a committee that Senator Panfilo Lacson belongs to wants to clarify one of the issues with the CA about the citizenship of the secretary.
according to Senator Ping, the House contingent has a request that they want to hear from the mouth of Secretary Yasay itself that, "I am not an American citizen but in one instance, I became an American citizen."
we believe in the credibility of those questioning the citizenship of Secretary Yasay.
and nothing would be lost if he answers the questions with truth and nothing but the truth.
hey Joe Yasay, the truth will set you free, so tell the truth!
that's it, we can blame if there are doubting the severe strictness of the CA on Secretary Yasay's case.
why does it seem that some CA are gritting to drop the confirmation of the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA)?
now that the month of May is closer.
it means, one year has passed since the past election.
and perhaps, it's another payback time for President Rodrigo "Digong" Duterte?
isn't it that even in the past, there is a strong rumor that the President really wants to appoint his running mate Senator Alan Peter Cayetano to the DFA?
isn't it, the hearing on February 22 is the day of farewell of Secretary Yasay at DFA?
the basis is heavy for the CA to finally dismiss the confirmation of Secretary Yasay especially when he admits or will be proven that he is an American citizen.
Senator Alan is genuinely fortunate by chance.
our only question: does Senator Alan want to become a DFA Secretary when his president thinks naughtily on the diplomatic relationship of the Philippines to other countries is discussed?
let us anticipate the next chapter, my usual buyers!
