<no-speech>
in the midst of the military's operation against the forces of the B_I_F_F or Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters an improvised explosive device exploded on the highway of Mamasapano in Maguindanao while the convoy of the military and the media including the team of G_M_A News were passing by .
luckily no one was hurt in the explosion .
meanwhile the M_N_L_F or Moro National Liberation Front and the B_I_F_F in North and South Cotabato have allegedly joined forces following the signing of the last annex of the Bangsamoro Framework Agreement .
live from Cotabato City Chino Gaston has a report Chino .
Jessica an improvised explosive device exploded again in the province of Maguindanao and despite -- we believe that its real target were the soldiers our news team as well as our other colleagues at work were almost involved .
(()) .
together with the other members of the media we accompanied the convoy of the Second Mechanize Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army in Mamasapano .
this afternoon they were heading to Rajah Buayan one of the areas controlled by the military and where they will launch an offensive against the B_I_F_F or Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters .
but in an instant %incomplete back it up back it up bro .
wait wait wait wait .
don't -- stay here .
stay here .
stay here .
-- what what ?
back it up .
following the sudden explosion we carefully moved away in fear that there will be a second explosion .
<no-speech>
we are following several soldiers who are entering here at Rajah Buayan when this explosion happened on this stretch of road .
and you can see that there are black things in the middle of the road which are bomb particles that were thrown and part of the road that was destroyed .
luckily nobody was hurt in the explosion of the suspected improvised explosive device which allegedly used a one hundred five millimeter howitzer bullet as its main charge .
according to the military this is already a desperate tactic of the rebel group .
because they want to send a message that they are still a force to reckon with but in a very those those -- those terroristic activities terroristic ways indeed .
they don't even have military capability anymore .
at the same time they want to retaliate right ?
but overall this is a very desperate move on their part .
before this there was also an explosion of an I_E_D at Datu Saudi-Ampatuan last Saturday wherein six soldiers four civilians and two journalists were wounded .
despite the consecutive explosions the military is hoping that the situation in Maguindanao will go back to normal .
allegedly they already besieged the hideouts of B_I_F_F .
