UST discussion: the university's care of the national language
by managing editor - February 1, 2017
the effectiveness of using Filipino as the main language in universities became a hot topic before among academics.
in the 1962 issue of Varsitarian, the main editorial stated the suggestion to spread Filipino as the everyday language inside the university.
this coincides with the superior use of English especially in academic discussion due to the American colonization of the Philippines.
according to the article, the university would have been a good place to mold the understanding of the youth, particularly the Thomasians, about the land they grew up in.
it also contradicted the belief that our native language may be antiquated so it should not be used anymore.
"language cannot be compared to a chair that has rusted due to prolonged seating, so it should be replaced with a better one.
it does not have shape, color, or form," it stressed.
the editorial even suggests, the university serves as the second home of students to prepare their futures as members of society.
if the use of Filipino will be maintained and it will begin in universities, native languages will surely remain alive in the future generations.
he is a Thomasian
despite accomplishing a lot as a medic, Juan Sanchez is still close to the poor in the community wherein he has many patients lacking financial capability to get treatment.
it was year 1980 when he finished medicine in the university.
eventually, Sanchez continued his training in general surgery at the Veteran's Memorial Medical Center (1982-1986) and in plastic reconstructive surgery at Makati Medical Center (1988-1991).
in 1992 he went to Virginia in the United States to formally train in aesthetic, craniofacial and microvascular surgery at Eastern Virginia Medical School.
in 1987, he headed the Philippine Board of General Surgery as well as the Philippine Board of Plastic Surgery in 1991.
he serves as lead surgeon in the monthly visit of the Rotary Club of San Francisco del Monte's DOCS Mobile Surgical Unit in some parts of Quezon City, Payatas, Marikina City, Bulacan, and others.
the said monthly surgical missions started in September 2007.
he is also a part of other missions like Gawad Kalusugan, Operation Smile, and Filipino-American Club of North Texas that aims to maintain the good condition of each Filipino inside and outside the country.
to share his knowledge in the field of medicine, Sanchez also wrote some books like "oriental rhinoplasty," "local and regional anesthetic blocks made simple (2002)" and "doctors' practices, strategies and guides to success (2003)".
in 2009, he was nominated for some major awards like the ten outstanding Filipino physicians and ten outstanding Filipinos.
within two years (2009-2010), he was honored as the most outstanding Rotarian of the Rotary Club of San Francisco del Monte.
currently, Sanchez continues to use his skills in medicine to offer service and concern to those who need it the most.
