ghost of the past
by Yanni Fernan
September 16, 2014
Nora Aunor as woman with dementia.
review of Dementia, movie directed by Perci Intalan, from the script of Perci Intalan and Jun Lana, starring Nora Aunor, Jasmine Curtis Smith, Yul Servo, Bing Loyzaga, Chynna Ortaleza, and Althea Vega.
screen-tested last September 10, 2014 in Greenhills Theater Mall, San Juan City
I wasn't expecting that Dementia was a horror-suspense drama.
I wasn't able to read or watch the trailer.
hence, I thought the story revolves around how to treat dementia.
so, it isn't.
but with the word "dementia", I already had high expectations for the movie, especially Nora Aunor was the star.
that's why I rushed early to Greenhills Theater Mall, where the test screening was held last September 10.
and I wasn't disappointed.
La Aunor carried the movie.
with Nora, dialogue isn't necessary, because her eyes enough had drama.
she showed all emotions - sorrow, anger, fear, shock.
I almost called the movie "The Eyes."
aside from this, every movement of Nora is convincing.
she'll attract viewers in every scene, as if they were part of the segment.
not forced.
not brazen.
subtle in English.
if she's happy, it makes you smile; if sad, you worry; if shocked, you're scared.
hence, just to see how good of an actress she is, watching the movie will be enough.
and the very viewers will say how she is one national artist.
meanwhile, Jun Lana's story is a bit different.
it's a story of a girl with age who has dementia, and brought home to Batanes by cousin, Bing Loyzaga.
Bing came home from abroad, and was taken care by Nora; and because of Bing's love, she brought Nora along to visit the province.
just seeing the place, the cliff and waves, and the house by the rocks, you'll know that Nora will remember someone.
but like how someone with dementia thinks, that's how the story went - flashes of memory that can't complete the story.
the story is little by little coming out, and usually, you look into your thoughts where your story brings you.
suspense, they say, that was excellently weaved at the end, just like how Nora completed the pieces of the puzzle.
only, you can notice the widening of characterization.
for example, it wasn't clear why Nora was mad at Yul Servo, Bing's husband in the movie, when it was shown that Nora was a good kid who even took care of someone crazy.
it also wasn't clear how Nora was cousins with Bing, when Nora was only adopted.
or how Bing came into Nora's life.
it's like some parts were inconsistent to the characters.
but the good cinematography was consistent.
it captured the great nature of Batanes, and its peace and state that seemed to be abandoned by time; the place was a good fit to the mood of the movie and to Nora's condition of dementia.
I shall say that it's good how nature was related to the important events of Nora's life.
if this was the first movie of Percival as director, although there were parts that were dragging that could have been brief, this is already a great start.
this is one movie that I'll recommend to my friends, not just because of Nora but also because there are gems in the film.
however, I can't say that the music is a gem.
the score would have been good but it was too loud that it rings in your ears and steals you away from the scene.
regardless, I liked most the last scene where Nora was writing in the hospital, trying hard to remember the past.
in her last paragraph, she scratched the word "pushed" and replaced it with "jumped."
that was it. that single scene weaved and explained many questions in the whole story.
when I came out of the theater, I can't avoid to smile.
it came to my mind that hopefully, the rotten politicians of our country will be haunted by their mistakes in the past and their wrongdoings to the country.
if that's the case, dementia also has its advantages.
