<1>	ABS-CBN, bumida sa Martial Arts Summit sa Asya! By Dondon Sermino	ABS-CBN, took the spotlight in the Martial Arts Summit in Asia! by Dondon Sermino
<2>	October 3, 2016Ibinandera ni ABS-CBN Integrated Sports head Dino Laurena ang industriya ng mixed martial arts (MMA) sa bansa bilang panelist sa Asia MMA Summit, ang pinakamalaking pagtitipon ng martial arts industry leaders sa Asya na ginanap sa Singapore.	October 3, 2016 ABS-CBN Integrated Sports head Dino Laurena showcased the mixed martial arts (MMA) industry in the country as panelist in the Asia MMA Summit, the largest gathering of martial arts industry leaders in Asia that was held in Singapore.
<3>	Ibinahagi ni Laurena ang kanyang kaalaman sa marketing at sports sa isang session tungkol sa live sports in Asia, kung saan ipinaliwanag niya ang papel ng live sports sa kinabukasan ng broadcast television sa Asya, kasama ang executives mula Fox Networks Group at PKE Partners.	Laurena shared his knowledge of marketing and sports in a session about live sports in Asia, where he explained the role of live sports in the future of broadcast television in Asia, together with the executives from Fox Networks Group and PKE Partners.
<4>	“Ang sports ang unang reality-TV.	"sports is the first reality-TV.
<5>	Ang emosyon ng viewer pag pinapanood ang sports ay of-the- moment kaya napakahalaga na matunghayan ang bawat aksyon sa isang sports ng live dahil tunay itong nangyayari,” ani Laurena.	the viewer's emotion while watching sports is of-the-moment so it is very important to see every action of a sport live because it happens for real," said Laurena.
<6>	Sa ilalim ng pamumuno ni Laurena, nabuo ang partnership ng ABS-CBN kabilang ang Universal Reality Combat Championship (URCC) at One Championship, dalawa sa pinakabiga­ting MMA promotions sa Asya para sa pag-ere ng MMA events sa ABS-CBN sports channels na Sports + Action (S+A) sa free TV at sa Sports + Action HD sa cable TV.	under the leadership of Laurena, ABS-CBN formed a partnership with Universal Reality Combat Championship (URCC) and One Championship, two of the biggest MMA promotions in Asia for airing MMA events in ABS-CBN sports channel Sports + Action (S+A) on free TV and on Sports + Action HD on cable TV.
<7>	Sa bansa, mas pina­patindi ng broadcast media ang coverage sa mixed martial arts mula nang maging isang mainstream sport ito noong mid-2000s na pinangunahan ng ABS-CBN.	in the country, broadcast media led by ABS-CBN is increasing the coverage of mixed martial arts since it became a mainstream sport in the mid-2000s.
<8>	Pinapalabas din ng S+A ang “Fight Farm,” ang unang locally-produced MMA docu-reality TV series na tampok ang makulay na paglalakbay ng ilang amateur MMA fighters at kung paano nila nalalampasan ang mga hamon para magbigay ng inspirasyon sa Filipino sports fans at TV viewers.	S+A also airs "Fight Farm," the first locally produced MMA docu-reality TV series featuring the colorful journeys of some amateur MMA fighters and how they overcome the challenges in order to give inspiration to Filipino sports fans and TV viewers.
<9>	Kamakailan lang, muling iginiit ni Laurena ang layunin ng ABS-CBN na ipanalo ang atletang Pinoy at itaguyod pa ang sports development sa Pilipinas.	just recently, Laurena again stressed the goal of ABS-CBN to champion the Filipino athlete and further support sports development in the Philippines.
<10>	“Maliban sa TV prog­rams at sports events coverage sa TV at online, mayroon ding on-ground projects ang ABS-CBN na may direct impact sa tao.	"aside from TV programs and sports events coverage on TV and online, ABS-CBN also has on-ground projects that have direct impact on the people.
<11>	Patuloy na magi­ging biggest supporter at cheerleader ang ABS-CBN ng bawat Pilipino,” dagdag ni Laurena.	ABS-CBN will continue to be the biggest supporter and cheerleader of every Filipino," Laurena added.
