after the celebration of World Teacher's Day yesterday some teachers rushed to Malacañang earlier to once again raise increase of their salary .
because according to the study of Alliance of Concerned Teachers or ACT Party List the Philippines is one of has the lowest salary for teachers in the whole ASEAN .
this is my report .
in the social media many are greeting our teachers a happy teacher's day .
there are some personal thanks because of the lessons uncovered to them by their teachers .
some posted photos of their teachers .
they said thanks for bearing with the unruly .
some call the teachers superheroes .
this October five is World Teacher's Day but are the teachers of the Philippines really happy ?
the teachers of the country is now fighting .
some teachers are up against the police in Malacañang now .
they call for increase of salary for teachers like them from eighteen thousand pesos to twenty-five thousand pesos .
the palace's response is they're with them in wanting to lift the level of life of teachers however this has an effect to the budget .
in the study of the party list Alliance of Concerned Teachers one of lowest salaries are received by Philippine teachers compared to the nearby countries in Asia .
the highest to give salary to teachers is Singapore .
more than four thousand U_S dollars or one hundred ninety-one thousand fifty-five pesos each month .
Philippines followed Myanmar the salary of their teachers is one thousand two hundred dollars each month or fifty-two thousand eight hundred .
compared to more than eighteen thousand two hundred sixteen pesos only in the Philippines .
they say education is the key to poverty and the teachers are the bridge to education .
but what if the teachers themselves are trapped in poverty ?
the sixty year old teacher Luz de Vera already half of her life she dedicated to being a teacher .
nineteen seventy four was when she started to be a teacher .
three thousand pesos was the salary .
now she is a step three teacher of math her salary twenty three thousand pesos each month .
it means that in up to her forty years of teaching the increase of her salary is only twenty thousand .
it will be nice if she could keep all of her salary .
but usually only three thousand pesos each month because of debts .
well you will just find another way so teachers do sidelines sometimes .
selling anything .
before I tutor when my children were studying because my net is not enough .
it will not suffice even for food it is still not enough .
many of the teachers in the country are in the same situation as Teacher Luz .
it is no joke to some teachers being immersed in debts .
last month two teachers were shot by a policeman who is Domino Alipio because they cannot pay their debts in Pangasinan National High School .
Teacher Luz said sometimes she has thought of working in other countries even as not a teacher .
well because in abroad you can find a greener pasture right ?
the salary is somehow higher abroad even higher than here .
the difference is big .
for now there is a proposed law filed in the Legislative Chamber to raise the salary of the teachers the House Bill number two four five or the Alliance of Concerned Teachers .
in the Senate this has a three counterpart bills .
but for A_C_T Representative Antonio Tinio it might have a difficulty to be approved by the president .
if only at the Congress and Senate the support is actually huge for the salary increase of teachers and other government employees .
the clog is really with the president in Malacañang .
we asked Secretary Butch Abad himself and he said it could be possibly on twenty sixteen .
but there are still other reasons that Representative Tinio sees here .
because mainly women are becoming teachers .
because a woman is not considered as the main breadwinner .
historically that way but the reality now I have asked Teacher Luz in the difficulty of the life of a teacher why could she not let go of this ?
because she knows that despite of it all her sacrifices have rewards .
your students your former students are already graduates from college despite our difficulty .
at least we could be just happy too .
if has returned to school then %incomplete
yes you have met outside .
sometimes will go to school .
that they have graduated according .
that is our consolation in our lives even though it is too difficult .
it might have been right to call Teacher Luz and thousands of teachers as superheroes .
