<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_24790816.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
push this! :
Derrick, showered with expensive gifts by fans! by Glenn Regondola
August 8, 2016
Derrick Monasterio was delighted and surprised with the extreme love for him by his fans especially his two fan's club the Derrick Monasterio Dreamers and Derrick Monasterio Admirers.
they have been giving him surprise birthday parties for almost one month for his 21st birthday that is said to be the debut of a man.
we already wrote on the surprise party that they did for him in a condominium in Alabang, which was also followed by a surprise dinner in Solaire Hotel & Casino.
and this Saturday, Derrick thought they only had a meeting at the Tri-Media office of Kae Dacer, apparently his loyal supporters were already waiting for him with a feast, games and cakes for him.
Derrick almost melted in embarrassment while his fans handed over their gifts for him one by one.
and take note, the gifts they brought for him were not simple that even his manager Manny Vallester could not believe with the gift-giving that happened.
one expensive customized red shoes that we know to be worth 15 thousand was given to him by his fans, one expensive watch that even came from Dubai, one makeup/director's chair that he can use in his tapings and shooting, and give-away spray perfumes with a scent that is especially mixed for him by businessman Abcy Dacer with a post print of his face.
"I treat you not as my fans, but as my family.
"you know that, and I always make you feel my love for you because you love me very much.
"thank you for your support to me even on far shows, hotel or mall, or barrios, you rush only to support me.
"I will not forget this, and remember, wherever my career goes, I want you to be with me," his message to his fans.
meanwhile, Derrick also mentioned that he is extremely excited on doing his solo movie with Regal Films even though it will start next year.
because, he knows that this is a huge responsibility for him as an actor.
he has no idea what story will be given to him by Mother Lily and Roselle Monteverde, who his director will be and who the people he would be with, but he knows this will do a lot for his career.
so, while he is still waiting, he will continuously work on his body, and he will continue his workshops in order to develop even further his acting skills.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
