<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_75030662.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
elect Ding Santos for councilor in Pasay
posted by: Mario Alcala
on February 25, 2016
in opinion
retired police captain Ricardo "Ding-Taruc" Santos repeatedly goes back for his friends, retired colleagues in PNP and voters in different towns in Pasay city particularly those in the parts of district 1.
Santos admitted that he is short in fund resources but his rounds or 'house to house campaign' will help greatly help him especially as the May 2016 elections slowly approaches.
"I have ran many times in the city of Pasay. they should try and elect me as councilor in the 1st district of Pasay," explained Brother Ding when he was interviewed yesterday.
according to Santos, he decided to run for council with the hope that he will be supported again by the voters of Pasay in the coming elections.
Santos is in the camp of Calixo team 2016.
we have learned that Calixto team 2016 is completely whole as of the moment.
no one is leaving and those who goes with re-electionist Pasay city Mayor Tony Calixto increases.
Cebu dumpsite of Japan's garbage
I witnessed how many second-hand multi-cabs drive through the different places in Cebu city when I traveled in the said province.
in Cebu, I seldom see bus and transport jeepneys unlike Metro Manila.
he he he!!! seems like transportation jeeps are not patronized in Central Visayas, the vehicle made by local manufacturers in the national capital region.
that is what I have also observed in the suburbs of Cebu and vice versa.
that is why importers, brokers, local dealers in Cebu are earning a lot by bringing reconditioned surplus of multi-cabs with brands like Zusuki and Daihatsu that are long phased out and became garbage in Japan.
side comments of the few drivers I talked to, second-hand multi-cabs is much cheaper if compared to a brand new transport jeep which costs starting from P500,000.
allow me to graze!
greedy captain
one captain in the Eastern Police District is allegedly very greedy and always takes the seized illegal drugs.
those who are released are much better off than whose who were charged, imprisoned suspects that were caught violating 9165.
my goodness!
if there is truth that chief gets money from the suspects that were caught by his men regarding prohibited drugs, the man could possibly be filthy rich.
different gimmicks in titan club.
they say there are different gimmicks in titan club, a nightclub located in Macapagal boulevard, Pasay city.
there's a gimmick on stage, in the VIP room and what the floor managers call, an "oros" pimp or bar fine.
to confuse the authorities, no one acts as general manager (gm) or officer-in-charge (oic) in the club who fronts two foreigners who are Hero and Akiba.
they use Filipinos as dummies in their prostitution business.
Akiba and Hero knows very well what are the gimmicks in titan club.
the NBI-IACAT, DOLE and DSWS should investigate on this.
there's still a follow up.
gambling table in Pampanga
in the town of Dolores (intersection) and in the town of Maimpis in San Fernando, Pamapanga, are still loaded with color-games and drop balls gambling by Boy Lim and Gordon.
the gambling tables has reached five tables.
the command of PNP-region 3 is based in San Fernando City, Pampanga.
are there no gambling sites sighted on the roads of RD in central Luzon?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
