<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_20980697.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
the AFP's 'badass' fighter: Corporal Leonardo Orozco
I have shared a story on bravery and heroism of soldiers and CAFGU who support us in suppressing terrorist crimes that victimizes our fellowmen in villages.
one whom I would refer to as a 'badass' soldier is the hunter (hunter) and member of CAFGU who is Corporal Leonardo Orozco.
why is he 'badass'?
in this way: he is calm only but has high self confidence, 'shrewd in fighting', has high level of survivor instincts; and, most of all he does not show signs of nervousness on imminent danger even in the line of fire!
I have proven all that in the bloodiest encounter that I experienced in my youth.
to know more about him, you may also see these links:
1) meeting Orrozco http://rangercabunzky.blogspot.com/2013/10/my-most-memorable-combat-action-leave_11.html
2) fighting with Orrozco.
http://rangercabunzky.blogspot.com/2013/10/my-most-memorable-combat-action-leave_13.html
even before our encounter, he has shown bravery and excellence in recon operations.
together with his sibling, they both crawled in to position of the Abu Sayyaf lead by Hamsiraji Salih in Barangay Makiri, Isabela City, Basilan.
even of they brought only a .45 caliber pistol, they went near the bandits to carefully observe their actions.
in their patience, they learned that 4 bandits cleaning a caliber 50 heavy machine gun is in a different position!
they agreed to snatch the caliber 50 HMG so they came up with a strategy.
they went on separate positions and cocked a pistol on the bandits.
they are fearless, aren't they?
Orrozco boldly shouted at the bandits.
hey, we have surrounded you!
surrender otherwise we will now fire at you incessantly!"
in severe nervousness, the bandits lost their hold on the heavy machine gun and quickly fled to avoid the attack of 'many' soldiers.
this is the chance taken by Orrozco's company to pick up the very heavy gun to run up to high ground, nearer the position of their group.
the Abu Sayyaf were left agape.
on the third opportunity, almost two months only after he was wounded in our encounter in Balatanay, Orrozco again crawled to the bandits and saw the group of Hamsiraji near Barangay Balawatin-Barangay Makiri area.
because I was in Sampinit Complex during that time, he gave the information to the light reaction company that resulted to the triumphant encounter that was lead by Captain Toto dela Cruz.
the bandits fell flat on the floor and the 90mm Recoilless Rifle was taken, a few high calibre guns and including the recovered Raytheon Thermal Imager from the troops of the 10th IB were recovered from the terrorists.
because of his extraordinary bravery and excellence in patrolling mission as a CAFGU, I recommended Orrozco to be enlisted in the Philippine Army back in the year 2002.
we also had him awarded the highest honors for a CAFGU wherein President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo herself hanged the medal on him.
in your point of view, can he be referred to as a 'badass' soldier?
do you salute his excellence?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
