<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_26364420.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mar, Francis are failed traffic czars. the traffic of mega Manila is hell.
if there is a momentary rain shower, worse.
in the midst of this situation, what should be done by the authorities?
and what can be done by the citizens?
Francis, Mar, failures. the two leaders of the government Secretary Mar Roxas of the Department of Interior and Local Government and Chairman Francis Tolentino of the Metro Manila Development Authority are failures as traffic czars.
when they themselves are at the center of the roads to fix the traffic anywhere in Metro Manila, nothing is still happening.
just because their traffic command is only for a show because they have brought media with them to show their skills as traffic czars.
but in truth, these child of grasshoppers are going to run as candidates for a national position in 2016.
not funny anymore, my brothers. hehehe!
in the end, they deployed a Highway Patrol Group but they should issue a ticket for 30 seconds only and should be visible so the motorists will know where they are even from afar.
not just getting the driver's license and walks far, and the driver boards off and run where the HPG hides under a tree or bridge.
VIP versus ambulance we have just noticed something, brothers.
in areas with the worst traffic that we have passed by, the VIPs or called as very important persons have escorts of traffic police.
the traffic police sounds the alarm, clearing off the way and blocking others.
no traffic.
but the ambulances, they are on their own.
well, nothing, they should follow the vehicle which stopped in front of them and beside them.
but the drivers of other vehicles are not needed to reprimanded, they give way, if the traffic moves.
there is money in traffic
where are the so-called other roads or alternate routes if there is traffic?
for small private vehicles and taxi, it is okay to pass by anywhere.
but for passenger vehicles, where are those roads?
tofu child, if they separated from the route and made a way to escape from the traffic, the traffic enforcer who issues the ticket suddenly appears and a police who shots off an "out of line" violation, and the fine for this is thousand, brothers.
how much is their 20 percent commission for the "out of line?"
"that law on truck ban, they are also ravenous for that, when the trucks pass by to avoid traffic, because the fine is also thousands.
the police and the traffic enforcers are not there on traffic areas but there on where the motorists enter or pass through to get money.
education, discipline in EDSA, there are signs for control for vehicles such as the zipper lane, yellow lane, bus stop, pedestrian lane and others.
on other roads there are none of these, but it is common sense that should be allowed to prevail.
everything for the hopes of a better flow of traffic.
but the lack of discipline and education on the road shows.
there are buses, jeepney and taxi which stop beside each other while the passengers are waiting until the roads are congested.
there are those who run first for a u-turn until they lump together and clog the road.
and these are happening even with the presence of police and traffic enforcer, but it is worst in the evening when you cannot see an enforcer or police or MMDA.
in front of SM North in EDSA, tofu child, the police and MMDA in patrol are regular who themselves have blocked the roads for passenger vehicles.
what should be done about this?
wait for 2030
the MMDA said, wait for 2030 for an organized plan and program will be laid against traffic.
with lots of projects being done by the Department of Public Works and Highways which will be finished by 2030, the government is having a difficulty in making plans and programs against traffic.
and there is something important to catch up, the Straight Path should remain until 2030 to fix everything in the end.
wasp child, what is the purpose of the grass if the water buffalo is dead?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
