<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_22797975.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
'DOH, unprepared to the threat of Ebola'
it is untrue that the Philippine government is ready to the threat of Ebola virus in case the deadly illness comes into the country, according to health sector employees, who protested in front of the office of the Department of Health (DOH).
this is contrary to the statements of DOH secretary Enrique Ona when he said that the government is ready for Ebola.
he claimed that facilities are ready particularly at the Research Institute of Tropical Medicine, San Lazaro Hospital, and Lung Center of the Philippines.
Ebola virus is considered as an alarming epidemic worldwide which claimed the lives of thousands of people at Africa this year.
being prepared is untrue
according to the Alliance of Health Workers (AHW), the government cannot manage the diseases that kill the Filipinos daily like tuberculosis (TB) and measles (which has cures), therefore, there is no assurance that the government can manage the Ebola disease.
according to the data of DOH itself, around 63 people die everyday due to the TB disease.
around 97 percent of the recorded 16,743 cases of measles died since January 1 until August 9, 2014 from DOH.
"anually, thousands of children die of diarrhea and pneumonia before reaching the age of five in the Philippines.
the government still cannot answer that seven out of ten Filipino die without ever seeing a doctor.
what preparedness do the government have against Ebola?" according to Sean Velchez, president of National Orthopedic Health Workers Union-AHW.
Velchez added, America, which is one of the most powerful countries and has more advanced medical technology for Ebola, has one confirmed dead.
including two more nurses who are said to be infected.
the said group is alarmed of the statement by DOH at the Senate and to the nation that hospitals are ready but in actuality, no facilities are prepared for patients of Ebola aside from container vans.
no trainings were ever conducted by the DOH and there is not enough protective equipment for the health workers, said Jossel Ebesate, president of AHW, at Pinoy Weekly.
"the BSL (biosafety level) needed for Ebola is at level 4.
Philippines is at level 2 at present.
still only at this regard, what will be done to patients with Ebola," according to Ebesate.
overworked, underpaid
despite the threat of Ebola, state of health workers remain the same at public hospitals.
"remaining as overworked and underpaid are the nurses and employees of our public hospitals.
this is dangerous also for health workers because supplies itself at the hospital are unavailable for use to protect them.
some health workers even buy their own protective gears for everyday," said Robert Mendoza, general secretary of AHW
presently, a health worker receives a salary grade 1 or P9,000 per month.
meanwhile, a nurse 1 receives a salary grade 11 which is P18,600 per month.
"our salaries may be higher compared to other private hospitals as said by Undersecretary Ted Herbosa.
but this is still not enough for the expenses of our families every month.
it is has become necessary for us to get loan from everywhere.
we certainly earn less with the cost of living which is P32,000 per month (based from data of Ibon Foundation) for a family with six members.
we need P25,000 per month for a nurse 1 upon their entry," according to Ebesate.
community nurses even receive lower with P5,000 per month and all of whom are contractual, according to Emy Ilag, from Nars ng Bayan.
allocate enough funds
for the health workers, the government should allocate enough funds for the health sector.
but instead of seriously funding government hospitals, they are subjected to privatization under the program Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) of the Aquino administration, according to AHW.
"instead of increasing the budget for hospitals, like the Philippine Orthopedic Center (POC) which need P5.6 billion for the modernization of the hospital, DOH subjected it to PPP together with Megawide World City Consortium," according to Velchez.
POC receives 6,000 to 7,000 patients every year.
around 80 to 90 percent of this come from the poorest family.
Velchez explained, even public hospitals become unreachable for the poor.
many of the poor are sick, would not get treatment and included in the deaths were not able to even consult a doctor.
around 72 public hospitals in the country are subject to PPP of the Aquino administration.
some of those subject for privatization or "corporatization" include Jose R. Reyes Memorial Medical Center, Cagayan Valley Medical Center, Baguio General Hospital and Medical Center, Bicol Medical Center, Quirino Memorial Medical Center, Amang Rodriguez Medical Center, and San Lazaro Hospital.
also included are Eastern Visayas Regional Medical Center, Western Visayas Medical Center, Northern Mindanao Medical Center, Southern Philippines Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Cotobato Regional and Medical Center, Caraga Regional Hospital, Davao Regional Hospital, and more.
PPP is a program of the Aquino administration encouraging businessmen and large corporations to enter old public hospitals and facilities to supposedly modernize the equipment there.
but this is criticized by many critics and groups, saying that business and not public service is the purpose of the private sector which will only make it harder for the poor to have access to the said hospitals.
"change is needed to the system that is neglecting our department.
DOH is negligent and liar
someone needs to be responsible for the systematic negligence of the citizens.
secretary should be ousted of his position.
Ona," according to Velchez.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
