<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_35094426.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
condom versus HIV/AIDS, sex tourism and drugs. the excessive rise in the number of Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome victims is frightening.
in the hearing conducted by the Senate regarding the deadly and incurable disease, Health Assistant Secretary Eric Tayag said that by the end of this year, victims of the disease would reach 32,379 in many places in the country since the disease was discovered in 1984.
included here are those who do not want to get checked but are suspected to have it, while 1,766 already led to AIDS, which caused the death of 903 this February since 1984.
more than 75 places. HIV/AIDS has become very widespread in more than 75 places in the entire Philippines, from Olongapo City which only had eight victims in 1984.
DOH explained to the Senate, Metro Manila has the largest number of cases and it is followed by CALABARZON (Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Rizal and Quezon); Central Luzon, Central Visayas and Davao.
among those with the most number of victims are Angeles City in Pampanga and Caloocan City in Luzon, Cebu City in Visayas, and Davao City in Mindanao.
men and the youth. it appears the most of the victims are men.
there are around 96 men and four women in every 100 victims of the disease.
this is what's painful, brothers. most of the victims who died are at the age of 20 - 34.
most are men, especially now that man-to-man relationships are out in the open, and only next to this are relationships between women and men.
of course, many acquire HIV/AIDS through needles, which is a common practice of those involved in drugs.
the very sad thing, brothers, is that they are the ones referred to by Gat Jose Rizal as the hope of my beloved country and are the majority of the 32,379 victims.
goes in one ear and out the other. when methods of spreading information against sickness have become extensive, like news from newspapers, radio, television and the internet, it's odd that there is a rising trend in victims and carriers or carriers.
this is aside from the spreading of information by the DOH for safe sex in massage parlors, nightclubs, KTV bars and other places where people go to satisfy pleasures of the flesh.
a big increase in the number of sick persons was seen in the past two - three years, and the authorities fear that we are reaching a time when HIV/AIDS needs to be declared as an epidemic.
it is puzzling that many are deaf and blind on the news and information against the disease.
it is puzzling that Doctor Eric's Gangnam Style, Mister Gentleman and cha-cha are not effective.
hahaha!
many laws. there are already several laws to control HIV/AIDS, like the 16-year-old Republic Act 8504 or Philippine AIDS Prevention and Control Act of 1998, which states that someone who is 18 years old and younger needs to get his parent's consent before he is allowed to take an HIV/AIDS test.
now there is a proposed law in Congress, house bill 3243, which states that someone who is 15 years old or older can consult, be tested and be advised without the consent of parents as long as he voluntarily undergoes the said programs.
the reproductive health law, which mandates the use of condoms as protection, not just against pregnancy but also from sickness including HIV/AIDS.
there is also a proposed law by Senator Grace Poe (Senate Bill 1217) to remove parts of the law that restrains the implementation of new laws against the said disease.
Jinggoy Estrada and JV Ejercito each have their own proposed laws, too, against the disease.
in Jinggoy's senate bill 879, this contains the performance of a test on the mother and newborn child, with regard to HIV/AIDS, so that immediate action can be done if they test positive.
in JV's senate bill 1100, he wants to have an intensive and extensive spreading of information and education against the disease.
condoms are needed.
for us, the insistence of the Department of Health to spend the country's funds for condoms, which was 11 million pesos from the department's yearly budget of 308 million pesos, is intriguing.
the DOH anchors the hope of controlling HIV/AIDS in condoms.
and it means that none of the Filipinos can control their hunger for sex, which became the very root, especially if we think that most of the victims of the disease are the youth that we already mentioned.
sex tourism. but what about the statement, for example, of the Catholic Bishops Conference of the Philippines that the condom has failed as one of the primary responses of the government against the disease?
it means, brothers, that the government should look for other ways to effectively control the disease.
for example, among those being pushed by the CBCP is controlling programs, which the government immensely profits from, like promoting the Philippines as a center of tourism.
everyone has known for a long time that there is sex tourism, but this is just ignored by the government and uses the condom as an answer to the spread of disease in this program.
also, what about the fight against drugs, which becomes the root of HIV/AIDS, but armed robbery and corruption is allowed to prevail here?
ultimatum/Benny Antiporda
</TEXT>
</DOC>
