<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_95130301.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Occ Min, declared "Conflict" Manageable and Ready for Development' by AFP
November 04, 2016 Voltaire N. Dequina
San Jose, Occidental Mindoro, November 4 (PIA) - Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) officially declared the province as "Conflict" Manageable and Ready for Development' recently at the Provincial Training Center, Mamburao.
in the message delivered by AFP Chief of Staff Lieutenant General Ricardo Visaya to Southern Luzon Command Lieutenant General Ferdinand Quidilla, it is known to the chief of Armed Forces, the huge potential of the province for growth.
according to him, if there is security within the community the attention of the citizens is on the development of their businesses, which hugely affects the growth of the nation.
"only through peace can we realize progress and prosperity (only through peace can we realize progress and prosperity), added the general.
A message was also delivered by Philippine National Police (PNP) Regional Director PC Supt Wilben Mayor to Provincial Director PS Supt Reynaldo Jagmis and said the declaration (Conflict Manageable and Ready for Development) is one invitation of the province to investors.
according to the director, the Philippine Army will be helping the police force in implementing the law especially in the fight against drugs.
mayor also reminded that although there are talks of peace between the leftist group and government, everybody must remain prepared.
'let us remain vigilant and ready to defend against terrorist threat and aggression whether domestic and foreign (let us remain vigilant and ready to defend against terrorist threat and aggression whether domestic and foreign)," said the PNP Regional Director.
meanwhile, Governor Mario Gene Mendiola thanked AFP and PNP in their continued efforts in keeping peace and quiet in the province.
the governor said that the cause of struggles is poverty which is why they keep looking for solutions in his administration.
he stated that included in his many projects is the continued enrichment by the provincial government in creating irrigation and farm-to-market roads, providing modern machinery to cooperatives, financial assistance to farmers and fishermen, and improving the health condition of the province.
"let us strengthen the agriculture and tourism in the province," according to Mendiola.
the said activity were attended by local government units, Local Chief Executives from eleven cities of the province, PNP, AFP, and other agencies of the government.
(VND/PIA MIMAROPA/Occ Min)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
