<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_45108420.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
abandoned typhoon victims
after an interview about the livelihood assistance project for farmers in Surigao del Sur, I joined the team of CBHP (Community Based Health Program) in revisiting some areas devastated by typhoon Pablo in Surigao del Sur and Davao Oriental.
we left Tandag at one o'clock in the morning and arrived at the first village served by CBHP at around 8 o'clock.
although I have seen images of the damage caused by the typhoon on television, I was still shocked as I myself faced the scene of destroyed homes and crops.
immediately, dreadful images of Hiroshima, Vietnam, and Iraq after being bombed by America entered my mind.
in that moment, I deeply felt not only the immense damage brought about by typhoon Pablo on the houses, livelihood, surroundings, and well-being of the people, but the serious effects of climate change, corporate greed (mining, banana plantation, et cetera), and government neglect as well.
in my anger, I didn't even care about the numbing of my feet from more than three hours of riding on the back of a motorcycle called "habal-habal."
there were four of us riding on it and I was squeezed behind the driver.
many of the victims lived far away from the heart of the village and the city, and could not access government assistance, media, and civic organizations.
these areas were prioritized by the CBHP and its allies, including the farmer movement in the region.
we also went to one of the areas most affected by the typhoon in Davao Oriental, the town of Cateel, which is situated right next to the affected areas in Surigao del Sur.
The damage was so great, it really seemed an atomic bomb had been dropped on the area!
all the buildings and plants were utterly destroyed, especially the coconut trees.
The town of Cateel is often shown on television and many government agencies and civic organizations have since visited it. However, the assistance they provided remain greatly insufficient for the victims due to excessive damage and the lack of a proper distribution system for assistance from various groups.
at around five o'clock in the afternoon, I left the team of CBHP in Tandag and rode a bus going to Davao City to join the medical mission of BALSA Mindanao, the multi-sectoral organization formed by progressive groups to help victims in these types of calamities.
as I rode the bus, I still saw many devastated homes along the way that did not get any assistance.
by the time I arrived at the UCCP (United Church of Christ), the center of BALSA Mindanao in Davao, it was already past midnight.
our team traveled at four o'clock in the morning so I had little to no sleep at all that night.
we arrived at Laak, Compostela Valley around 10 o'clock in the morning.
The area was also greatly affected by the typhoon and it was incredibly difficult to get there due to the damaged roads, and we even had to cross a river that was chest-deep.
good thing we rode a fairly large dump truck.
we ate brunch first before the medical clinic started and we distributed food and relief goods.
only two of us were doctors. I was with Doctor
Lynn Redoble, a former student of mine who is now a full time medical practitioner at CBHP-Southern Mindanao.
most of those needing medical assistance were children with cough and colds, flu, bronchitis, skin disorders, wounds, et cetera.
there were two patients that needed to be brought to the hospital, which brought about the problem of how to transport them to the hospital (ask for assistance from the local government and other organizations because BALSA Mindanao couldn't shoulder the expenses).
we had more than 200 patients.
we stopped taking in patients at 5 o'clock in the afternoon because we may no longer be able to cross the river back to Davao.
my feelings were quite heavy when we closed because there were still a few people from far-off places who wanted to catch the consultation.
however, we needed to leave, since we couldn't stay any longer in that area according to the organizers.
it was almost midnight when we arrived in UCCP Davao.
due to fatigue and lack of sleep, I couldn't bring myself to take a bath and went straight for the bed.
however, I had a hard time sleeping due to the severity of my cough (which started in Surigao) and also due to the constant emotional and mental distress brought about by everything I had seen and experienced.
The rooster was already crowing by the time I fell asleep after I drank lagundi tea and beloved.
I just rested until I headed to Davao airport on the way back to Manila.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
