<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_43410463.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
in the name of safety
(this article was first published in issue 3 of the Philippine Collegian on 27 June 2012)
by Anne Vitug
riding his own motorcycle, Lawrence Mappala goes around the National Science Complex as part of his daily duty.
"I am the one paying for the gasoline of my motorcycle to be used in making rounds. with the lack of equipment for us in the SSB, sometimes we need to make sacrifices so that we can do our jobs properly."
| Chris Martin Imperial
every day they wrestle with the heat of the sun, with lack of sleep, and most of all, with the threat of violence and danger.
they are everywhere, ensuring security properly operates inside the university.
they are not security guards, and also not the police.
they may not be that well-known by everyone because of their civilian attire, yet they continue to ensure the safety of the students and employees of UP.
the defenders
the Special Services Brigade (SSB) was created in 2005 as partners of the police and security guards in improving safety in UP.
one of its first members is Manong Lawrence Mappala, 45 years old.
in his seven years of service, he spends each day restlessly making rounds in different parts of the university. he is always prepared for the call of service, day or night. this is the reason why his coworkers consider him as one of the most reliable members of the SSB.
Manong Lawrence is from Aurora, Isabela but he grew up in Quezon City.
even when he was a child, he dreamed of becoming a soldier but this was cut short when his father who was the sole breadwinner for their family back then was killed by a thief.
even during high school Manong Lawrence learned to work as a construction worker if he has free time. because of this, and also because his mother diligently did the laundry of others, he graduated as a general radio operator in Samson College.
before serving as SSB in the university, Mang Lawrence became an intelligent officer in the Economic Investigation and Intelligence Bureau, a government agency that was abolished in 2000.
the operations of the agency stopped when they went against big personalities in the world of politics involved when they confiscated some illegal cargo.
Manong Lawrence and more than one thousand employees experienced pressure and threats from politicians until the agency was eventually dissolved.
for a few months he experienced difficulty finding a job that can answer to the needs of his family.
at the end he again served as a barangay sentry in Pook Dagohoy inside the university.
according to him, more than the financial needs, his experience from work helps him fulfill his role as SSB.
despite the difficulty and danger his job brings, for Manong Lawrence, being an SSB is a privilege.
with a salary of P481 per day and help from his wife who is a librarian in the UP College of Law they can answer to the needs of their family.
like many parents, it is Manong Lawrence's dream for his three sons to study in UP.
his first child tried to achieve this dream but he did not pass the UPCAT.
despite this he did not lose confidence and is now close to finishing the course Criminology in Republican College.
Manong Lawrence continues to wish for his children to succeed in whatever field they choose.
Manong Lawrence fulfills many roles as SSB.
in his job, he helps ensure the order and safety of the university.
operation of work
unlike the police and security guards, the SSB do not have uniforms.
they also have not used any weapon like the baton for a long time.
only the agility of the body and sharpness of the mind are the weapons of Manong Lawrence and 51 other members of the SSB in fulfilling their responsibilities.
every day there are different places in the university that the SSB need to guard.
it is their responsibility to observe and be on alert for possible illegal activities and suspicious people.
they are also assigned to stop illegal sellers, strays, what are called watch-your-car boys and tricycles and pedicabs from entering the university.
at times when they catch violators, the SSB cannot make an arrest.
they can only guard those caught and wait for the police to respond to the case.
Manong Lawrence got to know UP and its students through this line of work.
he can still clearly remember when tuition increase was not yet a problem in the university.
there were no long lines of students who want to get a loan or apply for STFAP.
he believes that education should be free for all. for him, cutting the budget of UP is a definite burden for parents.
"with life being so hard now, that is a serious burden for parents," he says.
as one who serves the university, he personally witnesses different situations that parents and students of UP experience.
as a parent, Mang Lawrence knows the value of giving children good education, and he also understands the hardships of parents in working and saving to be able to afford the increasing tuition, even in universities run by the state.
really lacking
it is undeniable that Mang Lawrence already has much experience with different faces of crime.
according to him he will not forget chasing a robber near Ilang-Ilang Residence Hall and capturing a rapist in E. Jacinto.
as a public space, UP has a big problem with security because anyone can freely enter and exit.
crimes like theft are widespread on campus because it is not easy to identify who is from UP and who is not.
even the absence of a uniform or dress code for students of the university becomes an advantage for robbers who freely enter and exit the campus.
one possible solution to this problem is adding people who will guard the campus. but currently, it is difficult to implement because of the university's lack of budget.
another problem of the SSB is the lack of equipment like motorcycles and mobile cars. the university is extremely large and with the amount of crime threats every day it is difficult for the SSB to guard the whole campus if only a few of them can use vehicles.
another problem is the lack of training for current members of different security groups in UP like the SSB. one example of this is the filing of reports about the cases they respond to. according to Professor Emerino Dagdag, Chief Administrative Officer of the SSB, the SSB are not yet experienced here. proper filing of reports is important because it is one of the basis for additional action on cases.
aside from this, according to Professor Dagdag, they also need extensive training in investigation in order to collect enough information and evidence on cases.
the reality that UP as a community faces a lot of problems can be seen here.
as SSB, Manong Lawrence is part of this community and he has a big role to fulfill in fixing the security system of UP.
he is also a victim of the problems of the university like lack of funds for the needs of the SSB.
these shortcomings are the reason perhaps why the SSB are still not that effective in maintaining order and safety in campus.
in the end, while the members of the SSB protect the students and employees, it is also the responsibility of the university to attend to their needs towards effective execution of their responsibilities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
