<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_65272029.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
introduction to 'seven daggers: poems and songs' by Ericson Acosta
perhaps there is no need to introduce to the public the author of this book, Ericson Acosta (Ka Eric here), imprisoned writer, composer, singer, columnist, and activist intellectual.
but there is no certainty in the entire world.
neocolonial Philippines (that ComradeEric considers) one big "penal company" is protected in the kingdom of Kapital, all the stable ones (the status quo) soften, melt, disappear.
there is no permanent situation anywhere.
everything transforms, changes - body, prison, habit, institution, you, me, all of us.
that is what happened recently.
with the help of the company SELDA, KARAPATAN and international organizations, ComradeEric, more than 23 months imprisoned, was temporarily released so he can get health consultation.
he developed serious illnesses resulting from torture and grave punishment given by the Aquino regime when he was apprehended on February 13, 2011 without warrant and placed in Calbayog City jail, Samar.
charges on him: "illegal possession of explosives," suspected to have sex using a confiscated laptop computer.
wait, authorities of the conceited State, the poet was researching then about human rights and living conditions in San Jorge, Samar.
is that a crime?
using his rich experience and expert knowledge as a journalist (UP Collegian; Manila Times; ABS-CBN, etcetera), ComradeEric studies the situation of the people together with serving the collective effort for progress.
but like the period of colonization of American troops in Balangiga circa 1901 (see the poem "Jacob 1901"), the island is an arena of bloody conflict of classes.
the poet was at the center; in the pressure and conflict "birds of prey" flocked... with no respect for the law, reason, human rights, the nation's scholar was jailed and abused - until the anger and protest of thousands of sympathizers ignited, from Amnesty in London up to PEN International and the United Nations, organizations complained of the cruel and unjust punishment on a person who has no other sin but offering his abilities and knowledge for the betterment of the nation.
globalization is catching up, but the machinery of justice in our country is just too slow.
we can wait until we are arrested, examine the prejudiced rumors, before concluding and using what is within.
it features the real experience of one person in jail and in different situations, before going on an adventure in Samar and trying his luck there.
personal testimony and typical discourse were both shaped here.
we will get to know the creator, the protagonist, as well as the person he is talking to.
there is no need to wander, directly attack and attempt to find out the beauty and effect of the style.
but there are some tips that may improve understanding and assessment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
