<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_61542233.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
it is now possible here
if you watched the opening ceremonies of the Fédération Internationale de Football Association World Cup 2014 recently, you will be amazed by the beauty of the performance and you will wonder how much the host countries spent in holding an event like that for the world football competition.
countries like Brazil do that because the global attention brought by events like the FIFA World Cup is a significant matter for the progress of their country.
and you can't help notice the venue of the games.
the arena is extravagant and big to accommodate the millions of fans who arrived who even came from different parts of the world to watch.
if we consider, we know that Filipinos have a potential in the game of football.
we have already shown our excellence in this sport.
but as much as we want to host a similar event, the venue and government support is the first problem.
the government will spend big for an international event like this.
but the problem of the venue, I believe there is already a solution.
it is now possible here.
the Filipino is already capable.
the Philippine Arena which was built by the Iglesia ni Cristo (INC) in Bocaue, Bulacan, is really capable of competing with venues in the whole world where international events can be held if beauty and modernity are considered.
we already have a venue!
incidentally, the INC will celebrate the centennial celebration of its founding as a church on the 27th of July.
the INC was founded on July 27, 1914.
and the Philippine Arena will be the center of the celebration of the INC on their incoming 100th year anniversary.
the Philippine Arena is not just a pride of the INC but also a pride of the whole country.
the Philippines can be proud of it and it is expected to become a venue of important gatherings and events in the future.
the Philippine Arena is a landmark honoring the success of the INC as an important institution in our country.
these past few months they had back-to-back medical missions while their big celebration approaches.
long live the INC.
thank you for your contribution to the progress of our beloved nation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
