<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_16692066.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
guarded!
by Betchai Julian August 17, 2016 because of becoming an instant millionaire after finishing with her silver medal in weightlifting event in Rio Olympic Games, the Philippine National Police (PNP) gave a tight security to Hidilyn Diaz and to the members of her family in Zamboanga.
according to Zamboanga City Mayor Maria Isabelle Climaco, even before she could return to the country last week, she immediately talked to Officer-in-Charge (OIC) Zamboanga City police director Supt.
Luisito Magnaye, to prepare for the security to be given to the athlete and her family.
aside from the security given by the PNP to Hidilyn, Climaco said that she had mandated the PNP that a security is needed in the house of Hidilyn itself for the security of her family.
"even before she arrive the Philippines, my instruction to Colonel
Magnaye was already to provide security for her and I will be following up again because not only security to be provided with her but also to the periphery of their homes," Climaco stated.
can be recalled that it reached P7.
5 million is received by the 25-year old Zamboangueña weightlifter as a government incentive after she got the silver medal.
the mayor believes that Diaz already needs security because the life she is going to experience will change for winning the medal.
because of this, the mayor appeals to the residents to respect the Zamboangueño Olympic medalist and do not let her be harmed.
even Nestor Colonia, another Zamboangeño and have undertaken with Diaz, and their coach, are also guarded by the mayor.
the coach is scheduled to receive an incentive based on the ruling law implemented by the Philippine Sports Commission (PSC).
"I am also appealing to our residents that Hidilyn, Nesctor Colibia and their coach, they are heroes who sacrificed for our city.
and I am really asking from you to give all our respect to them because their years of sacrifice is not a joke before they reach this," Climaco added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
