<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_60933988.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
more than the challenge and our last chat with Mistress Ordoñez they will also set up a laboratory .
yes .
also to start on other good plans for our coconut farming .
like this they are already planning to establish a coconut laboratory .
the %incomplete
wherein we can based -- breed coconut the coconut is rare in the market now deputy no longer us very expensive when you see it .
oh yes it's good that we'll further develop coconut farming .
because there is a demand in the confectionery industry in ice cream in cakes and can also be used in industrial application .
yes .
candy wrapper milk wrapper the uh can be used for this purpose depending on coconut .
so what -- regions in the country which region has -- a somewhat lively coconut production ?
it's lively here in Bicolandia .
the only problem here in Bicol despite (()) the coconut they can produce there is we have a quarantine there .
we cannot bring out the crops outside of that area .
so our cultivation is in Masbate .
here in mainland Bicol area .
yes .
there are also many coconut we breed in Zamboanga Research Center and in Davao we have some there .
so we had a facility here in Pangasinan before but it somewhat closed down its productivity was somewhat low .
we want to revive it again .
we have a project where we will revive our laboratories again .
here in Pangasinan in order to cater while waiting here in in Pampanga we can start it and help in developing the coconut industry here in Northern Luzon .
maybe I will use this opportunity .
Deputy Administrator Roel yes we are inviting you to become our resource person in our Agri Techno Demo Forum on Saturday .
and you can give appropriate comparison and emphasis on the importance of coconut versus palm oil .
and yes those we are developing tissue culture of coconut that as they say in the soonest possible time can appear in the market already deputy .
oh yes that is a good opportunity so I can express better the technical stuff about palm oil against coconut oil .
and then these new technologies on created by the Philippine Coconut Authority about increasing crops .
and other -- we can use in our coconut farms .
included here are the livelihood enterprises .
those we can enter .
yes that is one of the important ones .
and then bring us some reading materials deputy .
oh I will bring those I'll do it .
ah it's good you reminded me .
yes .
I'll bring some reading materials .
that is very important so that for those really engaged in coconut farming we can give them additional awareness deputy .
yes not just our coconut farmers here in the Philippines we are also inviting our O_F_W that it's not so big the necessary capital for us to go back to farming and coconut farming .
just a little investment from their earnings .
in order to help our local agricultural industry together with the coconut industry .
they can allot their investments .
put it in again .
it's a big thing if we can harness our O_F_W the O_F_W if they can again look back to their origins majority of them come from farms let us bring back our love for farming .
included here is the coconut industry .
let us invest (()) here in our country .
we have a text here Deputy Administrator Roel .
good A_M .
I'm just asking Deputy Administrator Rosales if aromatic coconut is available .
thanks .
Mon of Luna La Union .
right now sir there is none .
because that aromatic one is really in demand .
it still came from Mindanao either in Zamboanga or in Davao .
but we'll push to have some delivered in Luzon .
just give me the name .
I'll forward it to you .
I'll forward it after the program .
because we have one here but limited -- just limited edition .
our planting material on aromatic is very scarce .
there .
okay mister and deputy how is the reproduction of coconut in MIMAROPA ?
and what breed of coconut are you using ?
what product of coconut is big in the region ?
good A_M .
Lyndon of P_I_A .
in MIMAROPA that's widely spread .
majority is still local variety .
aah okay .
so these are local .
yes .
also because they want .
but we're adding dwarfs particularly here in western coast because dwarf gets easily affected by storms .
so here in Western coast we're planting dwarf .
but again it's not that much yet .
we're breeding it for the next generation to just get their dwarf coconut requirements here in MIMAROPA .
so we're also planting dwarf but more than that is this local variety because it's more resilient .
the planting materials is more available .
majority here they only sell whole nuts in MIMAROPA area .
we also have different projects for the development of our coconut industry .
we have virgin coconut oil .
I know we have that there in Mindoro .
yes .
and there's also an investor in Mindoro in in coco (()) yes .
for our environmental requirement .
okay .
we have a text here .
my brother or Chucky what is the particular substance in salt that is good for the coconut trees ?
does using human urine have the same effect as salt ?
Wilson Ng .
chlorine is good for coconut .
because it helps in the propagation of coconut fruits .
we're saying twenty-five percent is with that -- increases our fruits by twenty five percent application of of salt to coconut .
two kilograms per tree per year .
so there .
with that also the coconut is aided to be able to replace the effect of dry season of drought as well as increase the resistance to pests and disease according to the research of our experts .
but urine is not possible ?
I still do not and because that is ammonia .
I don't we still don't have scientific basis .
okay .
good A_M Francis and to your guest here in Binakayan Cawit Cavite many coconut trees were infested .
what is your program for replanting and who should we contact to replace our infested trees and join the replanting program .
thanks .
Rose of Binakayan .
this is the coconut scale infestation in affected areas .
<no-speech>
by the mercy of God we are already past the most difficult stage .
wherein we were able to lower the level of (()) infestation in the Southern Tagalog area .
and we are now starting our livelihood projects rehabilitation project .
very soon we will distribute fertilizers in order to rehabilitate our affected areas .
and very soon sir this El Niño that we are -- observing once the condition for planting is already a bit suitable we will continue the coconut planting program .
mm .
but even before that we already have livelihood projects .
rehabilitation project to be implemented in different areas with C_S_I like intercropping we have crops to distribute .
we have a provincial office here in in -- in Cavite .
I will give the number of our (()) coconut development manager Jimmy .
Jimmy so that we can talk to him .
for the rehabilitation efforts here in the Cavite area .
no matter deputy -- I will forward all these texts to you .
yes yes after the program .
good A_M Francis and director .
how can salt be used on coconuts that are still small or ready for transplanting ?
Sonny Estrella of Taytay Rizal .
because the -- the ideal is we are using the salt here in trees already bearing fruit .
ah okay .
because the -- our frequency is in the soonest possible time our coconuts can bear fruit well .
that is our investment on the coconut industry .
we apply the salt on fruit bearing trees .
two kilograms each tree .
we will dig around .
around one meter away from the base of the coconut and there we will put again the salt around the tree .
one meter away from the tree and cover it .
let us pierce let us uh also uh a circular -- that we can put the the salt and let us cover it .
and that's it .
it will be absorbed by the soil .
okay .
hi deputy director Roel hopefully you make K_D_F your partner in developing the tissue culture of coconut .
which Picart is doing for P_C_A .
thanks .
Sylvia Ordoñez of Kapampangan Development Foundation .
hi good morning Sylvia .
yes .
once our coconut project with Picart ends similar to what we did with coconut we'll do a commercial .
there .
we're just settling the protocols on how to do this .
but once we do it we finish it certainly we would welcome investors we would welcome the private sector and our interested groups to enrich and breed more coconut here in the Philippines because it's a high value commodity .
the price of this is different compared to the ordinary coconut .
okay we just want to add before we go separate ways .
thank you mister and deputy .
if O_F_Ws invest how much is the lowest and how much is the income ?
Lyndon of MIMAROPA .
and how fast is the income ?
what we're saying is we can start small by having a business in coconut farming .
we can plant annual crops corn field under coconut .
cocoa coffee .
cocoa coffee for medium term we can do that .
for corn including the nursing of coconut it will reach just around thirty thousand .
we'll also earn about thirty thousand in -- with two cropping .
we can plant vegetables bitter gourd eggplant or also similar if for long term possibly cocoa water yam we'll earn more there .
however we'll wait for a couple of years .
to raise our harvest .
okay .
we can plant banana or even pineapple or even take care of an animal under coconut .
yes .
aside from that we can do a coconut sugar venture .
coconut wine that's the .
on Saturday if I can or yes talk about the (()) mm .
we're short on time alright to our fellow farmers .
deputy administrator Roel Rosales is our visitor in our Agri Techno Demo Forum this coming Saturday .
thank you very much deputy .
thank you very much .
I'm thanking you because in many ways we're reaching various places about paging .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
