<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_99692218.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
the 'form' of the warrior in Maguindanao (Central Mindanao adventures part 1)
part of the annual tradition of the Philippine Military Academy "Bantay-Laya" class of 1994, we visit the grave of our dead squad members in the Libingan ng mga Bayani in Fort Bonifacio.
we do this tradition every 1st week of March, jibed to our graduation day anniversary that happens every 6th of March.
by the way, this is already our 20th year in active service.
most importantly, we do this tradition to remember the good memories of our squad members when they were still alive.
because I was destined only in Manila, I preferred to join to again express to my dead squad members that I have not forgotten them.
each one of my squad members has value to me. but, there are some with fond memories carved to my heart and mind.
when I saw the grave of Lieutenant Colonel Ronaldo Sacatani of the Philippine Air Force, I instantly remembered our companionship in Maguindanao in 1997.
allow me to share my memorable experience in my assignment to the fort of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front in Central Mindanao when my company was transferred there, the 7th scout ranger company, in January 1997.
Maguindanao adventures
I arrived in Maguindanao on the 3rd of February 1997.
I was late to arrive there because I was the one who transported our Kennedy type jeep aboard a ship from Manila.
when I arrived, my hut was just finished.
it was made of coconut, as in the raw materials are 'all coconut' starting from the roof, ceiling and even frame of my bed.
let me call that the coconut palace I mean coco hut.
my new assignment was all right even though I still felt new.
our camp was in Barangay Mileb, Sultan in Barongis, Maguindanao.
we were beside the camp of the 78th infantry battalion and only two kilometers away there was the 11th infantry battalion.
some 3-4 kilometers from our camp, there was the Reina Regente Mountains and the Liguasan Marsh wherein the ranks of the MILF had spread in nearby areas.
in my second day at camp, I myself diligently supervised the creation of sandbags the side of my hut to catch the other bullets and shrapnel raining down every time there are harassments.
on the 5th of February, I decided to shop for additional supplies in the town of Tacurong where there was a single mall.
it was also my sideline back then to memorize the road nets in the area and where are the places with ambush areas.
it was around 7:00am back then, when I told my C.O. 1st Lieutenant Jason Aquino about my intention to go 'malling' in Tacurong.
'give my regards to the beautiful Illongas in Tacurong, Harold! beware of ambush sites between Mileb and Lambayong,' said my boss back then.
because I heard there were supposedly many beautiful Illonga girls there, I dressed up before leaving.
I was even wearing my bull ring and my golden pendant.
aside from that, I almost showered in perfume because I did not want to smell like a Musang in town.
that was my only concept of "winning the hearts" and minds at that time.
hmm.
where is the connection to Lieutenant Sacatani?
just wait bro.
let me continue.
it is close.
so, we traversed the road toward Tacurong that in estimate is more or less a 40 minute journey using our Humvee.
I could see Lambayong then by the front when I noticed the call on the hand-held radio I brought. on the other line was Lieutenant Aquino.
"Harold, abort your trip. I have an emergency situation here. we need your special skills at once," said my boss seemingly with worry in his voice.
in a situation like that, no more mental reservations.
must act immediately and maybe life is at stake.
"wilco instruction sir.
turning around and coming back in 20 minutes or less."
in short, Staff Sergeant Antonio, the veteran driver of the Humvee almost flew our vehicle so we can arrive instantly in our camp.
we did not know the nature of the emergency but we were ready to respond when necessary.
when we arrived at camp, I saw that there were two Huey choppers running by the helipad just a few meters outside the perimeter fence.
there were troops already on full battle gear standing outside my barracks. also there was my CO and my executive officer Lieutenant Mike Banua.
"hey sir, what happened and why does it seem that we have a deployment?"
there I heard the fastest mission briefing from my CO: "one infantry company of the 61st infantry battalion was pinned down at the bottom of Hill 292 in Shariff Aguak. sniper support is needed and you will lead together with one section of the troop.
the complete mission briefing will be there in the headquarters of the 61st IB.
the two choppers outside will be your vehicle.
you leave after 5 minutes!"
it was as if I was surprised and shocked. fear? worry. yes, I was suddenly worried for reasons I did not know.
because I had many thoughts.
maybe my attire was wrong. I had on a black suit. I was even wearing jewelry.
my equipment I had to complete in my combat pack. I don't know, I just suddenly had so much mental baggage.
"sir, perhaps after 5 minutes?
my backpack and special equipment too, I still have to prepare."
there my ex-o Sir Mike spoke: "don't worry Harold, I already packed up for you. I am sure you will not be hungry and have somewhere to sleep too. your poncho and hammock are there already."
I just laughed. just think it was the o-ex who even packed up for me. I had no reason anymore.
it was there I looked for my companions. they were 14, including my fighters Corporal Dimaano and Corporal Galamay, and I was the 15th.
"gentlemen, it looks like our destination is action-packed.
I also do not know the situation in the ground and our final briefing is still later.
let us just trust God that we will not be harmed.
we are the only ones our pinned down companions are waiting for.
rangers lead the way, lets go!"
I saluted to say goodbye to my officials.
and Lieutenant Aquino ordered to me: "take care of the troop Harold. you can do it!"
when the choppers we were riding rose, our companions even waved us goodbye.
I felt differently.
I could not understand.
I prayed.
I watched the wide plains below.
I was able to picture out my new hunting ground.
not much concealment apart from the coconut plantation.
the marshland was wide.
what if the fighting is there?
it was 9:00am then when we landed in the camp of the 61st IB in Shariff Aguak.
I was welcomed by S3 Lieutenant Ricky "Gary B" Bunayog, to head to their briefing area.
outside their office, I came across one of my close squad members Lieutenant Ronaldo 'Sac' Sacatani, who back then was pilot of an MG Attack helicopter.
Sac and I were together in the PMA powerlifting corps squad and known as the 'steel men' of the academy because we liked to carry hundreds of kilos of steel during athletic period.
of course, because squad members seeing each other in the field, we greeted each other before entering the briefing room.
I cannot forget his teasing: "Bok, you really are wild. only today I learned that warrior rangers fought like that. even wearing jewelry and you smell really good!"
I was speechless.
it was difficult to explain.
I was the only one wearing black suit at that time.
my buddies were wearing BDA.
"Bok, we are the modern Musang.
for war, for the mall too!
oops, do not abandon us below while I am helping the ambushed troop!"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
