<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_37289488.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
you can do nothing!
March 17, 2016 Senator Grace Poe, independent presidential aspirant, said in full confidence yesterday that her critics can no longer do anything once she is elected on May 9.
this is Poe's reaction to the motion for reconsideration (MR) submitted to the Supreme Court by those who want to disqualify her.
at present Poe does not want to acknowledge the petitioners questioning the decision of the Supreme Court to let her run for the highest position in the government.
"perhaps there is no message for them that they will accept.
let it be.
it is their right if they want to file, let them file," said Poe.
"I am not scared of them," added the senator because she holds onto the decision of the high court where seven judges allowed her to run, five did not and three had no decision.
according to the senator, she will just focus, according to her, her time and energy in campaigning to reach more people and personally say to them her plans if she wins president.
"what is important... if our fellowmen already have a decision and they have already voted, that is the strongest evidence that you are accepted and they can do nothing about it, and there is nothing they have to do there," according to Poe in front of supporters that gathered in her visit yesterday to Bacoor, Cavite.
lay off the coconut farmers, Grace!
a transparency group appealed to presidential candidate Senator Grace Poe to not use the coconut farmers and instead help to resolve their long-standing issue of the coco levy funds coinciding with the plea to not side with businessman Danding Cojuangco.
according to Filipino Alliance for Transparency and Empowerment (FATE) president Jennifer Castro, in the senator's public defense of Cojuangco, the coco farmers are worried that the resolution of the coco levy funds will be even more forgotten if Poe wins the May elections.
Castro also criticized that Poe's apathy of the coco farmers was noticeable even when she was the vice chairperson of the agricultural committee of the Senate.
she did not propose anything for the distribution of funds to the coco farmers.
"let us look at the record of the senator.
when she was vice-chair of the agricultural committee, Senator Poe should explain why, the bill was not passed in the Senate when she is its co-author.
hope she does not use the sector of coconut farmers," Castro stated together with challenging the senator to find out the history of the coco levy instead of siding immediately with the side of Cojuangco whom she suspects is one of the financiers of the senator's campaign.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
