<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_83308025.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
the MNLF 'integree' in Silangkan (leadership experience part 11)
I was in the middle of my breath pause while making out the noise-generating target by the forest half a kilometer from the boundary of Barangay Silangkan when I recognized our target.
"son of a gun! wild boar!"
a Visayan soldier said in a whisper, "ihalas!"
the wild boar that crossed about 50 meters away from our skirmishers formation was big.
it was as if we were plunged with cold water.
I assumed it was lively action again against the bandits.
because there are so many pigs around the island province of Sulu and in here are all sorts of species.
what I saw was like a small water buffalo because of its length and height.
my guess is it is one variety or sub-specie called Bornean wild boar that swims and crosses towards the islands of Sibutu in Tawi-tawi.
because the residents of Sulu are 99% Muslim, a conservation project is no longer necessary there because they do not touch these animals.
Muslim hunters are rare and snitched to the Christians especially the soldiers.
we reorganized again and passed our observation to our BATCOM through radio.
even those in the back were on alert in case what we saw really was an enemy.
when I received the order to continue movement, we walked again.
it was around six o'clock in the morning when we approached the front of the houses.
I stopped the patrol about 200 meters from the houses to recon.
using a 10x power Nimrod sniper scope and the Steiner binoculars, we scanned the surroundings to study the area well.
"sir, there are two armed men.
wearing BDA uniform," said Corporal Gil Galsim, one of my team leader and sniper.
I confirmed his observation and preferred to study it thoroughly.
I found that the armed men had M16 rifles and wore the red patch of the 1st infantry division.
"that is a Tabak patch.
red triangle with a dagger in the middle," I answered.
because the patch of the 1st ID is based on the dagger of the scout ranger.
according to the older Musangs , scout rangers composed the first personnel of the Tabak division in Nueva Ecija back in the day.
of course, they do not want to turn their backs on being a Musang so they made their unit patch the Tabak, as mark that they are also fighters that came from the ranks of the Musang .
in our snooping and peeping at the area, we also saw 4 more armed men with all sorts of weapons.
some wore slippers, some wore shirts only and there are some who seemed to be carrying an attaché case in the manner of carrying his gun.
by the back of their location there were children playing and elders as if relaxing and enjoying the fresh gust of wind of the Sulu Sea.
"this is what was being said. it is unclear already. we cannot figure out who they are," I muttered with a mix of annoyance because we were again in a tricky situation.
it is always our problem to figure out who is the enemy and who is not.
in estimating the situation, my guess is they are not Abu Sayyaf but they may have relatives there who are bandits.
when I confirmed the location in the map, we were in the vicinity of the 'recognized MNLF camp' in that area.
I really need to know the true enemy no matter how.
I tried not to shoot at them because I do not want to be blamed in the end and many will be involved.
we may be able to send the armed men to fall on their backs in only the first round of gunfire, but it cannot be helped that there will be innocent civilians around their location who will get involved.
there I made a decision: approach the armed men directly and talk to them.
I knew that what I will do is a gamble so we planned a way to minimize risks and for us to be properly backed up.
the first I did was mark on the map the grid location of our position in objective rally point (ORP) and the position of the suspected enemy (target).
I talked to all the team leaders.
"the team of Boni and of Tayros will come with me," I said in our briefing.
"the team of Panganiban and of Cayabyab are support elements who will join us in case of gunfire."
"the team of Galsim and Sabarre will provide support by fire."
the sniper should aim at the front of the armed men.
do not shoot until they raise their gun first and shoot at us," I strictly advised.
I was confident that we were not disadvantaged.
at a distance of 200 meters, hitting the bandits were just peanuts to my troops.
for snipers, even if the mark of the 7.62mm round is between the eyes.
I passed on my plan to the battalion and requested for the 81mm mortar to be laid to support us.
because I was impressed by the skill of the mortar section of the 32snd SF company in our first encounter.
because its kill radius was accurate and at 35 meters, those fighting us will be ashamed.
the fire direction center just has to be good, its operators and of course, the forward observer who will adjust the fires.
if one of them fails, we will be hit by mortar rounds in our position.
one more danger to our situation there is that we at the front were in the gun target line.
a few mistakes in giving the range (distance), we will be included in the casualties.
I handed over everything to Sir Bobby Morales because this is what he studied in Fort Benning, Georgia wherein at a distance of 3km they hit T72 tanks with mortar rounds.
Batman I mean BATCOM will be in charge.
at the same time, also on alert were the 20th SRC led by Lieutenant Sam Yunque, the 12th SRC that back then was brought by Lieutenant Binalla and the SF company of Lieutenant Nick Banzuela to help us in case the enemy plans to mob us.
no one left behind!
before we finally left ORP, I gave reminders to my companions:
"let us approach them as if relaxed.
low carry the gun but the chamber is loaded.
we should not be threatening to them.
in case we are shot at, skirmishes to the front immediately and blast them with volume fire while carefully executing break contact."
like before, I needed to emphasize our number one rule:
"no matter what happens, no one is left behind!"
I felt that we were all experiencing tension while approaching.
I joined the 1st team so I myself will be the first to talk to the armed men.
I know what we would be doing was very dangerous but that was the only way I saw to confirm if they were really enemies or not.
I cannot stomach killing 'friendly forces' and be the cause for additional conflict.
included in our P240.00 combat pay and P120.00 hazard pay is that, facing danger.
about 100 meters from where the armed personnel positioned, they can already see us because we hit the very road going to their barangay.
I saw one wave.
the other armed men simply hid at the back part of the house, while three were just calm and walked forward to welcome us.
one them stared at the 'pispis' (amulet) I wore on my head.
I saw that he also had one and examined his uniform.
really a battle dress attire of the 1st ID and he was an official.
he approached our team smiling and first spoke.
"sarge, which one of you is an official?"
Private First Class Dumago looked back to me as if not wanting to say that I was his company commander.
I released my slung AUG Steyr and shook hands with him.
"Salam brother, I am 1st Lieutenant Cabunoc, their commander."
he hugged me according to the customs of the Muslims.
"Alaikumusalam! I am 2nd Lieutenant Aberin.
I guarded my relatives here in Silangkan."
I wondered how he was deployed there when he should have been integrated and be there with his mother unit.
he is part of the 5,500 former members of the MNLF forces included in the ranks of the army (aside from the 1,500 included in the ranks of the PNP) starting 1997, according to what is stated in the GRP-MNLF Peace Agreement in 1996.
"how did you end up here? is your unit assigned here?"
he said a lot.
like he did not want his relatives to be affected by military operations.
like he was supposedly requested by Maas (Professor Nur Misuari).
because it was still fresh in my mind the briefing to me by those from intel that on the month of February 2000 two of the MNLF "integree" Private First Class Tating Asbari who was a member of the 51st infantry battalion, 1st infantry division, and Private Abdun Isnari of the marine training unit, who were killed together with four Abu Sayyafs in an encounter by the marines there in the mountainous area.
there were much more decent ones of them and loyal to the AFP but it cannot be helped that there will be disobedient ones.
I knew there was a problem with what he did because he did not serve in his unit and it seemed as if he even served in the MNLF unit in Silangkan.
still, I could not do anything there aside from reporting what I saw.
what is important to me, is there was no gunfire.
the men came out of the houses.
others had guns, others just peeked through windows.
so that place was itself already a part of the 'recognized' MNLF camp.
it was vague, you do not know the boundary of their camp.
this was not like Camp Aguinaldo or Fort Bonifacio whose outer limits were clear.
in addition to that, it did not resemble a camp instead was just like an ordinary barangay.
the difference, there were fox holes at the side of the road and some houses had running trenches.
their community was meant for war.
I reported my situation to battalion TCP.
I said we were on the threshold of an MNLF camp.
when the troop of Lieutenant Yunque followed me, he ended up exclaiming about the beauty of the sea and coast there.
"bay, like Boracay!"
it is because, the sand is fine and the water is clear there.
as if the scenery is inviting us to wade like we were in an island resort.
"it is okay here, bay, really like Boracay in its beauty."
makes you lose battle stress.
just do not look behind because you will be overwhelmed to see the forest of Indanan and Talipao where the bandits have spread!"
I ended up sighing.
I felt that the beauty of the lands owned by the descendants of Rajah Baguinda and by Sultan Jamalul Kiram were wasted.
if only the place was not troubled, tourists from the whole world should be scrambling to visit this very beautiful place.
I was brought back from my thoughts.
we still had a mission.
"you are an animal Robot, where did you hide!"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
