<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_99536223.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
his immediate responsibility by Pinoy Weekly
national issues needed to be faced by the Duterte regime.
what should be the content of the State of the Nation Address (SONA) of President Duterte?
different progressive organizations have initially presented the 15-point People's Agenda to Duterte.
for the progressives, this should hopefully be the focus of SONA.
but most of those in the agenda are for the larger change in the society.
what are the immediate cases or issues in relation to these agenda which should better be addressed first by the new president?
the Pinoy Weekly put a content to these agenda - concrete issues that should be faced by Duterte in each people's agenda.
support national sovereignty and integrity in the territory of the Philippines
the Duterte administration expressed that it will continue the assertion of the sovereignty of the country of the West Philippine Sea.
the difference in Duterte, he wants to launch a bilateral talk with China.
but he has initially said that he has not seen any mistake in the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement or EDCA.
about the Visiting Forces Agreement or VFA, Duterte said previously that this should be dismissed because this is not helping the Filipinos.
what is good, he attacks US again whom he said to have been bringing terrorism in the countries in the Middle East because of its interference to these countries.
respect human rights and embody democracy.
Duterte has been open to the release of political prisoners.
but the incidents of killings of those suspected drug users and pushers are now controversial.
this is condemned by various groups.
according to Karapatan, a human rights group, their stand against extrajudicial killings in any individual remains.
meanwhile, the Department of Justice dismissed the cases against the Lumad leaders and their supporters in helping the Lumad evacuees in the United Church of Christ in the Philippines - Haran in Davao City.
assert the decision of the nation in its own livelihood, take care of the national patrimony
Duterte has initially criticized the World Trade Organization (WTO), a global organization which is pushing for the opening of the markets of countries to be benefited by imperialist countries.
but the content of the 10-point economic plan of the government is the continuance of the neoliberal policies in the economy.
the duty now of Duterte, turn his back from those policies which are worsening the poverty of the citizens.
launch a national industrialization
Duterte said that he agrees with industrialization.
the statements of the adviser of the president for the economy RJ Jacinto are positive in relation to the plan of rising the metal industry.
but despite of this, the enticement to foreign capitalists continues - not to capitalize in the industrialization of the country but for the cheap work force and exploitation of natural resources.
implement the authentic land reform
Duterte has a go-signal to solve the problem in Hacienda Luisita.
the Department of Agrarian Reform, through the leadership of Sec. Rafael Mariano, released a status quo order.
these steps are positive.
but the monopoly of few families and corporation of big agricultural lands still remain in the country.
for the minimum, the Genuine Agrarian Reform Bill of Makabayan needs to be certified as urgent in the Legislative Chamber.
raise the salary, livelihood of workers
according to Labor Secretary Silvestre Bello III, the marching order of the president to him is the dismissal of contract-based employment.
but just recently, Bello also said that perhaps the end of the "endo" or end of contract will be commenced on the year 2017.
but he has not been saying if he is going to fulfill the wish of the workers for a National Minimum Wage.
meanwhile, aside from the increase of wage and dismissal of the end of contract, the Workers' Agenda of the May One Movement (MOM) also includes the respect of the rights of workers to form a union.
enlarge public service
Duterte is not yet retreating the policy on privatizing public housing and relocation.
the positive, he promises that there is no demolition until there is no relocation.
meanwhile, privatized or going towards privatization of the hospital like the Fabella Memorial Hospital.
all public services - housing, education, health, transportation, communication and livelihood - are privatized.
the public character should be given back to the citizens and not to businesses and foreigners.
covered the issue in the print edition of the Pinoy Weekly released this July 24, 2016.
stop anomalies and all forms of irregularities and corruption
the former president Estrada and Arroyo are ousted and jailed because of anomalies and other sins towards the nation.
in the recent not-guilty announcement for Arroyo for anomalous cases, there is a need to call for an answer from all corrupt such as former president Aquino and all his accomplices.
from the Disbursement Acceleration Program and Priority Development Assistance Fund to the Conditional Cash Transfer and 4Ps, the systematic corruption needs to be finished.
lessen the military budget, allocate it to the economy and public services
it is clear that the military force is laid back, from nationalist principles to equipment and facilities.
the high budget which has been allocated for a long time should be ended, especially that it continues the mercenary tradition of creating violence in the state and being used by private and foreign politicians and business.
the funds for violence is too high, while public services, wages for teachers are snatched and glared by spiders.
uphold a patriotic, democratic, scientific and progressive system of education and culture
aside from K-12, the discussion centered in the excision of the Filipino language as a subject in the schools, while the incorrect and crooked discussion of the history of the Philippines in textbooks have become issues.
this should be given a full notice so that the patriotism of our students will not be lost and make sure of the patriotic education for the next generation.
uphold equality of gender and fight against sexual and gender discrimination
the discrimination towards the gay, lesbians and transgender communities continues cause by the patriarchal orientation of our culture.
but the struggle of the community continues to achieve equality in the eyes of the society towards them.
ensure a brilliant use of natural resources and take care of the environment
the exploitation of the environment in the country continues especially by foreign mining companies.
laid now in the new administration is the dismissal of the policies which have bad effects to the environment such as the Executive Order 79 of Aquino.
respect the rights of the national minority for self-determination and development
the Lumad in Mindanao calls to stop the military operation in their ancestral lands so that they can come home.
the suspension of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources to the destructive mining in their places which are part of their ancestral lands is a huge help.
part of these mining are the Benguet Corporation, Nickel Mines Incorporated, Zambales Diversified Metals Corporation, LNL Archipelago Minerals Incorporated and Eramen Minerals Incorporated.
continue the peace negotiation with NDF and complete those with the MILF
the government and the National Democratic Front has preliminary talks in Oslo, Norway even before Duterte formally steps in office last June.
Duterte has been open to the talk with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front.
the duty of Duterte now, to ensure the continuance of peace talks even there is a much pressure from the military and the US government against it.
persevere for an independent international law
Duterte promises to fulfill the previously signed international agreement even it is clear that most of these are against the sovereignty.
along with review of the unequal agreement, Duterte needs to show that we are not going to be subjugated under the interest of the US or any imperialist in the international relations of the Philippines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
