<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_10994489.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
editorial: save even just a bit!
December 21, 2016
every time Christmas comes, many people act like millionaires when spending money.
because, the money held is bigger than what is regularly received so there, full blast also in spending.
what is only surprising about Pinoys, budget really well in small earnings.
but if there is 'extra' received, also wastes money well.
the word 'saving' might not really be part of the culture and mindset of the Pinoy.
small or big income, it is the same.
no savings.
do not know how to save in excess.
Pinoys are typical 'happy go lucky' in general.
life is enjoyed like "today" is the last day.
this is one of the good attributes of a Pinoy so we are known to be a happy race.
whatever problem arrives, cheerfully go through it.
that is because life is carried lightly.
if there is none, sacrifice.
if short, make do.
anyway, if there is a lot or in excess, full blast also.
this does not need to be changed in whole.
it is right to enjoy life and do not worry too much about what has not yet happened.
but it is important that when it comes to money that Filipinos have foresight.
this needs to be learned.
this needs to be practiced.
learn to save if there is excess, especially in times of 13th month pay and bonus.
December has no difference to the month of January to November so there is no reason for the manner of spending to change.
the amount of budget that fits after 11 months, should be the same spent every December.
or if there is a slight increase on budget, it should not be to consumer all the additional blessing received.
especially in this coming year of 2017.
there is no assurance on what the flow of the country's economy or the work of the members of the family will be.
what if there is an unexpected unpleasant event?
what if the source of income is suddenly lost or inflation rate suddenly skyrockets or there is conflict in other countries and the crisis affects oil which is relied on the pricing of all products?
there should be savings that can be pulled out somehow!
</TEXT>
</DOC>
