<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_85188085.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
helicopter versus slow response during calamity
what is really happening in the government now that calamities are happening one after the other?
with the complaint of the public to the media, its assistance is very slow and very insufficient.
on the other hand, it faster than lightning in fattening its more than 200 lawmakers in Congress.
nothing arrives
according to victims of calamities, it takes an eternity for the government to reach them for help.
of course, we cannot belittle the desire, for example, of soldiers and police to help together with the civilian organizations and individuals.
but transportation for a quick action is the real problem.
hence there are the many deaths, injuries, hunger, sickness, and other misfortunes that the people experience.
broken bridge, deep flood
when bridges and roads get destroyed, those who want to help even the search and rescue team, get immobilized.
this is also the case when floods are high during the typhoon season.
the government has amphibian trucks again but just one at a time.
they are even often under repair.
even the Philippine National Red Cross uses it one at a time.
just walk
so, those who provide assistance just walk.
because of this, they can bring very little food, medicine, water and other needs of the victims.
while those who provide aid walk, they also deplete the supplies they have brought.
they might be able to return alive from hunger, sickness and other misfortunes.
the boats that can be used can only carry little and if they run out of gasoline, it is also a big problem.
paddling won't do because there are fast currents and when will paddling get on you on time, huh?
helicopter is needed
the issue we are hitting here, bros, is the use of helicopters in emergencies and calamities.
in truth, the flying coffins of the military and the police are scary.
these came from junkshops and surplus shops because these flew during the time of the Vietcong in 1960 and 1970.
this is the reason why we don't trust these helicopters especially they crash from time to time.
not a priority
it appears that the government does not prioritize having civilian helicopters for the needs of the people.
if the government is interested in having helicopters, they want the ones for war.
there are no calamities, no civilians.
everything is for war.
it seems like taking a gamble by fighting in war is more important than helping those affected by calamities.
that's how serious the people see the government's negligence of public service at times of emergency and calamity.
waging war is expensive
do you know, bros, the price of war helicopters, especially if they are made by Americans?
the cheapest is $10 million each.
but these are also old.
those priced at $20 million are good and all-weather, and they can fly even at night.
civilian helicopters
in the face of calamities, war helicopters are not needed.
for civilian.
and this is where we thought of looking for helicopters we could buy and could be used by the government.
just cheap
we were surprised by the price of second-hand helicopters, especially the small ones for 2-4 people.
each one costs 155,000 dollars or 800,000 pesos.
the others cost up to $1 million each or P43 million each.
26 passengers
but there are new helicopters that can fit 26 people.
for example, those Mi-171A1, Ka-62 made in Russia.
10 helicopters like this, Bros, are 2.5 billion only.
we thought the government can buy many helicopters so the people in the government can deliver humanitarian aid, food, medicines and many others because these helicopters can fit many people.
P24B PDAF, P13B DAP
this is where we thought of the pork barrel that our abusive lawmakers, Bros.
every year, the congressmen and senators have 24 billion pesos in the Priority Development Assistance Fund.
in the last three years of the government today, they again gave 13 billion pesos as pork barrel to the lawmakers from the Disbursement Acceleration Fund.
what if pork barrels like these are used to buy the aforementioned helicopters in order to quickly assist people devastated by calamity?
hey, "senatong," "tongressman" and "konsuhol" in Malacanang, we are challenging you about this.
oOo
any complaint or comment can be sent through 09214303333.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
