<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_52563433.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
haircut continues here in barangay U_P campus to four cut one on one .
you know we have chosen this barangay because there is not much place for haircut .
it means they have no barber shop they have no parlor .
they still need to go there in U_P commercial U_P shopping center to have a haircut .
so if there are some -- some of them who have the ability to cut hair home service is possible .
the profit there is awesome right .
-- so if it is a home service how much is charged for a haircut ?
actually fifty too around that .
fifty fifty so %incomplete
it depends if it's his friend or then there's still tip for that right ?
there is too .
so if fifty fifty you can have ten then you have five hundred right .
so earlier we have discussed the different needs only the basic because in this we already have a blower and iron the curlers etcetera .
so earlier you have mentioned to me that actually the way you hold a scissor is the first hole should have the ring finger while the thumb is underneath and only one finger is moving the one right in %incomplete
the (()) thumb is moving .
after the use Ma'am of the comb well you are like a majorette you will release the thumb .
am I right ?
then you will hold the comb this is for sectioning then then you will flip it like this when combing nice .
then the sectioning follows right Edmond okay .
so here I used four section .
this is one of the techniques taught to us in the academy .
yes .
this technique is called the uniform layer .
uniform layer or why is needed to be sectioned like this ?
so for there to be -- the cut because there is a sequence .
yes .
so this sectioning it has a number .
this is the section one section two section three section four .
so we will know where we will start (()) where we will end .
okay so what section will start ?
in section one .
section one there .
so -- that is the first .
section %incomplete
two three and four very good .
oh dear your courses in David Salon Academy how long one lasts ?
we have fourteen days .
yes .
this is just the cutting or foundation cutting .
yes .
where in we teaches the six basic techniques .
yes .
then we also have two months course included the cutting men's and ladies .
yes .
coloring perming .
oh those are various courses and enrollment is also different .
correct right how much ?
fourteen thousand is the cheapest ?
cheapest that's for fourteen days .
of course and because it's a bit expensive here .
we'll give a fourteen-day course from David Salon Academy to those in here .
we'll draw that those who we'll draw .
go ahead Edmond draw one okay .
<no-speech>
sure you open it .
<no-speech>
and the one who will get the fourteen-day course here's the certificate of fourteen thousand Edna Espina .
whoa Edna here it is congratulations .
when can she start Edmond ?
by next month we'll have a new club that will be opening .
yes .
she can start then correct .
just call there Edna congratulations to you .
thank you very much Edmond .
thank you very much to our friends who came here today to teach how to cut hair .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
