<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_26875627.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
gimmick and business to the max is the fight of Geisler and Matos!
posted by: Jerry Yap
on June 24, 2016
in opinion
we can say that the two actors of the Philippine show business who are Baron Geisler and Kiko Matos do gimmicks well.
as said, an idle mind is a devil's workshop.
what we know, Geisler and Matos have no projects on movies or even television for some time.
until their fight in a bar in Quezon city happened.
we thought it was a scene that will finish in court...
but we were mistaken because the scene will finish in the Universal Reality Combat Championship's (URCC) MMA ring.
many clapped and were wowed upon learning that the street fight of Geisler and Matos will be made in to a formal fight.
but everyone who clapped and were wowed were also immediately surprised when they learned that big money will be earned on that brawl.
imagine it, the fight in the URCC fight night will continue on this coming June 25, 2016 at the palace pool club but big money is needed to be spent to watch it.
the "single entry" is P1,200 (1 ticket no consumable drink nor food).
in the mezzanine skybox, worth P60,000, that includes 15 tickets and P20,000 consumable.
while in others will spend P60,000, P50,000, P45,000, P40,000 up to P35,000.
there is also consumable food and drinks.
right?
isn't it clear that Geisler and Matos' fight and so-called reconciliation is a gimmick or a business?
paging movie producers and television networks, give projects to those two to have earnings instead of doing gimmicks to earn!
relatives incorporated showing off at Manila city hall
in fairness, there are really trusted people by Yorme Erap Estrada who can be trusted and really serve the nation.
many employees of the Manila city hall, now notice that there is a relatives incorporate that frequently meddle in the official function of some departments.
if the relatives incorporated does not earn, the projects of the serious, dedicated and determined officials in the Erap administration are terminated.
after which replaced allegedly by projects where they will earn but the office of the terminated project will still be used.
what is that?
we are inclined to believe that Erap was sentenced with plunder because of this people that he cannot refuse and afterwards pulls the entire family.
ouch!
mayor Erap, you are on your second term, maybe it is possible to work "instead" check those you "trust" that you do not know, in the desire to earn big and easy money are harming you?!
you did say, "I learned not to be trusting..."
use that as your guidance against those people who are sticking close to you, trailing off and pretending as your close acquaintance but abusing the use of your name.
maybe one day you wake up without your true and trusted people being ousted by those "close" to you.
unsolicited advice only.
all of war sa VK, no effect on MPD ps-10 at ps-4!?
it looks like the command of MPD district director general Rolando Nana to catch and confiscate all video race machines (vk) in the city of Manila to some of his station commanders is futile.
most of the police station commanders of the Manila Police District apparently obey the command of General Nana even if there is an issue that there is another 'player' that will enter and manage the video races in Manila?!
but police superintendent Leonardo, chief of the Manila police district Pandacan police station #10 and police superintendent Muarip of police station 4 appear to ignore command of general Nana?!
according to the residents of Pandacan, they were wondering why the video race machines of alias Tata Talyada were unfazed in their place.
how much er what is the reason, Colonel Leonardo??
by the way, is it true that you are spreading the news that your neighbor is incoming president Rody Duterte and he is also your playmate in betting?
that is what alias Tata Talyado was bragging about at the MPD HQ, so the officials who want a nice position should get close to him?
please explain colonel Leonardo!
answer the issue of Lawton illegal parking!
boss Jerry,
you are right in what you are doing on not to pay attention to those without credibility.
what they should answer is the issue on illegal parking in plaza Lawton that is dragging the Manila city hall.
why is the community and PCP Lawton that has jurisdiction on the area in plaza Lawton that is the nest of illegal parking not acting on this?
Erap said it right when he was asked what he learned this past election, he said... "I learned not to be trusting."
Erap apparently felt that he was betrayed by one of those he trusted who stole election funds from that illegal parking in Lawton.
and now, his name is being dragged by the older Burikak who is reigning in that illegal parking.
we know that "hired cheater" used by Burikak.
he is rejected here in the city hall because of his dishonesty on money.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
