<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_33507556.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Ronnie's helping hand
by being an open hand and helpful to others, our OFW countryman, Ronnie Albeus, has met success in Singapore.
even before Ronnie has reached Singapore, he is already an OFW in Saudi Arabia. he stayed there for almost six years to earn a living.
when his contract expired, he went home to the country to take care of his father who had a sickness.
year 1993, an opportunity arrived for Ronnie to go out of the country again and work in Singapore as an employee in Sun Tech City.
"I worked as a document control manager supervisor at the Suntech City project.
then after I completed my task, I become the company quality assurance manager.
in between, I do also the supervision of the safety management system in the company."
he narrated.
and because Singapore is organized and clean, Ronnie has loved to stay there.
according to him, the adjustment to a lifestyle there has become easier for him when he has become a member of the various organizations there, included here is a church group where he is one of the organizers of the mass which uses a Filipino language.
that was the start for him to feel the desire to build and compose an organization aspiring to support and guide our fellowmen who are needing help and support.
not long after, he was able to start the organizations such as Bicolano Association in the said country and the Filipino Catholic Community Association of Singapore.
here, the doors of more opportunities opened for him because he also became part and given a chance to act as the vice-president of the Overseas Filipino Workers in Singapore.
just a short time had passed, the ability of Ronnie as a leader was noticed again, he became the vice-president of the Filipino Association in Singapore until he was hailed and recognized as its president later on.
"the organization is looking forward to help others.
we do feeding program, reach out to those domestic helpers that are affected by their employments in Singapore, for those not
giving salaries, those molested, those raped and those other cases that were being handled by our labor attaché in Singapore.
we organize sports tournament, the search for Filipino idol to discover more talent and to make this people more productive while they are staying in Singapore, through this, we can discover and let this people be recognized, so they can maximize their talent and showcase it to the entire Singapore community."
sharing his projects and advocacy of their organization.
it can be said that Ronnie had indeed succeeded because not only in the recognition that he had received because of what he was doing, he also experienced attending the International Congress as a representative of his organization, and here he joined the international leaders of the whole world.
but for Ronnie Albeus, success is counted sweeter in helping others even in small ways in their time of need.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
