<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_74357133.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Anthony at barrio Malinao in Pasig .
and it is still here in the house of %incomplete
of Marjorie and off course we call it Marjorie because you thought it was a zoo .
your know Marjorie it is fun -- funny to think that because it is only my dream to take care of a lot of animals but now you are doing it .
do you still remember when you were young and animals were beside you ?
uh huh cat cat I like cats and also that .
but now you do not have a cat ?
none .
yes .
why %incomplete
they became dogs .
no because what do you this more because before that cat was just given to me .
yes .
that was my mother's before then now this is the .
<no-speech>
the number of your pets has now increased .
so how if it expanded this much ?
<no-speech>
your animals %incomplete
sometimes someone donates gives gifts also brings like a rescue center for animals yes .
uh huh .
but you do you also give %incomplete
yes .
or do you sell ?
-- we bread then we give to relatives to friends like that when %incomplete
so you are not selling it ?
we have not we are not selling .
that's a shame why not ?
yes .
no because once when the time we were selling like mostly to the those who had someone who died .
like they sulked .
okay just give the others to me I'll be the one to sell and then you have a share immediately .
all right .
well that's the one earlier %incomplete
yes Donita .
because to be honest I am somewhat scared of animals but %incomplete
yes .
since this morning up to now I had higher confidence because it's like you gave me tips .
yes .
you gave me trivia about animals and I was really entertained .
yes .
now I'm more comfortable and I'm expecting the children especially the children %incomplete
mhm .
when they come here they'll have awareness mhm and love for nature .
yes .
the the one you mentioned it was good that point was good viewers .
because if you know and then Donita was really scared of animals regardless if it's just dog or puppy they won't even bite she's still really scared .
yes .
it's great that we learned something about animals today .
yes and we know that character traits are personality .
here we were even feeding them earlier .
what we fed them was Chinese turkey .
this one is my favorite .
favorite .
my favorite .
this is the Bengala .
they call it Chinese turkey it's Chinese turkey .
they're shy when there's a big crowd .
they don't come near you but when we closed the door they attacked the cabbage we feed them .
yes yes .
and there's %incomplete
of course there are still many animals here .
and that -- this is the bigger one turkey .
yes .
this is native .
three months ?
yes three months .
so they're still young -- those ones ?
yes .
this is the child of your friend Donita that you were teasing big big big it's this one ?
when it moves big big big .
it's answering yes .
big big big .
this is what they call the native turkey they're really big they're just three months old .
they eat the feeds .
feeds .
the next one here are the %incomplete
that's your favorite ?
it's my second favorite .
these are the well they %incomplete
there are small arowanas but my favorite there is the pig nosed turtle nose like a pig's .
yes .
it was very literally %incomplete
that's what's called pig nosed turtle which Donita really enjoys .
if you can see it's really is like oink oink oink .
yes it also has -- one bigger than that that's really green and with a really big nose more mature yes .
but lent to others in order to breed .
yes that's what was fed .
this one too there are also what they call koi fish that really eat a lot because they eat a lot of yes pellets .
yes and then you can hear them like that that they fight for it .
like you said Donita you heard them chew bite the pellets .
ugh ugh like that .
here are the very many koi fish .
so they're also fun .
you know to be honest looking at and being with different kinds of animals really takes away the tiredness brought by stress the stress of problems .
this one what's behind us ?
Leopoldi stingray .
Leopoldi stingray .
yes .
is this also the one they said to be dangerous ?
because if we can remember sir last two thousand and six it's a stingray that killed Steve Irwin .
yes yes this is the one it's like we also cry Steve Irwin the Australian from Australia .
and known around the world .
yes two thousand six .
so can this also be considered deadly to humans ?
dangerous no .
actually it was not the cause of death the poison oops it's being eaten .
the cause of Steve Irwin's death is the stabbing of his heart .
so stingrays like this you will numb for a short while .
okay okay even if you are %incomplete
yes .
what ?
you will feel numb for a short while and then it will be gone .
okay thank you very much again Marjorie %incomplete
thank you Marjorie thank you very much .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
