<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_93304590.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
secret voting for BBL, guard
the Ad Hoc Committee of the Congress postponed the voting to approve or not the bill Bangsamoro Basic Law or only the controversial parts of it.
in our understanding, if only parts of it will be voted on, BBL is already passed?
but there added controversies: the proposal of some congressmen in the committee to make the voting a secret or an executive session.
some opposed it so the voting will remain open to the media and the public.
what will really happen on May 18-20, the election days?
something's unclear
the reason of some congressmen, the bill has unclear provisions so they requested to give them a chance to revise or carefully study these.
and at the right opportunity, they can set and insert the needed changes.
whatever those are, they are unclear to us.
but this opportunity is also a time to campaign to convince the majority or all members of the committee to vote.
is there a benefit to the congressmen who will vote impeachment style of former Chief Justice Renato Corona?
and those who push for the executive session are part of the money system of voting that will prevail in the end?
son of a gun, even the Constitution and the welfare of the whole nation are being turned into an act of comedy or a masquerade because of money?
who are they?
the committee should expose those who are pushing for an executive session and the members of the committee amenable to it.
this is for the people to scrutinize and know what they will do in the coming years like the 2016 election.
other hands that are pushing for a secret election should also be exposed, if it's the hand of Malacanang or foreigners, for instance.
remember that there are many deaths and questions on the separation or not from the Philippines of territories covered by BBL for approval or not of BBL or parts of it.
rebels
there are no indication that the Moro Islamic Liberation Front has yielded on its position that it is still a "rebels or a revolutionary group."
why?
do you see, Bro, that MILF has no indications to surrender its arms with its 10,000 fighters as the primary sign of recognizing the authority of the Philippine government?
even if there is a provision in the Comprehensive Agreement on the Bangsamoro that the disarmament should have begun a few months ago because the agreement was already signed?
and it is with these 10,000 armed men that strength of the BBL depends and the Bangsamoro Transition Authority or the starting Bangsamoro government because the MILF wants that these will form the military and police in their "territory".
for us, this is one of the controversial parts of BBL that should be given attention because the future of the places that MILF wants to take and rule depends on it and it is possibly the start of the separation from the territory and government of the Philippines.
a different mess
because of MILF's view of itself as a revolutionary if it does not get what is wants from BBL, including the control of its armed forces in its viewed territories, it will be in conflict with many especially those who disagree with it.
we are sure that possible groups that will fight, tooth for a tooth and eye to eye against MILF will come from this, and if that's the case a big war will erupt.
this is one of the things the congressmen and senators must consider.
the request for an executive session of the congressmen for a secret voting to hide it from the eyes and ears of the people is indicative that something is not right.
this is a sign of the lack of concern for the possible chaos or war for their mistake as long as they get money?
you are all sons of grasshoppers!
it is final
if you will listen to what the congressmen are saying, Bro, after voting on the BBL, they will quickly pass it to the Senate.
this is just normal work because they unify the statues of the Senate and the Congress and straighten the mistakes of the Bicameral Conference Committee as it is called or the third Congress as view by others.
this means that the voting to approve or not the BBL that the congressmen are saying is just a mock consolation.
and we let them take us for a fool getting money by making laws, just like before.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
