<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_65603883.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Still Mission impossible By Jimmy Cantor July 12, 2016 Mission Impossible ended early for Gilas Pilipinas.
after getting defeated by France in their first game, the national team was given a great chance to defeat New Zealand.
but however good the game we played with France, the badly we have shown against Haka of New Zealand.
For France, Tony Parker silently played during the eliminations and even during semifinals.
but when he needed to push thoroughly during finals, he showed how a star NBA point guard plays.
"I was saving it for last," he said after France defeated Canada for the sole Rio Olympics slot last Monday night.
when will we have one Tony Parker who will take-charge of Gilas Pilipinas?
Is this only one impossible dream?
we shall await on the next days what will happen to the appeal of Philippine Sports Commission to Pagcor to return to five percent of its gross income as support provided to the athletes of the country.
it is as stated by law.
but during the time of President Fidel V. Ramos, began the non-compliance of the law.
Almost only half of the five percent gross goes to PSC.
we are expecting that under the administration of President Duterte will the law be complied.
our athletes need all the support they can get to help them play at the Olympics and end our long wait for our first Olympic gold medal.
and because we are already talking about Pagcor, the top position for their Corporate Communications Department is vacant now.
we do not know if this will be read by President Duterte or even by the newly appointed Pagcor chair Andrea Domingo, but there is one long-time employee of Pagcor who is suitable for the said position.
None other than our former fellow journalist Jesse Ong, who has been serving the agency for 13 years.
we do not know about the plans of Madame Domingo, if she would prefer getting a person from within the agency for the said position, or not.
but what I know is, colleague Jesse is suitable to the position because he is armed with knowledge on how Pagcor can better help in all sectors of society. And he is supported by our other colleagues from different news and media outlets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
