<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_93499554.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
the truly lucky: reflection for 22nd Sunday in ordinary time year b - September 2, 2012
how is the religiousness of a person measured?
just because one goes to church can he be considered religious?
"Pepeng Mandurukot" has made it a habit to pass by the Quiapo Church and pray to his favorite patron the Holy Nazarene after a whole day of work.
"Holy Nazarene, thank you for giving me sharp eyes!
I was able to steal a cellphone from my seatmate in the bus earlier without difficulty!"
he suddenly heard a magical voice: "you are lucky Pepe ... lucky!"
he was shocked at the reply he received.
he did not pay much attention to it.
the next day after his "job" he again passed by the church.
"Holy Nazarene, thank you for giving me quick hands and feet.
the police who were chasing me did not catch up with me!"
again a mysterious voice appeared saying: "you are lucky Pepe ... lucky!"
Pepe was confused and at this point could not stop himself from asking.
"Lord, is that you?
what do you mean that I am lucky?"
and the voice replied: "you are lucky Pepe that the cross I bear is heavy.
if not I would have thrown it at you!"
hehehe ... perhaps this is just a story but has an important lesson to offer. true religion is not in outer appearances but in inner belief and application.
what did Jesus say about the Pharisees?
"Isaiah's prophecy about you is true.
you are hypocrites, like he wrote: 'respect offered by my people are merely superficial, because it comes from the lips and not from the heart."
how can I demonstrate being a Christian?
maybe I am just tied to rituals that are external worship and forget what is more important?
praying the rosary, joining processions, devoting to saints, going to church every Sunday are important.
but we must remember that that is not the only meaning of religion.
Jesus asks something more important from us.
as a famous preacher bishop said: "like when one who enters a garage does not become a car ... in the same way that whoever enters the church cannot immediately be called a Christian."
just because you attended mass you are not already a Christian!
the prayers of the devoted, the repeated mention of prayer, the daily lighting of candles are not guarantees if what comes out of our mouths are disrespect for others, bad words, defamation, judging the mistakes of others.
let us try to be real in our being Christians!
let us understand and follow truthfully the will of God.
listening with action is the real display that we are following him.
like what Saint James said: "if you only listen to it and not act it out, you only deceive yourselves."
those who are really "lucky" are those who listen to the Lord and live by his words.
it is nice to hear from the Lord the words: "you are lucky (your name) ... you are lucky!"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
