<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_40762508.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
scrap EDCA and fight the deepening intervention of imperialist US and Aquino being a puppet
Maria Laya Guerrero
Kabataang Makabayan
May 11, 2014
the agreement of the Aquino regime with its imperialist boss in bringing back the military bases of America to the country and opening the Philippines to unobstructed meddling of US military troops can be considered treason.
the Aquino regime's signing of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) on April 28 is an advance gift for the arrival of the head of the imperialist US Barrack Obama.
it contains provisions giving up the national sovereignty of the Philippines to the US and bold trampling on territorial integrity, democracy and rights of the Filipinos.
there was even attempt to make the EDCA look better and include the "humanitarian assistance and disaster relief" or HADR supposedly to the scope of EDCA.
these HADR are disguised PSYWAR operations and camouflaged military operations of the US and AFP like the ongoing stay of US troops in Eastern Visayas after typhoon Yolanda.
through EDCA, the US-Aquino government formalizes the increasing military presence of the US in our country and setting base like the 700 troops of the US based in Camp Navarro in Zamboanga since 2002.
the EDCA covers the conduct of military troops who freely remain in our territory, passing through, staying and hiding war equipment and nuclear weapons of the US in the country, setting up spying facilities and military bases, and trampling on the rights of our women, children and citizens.
the EDCA is clearly more encompassing than the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) of 1999 and worse than the US-RP Military Bases Agreement (MBA) signed on March 1947.
the MBA gave the US 99 years to use the military bases and other equipment inside the territory included in the base.
the prevalence of the bases would last almost up to 2046 according to the MBA, and it was only amended after protests of the people and 1991 was marked as its end.
in EDCA the prevalence of military bases, installation and military troops of the US in the country has no limit, even if it exceeds 100 years!
the Aquino regime and the US deceived the Filipino people, pretending to place a 10-year term on EDCA while the exact statement of EDCA "this agreement shall have an initial terms of ten years, and thereafter, it shall continue in force, unless terminated by either party by giving one year's written notice through diplomatic channels of its intention to terminate this agreement" (article XXII, section 4) is not an exact limit and compulsorily term limit and instead after 10 years the normalization of EDCA and continued operation of US bases and troops in the country.
"neither confirm or deny" is the policy of the US about the nuclear equipment so the Philippines cannot be sure that the US did not bring nuclear arms and any inspection by the Philippine government on the bases is not permitted according to the EDCA if it is not in line with the "security and safety" set by the US.
even after the expulsion of military bases in 1991, nuclear-capable submarines and nuclear-carrier ships like the USS Washington super-carrier, USS North Carolina, nuclear-capable submarine USS Hawaii, missile-destroyer USS Milius and others continued to dock on Philippine territory.
the Aquino regime agreeing to EDCA which states that the Philippines the courts in the country have no jurisdiction in cases or violations in the course of the stay of military troops and their equipment in the Philippines is direct surrender of national dignity.
the puppet agreement also agreed to not report any case to any international tribunal or court.
the serious cases like the rape of Nicole in 2005, shooting of Buyong-Buyong Isnijal and the violations like dumping of toxic waste and illegal navigation in protected places like what the USS Guardian did that ended in the destruction of the Tubbataha Reefs, were never answered by the US and its troops in line with the laws of the Philippines.
Aquino and allies are meek sheep bowing in signing the EDCA and the US using the Philippines as launching pad for the planned militarization of Asia Pacific.
the US wants to transfer 60% of its troops and military forces to Asia Pacific until 2020 not to mention the currently stationed US 7th Fleet under the US Pacific Command in the region.
the US which is currently experiencing severe economic depression, is pushing for the strategy "pivot to Asia and the Pacific."
the US wants to ensure that its economic interest in the region for capitalist super-profits will be carried out, and it is cordoning off the strengthening of China, as primary rival of economic power of the US in Asia Pacific and the world.
the US is fueling the conflict of the Philippines and other countries in East Asia against China.
instead of helping to resolve the Scarborough issue in a diplomatic manner, the puppet Aquino regime allowed US fighter jets to make rounds and launch fly-bys near the contested part of the South China Sea.
the US is pretending to help the Philippines in its issue with China about the Scarborough Shoal and Spratlys and the Aquino regime is using this argument so the people can accept the EDCA and the deepening involvement of the US.
under the US domination on all past regimes, the state has never created its own external policy that is not aligned with US interest.
currently the Aquino regime is positioning to make the conflict with China undergo negotiation for the Philippines' insistence on an exclusive economic zone (EZZ) on some parts of the South China Sea in a diplomatic action in the UN.
but the Aquino regime made it at the same time as the increasing tension with China through its partner absolute obedience to the US.
Aquino standing for the principle of national sovereignty and territorial integrity is not realistic while he wholly exposes the territory of the country to use and involvement of the US.
in history, the US has used the Philippines several times as a launching pad of its war aggression on the world.
included here are suppressing the Boxer Rebellion in China (1900), sending military troops to Siberia to help the czar (1918-1920), sending navy troops to Quemoy-Matsu in China to support Chang Kai Shek who made a base in Taiwan (1958), using bases for logistical needs of the US in the war in Korea (1950-53), the Marcos dictatorship sending troops to Vietnam and the US use of Clark as station of planes for attacking Vietnam (1965-1975), using Clark as a launching pad of the US Special Operations Forces that was sent to Iran (1980), sending military troops of the Philippines to the war and occupation of the US on Afghanistan and Iraq (2003).
every Filipino youth and citizen should remember the bloody war aggression of the US on the Philippines since 1898 and snatch the freedom experienced by the Filipinos after the Philippine Revolution 1986-1898 against the rule of Spain in the country.
considered in world history as the First Vietnam, the US colonization of the country caused US genocide that massacred almost 700,000 up to 1 million Filipinos who fought the imperialist occupation of the US.
at the end of the Second World War, was made a prize and the US ensured that the puppet government of the Philippines would absolutely depend on the assistance of the US for the reconstruction caused by war.
in exchange of assistance, it pushed for different agreements and treaties that all ensure the imperialist control of the US on the Philippines even if it is not a direct colony anymore.
the US-RP MBA of 1947 is a refining of the Treaty of General Relations of 1946, which gave legal basis for the stay of US military bases and one of the conditions of the US is the fake offering of the 1946 independence to the Philippines after directly colonizing us.
the Mutual Defense Treaty signed on August 1951 is used by the US and all past puppet regimes to give legal basis to the VFA, Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) and EDCA.
it confirmed the neocolonial relations of the Philippines and the US and dragged the Philippines to support all the wars the US is involved in.
the Marcos dictatorship also used the military base to gain the complete support of the US in the fascist state and collect rent and billion-dollar debts from the US in exchange for Marcos allowing the stay of US military base in the country.
the US followed with ensuring dominance on the economy and politics of the country after 1946 by dictating to the following puppet governments and signing the Bell Trade Act of 1946, Parity Rights Amendment in the 1935 Constitution.
these treaties gave equal rights to the US to completely use the natural resources of the country, liberalization in trade, cheap wages and work force for the corporations the US will set up.
the next puppet governments mandated and strengthened the dog-owner Philippine-American relations under the colonial-like and feudal-like characteristics of Philippine society.
the imperialist US is restraining the people's attainment of true independence and freedom, progress and social justice.
the current US-Aquino regime through the order of its boss the imperialist US continues to implement neoliberal regulations in favor of only monopoly-capitalist US, foreign and big local capitalists and landlords like Aquino.
which is why the agreements like EDCA and planned Chacha today in the Aquino Congress is a collusion with its imperialist boss to continue the rule of the US on the politics, economy, military and culture of our country.
Chacha further opens the country to further US abuse on the economy and increasingly block the goal of true land reform and national industrialization.
Chacha will force the opening towards the currently prohibited 100% foreign ownership of land, corporations, services like education, hospitals and media in the country.
the absolute obedience of the Aquino regime to the imperialist US cannot stop the weak economy and poverty of the majority of the people, lack of land, low pay and abuse of workers, lack of jobs and social services.
this abuse is continuously answered by the fight of the people and revolutionary movement.
the youth should return to history and the rule of imperialist US on our country.
the youth and the people should be united and strengthen the campaign for the scrapping of EDCA and military troops, and related neoliberal regulations and plans like Chacha.
widespread awakening, propaganda and mass education should be launched about EDCA, Chacha and its roots on the foundation of Filipino society's problems - imperialism, bureaucrat-capitalism and feudalism.
let us launch numerous study circles and discussion groups in schools and offices, mass councils in the factory and community and different kinds of discussion and forms of increasing the unity of the youth and people.
more than ever, the Filipino youth should now stand against the disgusting puppethood, oppression, fascism and abuse of the corrupt Aquino regime and its followers, and the ongoing rule of the imperialist US in all parts of Filipino society.
the loud protest of the Filipino youth together with different public sectors against EDCA, return of military bases and deepening involvement of the US will contribute to the ongoing public struggle for true national freedom and democracy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
