<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_39702591.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
'national war for peace'
the revolutionary army movement in south Mindanao showed its force last December 26.
its message: the residents desire a peace based on justice.
Davao city - in one whole day, the center of attention of the entire country is one formerly quiet town in the district of Paquibato in the said city.
this is because this mountainous place is of one of the biggest cities in the country, a country assembly on peace was done.
along with it, this is also where the anniversary of the "only political party in the entire country" was celebrated (said by many experts on Filipino politics); the party leading the Filipino revolution today: the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP), that was established 48 ago.
it was estimated to reach 15,000 civilians, supporters and part of the CPP participated in the whole day gathering last December 26.
along with it the celebration also in different parts of Mindanao and the entire country.
but in Paquibato, the entire Red Bagani Batallion of the New People's Army (NPA) marched, for the first time in public.
the image they are showed, image of a disciplined, uniformed, well-groomed and happy armed force of the revolution.
pinoy weekly and PinoyMedia center attended this gathering, that started with a formation inspection in Red Warrior battalion to show respect to the CPP.
according to Porferio Tuna, Junior, who is included in those leading the conducted formation inspection, "it is only right that we show respect and acclaim the efforts and the victories achieved by our party."
but more than celebrating the extent that was reached today by the revolutionary forces, this assembly is an occasion to talk about the status of the peace talks between the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP, that represents the revolutionary forces that is led by the CPP and participated by the NPA) and the administration of President Duterte.
"a lot has been promised to the people by president Duterte... in that state, our own strength and effort will push him in order to fulfill his promises," explained by Tuna.
and that has been the tone of the whole day gathering: giving respect to the revolutionary forces (including those who offered their lives in fighting), while facing the current status of negotiation with a president who actually came from Davao city and at one time showed himself as a "leftist president" who is a friend of the revolution.
as recognized "friend", a number of leading members of the cabinet of Duterte attended.
also in the audience were the members of the panel of the government in negotiations with the NDFP, led by Labor secretary Silvestre Bello III.
facing them, who also conducted a press conference in the place of celebration, the members and consultant of ndfp who are negotiating with the government, lead by Luis Jalandoni (former lead negotiator who is now a senior advisor of the NDFP negotiating panel), Coni Ledesma, Tuna (consultant representing Mindanao), and others.
also attending is the former political prisoner free last August to participate in the peace talks-the consultant of NDFP in Visayas who is Concepcion "Concha" Araneta-Bocala.
"the government of Duterte thought that after we were freed, we will stop our actions.
we will not stop until the fundamental talks are not faced especially in the field of socio-economic reforms that is the support or reason of the revolutionary," explained by Araneta-Bocala.
like in the past, Jalandoni clarified that the NDFP is prepared to study the proposed reforms of the Duterte regime, including the federal system being pushed.
"if the federal system will be helpful to the people and it is liked by the mass, the movement may become open in order to study this and ensure that the benefit is for the good of the Filipino mass," he explained.
however, explained by Tuna, the Duterte government need to recognize having a separate revolutionary government in the Philippines that is lead by the NDFP.
"the government of the oppressed mass has its own government, court, army and concrete programs like the agrarian revolution (including the) distribution of land to farmers, decreasing the usury and collectively progress the agricultural production," Tuna said.
the NDFP allegedly has its own program on health, education, and other heath services in the barrios in the Philippines.
"we can stand according to our own strength so wherever the peace talks reaches we revolutionaries are ready," he also said.
explained by Eduardo Genelsa, fellow consultant of the NDFP in Mindanao, the revolutionary fight in Mindanao has its "own context".
"this was born by the long experience and tight discipline in order to overcome weaknesses.
in the intense betrayal of the fascist military of the mass and movement it was able to stand and be skillful both in tactical and strategic fighting."
this means, in the support of the people in Mindanao, the revolutionary government was founded and established in this town.
the NPA, CPP and NDFP are prepared to strengthen and widen the scope of this revolutionary government for the welfare of the people with or without peace talks.
in the said press conference, a number of the mass that are supporters of the revolution listened and attended.
this also became an opportunity to report to them the status of the negotiation, while fortifying the commitment to continue the revolution - with or without peace talks.
but of course, they largely recognized the good opportunity of the peace talks to push the revolutionary program of the NDFP on the negotiations for the socio-economic reform and political-constitutional.
before the day ended, a number of the assembly participants lighted and flew lanterns as symbol of the desired peace based on justice.
"people's war is for people's peace" is the theme of the gathering, and this message was strongly sent by the revolutionaries who attended and the public who witnessed this assembly through the media.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
