<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_49751847.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
OrMin development program, approved by PDC
November 13, 2016
Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, November 13 (PIA) - four important development programs of the province were recently approved by the Provincial Development Council (PDC).
among the approved are the following: disaster risk reduction/climate change adaptation - enhanced provincial development and physical framework plan (DRR/CCA-PDPFP) 2016-2025; provincial development investment program (PDIP) 2017-2019; annual investment program 2017; and the provincial commodity investment plan for calamondin and coconut 2017-2019 of Oriental Mindoro under the Philippine Rural Development Project (PRDP).
according to Governor Alfonso V. Umali, Junior, this is the first meeting of the reorganized PDC based on his Executive Order No. 80 series of 2016, that states the reorganization of the PDC and its other related objectives.
at the said meeting, OIC - Provincial Planning and Development Coordinator, Lydia Muñeca S. Melgar presented the DRR/CCA -PDPFP 2016-2025.
this is the joint Physical Framework Plan and Provincial Development Plan which involves the long term vision of the province, development goals, strategies, objectives and targets, and programs and activities which will serve as basis for the provision of provincial investment, allocation of funds and their implementation.
the governor also announced his executive agenda for the years 2016 - 2019 which includes the 10-point agenda of the Provincial Government to ensure the advancement of agriculture and eco-tourism as the key industries that will further the province's development.
meanwhile, to provide an affordable health services especially for those most in need, quality education that gives importance to cultural and traditional values and efficient social services are the primary goals of the Social Services Sector discussed by the Provincial Social Welfare and Development Officer Zarah C. Magboo.
to ensure there is an adequate food supply, prosperous tourism and business opportunities, preservation of the environment and natural resources, a well-established communication system and public services was presented by Provincial Agriculturist Christine M. Pine.
a responsible and an active government with integrity that meets the needs of its people, good relationship and partnership with other government agencies and private sectors, and good financial capabilities are the goals of General Public and other Services Sector discussed by Provincial Budget Officer Nennette M. Pineda.
Pine also discussed the Provincial Commodity Investment Plan for calamondin and coconuts.
it is one of the programs of the PRDP where various products of the province will be developed.
aside from calamondin and coconut, programs for virgin coconut oil, banana, seaweeds and rice products will follow.
(CPRSD/LTC/PIA-Mimaropa/Calapan)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
