<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_50794480.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
(()) six o'clock in the morning .
mm and here is our guest this morning .
miss Francis Grace Duka-Pante director of ASEAN Training Center for Preventive Drug Education .
and we will talk about how to veer away especially our youth from illegal drug addiction or those drugs .
good morning director Francis Grace .
good morning also to all of you .
yes good morning .
to our television viewers %incomplete
and welcome to RadyoBisyon .
mm .
primarily ma'am we will ask you a background first to explain it well to our patronage .
what is the give us a backgrounder here on ASEAN Training Center for Preventive Drug Education .
yes please .
this is an office .
which is in the University of the Philippines uh huh in the College of Education .
mm and the mandate of the office is to give training for the prevention of drug abuse .
okay prevention .
it means how to avoid mm yes our fellowmen from illegal drugs .
mm that .
it is like that mm what you said Sir Allan is exactly right .
mm so where are you giving or -- serving the training ?
actually we are hosting it here in the Philippines but in Southeast Asia right our target (()) participants .
aah so just like last year mm we gave live skills training for them .
that one conducted at Manila Hotel .
okay .
and here almost nine countries in Southeast Asia participated mm and they usually send us delegates those mm officials whose mandate from the office is prevention .
right .
aha okay .
so training through seminars how about your school visit ?
is there also actually it's because drug use prevention is extensive .
mm this is also for various settings yes okay .
so like sir the schools mm those communities .
mm here in the Philippines we have anti-drug abuse councils yes yes okay that are focused on our barangays mm so they are included with those we are training sir .
uh huh okay .
and the dangerous drugs board is the funding agency mm of the center .
mm then earlier Ma'am Grace had been mentioning also about the protective factors .
what are these ?
aah the protective factors of course include their that faith no in God .
mm that is very important .
mm and of course one solid family .
that .
because that very strong value in the family that is sure to be helpful to avoid the youth yes on drugs .
and of course everything starts in the family right ?
mm right okay .
so the basis is your studies right because you mentioned family right ?
what are the situations in one family that possibly directly or indirectly induces one child for example to turn to illegal drugs .
example of course maybe that situation in the their family he does not like and as a form of escapism turn to drugs illegal drugs mm these youth .
without knowing that this have an intense effect on their health .
what are those factors usually that cause that in the family ma'am ?
many situations mm because example sir dysfunctional families .
that uh huh .
those who separate mm the husband and wife right so the children are really affected second those parents who are not good models .
mm mm because let us remember drug abuse starts with what is called gateway substances .
mm and gateway substances are those cigarettes and liquor .
yes .
so if they are seeing their parents drinking liquor or smoking cigars that is one big aspect mm why our youth are also using too .
because they are seeing what father they tell usually drinks every night or mm have imitated then the children also ask to taste .
or smoking or the children ask to taste smoking .
so what is it called gateway substances gateway substances .
like it is started there aah because that is the start .
mm like it is the gate .
yes before you use slightly strong drugs mm you will really start with cigarettes and with cigarettes sir the nicotine in a cigarette is very addictive mm uh huh .
mm .
and ma'am in your experience Filipinos are easy to teach .
I mean they can easily be veered away and their selves are really dedicated to avoid these kinds of activities .
because what is good with Filipinos the faith in God is very strong .
mm mm and then our family values are within us .
yes .
we are so filial .
so educating them for instance if all stakeholders right come together mm really (()) we could resolve the problem in drugs so prevention is really very cost-effective .
mm hopefully we should also invest in prevention .
mm .
because currently the focus is like on the treatment and rehabilitation but better if balanced .
the prevention then the treatment .
to not give the opportunity to be exposed as said .
right mm yes to those illegal drugs these these %incomplete
we do not need sir to rehab anyone %incomplete
if in the first place we prevented them from using substances .
okay .
earlier you mentioned madam that we have anti drug abuse councils what up to the level of the L_G_U .
yes .
okay .
so there in the aspect of prevention a strong advocacy and the information dissemination to the level of the barangay also to the level of the families .
do we have mechanism in place to reach down to the grassroots these information here that should well from time to time really we repeat and repeat to our fellowmen to be what reminder maybe to those people who forget .
mm how do we send our messages to the grassroots level ma'am .
actually sir the D_I_L_G mm very clear actually sir of the structure there below so all the barangay should be with us okay -- in our country there is an active anti-drug abuse council .
mm so from the barangay level upwards and I am delighted that many anti-drug abuse councils are very active .
we can say that their partnership with the dangerous drugs board is very healthy .
mm .
and many activities on the ground are being done on prevention .
mm .
and how about your reaction on our curriculum at present because I'm sure it is also stated there educating the youth about drugs and vices .
is that already enough for you ?
and beauty of k to twelve curriculum mm because life skills is the approach we use right now .
so as of the moment drug education is under the health education subject area .
mm uh huh yes sir so it is already integrated ?
it is included mm in our learning areas particularly health education .
uh huh so from grade five we are educating them about the dangers of smoking .
mm uh huh .
then that escalates to the dangers of illegal drugs sir .
correct .
mm .
mm .
at least because your school -- your school would secondly be given attention by the youth .
first is the home .
which is why ma'am said family is really important .
the cooperation of the parents that you've spoken to is it okay sir ?
there is really no problem Sir .
mm .
yes very open-minded actually sir mm our parents .
mm .
okay .
so in totality what is sir the ultimate target of your center sir and every year really there are changes or is there a number mm that needs to be attained ?
actually because it is the ASEAN mm uh huh so it is really Southeast Asia regional yes sir this is really regional .
so what we are targeting here are the ones called -- prevention professionals mm yes Southeast Asia .
so it is really every year that we conduct an ASEAN training uh huh or conference .
and our target are the various sectors .
no the various stakeholders .
last year we focused at schools .
yes mm the -- our educators in Southeast Asia .
mm .
and in the past last twenty thirteen it was in the community .
in the community based drug prevention approach was our focus .
that's okay .
I suddenly thought of course because of the power of internet it was made possible -- to create maybe a positive or negative effect to those who are using .
for example there may be close supervision of the parents and the teachers towards the children but of course if you give them access to the internet all kinds of information are skimmed by them right ?
that may be positive or negative this could have an effect on their belief their values their beliefs in life .
we also have a campaign or information dissemination from the side of the internet or various websites which are frequently accessed by the youth by millennials to somehow in that aspect they can obtain information about the bad effects of illegal drugs .
mm .
I know sir of media literacy mm for you to be critical on receiving information mm because we know right now in social media yes you should not just accept and accept true true which is why you should find out the source of information mm what is the reputation of the information source .
yes .
that is discussed in our schools there on how to be critical .
mm not just accepting whatever we read you read is true gospel truth won't you share that yes you'll even share it it's embarrassing you'll like it you'll share it it's not even true ?
it's really good to check the source yes .
that's what we lack now especially with our millennials .
if possible avoid it .
Ma'am to change the topic .
let's be issue-based .
as you can see there have been many killings because of illegal drugs .
what is your reaction here that this is the importance of prevention Ma'am ?
you're right we won't reach this if at we already prevented it in the first place .
we prevention professionals strengthen more the advocacy to stop them from using because as what I mentioned earlier prevention is the best investment .
of course isn't it correct that it's also like health right ?
correct .
an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure .
but that's English system .
we'll convert the metric to Tagalog .
yes there the last message is yes Miss Francis .
yes .
there I'm inviting the public for the upcoming ASEAN conference on drug use prevention international standards .
we'll conduct this on December five to seven .
it is near on yes on Monday .
in U_P college of education .
the office is there but our conference will be held in the National Institute for Science and Mathematics Education Development or NESMED .
yes .
it is also inside the U_P campus in Diliman .
okay .
so I hope the prevention professional in schools yes and in communities yes will be able to come and in case of course maybe their first question is that will there be a seminar fee to pay ?
yes there is .
if ever .
or that there is .
there is .
yes of course we can get kits .
yes .
and adequate information that is right there is also some for than um yes seminar fee .
yes okay .
because our invitees here are coming from different countries in Southeast Asia .
aah wow they are really experts .
yes and this is a platform for sharing best practices .
yes of course of course okay .
so here in this seminar there could be additional questions from our viewers and listeners .
is there a special website that you have created for this or hotlines that can be called or mobile numbers that can be dialed ?
just in case there are still who want to ask question interested to attend there in the seminar you are mentioning actually there is a member of -- of ASEAN Training Center right from P_I_A .
so our website is W_W_W dot pia dot gov dot P_H slash A_T_C_P_D_E mm or they can just google the acronym A_T_C_P_D_E .
that and all information about the conference they can see all the details .
mm all right .
thank you very much miss Francis Grace Duka - Panye director of ASEAN Training Center for Preventive Drug Education .
and good morning .
thank you ma'am for joining us .
thank very much too .
okay .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
