<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_19446760.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
calls of the unfortunate province, should be heard.
by Darius Galang
December 2, 2016
the thousands of unfortunates in the province will conduct a Lakbayan now.
they will knock on the doors of the Duterte government who promised change.
it's only right to demand from the government.
this is the message of the unfortunates in launching a Lakbayan to register their calls for their livelihood and housing.
according to the research of Kalipunan ng Damayang Mahihirap, the 2014 data from National Statistics Coordinating Board showed that quarter (1/4) of Filipinos is under the poverty line, 78 percent higher since 2013.
an addition to that, the 2015 data from Philippine Statistics Authority showed that 8.1 percent of Filipinos is in extreme or subsistence poverty, or living one day at a time.
it's undeniable, the situation of the unfortunates is tragic.
in spite of their contribution to different industries, they are the one being abused by the sector.
their incomes are already very low, and there's even a high rate of loss of jobs and livelihood.
and for the employees, it's usually contractual, and not given benefits.
they're even pushing to lack of access to education and health services, amidst the back to back demolition that only benefits the private sectors.
they launched a Lakbayan so that their pleas to the Duterte government can be enlisted.
their primary call is free housing for the masses.
the unfortunates invested a long time in the back-to-back demolition in their community; and their call that demolition is not the solution to their complaints, but only for the interest of the rich, continues.
in line with their call for housing is their fight for regular jobs, and P750 National Minimum Wage.
this will be a big help to their terrible livelihood in the province.
their calls to stop the the murder under the war against drugs is intensified, because majority of killed because of this is from the province.
they also call for the departure of military from the community of indigents.
more than the housing and regular jobs, a legitimate land reform, even national industrialization will be a really big help.
majority of those who came to the city are from the countryside, in hopes of having a higher income in the city.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
