<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_74891793.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Sunday, March 18, 2012
the Paris Commune - first government of laborers
Paris Commune (March 18 - May 21, 1871)
first government of the working class
by Greg Bituin Junior
the Paris Commune lasted only two months, considered as the first government managed by laborers, but its history is priceless.
within those two months led by the female laborers of Paris, laborers governed a new form of society, the society of the working class.
but the force of the bourgeoisie was able to return, and thirty thousand (30,000) laborers were massacred by government troops led by Adolphe Thiers.
the laborers of Paris shed blood but what they did left a mark on the history of the working class in the world.
in the piece The Civil War in France (1871) by Karl Marx, he wrote that the Paris Commune was "the finally discovered political form under which the economic emancipation of labor could take place" (the finally discovered political form under which the economic emancipation of labor could take place).
state of France before the Paris Commune
France was in the middle of war against the country Prussia (Germany today) led by Otto von Bismarck.
this war, known as the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71, was a war between the Second French Empire and the Kingdom of Prussia.
the Prussian army had invaded Paris, but the laborers of Paris were not in good terms with the soldiers of Prussia.
Paris fell into the hands of the Prussian army on January 28, 1871.
an election was held in France on February 8, 1871, which the majority of the population were not aware of; February 12 was when the new national assembly was established; on February 16 Adolphe Thiers was elected as the chief executive of France; February 26 was when Thiers and Jules Favre of France, and Otto von Bismarck of Germany, signed a preliminary peace treaty between France and Germany.
France surrendered Alsace and East Lorraine to Germany, and they paid damages worth 5 billion francs.
the German army will gradually leave when their necessary damages are paid.
it was May 10, 1871 when the final peace treaty was signed in Frankfort-on-Main.
on March 1871, the national guard broke ties with the leadership of Thiers and joined the laborers of Paris, and set up a central committee.
Thiers meanwhile placed his government in Versailles on March 20.
the Paris Commune
on March 18, 1871, with permission of Prussia, Thiers sent the French army to confiscate the weapons that had spread in Paris at the hands of the laborers to ensure that the laborers of Paris will not fight against the army of Prussia.
Theirs planned to bring back the confiscated weaponry to Versailles.
but the laborers refused it.
by the break of dawn, female laborers had blocked the arrival of the French army ordered by Thiers who attempted to confiscate the cannons and other weapons.
until the people arrived and drove out the French army.
even if ordered by Thiers, the soldiers didn't follow his instruction to shoot the people.
General Claude Martin Lecomte and General Jacques Leonard Clement Thomas were killed by their own subordinates.
on that day General Lecomte ordered four times to shoot the people, and General Thomas displayed his brutality and conservatism, and he was even caught spying on the barricades erected by the people.
many troops of soldiers also left while some remained in Paris.
because of this Thiers was enraged, and civil war started in France.
on the next day, March 19, 1871, the citizens of Paris woke up to their freedom, and they happily accepted the attained freedom.
the only ones governing here are the central committee of the national guard, composed of honest people, not politicians, and the laborers of Paris.
March 23, 1871, the International Workingmen's Association and Federal Council of Parisian Sections declared unity and the appeal to have an election on March 26, while calling for the absolute release of the laborers, and ensure the true worth of their workforce.
they called the Paris Commune a communal revolution.
on March 26, 1871, the citizens of Paris elected a council they called the Paris Commune, consisting of laborers, including the members of the First International.
the Paris Commune was proclaimed on March 28, 1871, so the laborers of Paris gained quick and widespread support from the whole of France.
directly involved in the laborer revolution were the leaders of the international movement of laborers.
on that day as well the central committee of the National Guard resigned when they enacted the dissolution of the "Morality Police".
March 30 was when the commune removed the compulsory service to the army and the army itself; the only armed troop was the National Guard.
the election of foreigners to the commune was also confirmed, because "the flag of the commune is the flag of the global republic".
on April 1 it was declared that all the members of the commune will receive just the same wages as the laborers, whether he is in the government or an ordinary worker.
the Commune also declared the separation of the church and the state, and the elimination of all payments of the government for religious purposes, as well as the transformation of all church properties into public properties.
religion was declared as a private matter only.
the Commune also carried out an order so the French government will not shoot the members of the Commune.
in this order, all the people proven to liaise with the French government are considered hostages or hostages.
but it was not carried out.
a guillotine, or punishment to behead the sentenced with death, was released by the 137th battalion of the National Guard, and burned in front of the people, which pleased many.
one more order implemented by the Commune was the removal in all schools of all religious symbols, pictures, dogma, prayer, and "everything within the sphere of individual conscience".
it was immediately implemented.
to crush the Commune, Thiers asked helped from Bismark to use in the Versailles Army the captured French troops who surrendered in Sedan and Metz.
in exchange for 5 billion francs as damages, Bismarck agreed.
so the army of Thiers already attacked Paris.
the attacking troop of Thiers withdrew in southern Paris when they lost many men.
April 16, the Commune announced the suspension of all debts within three years and the eradication of their interests.
the Commune also ordered the registration of all factories shut down by capitalists and they carried out a plan on how the laborers who formerly worked there can run it, that they will organize into cooperative associations, and planned organization of all those cooperatives into a single union.
the Commune removed all evening jobs for bakers, even the registration cards of laborers, which were issued by the Second Empire.
the Commune established the eight-hour shift every day.
they opened closed factories, carried out new procedures on wages and contracts, and set up a council of factory workers.
laborers with dangerous jobs were given the right pay.
fines on laborers who committed mistakes were removed.
April 30, the Commune ordered the shutdown of pawnshops (pawnshops) on the basis that they're private abuse of labor, against the rights of laborers to their own tools for work.
May 10, 1871, the Treaty of Frankfurt was signed, a peace treaty for the ending of the Franco-Prussian War.
May 17, 1871 evening, a meeting of the Central Committee of the Union of Women was called, to organize the delegates attending the establishment of a "federal chamber of workingwomen".
destruction of the Commune
May 21, 1871, the troop of Versailles was able to enter Paris.
the French army spent eight days until May 28 on the massacre of laborers, shooting civilians they see.
that operation was led by Marchal MacMahon, who eventually became the president of France.
thirty Communard books, laborers and unarmed civilians and children were killed; 38,000 were imprisoned, and 7,000 were forcibly deported to other countries.
where did those involved in the Paris Commune fall short?
why was it crushed within only two months?
the witnesses back then gave many reasons.
first, there was inadequacy in the preparation of the laborers to defend the Commune in case there was an attack within the city, despite a few barricades set up.
second, it prioritized the establishment of a better justice system in the whole of Paris, instead of crushing its enemies, especially the troop of Thiers, so that they could not return to power.
they should have also launched an offensive against the army of Thiers in Versailles so it would not have time to recover.
according to Marx, "the Paris Commune, in essence, is a government of the working class.
the army of the government was replaced by armed citizens, the power of the legislative and executive were held by representatives of laborers, who were elected, had responsibility and may decline any time, and the wages for all official government activity was equal to the wages of the ordinary laborer."
for Lenin, it was not nationalism but internationalism shown by the Paris Commune.
according to Lenin, the separation of the nationalist mentality is important in the working class: "leave the bourgeoisie to their responsibility of national humiliation - the role of the laborer is to fight for the socialist freedom of the laborer."
Lenin further added, "the establishment of the Commune was spontaneous.
at first, it was a movement in confusion.
but the classes separated amidst the events.
and only the laborers stayed loyal to the Commune until the end."
features of the Commune
the Paris Commune, despite only within France, was not a patriotic protest.
it was a classist protest of laborers against the bourgeoisie, against capitalism, against the capital.
the Paris Commune was a historic fight by the laborers of Paris, a movement towards the worldwide revolution of laborers, an attempt to destroy the bourgeois that is the machinery of the government, and it should also replace the machinery of the state.
the Commune was the first attempt of the proletariat revolution to destroy the bourgeois that is a state machinery and it should also replace the destroyed state machinery.
the features and important steps carried out by the Commune are the following:
a. dissolving the regular military army and setting up armed citizens as its replacement.
b. declaring that all officials are elected but can be replaced any time.
c. removing all privileges and decreasing the wages or allowance of everyone serving the state to match the level of salary of laborers.
d. the destruction of politics and parliament of the bourgeoisie, from a talking shop that became a working institution, an institution of a rule both fulfilled by executive and legislative activity.
e. the organization of national unity.
the Communes were set up on the level of the smallest community.
the Communes were centralized on a centralized power, to fully crush the fight by the capitalists and implement the transfer of private property - factories, land, and others - to the possession of the whole nation.
lessons
with the destruction of the Commune, we were given many lessons:
a. it is not enough to merely contain the machinery of the state for the use of laborers, but the whole state should be completely destroyed so that the bourgeois replaced by the Commune can not return.
the Commune should ensure how to protect itself from its enemies.
b. making a prompt decision is needed on how the bourgeois cannot return and reform.
the Commune had many opportunities to crush the weak government forces in Versailles, but because a decision on it was not made on time, they came back and were immediately crushed.
c. the classist consciousness of laborers should be heightened so they can set up their own society.
d. the hesitation of the Commune to destroy enemy threat gave the bourgeois time to reorganize (regroup), strengthen their forces, and ally with the Prussians.
laborers are still too kind to the capitalists and bourgeois.
e. the Commune needs a revolutionary, socialist party that will ensure it success until its transition to socialism.
f. laborers should have immediately confiscated banks, especially the Bank of France, which is the center of capitalist wealth, that was used by the capitalists against the Commune.
the banks should have been centralized on the Commune to fund the revolution.
g. the laborers should have found a way to ally with the peasants.
because it was the peasants that were used by the bourgeois and the army of Thiers to crush the Commune.
the dictatorship of the proletariat
Marx based the theory of the dictatorship of the proletariat on the experience of the Paris Commune.
this will replace the dictatorship of the bourgeois or capitalist state.
the dictatorship of the proletariat is a socialist society governed by the working class, or proletariat.
conclusion:
the Paris Commune is one of the greatest and most inspired chapters in the history of the working class.
the laborers of Paris replaced the capitalist state of their own government and they held this power for two months.
the laborers of France worked, despite difficulties, to end the abuse and slavery of society, and to establish a society with a new basis and standard.
these lessons ensured the success of the Russian Revolution of 1917 led by V.
I. Lenin, and one Soviet Union (council) consisting of laborers was set up.
the great lesson of the Paris Commune is a huge challenge to the working class of the present time.
we need a higher level of worldwide unity and higher classist consciousness to ensure that we can plan the socialist society we desire for our welfare and for the next generation of laborers.
references:
(a) The Civil War in France, March-May 1871, Karl Marx; (b) Introduction on The Civil War in France, by Frederick Engels, 1891; (c) Lessons of the Paris Commune, Leon Trostky, Pebrero, 1921; (d) History of the Paris Commune, Prosper Olivier Lissagaray, 1876
</TEXT>
</DOC>
