<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_87780645.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
I know better: Iya, extremely delighted by Drew's neck!
by Jun Nardo June 9, 2016 the married couple Drew Arellano and Iya Villania join forces as hosts of season 2 of Home Foodie.
in the first season Drew was in solo frame together with a few chefs.
this time, the couple are the hosts of the cooking show and this is their first partnership in a program.
even if Iya is seven months pregnant, Drew does not ban her from accepting any work.
"she's a very strong woman.
she's very responsible for her own self.
she is very responsible in making her own decisions also.
like what the doctor said that you can tell from your body, if you can still feel that you are capable, if you can still run, do it.
it's actually good for her recovery after she gives birth," Drew stated in the press conference of the cooking show.
did his wife crave for him during pregnancy?
"here (neck).
this is my wife's favorite," he answered.
Home Foodie will start on June 13, Mondays-Fridays, after Unang Hirit.
in the program, the ingredients are San Miguel Pure Foods products and the couple will be joined by expert chefs from the San Miguel Pure Foods Culinary Center chefs Llena Tan-Arcenas, Rene Ruz and RJ Garcia.
Mark Herras, qualified for Joey Marquez!
the relationship of Mark Herras and Winwyn Marquez is already public.
they did not hide their trip to Hong Kong.
from the post of Mark in his Instagram account, he beamingly posted that Wyn is the woman he wants to be with forever, huh!
apparently, Mark is qualified for Joey Marquez so he let his daughter travel to HK.
because before, it was Wyn who rejects Mark but in the end, she also fell for the actor.
it seems Wyn brings luck to Mark's career.
because this month, the Kapuso actor can be seen in two shows on GMA, the afternoon drama Sa Piling ni Nanay and Conan, The Beautician produced by GMA News & Public Affairs.
Heart, hid from Chiz the "make out" with Dennis!
Heart Evangelista also feels embarrassed to husband Senator Chiz Escudero when her raunchy scenes air on Juan Happy Love Story and are seen by her husband.
supposedly sometimes, she covers her husband's eyes when her kissing scene with Dennis (Trillo) is on screen.
"because he really follows the soap.
he ends up laughing too.
and then, he feels, it's awkward too, right?
"I will just pretend to paint, maybe he won't see it.
if he watches in the kitchen I will be by the living room.
I will paint there because I also feel embarrassed," Heart shares to the press who visited the taping of the program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
