<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_47798389.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<no-speech>
from CHED Jessica headed to the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority or TESDA .
<no-speech>
actually it's my first time here in TESDA it's only now I'll try to inquire about vocational courses .
so I will find out my future here .
it was year ninety ninety-four when TESDA was formed under Republic Act seventy-seven ninety-six .
it is in charge of training Filipinos who want to learn different skills and technical abilities .
it's like they assume that the only key to succeed in life is you must be a college graduate so there is an option available .
this is the technical education and skills development .
<no-speech>
while CHED schools give out diplomas TESDA and its accredited schools give certificates to its graduates .
in their training centers no tuition must be paid .
with TESDA accredited schools the usual tuition is around eight thousand pesos .
supposedly with all things considered TESDA is cheaper if you don't like a diploma and you will get certificates .
first consider in college you are really required whether you like it or not you really have four years there to earn a bachelor's degree .
second probably because of the long time you allot there then you really have to spend more .
you will pay higher even your everyday fare etcetera .
please don't get me wrong I'm not saying it's no longer important it's still important right .
but I'm saying is there's an option available .
some of their training are food and beverage services information technology language household electronics and other technology-based skills .
at present two hundred eighty-five thousand five hundred eighty-two students are enrolled in all the delivery modes of the TESDA programs .
two hundred twenty-six thousand two hundred forty-nine graduated from January two thousand one up to April twenty twelve .
but viewers don't be too impressed .
because these courses can range from as little as three days and as long as six months .
but in spite of the certificate program <foreign> a graduate of theirs can supposedly earn from eight thousand to twenty-five thousand pesos in other countries depending on the job and country .
our average is about one point one to one point two a year .
these are our graduates .
twenty percent of our twenty ten graduates are college graduates .
just do the numbers and then the twenty eleven is eighteen percent .
they are all college graduates .
one of those whom TESDA already helped is Rolly .
he studied refrigeration in TESDA back in ninety ninety-eight at a cost of three hundred pesos for the whole course .
Rolly was in first year college taking up a computer course when he decided to transfer to TESDA and get certified .
first of all I find a job faster with TESDA .
college is somewhat for me a long time to study .
my uh is to earn immediately for the family .
because I tried college for me it's too long .
I am not slandering college it's different when you have an education .
because it's really my priority to be able to work immediately .
TESDA supposedly helped Rolly to get a job .
he worked in Saudi and Dubai where he earned fifty to sixty thousand pesos a month .
he is currently applying to the maritime industry .
if you are resourceful and you maintain what you -- you learned a certificate and degree holder are almost the same too right ?
because if you are a degree holder with an education but you don't use it it's useless too right ?
if you have a certificate and you use it and you stand for it and use it for life that's greater than a degree holder because you use it even if you only have a certificate in hand .
so it's more -- almost the same .
what he earned from his job fed his family pay the bills and built their house .
in some way it's good that uh it's like I no longer worry for them that eventually they will have no livelihood for the family because they already have a job that can be said to be permanent even if they are just skilled uh their uh .
here in the Manila Philippines Skills Institute a TESDA accredited school household courses are the most popular .
sometimes ma'am it depends on the batches .
sometimes there are thirty .
sometimes it reaches fifty .
there are twenty too .
usually they really come from low level standard families here in the Philippines .
but sometimes there are some where there are a college level as well as college graduates as well .
majority of those here want to be a domestic helper in different countries .
life is hard in ours and then it is little the salary in the Philippines .
as my profession there's really nothing -- nothing saved or earned .
money is difficult here salary in other countries is much higher .
it's difficult really difficult but enjoyable .
why is it enjoyable ?
because the equipment they use to train are good new .
and then their training is really high tech .
<no-speech>
Jessica was given a briefing about TESDA .
Jessica wants to take up welding .
the one you're saying (()) is here .
but hopefully (()) Jessica if you can undergo what we call youth profiling for (()) career .
this is one of the programs of our secretary Secretary Villanueva .
so that (()) our courses for the youth really fit the job they want -- so sir is it free if I want to hopefully pursue it here .
I said (()) this is a scholarship program it is definitely free for the youth .
to give you a way to enroll in the course you want .
Jessica was toured in the welding section of TESDA .
will you become a welder ?
yes .
it's somewhat far from a management course .
why welding ?
I still don't want it as much as I want to ?
really ?
but for us classmates three took up (()) when we were still fresh graduates from high school .
now they are in other countries it's what they finished .
in other words you want to take up welding so you will have a chance to go abroad .
like that ?
and then you will live there .
is that what you're going to do ?
yes .
huh ?
where are they ?
the two are in Macau .
and the other one ?
Singapore .
are they three women ?
two men one woman .
okay who is in Singapore ?
that one guy Sir .
where is (()) the woman %incomplete
the woman is in Macau .
that is your ambition to go to Macau ?
yes .
how much is their salary ?
maybe you know ?
maybe you were told .
right ?
yes %incomplete
what did they say ?
is it already converted to peso ?
yes how much is that ?
forty to sixty thousand .
if there's a will there's a way if there isn't there are many reasons .
that's why if you really want to learn and get an education get moving .
don't be hardheaded .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
