<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_14668812.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
good morning senator .
good morning miss Cheryl .
okay .
you have heard the side of the administration .
what is your reaction to their answers ?
you will see the answers of -- of Malacañang not addressing the issue directly right .
and in this case President Duterte himself is hiding right .
that's how it is .
you will notice on the small issues the president pays attention to these .
he is cursing .
but like this when he is faced with the truth then he stutters .
hiding behind his underlings .
mm .
how are you convinced or why are you convinced that what Lascañas is telling is true ?
you know us people we know how to -- scrutinize if one person is telling the truth or not .
so aside from that we have really seen those his stories right .
because this is not only a gossip of Lascañas you have Matobato and other -- more -- more circumstances right .
mm .
just the fact that this person has just retired from service so this can -- live peacefully you know .
but he has exposed himself and -- he is risking his life .
is this a joke he is matching against the president here he know he's a killer but he still did it because he is tagged by his conscience right .
mhm .
but senator now his reversal is being glimpsed at now .
if -- but if its said that he is contradicting his previous statement his credibility will be more questionable now .
well as I've said however he faces the senate again he will be criticized by the people .
it is known by our people if -- if your stories are only made up or really you turned in because of your guilty conscience .
so let's compare this to those of prison convicts who are used as witnesses against senator De Lima .
those people are basically already imprisoned and if credibility is what's being discussed a convicted drug lord then the Malacañang will believe them right ?
mm .
this is a policeman .
he is newly retired so it can be seen by our fellow countrymen .
the question of many right now I'm just not sure if -- if you can answer it it was not discussed at the press conference what really is his reason ?
-- why this time why did he suddenly go back on his word ?
that was it .
when the hearing comes that is one of the first he will answer .
he needs to convince our fellow countrymen that this has no streak of politics no personal motivation or personal interest .
so it will be seen .
mhm .
okay -- here as far as senate is concerned what is the plan for Lascañas ?
starting soon will be the hearing under the committee of senator Ping .
yes .
mhm .
<no-speech>
last night -- I had a privilege speech and I referred my speech to the committee of senator Lacson and senator Lacson said once it was referred to him -- he will schedule the hearing probably next week .
okay .
mm .
-- let's talk about this because it happened at the same time with this issue the mentioned bank accounts of President Duterte .
what's the update ?
okay I have all the bank records here .
yes .
what's our update here Senator ?
okay .
I exposed this during the campaign however they didn't address it .
President Duterte even hid from this issue that's why I reminded him again that it has been seven month since he promised to disclose the bank transactions and until now they still haven't done it .
now that the the noise of the campaign has subsided at least you can see the people that really have problems with this and I even challenged them that if I'm wrong about that I'll resign as senator .
but you saw their reaction they hid on technicality .
now he's saying that he ordered the AMLAC to be opened .
yes .
so now on this day I'll write to the AMLAC in order for me to get the reported transactions under the name of Rodrigo Duterte .
in other words I'll call that .
I won't loosen up about this .
mhm .
until we learn the truth about this .
at the same time I already filed this case of plunder against President Duterte to the ombudsman .
yes .
I used that as evidence .
this was still last year huh May twenty sixteen .
so what's being said if you have an evidence you file in the court .
I have already filed .
now the ombudsman is investigating that is why I also called for them to expedite the investigation .
yes with regards to the AMLAC if -- although one professor is saying um who is an expert here that any official cannot just simply order as to whatever AMLAC should do .
but not %incomplete
wouldn't it be easier for -- in the camp itself of President Duterte that they -- to reveal these bank transactions ?
that is already what I have been saying that the easiest is they voluntarily reveal or perhaps he will sign a waiver %incomplete
but then they do that before the -- during the campaign period .
that is exactly what you will see -- that this was said by -- by Panelo right .
you know he is a liar .
when we went to B_P_I he did not give a waiver .
was a copy of that waiver given to the media ?
you do not have a copy because no -- that waiver was only for him .
when we met here at B_P_I Julia Varage what we talked about um um he should we will meet .
he hid .
well he was said to be brave but then he hid .
well I even said when -- you present the truth Duterte is hiding .
so anyway he sent his lawyer .
they said they have a waiver .
I asked the B_P_I officials or there is a waiver you should give the document .
he said not the waiver for the lawyer of Panelo .
yes .
I asked the lawyer or will you give the document if the B_P_I gives it to you ?
he said no .
the waiver is for me I will give it to my client to Duterte .
so they deceived the people .
that is why until now it has been nine months but there is still nothing right ?
-- so what is your challenge for president Duterte that will come from him himself ?
yes .
should -- if he is not hiding anything he should volunteer the information .
and that he has said to be that -- his bank history yes his transaction history in that way he can humiliate me and instantly I will resign .
he will no longer have a critic in the senate so it is done .
but the case is he won't do it because he has hidden wealth up to two billion pesos that is deposits and transactions only .
okay .
direct question and that is also what he is saying that he will resign as president if you proved that he has two billion pesos .
can you be able to prove this sir ?
yes .
that two our mode there .
-- if he cannot volunteer a waiver or he will disclose the ombudsman case we will wait and those in AMLAC we will also wait .
so if one those -- because that institution will give confirmation regarding these accounts not we will collect payment from him through resigning .
mm .
let us clarify .
what -- that -- that two billion which we are talking of as in one time transaction of having two billion or are we talking about that that if -- you combine will reach two billion at one point ?
yes .
it is like this what all of -- here in the documents here %incomplete
yes .
it was entered that transaction those deposits if said deposits or credits the money to enter .
if you sum from two thousand six until two thousand fifteen over two billion peso apart from the hundreds and hundreds of million that are put in the name of his children .
so those are like my allegations .
and because on our end I am very confident that this is really true -- I am putting my being a senator on the line right .
yes .
and that is not only my life here .
because I also know the president kills people .
why will I do that ?
after the document is manufactured .
that is why he cannot face .
and you know even if I prove that president Duterte will not resign .
like what he said that is three to six month he will also solve the crime corruption and illegal drugs that already passed but did he resign ?
no .
he does not have word of honor .
he is a joker .
yes .
so what -- what will happen there ?
he cannot possibly be filed a case -- because it is during -- when he was a mayor .
well we will see .
if -- we prove all of those along with the other potential cases we can him filed for impeachment in that way he can face this in the proper courts .
if we say impeachment even if it said -- what let us say it's a numbers game .
would you have the numbers ?
well that is the obligation of our fellowmen right ?
for example they can see that their president kills people and at the same time also corrupt we with the problem as Filipino if that is just okay with us right ?
senator Antonio %incomplete
</TEXT>
</DOC>
