<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_40460685.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
80th birthday of Doctor Bienvenido Lumbera, teacher and artist of the people, celebrated
by Rommel Rodriguez
April 13, 2012
Doctor Bienvenido Lumbera, National Artist for Literature
a renowned writer and scholar of culture and literature, Bienvenido Lumbera was born on April 11, 1932 in Lipa, Batangas.
he studied in the University of Santo Tomas in 1950 and in Indiana University in 1967.
he also became a professor in Osaka University and University of Hawii at Manoa, as well as in different universities in the country.
Bien's contribution in the field of art and literature cannot be discounted.
he has published landmark anthologies, written different plays like Tales of the Manuvu, Nasa Puso Ang Amerika and Hibik at Himagsik nina Victoria Laktaw.
he was awarded as a National Artist and earned recognition from the Ramon Magsaysay Awards for Journalism.
despite a life of art, Bien did not forget the value and connection to society and the country of his being a scholar, teacher, and artist.
his contribution is recognized in the areas of establishing organizations supporting national democracy.
aside from being a professor emeritus in UP Diliman, he is also chairman emeritus of the Concerned Artists of the Philippines and Congress of Teachers/Educators for Nationalism and Democracy.
he became the spearhead of the establishment of the Alliance of Concerned Teachers, Philippines that cares for the welfare of teachers in the Philippines.
Bien has also been a part of national protests many times.
he continues to join the movement for fair wages and labor rights.
he included in his writing the lives and revolt of farmers.
his experiences during martial law became a vehicle for his poems and songs.
in all of this, Bien is a distinguished proof that art should serve the oppressed class and the abused, while it is an effective way of encouraging the people to unite for a national independence.
---------
muy bien: teacher and artist of the people
"if at present we have eyes covered with tears
tomorrow, upon waking up search for joy;
break free from the chain of our destiny,
if we will take action, we will be free!"
-Bien Lumbera
celebrate the life of the people's teacher, perform the art of patriotic artists.
for the 80th birthday of the National Artist Bienvenido Lumbera, to be offered is
Muy Bien: Teacher and Artist of the People.
join the recognition and thanks for Bien on April 15, 2012 3:00 p.m.
AS Steps, University of the Philippines, Diliman.
featured are his works together with the Philippine Philharmonic Orchestra, Kontra-Gapi, Tanghalang Pilipino, Artists Incorporated, Dulaang UP, Los Indios Bravos, Tudla Productions, patriotic musicians, stage artists, poets, playwrights, visual artist, filmmakers, and rap artists.
in cooperation with the Office of the President of UP Diliman, UP College of Arts and Letters,
UP College of Social Science and Philosophy, CONTEND-UP, CENPEG, UP Asterisk,
Concerned Artists of the Philippines and Cultural Center of the Philippines.
for additional information, you contact phone number 09088841170.
look for Walkie Miraña.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
