<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_20999535.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<no-speech>
I have long dreamed of it and I also prayed for it a lot to be able to cover in the Vatican .
so now I'm already off to the Vatican and of course lucky because I'm together with Raffy my husband .
so we'll go there .
let's see each other in the Vatican .
bye-bye .
<no-speech>
<no-speech>
here in Vatican you can already feel the excitement and joy of the pilgrims for the huge occasion that will be held this Sunday .
the declaration of the two most beloved popes in the history which are Blessed Pope John Paul the Second and Blessed Pope John the Twenty Third .
for the very first time the two former saint pope will be be recognized altogether as saint in the day of feast of the Divine Mercy .
feast that was instituted or spread in the whole world by Pope John Paul .
you can see here the arranged chairs of the V_I_Ps including the cardinal archbishop bishop and priests that will concelebrate also the heads of state and other foreign dignitaries .
around it is the big screen projector .
the -- area of the media was already set-up in the corner part of Saint Peter's Square .
an estimate of three hundred thousand people can enter the square but it's possible for this special occasion to reach four million viewers here in Vatican City and entire city of Rome .
the ceremony of canonization will start at ten in the morning here in Vatican and four in the afternoon in the Philippines .
the procession of cardinals bishops and archbishops led by Pope Francis will exit from Saint Peter's Basilica .
this is what they call processional .
that stage will be moved in the front of the main entrance of the church where Pope Francis will stand and conduct the mass .
canonization will also be held here .
<no-speech>
various nationalities are expected to join the historical canonization .
John Paul Two we love you John Paul Two .
we love you .
the arrival of the pilgrims here in Saint Peter's Square was next this contingent came from Lebanon and they're so happy .
they were shouting while there were some who were dancing .
an unending expression of their love for John Paul the Second .
John Paul Two we love you .
John Paul two we love you .
<no-speech>
of course our fellowmen in full support of our most beloved pope are not absent .
he is one pope who visited us twice in our lifetime and at the same time also in our lifetime he will be made a saint .
yes .
so this is really important for us .
we are excited excited because pope is our favorite .
so now John Paul two we love you until now .
that is what we have been saying even back then .
I also met Marjorie Jalandoni Militante .
she was only six months old when she was luckily chose by John Paul the second to carry hug and kiss when the new saint first visited the Philippines back in nineteen eighty-one .
ever since I was small so I ask myself why me or what is my mission in life .
I think I can inspire in my own way no with my friends with everybody .
that constant message of pope John Paul to to have a family that is holy .
Lipa archbishop Ramon Arguelles confirmed his attendance and will even concelebrate in the canonization mass .
he offers this to the two holy popes who have been influential to him .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
