<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_31755121.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
confrontation: Presidential Clarification Office by Ellen Tordesillas
December 21, 2016
the Presidential Communications Office (PCO) of the Presidential Clarification Office should be replaced because of what they are doing now is to explain the disrupting words of President Rodrigo Duterte.
usually, their explanation is the opposite of what the President said.
seems that "clarification" is not fitting because usually, the conversation becomes more muddled with the explanation that they have done.
could be a Presidential Obfuscation Office.
I am pitying Press Secretary Martin Andanar.
he is actually good.
when he was interviewed by Rico Hizon of BBC about what the President said that he himself ordered the murder of those caught in illegal drugs, he almost said not to believe the President, he does not know what he is talking about.
similar to what he said that he will disregard the decision of the Permanent Court of Arbitration favoring the Philippines against China in the disputed part of the South China Sea including the Spratlys and Scarborough Shoal.
Duterte is actually licking the ass of China now.
opposite to what his predecessor President Benigno Aquino III had done who quarreled China and became America's obedient follower.
China snubbed the case filed by the Aquino government against the map of China which covers the whole South China Sea and includes there the territory of the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan.
last Monday, Andanar said that the President has said several times that he will not go out of the four corners of the decision of the Arbitral Tribunal and one of these is the illegal nine-dash line map of China.
one thing that Duterte also said that his spokesmen have been reversing is about the excision of relationship from the United Sates.
because he was criticized by President Barack Obama and other officials, he has cursed them and said that he is going to cut the relationship with America.
he will cut the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) and send home the American soldiers who are in the Philippines.
but there is no official order.
just for words only.
last weekend, the U. S Embassy in Manila said that their government decided to postpone the release of aide to lessen the poverty in the Philippines because of the violations on human rights of Duterte in his campaign against illegal drugs.
of course, Duterte went amok and we said we are going to send home the American soldiers here in the Philippines and they should befriend China and Russia instead.
Presidential Communication Assistant Secretary Marie Banaag also said that this is only a warning of the President.
he does not actually have an order to cut the VFA.
for us to just wait for his next step or words.
of course.
perhaps, tomorrow, it will be different.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
