<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_23037759.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
our guest for today .
together with us today friends the deputy administrator of the Philippine Coconut Authority Mister Roel Rosales .
good morning sir .
good morning to everyone who listeners and also viewers of this program this truly widespread program .
(()) thank you deputy administrator Roel and you have visited our RadyoBisyon for you to make it as a vehicle to send your invitation particularly the Philippine Coconut Authority to our returning O_F_Ws who are thinking where they can venture their savings .
Christmas time more O_F_Ws are going home in various parts of the world and to feel again the love and lifestyle here in the Philippines .
this is also a chance for us to invite all the our heroes who are in other countries who are working while they are there we can actually allot some of our money and we can think of businesses that we can enter here in the Philippines .
though you are there you can trust a relative friend to help you to invest in agriculture particular in coconut industry .
that is okay we already know this deputy administrator that this coconut industry now the programs are intense -- you are giving the emphasis now right ?
especially this planting of one million coconut trees plus the inter-cropping everything is all there .
so they can coordinate with the P_C_A anytime in your department if they have interests in this venture .
yes our O_F_Ws are very welcome to coordinate with the staff of the Philippine Coconut Authority .
we have twelve regional offices we have employees in the municipalities and we are encouraging everyone to go back to the farms particularly in coconut plantations .
there are many things that we can do that though you are in abroad we can continue it here to prosper and become the source of income of your loved ones here in the Philippines .
and similarly when you come back you already have an expected work to do here in the Philippines a business can also be for retirement your activity O_F_W work .
there deputy administrator what are the various types of business which has something to do with the coconuts which is more promising this time ?
well if it is up to me let us start first with the simplest .
you have an empty lot here in the Philippines a coconut plantation or else still without any plant why not have it planted or change the crop those which are slightly older so we can make restore our coconut plantation again .
be given new enthusiasm .
the Philippine Coconut Authority is distributing though of course that is only limited free crops for those who want again to enter in agriculture particularly the coconut industry .
<no-speech>
and in coconuts what we are doing here in the planting we are giving incentive to those who want to plant .
all right if you want to plant we are actually going to pay you or wow in two phases .
(()) .
that that you will get from your own farm .
our field men are going to help you .
will determine that this is a good crop and we are going to make it alive .
we will grow it .
if we have seen that it is already a good seedling we are going to pay you eighteen pesos .
per ?
per seedling .
wow in one hectare our requirement is one hundred .
so that means you have one thousand eight hundred somehow .
uh huh .
that will be your crop then you will have a small profit from your labor .
uh huh according .
okay Vivs that -- that one hectare you got there so have it put with what yes have a coordination now .
then after that our seedlings have grown we are going to plant it in the land .
uh huh .
and make sure it has stabilized in the ground umm the P_C_A are going to inspect if we have seen that again the -- is good the after it has grown after six months we are going to pay you two thousand aah but two one -- twenty pesos for each crop for each (()) so two thousand two hundred it means in one year you can have an additional income of four thousand per hectare .
you have already planted you also have something to expect -- incentive for the future for the coconuts to bear fruits which goes to you to your loved ones here in the Philippines .
uh huh that is our coconut planting program umm okay so if interested just go to the Philippine Coconut Authority at the Philippine Coconut Authority .
to ask for an assistance from your officer yes of course we are going to evaluate your farm if this is suited for planting coconuts .
umm .
and if you have coconuts planted already standing we are also allotting fertilization .
okay .
and we are using salt here .
if you have noticed that near the seashore very prolific umm the growth of our coconuts because saltwater yes so this salt is the most practical and cheapest fertilizer to a plant and this is suitable for coconuts .
so two kilograms each tree tree so four sacks per hectare .
is this part of Bulacan in Vivienne's though coconut is still slightly scarce ?
coconut is still scarce but many are desiring and going to our office who also want to plant coconuts .
Vivs ?
sir any kind of soil could be planted with coconut or is there a specific kind ?
the suitability of coconut is somewhat large umm though somewhat sandy .
usually no other kind grows in a sandy place yes coconut can be .
%%umm and the area that needs minimum area if for example the Philippine Coconut Authority will be asked for help what should be the area that you need to present so coconuts can be planted ?
ah even only a half hectare will do .
um .
we also give some for those who only want residence at the back of the house .
those at tab -- for coconut milk noodles umm noodles yes for coconut juice we allow that .
Vivs your -- your -- your one hectare half of that is a swimming half of that you put coconuts yes it seems like you are in a resort aah yes so there is a resort that we can umm take a stroll with the Radio Vision family umm .
huh ?
for coconuts even Nueva Ecija is a plantation of umm rice .
there are many who plant also grow coconut .
Rizal .
uh huh .
we expanded to Rizal province yes um .
sir I will just ask for an update on this coconut scale insect .
is this still existing or we have already -- did remove those coconut scale insects ?
well it is a good news here at Southern Tagalog where it is really -- umm a widespread problem before uh huh on coco scale .
well practically the whole of Calabarzon today the infestation is already contained there is no danger anymore although we are continuing with the monitoring umm on this damaging insect .
what is somehow problematic is only here in Basilan .
umm .
because they went through a long dry season we somehow had a problem like this .
now what Vivien has been mentioning a while ago what are the by-products that can be started so it could be a source of extra income of our coconut farmers ?
yes for those who really want to invest allot small amount we are talking about somewhat big here .
uh huh .
oh there are coconut investment is line which can be ventured in but this is the coconut sugar .
umm this coconut sugar sugar made from coconut is said to be a sugar for diabetic .
uh huh umm because of its lower glycemic index though you eat a lot of this your blood sugar will not rise though expensive so this has really a demand from abroad .
already expensive and somewhat costly .
so a good area for our investment because there are only few who are really investing here and that makes it good especially for those farms which are somehow low .
umm because you need to climb the tree many times to get the its S_U_C made as coconut wine .
umm .
so we are going to make this a coconut sugar .
the technology is very simple .
and the requirement is very simple but the investment is large aah investment return .
umm .
will you assist there in the technology that will be used to produce this kind of coconut sugar ?
the P_C_A is helping in the technical and even in the marketing aspect .
umm we are going to search a consolidator for you if we cannot directly export uh huh .
to help you look for a good price .
because the real problem we are going to have there deputy administrator Rosales is there might be a lot who are going to venture for -- the immediate question is there a market yes umm we might not have a market .
how about those we have invested ?
uh huh .
<no-speech>
the prospect for the market looks good and we already have many consolidator .
that are ready to help to improve the return of investment because our U_S merchandise are good .
there also in Japan .
umm where is the coconut industry in the dollar earners of our country ?
among the top five major export earning product is the coconut and particularly coconut oil .
in fact we're still number in the world wow umm .
good news okay your final message sir for the public yes a Christmas message for our coconut farmers okay .
Christmas day is just two days from now .
the reason that I called all of you let's continue to push entrepreneur ship here in the farm and let us look also to our prospects in Philippine agriculture .
let us help the coconut industry let's again (()) return to its former glory by funding coconuts .
let me ask this one before we end good A_M I just want to ask mister Rosales how about us here in Mindanao Zamboanga del Sur ?
<no-speech>
our land is really red .
red pale and it takes long for the coconut to grow .
what can P_C_A do about this ?
from our listener in Tagbilaran Bohol .
aah yes in Bohol .
our land there looks like limestone .
please coordinate with our men here in Tagbilaran we have an office there okay .
Jun Lago is our regional manager there go there in the office and we have men there that could go to your place and help you .
let's do a soil analysis first .
okay and recommend what are still needed %incomplete
</TEXT>
</DOC>
