<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_31103484.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
free Andrea Rosal and all political prisoners!
leading violator of human rights which is the BS Aquino regime, will be held accountable!
Patnubay de Guia, National Democratic Front - Southern Tagalog
May 24, 2014
the National Democratic Front - Southern Tagalog (NDF-ST), in unity with the revolutionary citizens of the region, sends the wholehearted condolence to Andrea Rosal and her family in the passing of the newborn infant who is
in the midst of mourning, the NDF-ST emphatically condemns the illegal detention and inhumane treatment to Andrea Rosal in the hands of the BS Aquino regime since she was illegally arrested by the Intelligence Service of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (ISAFP) and National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) last March.
though not yet born, the reactionary regime has already denied from Diona Andrea the right to be born healthy and peaceful.
eight months pregnant when illegally arrested, her mother Andrea was forcibly taken to the agency of the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) and experienced severe interrogation.
when Andrea registered a severe ache in her stomach and was brought to the clinic of NBI, there was not even one doctor who examined her and instead, she was only told to write her name and profile.
this is being prided by the AFP that they have given an attentive appropriate medical attention.
when transferred to Camp Bagong Diwa (CBD), the torture experienced by the delicate condition of Andrea continues.
without consideration on her condition and she was just cramped in a small and hot room together with 31 other prisoners, no ventilation aside from a small window.
the authorities just let her sleep on the cement and even things like mat, water and food from her family and friends are not allowed to enter or else imposed with various difficulties before permitting to be entered to the prison cell.
to have a laboratory examination needs a permission to be asked from the court - a court which is an instrument of the reactionary state to detain and punish the political prisoners who are imposed with invented cases.
the fascists are pointing fingers of who have the accountability to what the mother and child experienced in the end.
the AFP-DND, NBI and BJMP wanted to show that all medical attention needed by the mother and child was granted to them.
a huge opposition because the pregnant mother Andrea was not able to taste due medical attention appropriate to her delicate condition.
the once prided by the AFP that they brought Andrea to a private hospital for an ultrasound was that the family of Andrea themselves had actually paid just to examine the condition of the infant inside her womb.
the plea to hospitalize Andrea was passed around by the Mauban RTC, Pasig RTC and Taguig RTC.
the courts which are instruments of the reactionary state are not safe in the accountability to the experiences of the mother Andrea and her child and as well all political prisoners.
meanwhile, the court released a mandate last May 15 to immediately bring Andrea to the hospital.
but only on May 16 that Andrea was brought to the hospital after going back and forth to Camp Bagong Diwa.
as it was told, the pitiful Andrea was not yet in labor, therefore, they brought her back to the BJMP through the command of Deputy Warden Teresa Cabanero.
the doctors of Andrea insisted to immediately return her to the hospital because she and the baby she was about to give birth to would be put in danger.
but Deputy Warden Teresa Cabanero of the BJMP disregarded this and turned a deaf ear.
the night was deep before the BJMP brought Andrea again to the hospital.
the tragic condition and the inhumane treatment to Andrea inside the prison until she can give birth is a clear violation of her human rights as a woman and a political detainee.
a violation of her right when she was charged a make-believe, malicious and baseless criminal case of kidnapping and murder.
violation of her rights not to be given the fundamental needs and utilize proper facilities.
the lack of access to social and medical services for her physical, emotional, social and psychological needs is a violation to her right in order to take care of herself and for the best interest of Diona Andrea who is in the womb of her mother.
the BS Aquino regime through the instruments of suppression - the AFP-DND, PNP-BJMP-DILG, NBI, DOJ and other anomalous prosecutor and judges in the courts who created the unwell condition and subjected Andrea Rosal and Diona Andrea in danger that led to the unnecessary death of the later.
this is mirroring the lack of giving importance of the reactionary regime to life and human rights of ordinary citizens.
it is clear who the BS Aquino regime and the reactionary law favor.
this is happening while the thieves who are misspending the treasury of the nation are specially treated by the regime, spent with huge amount, savoring privileges to be treated and undergo operation anytime that they wanted.
intensely condemned by the fuming revolutionary citizens of Southern Tagalog this detention of Andrea and all political prisoners.
the US-Aquino regime is going to be held accountable for this numerous violations on human rights and the continual hunt on the progressive and its critics.
sculpted in the history are the crimes of this regime which a payment shall be collected by the nation in the intensified and advancement of the people's democratic revolution.
Andrea will accept the full condolence of the revolutionary movement in Southern Tagalog.
while the society is drowned in poverty and made to suffer by the imperialist, feudal and bureaucratic capitalist, you are going to be a mother of thousands of infants and children who are denied of the chance to live abundantly and peacefully.
you are a mother who is going to defend them and support a free society, with justice and prosperity for the whole nation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
