<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_15433771.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<no-speech>
thousands and thousands of tourist flocked the yearly Pinagbenga Festival in Baguio City this weekend .
some celebrities also celebrated the fiesta .
Laila Chikadora is in action .
<no-speech>
flower power became the peg of Baguio City with the abundance of flowers you can see .
the summer capital of the country was really in full bloom in the twenty-second Panagbenga festival .
the participating schools showed-off at the street dance competition last Saturday .
in the stopping points not only their colorful outfits but also their performance were outstanding .
yearly one of the most awaited here in the Panagbenga Festival in Baguio City is the grand float parade where you can see it surrounded and designed with thousands of flowers .
even if it was crowded everybody was happy with the twenty-two floats that paraded in Session Road yesterday .
there were different themes and design which were divided in three categories .
the non-competing small and large float category .
the non-competing float of Baguio Country Club was inspired by Game of Thrones wherein its black dragon goes up and down because of hydraulics .
peacock rhinoceros zebra tiger and elephant were featured in the safari-inspired float of Manila North Tollways Corporation or NLEX .
Coach Yeng Guiao and the NLEX cager Asi Taulava who was very participative and is bonding with the crowd were also present .
people were also shouting every time NLEX cheerleaders are thrown into the air doing exhibitions when the parade stops .
the celebrities in the floats also added to the cheer factor .
Bagio locals like Carrot Man who went viral in social media because of his good looks were also featured .
the twenty sixteen Miss International Kylie Versoza was also present in another float .
I remember the times when I was there I was making my way in the crowd to watch and now I'm here on the float that's why it feels very -- it feels like such an honor such a privilege to be here .
the crowd cheered when Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza waved .
Bea Alonzo and Enchong Dee competed as they danced the running man challenge in their float .
aside from the flowers the free salad sponsored by the governor outside this hotel in Baguio city was also swarmed over .
an approximate of one hundred sixty-eight kilos was tossed .
the vegetables came from different parts of Benguet .
that's why the three thousand people who ate free food really enjoyed .
reporting Laila Chikadora %incomplete
</TEXT>
</DOC>
