<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_51828773.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
soldier - my experience
when my siblings and I were still young, my father who is a soldier brought us to live with him in a camp in Mindanao.
because it was a pity to see father alone in camp.
and it really is different if the family is complete.
there are also many soldiers who bring their family to camp so maybe mother went along with the flow and decided that way.
we grew up together with the soldiers.
wherever they are stationed, we the family also go along.
we have lived in South Cotabato, Davao del Sur, North Cotabato, and Maguindanao.
so it is not new to us if we have many schools and even us siblings do not have the same alma mater.
all of us kids at camp, idolize the job of our fathers.
why?
because they do what they can to divert the people who want to cause trouble and so that civilians do not get hurt.
from the rebels, the soldiers had an encounter with the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) in the province of Maguindanao and some towns of North Cotabato.
there were even times when we children were the ones who brought the ammunition of the cannon from its storage to give to the gunner, who will pull the rope to make it explode.
that is because our fathers were absent and the soldiers left at camp were few.
when the MNLF became integrated and the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) came to be, it was somewhat peaceful already.
but, it lasted only a few months because a conflict arrived wherein the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) became the opponent of the joint force of the AFP and Integrated MNLF.
year 2000, the peak of the fighting in Mindanao, we passed by a school near Buldon.
we were just coming from a school press contest held in Visayas and this was the only way (Marawi to Cotabato route) near the way home to Parang, Maguindanao.
even if it was an ordinary school you could feel the tension.
because it was also one of the places that was always bombed by the military.
one student carrying a gun caught my attention.
and as if he was angry at me upon learning that I am the child of a soldier.
his classmates were the ones who stopped and calmed him down.
I heard from them that "he is not included, he is innocent".
he was just a student like me but there was something he was already fighting for.
all-out-war!
the fighting is intense.
the route I sometimes passed through is no longer safe.
I was studying in college when my father was wounded in an encounter.
and in my semester break from class the shaking from the firing of a cannon welcomed my vacation.
many died.
some of them, were close friends of dad.
sometimes I cannot explain the war in Maguindanao.
because there are times when the rebels are already near camp but no fighting that takes place.
as they say "if there is no instruction, there is no war".
I also cannot understand why there is a need to fight when it is possible to live peacefully and without conflict.
the terrorist and the Bangsamoro Basic Law.
I have encountered many Muslims.
they are truly deserving of change and peace.
the BBL will likely be the key to it.
still, because the bandit group is supporting it, for me, it is unlikely to happen.
how can the flag of peace be erected if even now they are committing so much violence?
hopefully the civilians killed in Lanao del Norte back then and the round-the-clock bomb explosives that target civilians today will not be forgotten.
what if their military power becomes legitimate?
what of the government militaries?
which is why there is only one rooster in our pet chickens, because they fight if there are two of them.
if the MILF was made from the MNLF, and because of the MILF there is the BIFF, has the government not learned from the further increasing problem?
it just gives birth.
the MILF is stronger than the MNLF, the BIFF is slyer than the MILF, what are their next branches capable of?
these groups have the capacity to take in terrorists and cause trouble in different parts of Mindanao.
I agree with the Bangsamoro Basic Law but I do not agree on reconciliation with a group whose style of government and perspective we already know.
this law should be for the Muslims peacefully living in Mindanao and not for the benefit of one group.
consider that not all Muslims in Mindanao are members of the MILF.
hopefully the government has a long-term solution for this.
not just a temporary one.
one that is polished and not just a patch.
because even if it is said that war in this place is only normal, our ears also become tired of shots and cries.
mourning for the 44 heroes of the PNP-SAF.
I grieve for the police killed in the encounter that happened in Mamasapano.
thanks a lot and I salute you!
you are true heroes in the eyes of the whole nation.
I also desire for justice on your passing.
for us who have family and relatives in the military force, we know the feeling of losing a loved one because of a military operation.
still, it is something we can prepare for because of their sworn duty and maintenance of peace.
not only in the troubled towns of Maguindanao but in the whole of Mindanao and the country.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
