<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_48758302.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
in one survey it shows that six in each ten youth want to be able to study if they are just given the opportunity .
so some mobile teachers are tirelessly circling Bulacan just to send education .
here is the lunch report special report .
<no-speech>
the education outreach is not selective in choosing a place here in Barangay San Roque Bulacan .
pushing this trolley these mobile teachers are travelling to the (()) places to be able to teach for the out-of-school youth .
(()) .
(()) .
(()) .
(()) .
alternative is important (()) in the communities especially when based on the twenty ten Annual Poverty Indicators Survey one in every eight children at the age of six until twenty-four years old are not able to go to school .
six in each ten youth have said they want to study if they are given an opportunity .
this poverty when they do not have something to spend to be able to go to school in formal education while others have married earlier while other are somewhat naughty sent to school by their parents have wandered off now the certain time has come that they are realizing it is difficult for them when they have not even finished high school .
and sometimes we are reaching up to three hours sometimes we cannot tell the time .
if it is raining it is difficult especially the road .
so if sometimes we are caught up with the mud when we are crossing the rivers .
it is also okay .
-- we just let them there .
we are still enduring them to teach and while -- until they learn .
the students will spend ten months in the Alternative Learning System in studying before they can get the Accreditation and Equivalency Exam to go to college .
the formal education and the Alternative Learning System are parallel .
these are just similar .
their diploma is signed by the Department of Education Secretary .
when after that Sir my inner strength is strengthened so I can really go along with them .
Patrick nineteen years old .
dreams of finishing his studies to become chef or restaurant manager one day .
I become more deserving in studying because you really need to make a cut because it is difficult to find a job now .
so needs to really persevere in studying .
because we are freer to think well here .
<no-speech>
rather there in the formal .
<no-speech>
the community is also helping each other to enrich the library here where whoever wants to learn can read or borrow a book .
<no-speech>
this is just some of the three hundred books here in the barangay library of Barangay San Roque San Rafael Bulacan that are being used by the Alternative Learning students and everyone who wants to read books .
it is open from Monday to Saturday .
all of these are donations from private individuals and companies including N_G_Os and schools .
<no-speech>
poverty and age are not hindrances to learn .
for the students who yearn for knowledge when going to school they bring with them simple ball pen paper and strong determination to finish studies .
thousand .
okay that is six thousand .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
