<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_52778991.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
PDAF continues
it was untrue how the pork barrel of our model legislators disappeared since it looks like it has increased compared to last year.
it was clearly discovered by congressman Antonio Tinio of party-list Alliance of Concerned Teachers (ACT) that reaching P27-billion is the Priority Development Assistance Fund which was hidden or placed in the 6 agencies of the government.
it also shows the increased allocation of PDAF to infrastructure placed in DPWH reaching P18.4-billion because this is where the enlarged SOP of our legislators are taken.
if previously the bulk of their funds from pork barrel are placed in NGO, they are forced to place it to infra or city work because this is only where they can have a commission.
because in the current trend, giving funds to NGO is now prohibited due to the frequent corruption which caused the imprisonment of three of our senators namely Jinggoy Estrada, Juan Ponce Enrile, and Bong Revilla.
while the remainder from P27-billion was of course placed or hidden by the Palace from the conspiring legislators and agencies which includes the DSWD, CHED, DOLE, DOH, and TESDA.
the people will somewhat be blessed from the new trend because if in the past we do not see city works made by our legislators, especially the senators, we might now see some because of the removal of placing funds to bogus NGO which was the root of the massive corruption in legislation.
President Noynoy is still not closing his desire for a second term.
it is noticeable too from his statements to the media while presently abroad indicating his desire to continue staying at Malacañang for a while longer.
his bosses said that he stay at the Palace and he will follow it and it will be too easy to amend the Saligang Batas of the country.
wishing that Ninoy and Cory were still alive because if the two elders, his parents, were here they would for sure get slapped awake for all the wrong that he is doing.
he said to Filipinos abroad, if there is a will, there is a way.
and he states without fail that he continues to listen to his 'bosses.' Alingawngaw/Alvin Feliciano
</TEXT>
</DOC>
