<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_12142249.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Rex and his family
Posted by penpowersong
Rex and his family
by Apolinario Villalobos
Rex (whose surname he doesn't want to be mentioned) and I have crossed paths in a 7-11 store, across Robinson's-Imus.
I was having coffee that time while waiting for the mall to open where there is a computer store with a skillful technician who I always go to, he's Allen.
that morning, the pants and polo shirt worn by Rex were obviously not pressed but it was not really that crumpled, and the shoes he was wearing was a cheap rubberized black but he was wearing socks though.
I noticed that he was looking at my coffee so I asked him to have some, and when he refused I still stood to buy him one.
Instead of readily drinking the coffee, he slightly was shy in asking if I can possibly pass him some load because he will be texting the supervisor of the grocery he applied at, as merchandiser.
I was about to do the pass but I learned that he was using Globe and I was on Smart so it won't do.
I instead gave him ten pesos for loading.
Before he left to do the loading is the only time he said who he was and also left his belt bag.
Upon returning after doing the load, he readily texted the supervisor where he applied to confirm that he was coming.
he confessed that he only walked from their hut in a farm that is near a popular subdivision.
he really doesn't have money because his earnings from selling several bundles of swamp cabbage and sweet potato tops in Imus market, from early dawn he already used to buy two kilos of rice and four pieces of dried herring so his two siblings will have something to eat before they go to school...
he didn't have breakfast so there will be leftover rice and viand for his mother who is sick.
The remaining coins he gave to his mother to save and use for buying medicine.
Before he left he also boiled sweet potato tops to add to the grilled dried herring - breakfast of his mother.
in the four dried herring he bought, they will have one each and he will eat his share for lunch.
The payment meant for repairing my laptop I instead gave to him and I told him that if he is accepted for the job that he continue what he is doing caring for his siblings and sick mother.
As he continues to tell his story, even when they were small their father left them, so they lived from place to place, even by the sidewalk in Baclaran until they reached Imus where they found a grassy field.
they asked permission from the landowner before cleaning a place for their bedding - actually, tarpaulin that served as roof.
Cartons that they always brought were their bed.
his two siblings who pick up junk when there are no classes were able to gather wood so they were slowly able to build their hut.
back then he hung out at Imus market in order to become a porter and call for passengers at the jeep terminal.
they were permitted to plant vegetables along the area and the water for sprinkling comes from the well (deep well pump) of the landowner.
When the opportunity came he studied refrigeration at TESDA.
he used the TESDA certificate as proof of the educational attainment he obtained in applying for work as merchandiser.
even if accepted as merchandiser, he will still sell swamp cabbage and sweet potato tops in the early dawn.
if lucky, maybe his merchandise may increase to include squash because in several months the fruits will be bigger.
he and his siblings already spoke on how they would be able to help in harvesting the tops every afternoon that will then be sold in the early dawn.
his two siblings study in a public school that is near LTO-Imus. they walk going to class and back home.
Rex is 23 years old, followed by his 9 year old brother and the baby sister is 7 years old... their mother is 52 years old.
I promised to visit them because I know the field he mentioned anyway.
if only majority of the Filipino youth are like Rex and his siblings, our country may not have that many problems...
</TEXT>
</DOC>
