<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_13012474.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
adaptation (adaptation)
draft (draft)
adaptation (adaptation) to the ongoing change in climate
by Gregorio V. Bituin Junior prepared for the Committee on Adaptation of the Philippine Movement for Climate Justice (PMCJ)
due to climate change, many calamities that the people do not expect happened.
cities, villages, and even the mountains, were submerged in water.
I remember when one of my colleagues said the City of Baguio itself was submerged in flood.
Baguio is too elevated to be flooded.
but it flooded because garbage clogged the sewers.
there are many concepts of adaptation or how we are going to adapt to this ongoing calamity.
there were many scientists (scientists) and professionals who gave different meanings or definitions to what an adaptation really is.
let us look at each one.
a. adaptation - adjustment in natural or human systems in response to actual or expected climactic stimuli or their effects, which moderates harm or exploits beneficial opportunities.
various types of adaptation can be distinguished, including anticipatory and reactive adaptation, private and public adaptation, and autonomous and planned adaptation (IPCC TAR, 2001 a)
b. adaptation - practical steps to protect countries and communities from the likely disruption and damage that will result from effects of climate change.
for example, flood walls should be built and in numerous cases it is probably advisable to move human settlements out of flood plains and other low-lying areas. (website of the UNFCCC Secretariat)
c. adaptation - is a process by which strategies to moderate, cope with and take advantage of the consequences of climatic events are enhanced, developed, and implemented.
UNDP, 2005
d. adaptation - the process or outcome of a process that leads to a reduction in harm or risk of harm, or realization of benefits associated with climate variability and climate change.
UK Climate Impact Program (UKCIP, 2003)
if definitions were summarized, adaptation are the steps to adapt to the changes happening in the environment taking into consideration the safety of lives and to reduce the risk of disaster.
for the common people, these scientific terms are very complicated but they can easily be understood if they are explained in simple words.
what adaptation means is just simple - adjusting to the condition.
it means, if your position is low, go to a higher position, or raise your position.
if the materials of your house are already weak or dilapidated, you make a way to make it durable!
you may replace the already weak and dilapidated with new wood, or make your woven bamboo walls concrete.
for example, it is always flooding in Dagat-Dagatan, what the people did was make their house higher so when it floods, it would not reach their flooring.
the time also came when low-lying lands were filled and were cemented care of the local government.
however, this is not so easy especially when survival is at stake, and not only ten people are being talked about here but millions of people.
so it is deserving to receive attention, to be studied and prepared for, not only by the government, but by the very people who will be directly affected.
it cannot be birds who will decide the fate of the fish.
the people themselves must be involved in deciding their fate and safety.
in 2009, the Climate Change Commission (CCC) of the Philippines was created through Republic Act 9729 (Climate Change Act of 2009).
this is comprised of 23 government agencies, local government units, and representatives from the academe, business sectors and NGOs.
the Commission has the mandate to implement an official National Framework Strategy on Climate Change (NFSCC) and the National Climate Change Action Plan (NCCAP).
the president of the Philippines leads this commission.
the NCCAP was created to promote a reasonable program of action to address adaptation and mitigation on the issue of climate change.
the seven strategies should mainly address the following issues.
1. food security (food security)
2. water sufficiency (water sufficiency)
3. environment and ecological stability (environment and ecological stability)
4. human security (human security)
5. sustainable energy (sustainable energy)
6. climate-smart industries and services (climate-smart industries and services)
7. knowledge and capacity development (knowledge and capacity development)
it is also the mandate of the CCC to provide assistance to local government units in creating these LCCAP (local climate change action plan).
what is our role as an organization?
first, the committee on adaptation of the Philippine Movement for Climate Justice (PMCJ) is the acting representative of progressive organizations to ensure that policies of the government in connection with the issue on adaptation and climate change are properly implemented.
second, to be critical and discerning that what the government is doing is not enough unless rich nations are charged with their responsibilities.
third, the climate change happening is due to a system that does not prioritize the welfare of society but the interest of the few, some nations, some sectors (business sector), a few people (rich), a system that does not consider future of the vast majority.
fourth, writing and extending through mass media the stand and criticism of PMCJ on what are happening like the threat of blasting (blasting) of households in danger zones to transfer the people to the death zone.
fifth, for PMCJ to coordinate and be a part of NCCAPs and LCCAPs or to monitor (monitoring) the activities of the government.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
