<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_78389504.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Hebrew Series 31: do not let go! by Zayith Hebron November 12, 2016 "what else should I say? because there would not be enough time if I would narrate about Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jefta, David, Samuel and the prophets; who through their faith, they conquered kingdoms, administered justice, obtained promises, shut the mouth of lions, extinguished the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, gained strength from weakness, become mighty in battle, make foreign armies retreat."
(Hebrews 11:33) we continue with our analysis about the message of the Letters to the Hebrews which can be found in the New Testament of the Holy Bible. we already said in this letters the writer explained the superiority of the son of God who is Jesus - superior above all, including the angels.
he ended the need for animal sacrifices of the Old Testament.
Jesus himself is the only offering for the sins of the world. the writer is convincing his original readers.
do not go back to Judaism.
a new testament between God and man already exists, and this is because Jesus ended His mission on the Cross of Calvary.
and if they are afraid of what might happen to them because they carry the name of Jesus as Hebrew Christians, the writer strengthens their courage.
they should remember the faithfulness of Abraham.
he was ready to offer his son Issac to God; he was greatly blessed.
they should also remember Moses; faithful deliverer of the early Israelites from the slavery to the Egyptians.
likewise, he strictly obeyed the Lord's instruction to him, so he saw God who is Yahweh act in a powerful way as a Holy Protector who cared for the people of Israel.
and now, here in chapter 11 of his writings, the writer to the Hebrews say they should not think they are alone in their journey.
there were many ahead of them who showed how to be steadfast to their faith through the power of the Holy Spirit.
he cited the names of the saints they know from the Old Testament: Rahab, Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jefta, David, Samuel.
each one has a unique story of valor and victory shown in the midst of a difficult situation.
the writer also mentioned examples of faithful believers who seemed to be defeated in their lives on earth but were considered by God to blessed ones because they will receive in heaven the promises of their faith.
"others endured mockery and scourging and even chains and imprisonment."
they were stoned to death, sawed, slaughtered with the sword, they wandered wearing sheepskins and goatskins, suffering, persecuted and oppressed (of which the world is not worthy)... "and all of these, though they were praised because of their faith, did not receive what was promised, because God prepared something better for us..." (Hebrews 11:36-38a, 39-40). brothers in Christ, the clear messages are: God is faithful, he is dependable. his promises are certain. sometimes you feel that you are alone in what you believe in, have courage.
you can overcome trials with the help of the Lord Jesus.
just look at the list of saints in Hebrews 11 and Hebrews 12. you will remember you are not alone and the God who kept their faith is your God, too.
do not let go. Jesus' second coming is near.
it is a joyful and victorious day for all His children, but a day of horror for those who continue to renounce Him and His reign.
while there is time, let us search our hearts.
let us ask for the power of the Holy Spirit to repent from our sins and to live our lives faithful to Jesus.
I pray for all our salvation on that great day.
shalom and God bless!
</TEXT>
</DOC>
