<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_45686180.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
oh dear one of the problems of our parents is fixing our ah schedule or everything we do in the house to attend to the needs of the family right Ariel ?
what is that the the ah for example ah multitasking like that geez .
because what what what happens is that only mothers are expected to clean to cook what about you fathers what are you supposed to do we are breadwinners then after -- bonding with the guys .
that's it oh dear it does not it does not ah it does not seem to be a good bill (()) because ah the the mothers they should be the caretaker of the family that is your job .
meanwhile you have a happy hour but we have none .
drinking while bonding with our friends that is necessary that is necessary .
uh if your wife suddenly goes missing because she wants to have a happy hour what will you do ?
because it is really important most especially now yes the classes have just begun our support to our children now that we do a lot things how should this be addressed for that we have with us our relationship and parenting expert miss Maribel Dionisio welcome back to the show Maribel thank you Winnie .
there .
a beautiful morning to the viewers (()) no thanks big brother .
ah alright .
okay Maribel first of all how important is the support of a parent to a child while studying ?
it's -- important while studying .
this is what you said earlier to -- give attention in the morning and to focus on homework -- is important especially for ten years old right ?
so not really -- it's not possible for me to not pay attention I'm very tired from washing the laundry in addition to that I'm also carrying a baby .
why won't you get a maid to focus on the homework of the children you fathers are animals and you still expect us to get a maid .
you know I want to -- if I'm going to pick a wife now ah ah I want my wife to be able to focus in helping my children with their homework even only until grade three or grade four .
because if I only get someone pretty and if you ask them the questions like what is six times six ?
oh my son I don't know that .
just all mothers Maribel ?
no .
fathers should also help because most of mothers are also working whether outside the house or inside the house also it's important for the children to have their father helping for the father and mother to have a happy hour isn't it when they teach their children altogether yes you don't have to be with all men at happy hour include the missus you know Wennie correct me if I'm wrong Maribel don't we need fathers only when we have a son ?
oh .
isn't it necessary yes because there's a father figure if there's a daughter like you isn't it like that is there a gender assignment ?
that's the old-fashioned outlook but what the girls need are also fathers because when they marry they look at the characteristics of their father and that of their chosen partner which are alike or if they don't know their father (()) that will cause a problem there will be a problem kids will long for their father's attention father's and mother's it's not about being a man or a woman .
how will be our assignment how will be the division of labor .
umm um .
because in choosing if you're good at for example Filipino we won't give you the Math right so let's talk about which subject of homework can we help with so when there's homework there should be at least one of us ?
one of you or if he's not yet home then schedule later when dad arrives he's better at Math that's why dad helped Maribel and what about what I've been doing I'm bribing the sister to teach Math the younger grade six the other one the grade two he can teach him teach his sister .
(()) .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
