<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_34756082.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Your dreams, I'll interpret: Shop and celebrity (2)
Posted by: Hataw Tabloid
on July 4, 2016
in Hataw Extras
if you dream about wood or wood, this may suggest that you think you have no feelings and are like a machine.
this also suggests that you do not think well or completely.
Alternatively, this may be a pun relating to sexual arousal.
if the wood in your dream is removed or disappears, this may suggest a decrease in your sexual activities.
Bread that is seen in dreams relates to basic needs in life.
this may also suggest the positive qualities and the good things that you learn as you go through life.
Alternatively, this may also be a reminder for you to work harder, especially in situations that you need for your own development and future.
if you see a guitar in your dream, this represents about passion and emotion.
this may be also be related to sexual connotations and may possibly signal an erotic or sensual dream.
if the guitar is broken or has its strings removed, this possibly relates to disappointment in romance.
if you dream about a celebrity, this possibly represents a desire to find happiness and entertainment or pleasure.
Your admiration for a particular celebrity or artist may trigger getting some of their physical or personality traits.
these celebrities should be observed and evaluated, especially the characteristics of theirs that you may associate with your own personality.
this is because it's possible that these characteristics may be similar to things that you should identify with or incorporate into yourself.
there may also be a relationship between you and the roles or role being played by the celebrities that you see in your dreams.
even though you don't personally know the famous celebrities you see in your dreams, the roles they take on that you watch or your view and perception of their character may give you a clue to or understanding your connection to your dreams.
on the other hand, this may just be the result of what you see on TV or movies or stories that you've read about celebrities in tabloids and showbiz magazines, causing them to show up in your dreams.
if that's the case, then these celebrities don't have any significant meaning to you and their entry into your dreams is purely incidental.
Señor H.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
