<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_91612116.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
psychology and sexism
by Teo S. Marasigan
March 8, 2012
for now, many know about the sexual harassment case filed by Cristy Ramos, child of the former President Fidel V. Ramos and match commissioner of FIFA against the two Azkals players.
according to her, she is conducting a team check in the dugout of the football team when the incident happened.
the player Lexton Moy, strike about the size of her bra and the players laughed.
Angel Guirado faced her on his brief, seems attempting and does not cover up.
few days after the scandal exploded, a news came out: "welfare chief suggests psychiatric exams for Azkals."
the one pointed out, of course, is Secretary Corazon "Dinky" Soliman of the Department of Social Welfare and Development.
her proposals to the Azkals are mixed up: undergo psychiatric and psychological evaluation, understand the culture of the Philippines is different from where they have grown up, have values education (values education).
the attitude of those who are idolized needs to be good.
what is shown in the statements of Soliman, intentional or not?
the sexism shown the by Azkals is an anomaly, not ordinary - they have problems in the mind or values and our society is not sexist.
she considers what the Azkals have shown as a disease, but contains it, so it will not be shown flowing through the whole society.
only the Azkals have problems, not our society.
they should be treated, not our society.
the sexism shown by Azkals is not abnormal but normal, not anomalous but ordinary.
there is a truth in the statement of the team manager of Azkals Dan Palami, though asking for an apology but reasoning out that: "on my personal experience on the usual events in men's locker room, a fight of many noisy boasting creates tension, excitement, and nervous energies."
this could really be mistaken as lack of respect.
but this is not absolving Azkals.
they should be held accountable in what they did, Ramos is admirable in filing and persevering the case against the famous team.
but a lot of questions are faced by Soliman's retaliation.
is this the only case where a woman is automatically considered to be asking for a sexual attention?
that the woman, in this case is in the authority, is put by the men in her proper place?
how about the sexual harassment of women in call centers, export-processing zones, and others?
the politics of Soliman is social-democratic, which is hoping for an individual change of attitude and values for societal change.
in this case, she is considering this as private - privatized or privatization? - a societal problem.
fits here is the movement of neoliberalism described by Mark Fisher, an English progressive blogger.
"the question," according to him, "is not how did you get sick because of work?
but what you have and have not done your work right?
what demeanor of the Azkals is included as normal for males.
so, more than them, the whole society needs psychiatric exams.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
