<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_41008313.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Hasmine, went slightly gaga over dark nipples by Allan Diones
September 6, 2016
the group of the indie film Pamilya Ordinaryo is already in Italy to attend the 73rd Venice International Film Festival (August 31 - September 10).
the said film is included in the 11 films vying for the 13th edition of the Venice Days section of the said festival.
the male star of the film Ronwaldo Martin, director Eduardo Roy, Junior and producer Ferdinand Lapuz already went ahead to Venice.
following them is the female lead of the movie and honored as best actress in the 2016 Cinemalaya Film festival Hasmine Killip who will come from London where she lives.
Hasmine told us that she will arrive in Venice on September 8 and their walk on the red carpet is on the very same day.
the smashing white gown made by John Herrera that Hasmine will wear is ready.
the gown's effect is nude wherein the back is more visible than the front, and the slit on the side is super-long so her legs will be revealed.
in fairness Hasmine's nipples are hidden, which she went gaga about when someone commented that her nipples are dark after watching Ordinary Family.
the newbie actress has breast exposure in the movie when her character Jane was forced by a pervert police officer to show her breasts.
"will you assume a clean nipple, when she (Jane) does not even bathe?
what are you thinking, the color pink?
it's crazy!"
was the funny reaction of Hasmine to the one who said her nipples are dark.
in that scene Jane's breasts are ripe and lactating because she gave birth only a few weeks before to Baby Arjan who was stolen by a baby snatcher.
those were prosthetics and not real nipples.
"maybe if you see my real nipples, you will be surprised!
colorful!
ha!
ha!
ha!"
laughed the 21-year-old show business newbie married to a British.
"what is really the color of your nipple, you gay?"
asked a friend of Hasmine, which she answered with, "the real one is color pink, the fake black!
ha!
ha!
ha!"
she even said to us, "I do not have children, why will my nipple be black?"
nipple discussion is a hit!
the winner of best film at Cinemalaya 2016 was approved without cuts when screened in theaters.
Pamilya Ordinaryo is still showing, which in fairness has viewers so it was not axed from cinemas.
hopefully the film will also win in the Venice film festival.
performances are not awarded in Venice Days, only the best film is given a trophy together with a cash prize of 20,000 euros.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
