<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_84188186.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
dragon boat race, starting signal of the anniversary and cityhood of Tanuan
February 24, 2016
City of Tanauan, Batangas, February 24 (PIA) -another exciting and breathtaking competition will be witnessed this coming March 5, 2016 on the start of the 3rd Tanauan City Dragonboat Race as starting signal of the week-long celebration of the city of its 444th-year anniversary and 15th year of "cityhood".
in an overall supervision by the City Sports Development Office of the city government, Solar Sports (the "cable sports channel" of Solar Entertainment Corporation) will head the one-day competition that will serve as the third chapter (3rd leg) of the prestigious "Solar Sports Paddles Up - Philippine Dragon Boat Tour" that first kicked off in Manila Bay last November.
veteran and premier rowers from different parts of the country will participate in the said race that will take place in Taal Lake that is covered by barangays Wawa and Boot of this city.
dragon boat racing is one of the main sports and tourism programs of the city that is actively supported by Tanauan City mayor Antonio C. Halili to steer the residents, most especially the youth, away from the temptation of destructive drugs.
the city is celebrating its anniversary and cityhood this coming March 10 which also includes a "royal enthronement" of the Royal Houses of the Sultanate of Batangas.
and on the last day of festivities on March 12, the whole nation will again witness the most anticipated and visited "Tanauan City Parade of Lights", that will start with a "Tiburin Harness Race".
the city of Tanauan, the birthplace of national hero Gat Apolinario Mabini and former president, Jose P. Laurel, was founded by Augustinian missionaries in the year 1752.
it became a full city as a result of Republic Act Number 9005, or more commonly known as "An Act of Converting the Municipality of Tanauan Into a Component City to be known as the City of Tanauan," that was ratified through a plebiscite on March 10, 2001.
(Gerard Laremsa-CIO Tanauan/PIA Batangas)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
