<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_37040658.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
art of turning down
Sheila Abarra
the country's minority carried their music and colorful clothing in every situation they face - proof that the art they're preserving is still alive.
nevertheless, for mother Liya Asinas, 58 year old bead-maker of the Higaonon tribe in Bukidnon, they strongly fear for their unique art and culture.
the largest threat for it is the worsening violence caused by the militarization in their own land.
the crafted accessories made by the bead-makers like mother Liya are important for the natives-aside from their colorful clothing, these accessories hugely contribute to their identities.
these are called Salay which are worn during gatherings like Dumalondong.
these have different kinds: a veil worn in the head and a belt worn by dancers in their waist.
Mother Liya was sixteen years old when she started making accessories.
despite the hardships in her life, she did not take her art for granted.
she continued to make these despite losing her husband and children-four times, mother Liya suffered miscarriage and was not blessed with a child after because her husband passed away in 2011 due to illness.
aside from creating her art, she serves in her community in other ways.
she was formerly a teacher in a school for Higaonon, the Rural Missionaries of the Philippines.
when she grew old and could no longer climb the mountain going to the school, she joined Health-Bukidnon, a group of community health workers of Bukidnon.
the life of mother Liya completely changed when the military came.
the military hurt and arrest the natives whenever they wear their colorful clothing and accessories as a symbol of them being Higaonon.
because of these pressure and violence, fear got associated in wearing the previously simple symbol of their identities.
the military disrespect and commit violence even in their schools.
they labeled them as "school of the NPA," when only native children studying there.
due to the pressure from the military, schools were closed down and were only opened back when the natives had a dialogue with the local government.
nevertheless, the fear delivered by the threat of militarization stays
despite all of these, the bead-makers like mother Liya still work hard to preserve their art.
there are still many Lumad who make accessories.
these are not only symbols of their identities - it is believed that these have medicinal uses too.
they make the natives wear the accessories in the parts of their bodies that have fractures or sprain to correct the flow of blood and ease the pain.
the country's minority are the ones who preserve the Filipino culture despite the colonial influences faced by the country in the hands of foreigners.
it will be a big loss if they will be continuously violated and displaced from their ancestral lands.
said mother Liya.
"I've grown old being a bead-maker and like how we protected it (bead-making), it is fitting that we also protect our rights."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
