<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_52356458.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
crumbs in between fingers
by Jolau V. Ocampo, Winona S. Sadia - September 26, 2016
Mario's big belly slightly bounced as he lazily laid it in front of the sink.
he was again the last one to finish eating.
his face was dismayed as he softly looked at the stack of dishes finished by the whole family.
chicken bones were not segregated, spoon and forks, and greasy plates with dried soup of casserole sticking.
added with glasses on the left side of the sink, pitcher with remaining one glass of iced tea, and two platters where rice and soup has dried.
fortunately, his elder sister was tasked to clean off the rice cooker and pots used in cooking the viand.
his mother took their youngest sister to bath while his father went out of the house, probably to visit his friends.
only he was left at the kitchen, washing and filing the utensils.
he has been doing this repeatedly the entire vacation.
he's already fed up.
he didn't think that even on Sunday, he won't be given a breath from the household chores.
moments after, he wiped the sink using the rug, dark from being old.
he left the rack of dishes open, and ran outside the house.
the end of his shirt was a bit wet because he used it to dry his wet hands before he went out the gate.
under the orchids his mother planted, his best friend, Anton, was sitting on the sidewalk.
slouched, he was busy playing Pokemon Go.
it was already noon, but it was obvious that Anton just had taken a bath because his hair was wet and powder was all over his chest.
you can see from his big shirt, with cartoon character on it, that he's thin, especially when Mario crammed to his side to watch the trending game.
"you're done cleaning up, right?" asked Anton while as he continues to play.
Mario didn't respond.
he irritatingly scratched his head and wrinkled his forehead while slightly closing his eyes from the scorching heat of the sun on the asphalt.
he declined the offered Skyflakes of his playmate which looked like was his only lunch.
"let's go to our house, and play Diner Dash!" Anton invited.
the cement in front of Anton's house was wet from the hanged clothes.
they went down the stairs in order to come in the house.
in the left corner, their television was displayed.
Anton's father was in one corner, one leg on his chair, and eating alone.
he was eating the chicken marinade in the bag using his bare hands.
in the small living room, the friends were playing the tablet alternately.
Mario was really amazed, and wished that he could wash the dishes as fast as the character in Diner Dash.
hopefully, as fast as one snap, the dishes used after meals are cleaned.
moments after, Mario and Anton were shouting with joy because they finished one level of the game.
Anton looked up from his tablet when he heard the voice of his mother from the alley.
"Antoooon!
wash the dishes we used.
that was still from a while ago!"
Anton went to the sink to fetch his mom.
Mario noticed that he's scared to be scolded and embarrassed in front of him.
Mario still not finished with one level of Diner Dash, Anton came to his side, hands still wet, waiting for him to finish.
Mario stopped playing.
he stretched his neck and looked at the cleaned table and dried sink.
three plastic plates, two glasses, two forks, and one spoon were drained in the drainer.
"you're finished already?" he wondered with how fast his friend was.
he nodded as he snatched away the tablet.
"you lose!"
said Diner Dash.
"why were you able to clean up so fast?"
Mario asked with a hint of surprise.
"we only used a few dishes," answered Anton, almost finishing the game.
just as expected, Skyflakes were the friends' snacks.
later that afternoon, as Mario came in his house, five plates, pairs of spoon and fork, platters of viand, one pitcher of iced tea, and five glasses were being prepared.
his mother told him to sit down as she brought the cooked marinade from the kitchen.
one, two, three...
he counted each plate and utensils that he'll wash after eating dinner.
the Skyflakes he ate at Anton's earlier were already digested.
his stomach rumbled, and at that moment, he wanted to double the dishes he was going to wash.
"let's eat," he said in front of the table.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
