<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_25336249.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Leyte needs the help of the national government
almost five months have passed since the super typhoon Yolanda destructed the Visayas Region where Leyte, particularly, Tacloban City is severely hit.
despite the number of people I talked to, not one of them said that the national government gave them aid.
even for their electricity, they still need to give money to LEYECO before the electricity will be connected for them.
the justification of LEYECO, their staff does not have an ability to connect electricity to the whole Leyte so the residents have to carry the payment for the contractor that they are going to get to connect the wires to each house.
this government is too much.
a huge donation is received from the different countries in the whole world, even the payment for the contractors to connect the wires to houses is needed to be depended on the Yolanda survivors?
in almost two weeks that I have been going back and forth to Tacloban and Ormoc City, the people are saying of almost one thing, hope they will be aided by our government.
the residents of Leyte really want to rise and get up but how can they do this if they are not going to be helped by the national government?
even with the relief goods, those whom we have talked to said that they have not been receiving any relief goods from the DSWD of Secretary Dinky Soliman.
only aide from the local government and foreign countries.
some of the residents of Ormoc City said that the relief goods dumped in a warehouse in Ormoc are expired and rotten but would not like to distribute it for an unknown reason.
where did the billions of foreign aide granted to our government in the midst of the typhoon Yolanda have gone?
how many of the people in the government have benefited and continuously benefitting here, and who are these animals?
for now, you can still hide what you are doing but on 2016, can you still pass through if someone different sits in?
seems I can see now that many are going to jail after the national election in 2016.
let yourselves be hit, have shame on yourselves.
do not meddle with the money which is not for you and do not take interest in it.
be afraid in karma, remember that karma now arrives as quick as the winds of typhoon Yolanda.
oh, for your sake.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
