<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_89833725.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
pushing the offensive
by Jerome Tagaro
this past week, news of the bombing that took place between the government of Israel and the Hamas, the group controlling the Gaza Strip, made noise.
all of these bombings are supposedly part of the offensive of Israel that started on November 14 to completely stop Gaza's bombing of its territory.
founded to stop the colonization of Israel and replace the Israeli state with an Islamic Palestinian state, Hamas is one of two groups controlling the territory of Palestine, consisting of the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
it is easy to say the excuse that the offensive Israel launched is logical.
it is truly the responsibility of the government to care for its jurisdiction.
but if we will examine the last number of casualties from the bombing, we will know that three who died are Israelis, while more than 100 were Palestinians many of which are civilians.
the difference of these two numbers seem too big to say that Israel is just defending its citizens.
the government of Israel explained that these civilian casualties cannot be prevented.
they supposedly cannot be blamed for the civilians involved because their targets are positioned in crowded areas.
included in those hit by Israeli bombs are residential areas, hospitals, some media outlets, and one former national security compound.
if we return to history, Palestinians are the original owners of the land covered by Israel today until the territory was formally divided in 1948 in a United Nations declaration.
the primary reason for this division is for the Jews who became Nazi victims in World War II to have their own country.
since then Israel gradually claimed the territories of Palestine through violence.
at this point, what state is just really defending itself?
it is important to consider that the bombing mentioned by the government of Israel only happened in the past months.
the conflict between the two groups is decades old, wherein it is not the Israelis but the Gazans who lose land and lose civilians.
the quantity and quality of the military of the two countries is another issue.
the forces are weak and few and only handcrafted rockets are released by Hamas.
meanwhile, Israel is armed with tanks, F-16s, drones and hundreds of thousands of skilled soldiers, in addition to the assistance given by the US that is worth up to $8.3 million per day.
in this conflict in Gaza, the inconsiderate involvement of the US can be seen.
proof of this is US president Barrack Obama siding with Israel in the offensive it launched.
this action of his is not surprising because Israel serves as the outpost of the United States in the Middle East.
the past election in the US expresses a clear message, wherein despite Mitt Romney and Barrack Obama coming from different parties, the foreign policies they are pushing for are almost the same.
meaning, no matter who won the election that took place, no change can be expected in other countries, particularly in Gaza.
for power, the war in Gaza will continue to worsen and the people involved in this conflict will continue to increase.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
