<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_16708648.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
return of US bases
by Yanni Fernan
March 30, 2016
No time was wasted by Aquino and the US to implement EDCA. Under this, the whole country would seem to be US military base while the Filipino soldiers are security guards.
it was in the year 1991 in spite of the objection of then president Corazon Aquino, the Senate of the Philippines answered the widespread protest of the people and close the US military bases in the Philippines.
the following year the US military force left bringing along their armament.
on their departure, they left Clark Air Base and the Subic Naval Base, including Camp John Hay, Naval Air Station Cubi Point, Naval Station San Miguel and Naval Wallace Air Station.
but after 25 years under the her son and current president Noynoy Aquino, the US military bases are being reinstated under the EDCA (Enhanced Development Cooperation Agreement).
US President Barack Obama even came here in the Philippines in 2014 to sign the EDCA with Aquino which did not pass through the Senate.
a lot of people questioned this but this January 2016, the Supreme Court sided (in a decision 10-4) with Aquino and declared that EDCA is not against the constitution.
EDCA implemented: the whole country a US military base
Aquino and the US did not waste any time to implement the EDCA before Aquino descends from his post in June.
EDCA will last for ten years and because this is an executive agreement and not a treaty, it depends on the next presidents to extend its term.
the five US military bases to be built in the Philippines was set forth this March.
the difference, these are located inside the camps of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP).
more than this, according to the EDCA, the US could build their military base where there is a military camp.
with this, the whole country would look like a US military base while the Filipino soldiers as security guards.
thousands of American soldiers will have facilities, armaments, and rotational access inside the following bases: 1) Antonio Bautista Air Base in Palawan, (2) Basa Air Base in Pampanga, (3) Fort Magsaysay in Nueva Ecija, (4) Lumbia Air Base in Cagayan de Oro, and (5) Mactan-Benito Ebuen Air Base in Cebu.
but this is not the beginning of the deployment of US troops in the Philippines.
before EDCA, there was the VFA (Visiting Forces Agreement) between the US and the Philippines, that was approved by the Senate as a treaty in 1998.
under the VFA, there are no permanent US bases but American soldiers are allowed to go inside and outside in any place in the Philippines.
they are also allowed to serve as advisors and trainers of Filipino soldiers, conduct military ("Balikatan") exercises of US and Filipino troops, and the docking of US warships (like the USS Ohio earlier) in the Philippines for repair and refueling. in fact, 600 American soldiers from the Navy SEALS and Special Action Forces were assigned in Mindanao called the US-Philippine Mission.
to recall, two criminal cases of abuse and murder of a Filipina involving Lance Corporal Daniel Smith and PFC Joseph Scott Pemberton, both US Marines, occurred under the VFA.
the US warship USS Guardian also caused damage to the Tubbataha Reef when it crashed in 2013.
when the US-RP Military Bases Agreement was in force, many crimes were committed by American soldiers such as shooting of indigenous people, battery, rape and others.
this also triggered the widespread exploitation of women in the form of prostitution around the bases especially in Angeles and Olongapo.
they also left toxic waste in their military base.
the real purpose of the bases
to defend the Philippines against China supposedly is the reason being used for the return of the US military bases.
the tension between the Philippines and China is intensifying in the West Philippine Sea.
the armed forces of the Philippines are weak and in exchange for EDCA are the millions of dollars of support in military equipment will be given by the US to the Philippines just to have US military bases in the country.
of the five military bases, the Antonio Bautista Air Base in Palawan is the nearest to the Panatag Shoal which is also being claimed by China.
it was in 2012 when China began its militarization, land reclamation, and patrolling of the Chinese Coast Guard on the ocean and small islands in the West Philippine Sea, which are claimed not only by the Philippines but also by Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei, Indonesia and Taiwan.
but EDCA cannot solve the entry of China in the West Philippine Sea, according to Bagong Alyansang Makabayan,
instead, what EDCA mainly addresses is the interest of the US to continue to be the most powerful in the Asia-Pacific and to protect its free trade in the West Philippine Sea.
the US has no commitment and it is doubtful that they will defend the Philippines against China's aggression.
what's certain is the strong military presence of the US will further control the future of the Philippines.
EDCA is an explicit violation of Philippine independence.
furthermore, in the "rebalancing act" being done or the transfer by the US of 60% of its naval force in Asia, some political experts say that the Philippines and its neighboring countries in the Asia-Pacific might be the "next Middle East".
direct intrusion
it is also surprising that four US military bases are far from the West Philippine Sea and in fact, are in the central regions of Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao. in these areas, the main problem of the US and Aquino government is not China but the pursuing struggle of the New People's Army.
additionally in particular areas in Mindanao, there is the threat of intensification of the armed uprising of the Moro people.
many fighters and cadres of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) are disappointed on the proposed Bangsamoro Basic Law even if it has not been approved yet by the Congress.
the BIFF (Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters) and Abu Sayyaf are not denying their alliance with ISIS (Islamic State of Syria and Iran), apart from the newly formed jihadists groups.
all indications show that American soldiers will intervene and intrude to suppress the armed revolution and rebellion in the Philippines which they claim as terrorism.
the direct participation in the combat of American troops against the NPA or Moro has been reported not only a few times. it means that they exceed the terms of the agreement which is only to train and advise.
in Mamasapano, the investigation of the Senate shows there are six American soldiers that may be directly involved in the operation to kill the alleged Malaysian terrorist, Marwan.
this is aside from the intelligence support from the CIA (Central Intelligence Agency) and surveillance plane while the operation is ongoing.
if they can do this under the VFA, what more under the EDCA with designated US military bases in the country.
the US bases brings forth a dark future with the outbreak of more violence not only outside but within the Philippines itself.
regardless of the denial of the Aquino government and the Supreme Court, the military bases will continue to be targets of attack by enemies of the US and the Philippine government which is subservient to the US.
while this is not yet even happening, the US is already directly intruding and participating in the internal conflict of the Philippines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
