<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_28376365.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
BCDA and SBMA in good hands
some say the government has many shortcomings.
but there is also a lot we are grateful for to the Aquino administration.
as a Filipino, I am personally grateful for the quality and dedication of the leaders of the Bases Conversion Development Authority (BCDA) and the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA).
here, PNOY scores with his appointees.
in BCDA, dynamic duo is the tandem of Chairman Rolando P. Gosiengfiao and CEO/President Arnel Paciano D. Casanova.
Gosiengfiao is an Iskolar ng Bayan, and a cum laude of Business Administration in the University of the Philippines Diliman.
he has an extensive work experience outside the country.
while Casanova is a University of the Philippines law graduate and from the same batch as our very able congressman in Marikina, Miro Quimbo.
he is a product of the Kennedy School of Government in Harvard.
he teaches at the Ateneo School of Government and very active in the Kaya Natin Movement on good Governance, together with the late Jesse Robredo, Grace Padaca and Among Ed Panlilio.
the BCDA today is different because it chases and sues those who cheat in our country.
like what happened in Camp John Hay.
they will really not overlook the huge debt of businessman Bob Sobrepeña.
they have very good projects such as the Clark Green City, the six ongoing projects in SCTex worth 207 million pesos, the one in Poro Point and many others.
meanwhile, at the SBMA, chairman and administrator Roberto Garcia shines.
this is the first government stint of Garcia.
he was the former president and COO of Oriental and Motolite batteries.
Garcia is an AIMM graduate and he finished college in La Salle and in Ateneo for high school.
on August 4 the SBMA will release P93.
7 million LGU revenue shares for the first semester of 2014 for the eight surrounding areas of SBMA.
these are Olongapo City, Subic, San Marcelino, San Antonio, and Castillejos in Zambales; and towns of Dinalupihan, Hermosa, and Morong in Bataan.
this is their commitment to the neighboring LGUs to hasten the progress in these areas and to fully achieve the desired inclusive growth of President Aquino.
hopefully, under the leadership of Garcia, Gosiengfiao and Casanova, SBMA and BCDA will further grow to contribute more to the funds of the government.
ABISO/Paul Edward P. Sison
</TEXT>
</DOC>
