<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_25695264.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Pledge of Commitment of the local leaders in OrMin, signed
March 15, 2016
Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, March 15 (PIA) formally signed by Gov.
Alfonso V. Umali Junior, Vice-Governor Humerlito A. Dolor, the chiefs of various departments in the capital, and the members of the Provincial Council the Pledge of Commitment for the project Partnership for Integrity and Jobs (I4J) done in Tamaraw Hall of the Capital recently.
in his speech, Gov. Umali announced his belief that in the unity of all, the province will be able to triumph in the challenge of this program.
The Pledge of Commitment in the Capital is adapted from the pledges of commitment done by each department in the capital signed also by its staff.
this commitment will be serving as guide and direction in each department and will be reminding of the expected service from their department.
the Oriental Mindoro and the municipality of Naujan are both beneficiaries of the program which is implemented by the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung of the European Union and the German Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development.
associates also in this program are the Centrist Democracy Political Institute, European Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines, League of Cities of the Philippines, League of Municipalities of the Philippines, and the League of Provinces of the Philippines.
it can be recalled that the I4J was launched in the Philippines last year 2014 and encouraging the selected LGUs to make it a priority in their service to have of loyal and brilliant governance which will cause a continuous campaign for awareness in performing duties and transparent governance to avoid corruption in the regulation of the government.
this program is divided into four phases: the Project Set-up Phase, Piloting Phase, Dissemination Phase and Conclusion Phase.
the I4J program will be finished on December 2016.
meanwhile, the other beneficiaries of the I4J program in the whole country are the Puerto Princesa city, San Carlos city, Cagayan de Oro, Tuburan, Iranun Cluster (Barira, Buldon, Matanog and Parang) and the provinces of Cebu and South Cotabato. (CPRSD/LTC/PIA-Mimaropa/Calapan)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
