<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_46369336.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Pacquiao has won!
posted by: hataw tabloid
on April 24, 2015
in sports
eight days before Manny Pacquiao climbs the ring in May 3 against Floyd Mayweather but the People's Champ has already knocked out his opponent in one of important aspects of this mega-fight: in commercial endorsements.
in spite of Mayweather being an American, Pacquiao is the boxing superstar that gains continuous endorsements, left and right, in United States.
in the past six months, Pacman managed to sign contracts with some big companies, including nike and nestle, that gave him US$5 million, based in the report by Kurt Badenhausen of Forbes magazine.
based also on the said report, Mayweather hasn't profited yet in any endorsement.
American snack brands like Butterfinger and Wonder Pistachio allegedly plans to execute a broad advertising campaign with the People's Champ.
related to this, Nike is soon to launch the new line in the Pacquiao apparel.
"this will be exclusively available in foot locker, nike.
com and nike stores in the West Coast, where the biggest fan base of Pacquiao in the US could be found.
the royalties in clothing and sponsor deals in the Philippines will inflate the 12-month endorsement income of Pacquiao to almost US$5 million," Badenhausen said.
"many companies are doubting boxing, but they really love Manny Pacquiao," Lucia McKelvey of top rank said, the point person for merchandising Pacquiao in the US.
meanwhile, Mayweather's camp is not worried about the growing marketing money of "Pambansang Kamao".
"this is like a 'badge of courage' for Mayweather that he has no endorsements.
because of this he does not need to abstain to any company, and Mayweather said, he would like to get a piece of the action than any other deal that he is involved," Banhausen added.
the American champion also carries baggage from multiple domestic violence charges, and even the three-month imprisonment last 2012 in plea deal of the batter case and harassment that was charged against him.
"he is the highest-paid athlete in the whole world between June 2013 and June 2014 with his earnings of US$105 million, but not a cent from endorsements," Badenhausen ended.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
