<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_27051141.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
slaughter in the party-list the final standing of the party-lists will supposedly be determined on the months of October-December in our system of government.
the survivors will be determined on the month of October according to the requirements of the Commission on Elections.
to our knowledge, the Comelec has six requirements for party-lists to get accreditation.
and if a party-list will pass the six requirements, it will be allowed to join the 2013 elections.
at present, some have been disqualified and some will still be disqualified.
which party-lists have been disqualified and will be disqualified?
it is up to you, patron, to rummage through Comelec to find out which ones are these.
we just know, there are currently 54 available seats for party-list congressmen.
principle of party-list from our understanding, the party-list was made part of the 1987 Constitution in order for the poor sectors in society to have representation in the national government.
the party-list system aims to give a voice to the poor and minority citizens in Congress, particularly in the House, and that way, in the national government.
the percentage may be small, the constitution allows only 20% of the House, but that way the poor and minorities have a voice in the House.
there they will have a chance to forge laws in favor of the poor and minorities.
not only that, each law they will create has an equivalent fund to benefit the poor and minorities.
powerful and rich since the beginning, only the powerful and the rich are able to enter Congress.
as time passes, they are revealed to be landlords, owning huge businesses with investors who are foreigners, children, and relatives of former high-ranking government officials.
there are also loggers, smugglers, warlords and others.
if there are minorities that manage to make it through, they are not poor.
just a temporary solution for a short while like a three-year term.
after that they will be reclaimed by former owners.
the party-list system is expected to break that system.
fake party-list but as longer as it gets, wow, we noticed how the fake party-lists have cut across as party-lists.
how did those happen?
there is a party-list with no defined voters.
there is a party-list which is just a party-list for families.
there are also party-lists established by the current administration, and their nominees have seats in the government and were appointed by the president or by those who have the power to appoint.
cleaning up the Comelec the Comelec is said to be cleaning up the party-list system.
like - it will erase fake party-lists from the list.
because of this, all party-lists are worried.
because all party-lists are candidates in the path of the Comelec's eraser.
and the fear also resulted from the belief that the fakes now will just be replaced with other fakes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
