<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_26764300.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
the noche buena of the scout rangers, one of the most anticipated chapters by troops assigned in the field, is coming home at Christmas to be together with family.
when I was company commander in the 10th SRC, vacation schedule is already laid out by November.
the team members already talk about how they will alternate vacation on Christmas and New Year.
Christmas has an accompanying tradition where it is all festivity together with loved ones and the most important of all is the meal during noche buena. right?
endless eating of delicious food in which some it is only in Christmas you get to taste them.
of course, for us Filipinos, we save up for Christmas so noche buena is really extravagant like the photo below.
the noche buena of the Musang a large percent of the soldiers are Christians and often are Catholics. this is the reason why the units also have celebrations following what is done by many civilians.
after one of our encounters on December 17, 2000 in Patikul we had the chance to rest for 3 days in Barangay Taglibi to resupply bullets and food for the operations.
I also took that as a chance to send for chicken meat, beef, fish and even bread and pancit miki that will be prepared for our small banquet.
it is also once in a blue moon I allow them to taste alcohol.
just a taste because there is only one bottle for each team.
because it is forbidden to get wasted in the midst of combat operations.
what we do is the ingredients are distributed to each team and their own dish assignments.
division of labor as they say.
in their small meetings, the platoon sergeant relays my order.
"team 1, chicken adobo!"
"team 2, sautéed pancit miki!"
"team 3, stewed beef bone!"
"team 4, marinade and raw fish!"
of course, we have a feast like that only occasionally like if there is a unit anniversary or birthday celebration of the troop.
the only difference for us, we changed the hour of noche buena.
instead of midnight we do it before what is called the end of evening nautical twilight, or before it eventually darkens.
why?
of course, it can be difficult to eat in the middle of darkness!
bro, you might ask if that is still 'noche buena'?
I know that the meaning of that term is "good night" but of course we are practical in the field.
the safety of the troop is more important instead of us using flashlight to lay out a meal at midnight.
okay, let us just say, our feast is "buenas tardes" (good afternoon) because we eat our food for noche buena before evening.
the most important of all, we are done.
everyone is smiling and forgets the sadness felt by soldiers left fighting against bandits at Christmas.
well, we were lucky then because we were in the 'admin area' to resupply operations.
what if we were caught in the middle of the forest on Christmas?
of course, our noche buena is tactical too.
actually, the fighters in the forest of Patikul sent me a photo this Christmas of 2014. they were in the same area we explored only ten years ago.
when I talked to the platoon leader, he passed on the message of his unit who have not stopped searching the forest to pursue the bandits still holding hostages.
"sir, in order for us to feel the spirit of Christmas, we still prepare a special menu.
we send to our fellowmen our warm greeting of Merry Christmas here from the forests of Patikul."
in what I see from my time and now, our celebration of noche buena is almost the same.
what is important to us is we become family with our companions in the troop and forget the sadness felt every time we remember our own families at home.
our meal is that simple and whatever is available, we make do.
what is important to us is to continue fulfilling our sworn duty to protect our fellowmen from forces of evil.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
