<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_87768454.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
learn how to make a list
this 2013, lack of financial support is still the majority of cases faced by the Bantay OCW.
almost everyday, we don't lose complaints from wives of our OFWs.
perhaps decrease of support, or just seldom, or a complete lack of support by the husband.
the OFWs have lots of excuses.
but usually, it's their mistress abroad.
and it will end up to them having a family of their own there.
that's the reason why sustenance for the original family is reduced, and will eventually completely stop.
it would have been better if the wife has an income in the Philippines.
but the case is, many of them are dependent to their OFW husbands, almost begs just to be sustained.
some even say that it's okay for their husband to have a mistress, or even have a different family in abroad, as long as they don't stop the financial support to them.
one time, a wife of an OFW went to Bantay OCW to complain her husband who was chanced to be on a vacation at that time.
she already knows that her husband has a mistress in Qatar, but her only request is for the husband to give a regular support to the family.
they have three children and are only
students, there's still a house on installment, and the wife doesn't have a job.
when the husband learned that his wife complained to Bantay OCW, he opted to face us and end the problem before he goes back to Qatar.
we gave an ample time for the meeting of husband and wife at the studio of Inquirer Radio in Makati City.
because the issue is support, we asked the wife a list of expenses at home.
we repeatedly asked the wife her list, but it seemed like she didn't hear us, she wasn't responding.
when I asked for the list again, she said he doesn't have a list, hence, doesn't have anything to show.
we started to teach her how to make a list for the monthly budget of their family.
when we finished that, we then settled the right and just budget that the husband should send the wife monthly.
the formula we used was favorable to both of them.
the OFW was happy that we set apart an automatic savings of 20% for him, and we properly calculated the monthly expenses of the family.
after their signing of the said agreement, both parties were thankful because they would not be filing a case in court, which would really use up a lot of their time and also be an expense.
altogether, we urged the wife to look for a job and help the OFW husband that will add sustenance for their growing family.
and above all, hopefully, wives can learn how to make a monthly list to have a basis of requested support from the husband.
if there was a list, it wouldn't be hard for the OFWs to give a monthly support because it really is their primary reason of going abroad: to give their family a good future.
what now, wives, start listing and your lives will be easier, because expenses and right budgeting is part of our daily lives.
surely, you'll avoid disagreements.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
