<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_48085574.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
challenge accepted
the life of a person is full of trials which are testing and challenging our strength and firmness.
I have met and interacted with different kinds of people in quite a lot of countries that I have been to.
I have interviewed and mingled with CEO, COO, doctor, lawyer, teacher to simple employees, and in the stories of their lives and successes, the arrival of problems and challenges cannot be missing, these seem to be part of the life of a person.
but as the line of the song tells - "those are just challenges, do not surrender the fight."
I have met a Filipina domestic helper in Macau.
she is Mother Josie and she shared to me the story of her continuing struggle in the challenges of life.
Mother Joise is raised in Mabatan, Abucay in Bataan, her life is happy and prosperous with her three children.
she had a helper and it was not much of problem to provide for the expenses of education of her children who were still studying, because her husband had a good job in Saudi Arabia.
for her, she was contented with their happy and seemingly perfect life so she had not expected that a huge challenge would test her - she separated from her husband who was in Saudi.
seemed that Josie's world crumbled then and because of too much sadness and grief due to what happened, she decided to go abroad so that somehow the sadness that she was experiencing will be lessened and to earn money to be spent for their family.
she was brought by fate in the country Macau, which was not so progressive before compared to its current state.
on the months that she was there, she did not have work for almost a month, so she entered various jobs such as selling food and giving manicure so that somehow she could provide for her needs there.
Mother Josie continues to accept and face each challenge coming and attempting to take her down.
until she was able to work as a domestic helper where she was helped by her Portuguese boss to acquire a blue card and make her stay in Macau legally.
Nanay Josie admitted that the adjustment for her was difficult because of her previous good life in the Philippines which ended up as a maid in Macau, but she was still grateful to God because she was given with firmness and internal strength to face the challenge she was going through so she could know herself better and discover her other abilities and potential.
passport/ Junior Langit
</TEXT>
</DOC>
