<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_31612837.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Josh a seminar for a cause will be launched by a group for us to -- raise the -- the youth better .
this is particularly about special education .
all right to talk about that Dianne we have with us here in the studio this morning the Kislap seminar speaker none other than Miss Madelene Marcon good morning .
good morning .
and of course the principal of Cornerstone Christian Academy none other than Miss Alice Foronda .
good morning ma'am .
okay so let's start with Miss Madelene Marcon .
for the knowledge of everybody she was previously part of P_T_V four .
welcome back to our new studio it's nice to be home again .
all right .
coming from P_T_V before what learning did you get from here ?
that you're applying to your work now ?
you know that's a very good question because when you gave me the question last night I thought there's a big -- correlation between being a broadcaster and a teacher .
because when I was here I was a continuity writer .
I was also a -- copywriter .
yes .
so there it really helped me in teaching %incomplete
mm .
because of continuity .
remember when you teach you have lesson plans -- mm .
and so it's not like it was just block by block .
mm .
there really should be transitions .
yes .
so the continuity -- being a continuity writer then helped me a lot to transition to teaching in an hour .
mm .
you know the difference is as a teacher you're a writer and a performer as well -- yeah .
you are already the director then the producer too financier also .
yes correct .
you have to just really do everything for the kids .
so there's a chance we could make it our second profession right .
become a teacher .
we're inspired by miss Madz .
let's go to Miss Alice .
I believe there was a workshop -- is -- there was also a seminar last January .
tell us about the Kislap seminar ma'am .
she was our speaker .
the response was overwhelming because we had participants from all -- all parts of the country .
mm .
there were from Cebu Davao Leyte Baguio Isabela and N_C_R .
and they learned a lot from the sharing of Miss Madelene Marcon .
all right .
so -- why do we call it Kislap and what is the main objective of this workshop ?
okay .
Kislap it's really a catchy phrase -- mm .
which means -- Kislap knowledge of an innovative system -- mm .
learning accomplishment profile .
okay so this is what we're talking about in the seminar .
mm .
LAP three and then this upcoming seminar we will also be talking about early LAP .
mm .
now what are these okay books about or manuals ?
mm .
these are assessment tools -- mm .
for children zero to five years old .
okay .
okay so the main purpose is early intervention .
okay .
because early intervention it's very important in education .
because that produces trajectory of people in success .
mm .
that's why zero to five brain development is very important .
okay .
that's why the U_S gives this emphasis .
mm .
actually this one I got this from as a teacher -- mm .
in the U_S and I found this as a very effective tool -- mm .
because as a child and as a Special Ed teacher I can really catch here the deficits of children -- mm .
okay .
I catch the deficits of the child and then I'm able also to give the corresponding intervention .
mm .
that's so -- that's one thing nice about this .
this and this .
this one is for three to five years old %incomplete
okay .
while this is zero to -- it's really three .
(()) okay zero to three .
and let me just show you something is that okay ?
go ahead .
the reason why I have passion for this is and also the change of career .
mhm mhm .
okay .
why from continuity writer you became a teacher why a change of career ?
the thing is I have a -- child and she had atypical behaviors .
mm .
okay .
zero to five isn't it that if you're a parent your child is so precious to you and you see behaviors you can't explain -- mhm .
and then you want to go see a doctor right away to see it .
how can I help ?
is there something wrong ?
and so I had gone through that difficult experience -- mm .
of watching my child grow but I observe something atypical .
mm .
so I had I went to P_G_H which was still the number one then and at that time because autism suddenly appeared yes .
it was becoming phenomenal what was that which is new during that time new during that time .
so there was no way of explaining really what I have to find out what is it really ?
and then I have to line-up at the P_G_H for a doctor six months and six months is too -- too long -- yes .
to wait .
if you are seeing -- how do I -- address this ?
yes .
I was in a difficulty before -- yes .
and so I had to wait for six months and then after that will be given a therapy .
yes .
you have to wait again .
okay .
how many months ?
so what do I do as a parent ?
so my passion for this is very very deep .
and then I'm finding out based on my partner here that this is the same problem all throughout .
even until now ?
until now the queue is still very long .
there's still a long waiting line for kids to be assessed -- yes .
and remember that zero to five is important .
yes .
in brain development .
if so it's I think the most crucial years -- yes .
for learning .
so if we have neglected the zero to five what will we make of it ?
they are candidates for school failure -- yes .
and we don't wanna do that .
so based on what I learned from the U_S when I was asked what do you think you can share here ?
yes .
I think that's the number one best thing to share is the early childhood .
long live ma'am because of your passion this is going to help a lot in our country .
<no-speech>
ma'am my question what do you think will be the good outcome of this sparkle seminar ?
since she started the seminar last January there are schools which are already using lap and because of this many children are given the appropriate systematic way of observing the child so we are expecting that in the next seminar this March twenty-five there are a lot to learn especially in E_LAP -- yes .
from zero to three years old what are the methods observe there .
all right .
thank you so much for your time and hopefully -- we have inspired more parents to attend here in our seminar this March .
again we have been with the company of Sparkle seminar speaker none other than Miss Madelene Marcon the principal of Cornerstone Christian Academy Miss Alice Foronda .
thank you .
thank you .
thank you so much .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
