<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_96734964.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
a story that will leave us with a smile .
one of the favorite foods of the Filipinos is the horse bacon .
in this year of the wooden horse let us check if the business owners of such are lucky .
Lyn Olivario tell us the story .
<no-speech>
in an eatery here in Borromeo Street Longos Malabon people from far places go here for their specialty .
the horse dishes .
sometimes there are those who orders one cauldron .
there are those who order that since they take it to other countries .
our dried meat has the opportunity to go abroad unlike us .
will we allow ourselves to fall behind ?
with the amount of sixty-five pesos you can already have your horse bacon .
compared to the regular beef bacon the horse bacon is a bit sweet and soft .
and I can taste the margarine they used no sugar cheese even liver spread .
and it really goes well with soy sauce and vinegar with chili .
this dish takes long to cook but the customers are really satisfied with taste .
it's delicious .
in what way delicious ?
I can taste the flavor of the horse bacon .
butchered horses are sent here in Concepcion market .
it is very safe to eat because the horses were grown in the mountains .
becuase they have paper .
when slaughtered at Bitas .
before these are released before being brought inside these are being stamped .
so it is okay to eat them .
but the thing is there are only few suppliers of horse meat .
but it is just that it is cheaper compared to beef .
two hundred pesos for each kilo of horse meat .
the softer horse tenderloin is around two hundred fifty per kilo .
according to the vendors this meat is said to be safer .
grass is only being eaten which is cleaner if you compare to a pig that eats dirty ones .
for him a horse has no cholesterol .
for him now this new year that is what's being mostly looked for .
according to the vendor Aling Rosario even though it is not the year of the wood horse she feels the luck of selling this she was able to make her children graduate in their studies .
until now I cannot stop selling it has already been forty years .
I am regretting because of my many patrons .
Lyn Olivario news .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
