<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_62063928.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Tuesday, July 23, 2013
Militant: Aquino, liar and credit taker.
22 July 2013
press release
contact person/s:
Anthony Barnedo
Secretary-General, KPML-NCRR
0949-7518792
Militant: Aquino, liar and credit taker.
NHA and Palace were criticized.
because no gain is to be expected for the poor but repeatedly unfulfilled promises and deceiving statistics, Anthony Barnedo was among the leaders of the poor from Baseco compound in Manila who went with his poor fellowmen from different communities along the rivers and canals of Manila to join the protest during the SONA this year.
before heading to Commonwealth Avenue where the rally will be held, Barnedo met up with his group, the congress of unified needy people of the city - National Capital Region and Rizal Chapter (KPML-NCRR) in front of National Housing Authority (NHA) at Elliptical Road to launch the program and register their position against the plan of the government to destroy the houses along the rivers and canals.
a failed housing program.
militant groups condemned the NHA and was called national hao-xiao authority because of its continuous scamming of needy people in the city which were relocated to far sites.
the word hao-xiao is a Chinese word which means "ridiculous".
the NHA is the primary agency of the government that would relocate more than sixty thousand needy people to the relocation sites.
"the relocation sites cannot be occupied, most of them were built in a rush".
the supply of water and electricity is not enough and there is no cellphone coverage, there's no drainage and the closest school, clinic, market and church are kilometers away.
but the most important here is that there is no livelihood in these.
even the Philippine Development Plan (2011-2016) which is the master plan of the government Aquino states that livelihood is the other half of the relocation program but it was not mentioned how the newly relocated residents could get a job.
that is why, those who were relocated here first left and went back to the streets of Manila.
"how could they expect the beneficiaries of this houses to pay the government if there is no work waiting for us there? It's impossible even for a hundred men!", Barnedo explained.
"there's no debate, the riverside and canals are danger zones and there is no one that will say the life there is decent but the way Aquino implements the economical policies and programs, we have no choice but to live by the river side," Barnedo stated.
what Barnedo pertains to are the policies of low salaries, contractualization and other privatizing schemes of public services, all this are made severe by illegal charges from water, electricity and oil companies.
"how can we afford to rent a bungalow if our salaries are so small which is the reason why thousands of Filipino families were pushed to extreme poverty".
"no doubt, if we have a choice, I will not let my family live near the river if our livelihood is stable," he added.
exclusive progress?
KPML believes that the public and economy programs of the government fails to address the pitiful state of the poor while giant corporations charts high revenues.
because of this, the gap between the poor and rich in the country became even wider.
"what gain, the statistics by the government agencies itself states that more than 2.89 million Filipinos have no jobs and counting, underemployment is still the highest in the history at 7.93 million workers, and the worst part of this, the poverty incidence did not change since 2006."
"all this means is that the economical progress is only felt by elites and abusers like him," Barnedo continues.
"even the 7.8% interest in gross domestic products that Aquino repeatedly boasts and takes credit that it happened under his administration but this is simply taking away the credit from those who truly created the growth in the economy, the forty million workforce that all together worked hard for it."
"all the high buildings and infrastructure projects are made by us, the needy and contractual workers," Bernado accused.
"if he wants to talk about his achievements regarding the growth of the economy, the programs for public security and the rise against poverty, I challenge him to restate his speech in our multi-purpose hall in our community in Baseco on Tuesday."
let's see if he will hear an applause from the "beneficiaries" of his programs and projects.
"it is possible that the poor from the city won't understand his English but we fully understand his economical programs because we are the victims of it," Barnedo challenged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
