<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_36501201.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
rising and fighting of the victims of Yolanda
it is still fresh in the memory of Anna Patricia Monteroso, 23, of Santa Rita, Samar the fear from the ferocity of typhoon Yolanda when she shared her experience over two months ago.
she also does not how to begin and how to take care of her family after the typhoon destroyed their livelihood.
"no relief goods came at all, even one."
it is saddening that instead of helping each other, the price of rice increased.
60 pesos a kilo, we don't have money.
"what sustained us in one week were the banana and sweet potatoes we planted," according to Anna.
Anna added they still did not get any relief goods from the government even when their barangay asked for help.
and until now, they still have not gotten any help from the government.
it is difficult for her husband to get a job in Manila (where they are now) to raise their family.
Anna is just one of the victims who shared their own experiences at the gathering of victims, relatives, friends and supporters of typhoon Yolanda which was called Day of Solidarity led by Tindog People's Network (Tindog) and Task Force on Urban Conscientization (TFUC) which was held in Quezon City.
Aquino administration, not prepared and was negligent
at the said gathering, the victims shared what they said was slow, if there were any, help from the Aquino administration despite claiming readiness before the storm came.
before the typhoon hit, President Aquino himself announced that the government is ready for Yolanda's arrival.
there were allegedly 32 airplanes and helicopters from the (Philippine) Air Force and 20 navy ships from the Philippine Navy positioned in Cebu, Bicol, Cavite and Zambaonga City.
the relief goods were ready in places where the typhoon will hit.
but countenance of Malacañang's readiness was different, according to Brother Philip Michael Benavide, Nicodamus, member of TFUC.
although the government spread information through the internet, it failed to explain how big the effect of the typhoon will be.
"the people do not even know what storm surge is," according to Benavide.
in Benavide's presentation, there were no search-and-rescue operations made by the government in the crucial days following the typhoon.
it took six days for the Aquino administration to say they have an adjusted disaster management plan.
"it took more than a week to have a workable system in the distribution of relief goods.
but this is only within and in nearby places of Tacloban.
it will be more difficult if not for the help of the private sector and foreigners," Benavide said.
but according to the victims, the help they got from the government was really lacking.
when they brought us relief goods, they were only 40 bags.
there are about 600 people in our place," said Anna.
according to Joven Pagupay, 27, from Eastern Samar, he cannot blame the people who allegedly looted out of their desperation to have something to eat.
"it is heartbreaking to see something like that."
"it is pitiful to see the business person whose store was entered at gun-point, but the people who have not eaten for days are also pitiful," Pagupay said.
apart from the problem in the distribution of relief goods and corpses not collected immediately, President Aquino pinpointing the blame to the local government because of its unpreparedness for the coming of the typhoon also became an issue.
until now, there are many who need help and medical services.
"there are still many hungry and unemployed survivors," according to Benavide.
many of them are still in discomfort because of the calamity and do not know how to recover especially when they do not get any help from the government.
"we do not how to start"
we do not have jobs, my husband over 50 years old so no one accepts him.
we do not know how we can support our three children.
we need a job or a livelihood," according to Lilia Singh, 44, from Magallanes, Tacloban City.
Lilia and her family are temporarily living in Barangay Corazon de Jesus, San Juan City.
they are fearful because they do not know their neighbors.
it is also the site of a previous violent demolition, so Lilia also fears that the government will forcefully evict them from here.
they reached Manila on board a C130 airplane after lining at the Tacloban airport for two days with only biscuits as food.
corruption, lack of aid
for Mark Lui Aquino, convener of Tindog Network, the treatment of the victims of calamity by the Aquino administration is inhumane.
he said even government agencies with control over the facilities for the victims are involved in issues of corruption.
particularly the news about the overpriced and sub-standard bunkhouses built by the government for the victims.
meanwhile, Aquino also considers the treatment of the casualties as inhumane: more than two months have passed but the remains of the dead victims have not been buried.
this is how the Aquino administration treated the victims: victimized by the typhoon, robbed of the help intended for them, according to Mark.
according to TFC, the poverty in the region itself caused by the government's incorrect policies make the situation of the victims worse.
the agricultural sector which is the primary livelihood of the victims is slow.
they are also blaming poverty to the environmental policies, like mining that destroys the environment in the interest of the income allowed by the government.
Aquino administration, to be charged
TFUC said the Aquino administration should be accountable for its neglect of the victims of typhoon Yolanda.
they are pointing to the lack of preparation of the government before the coming of the typhoon and the slow response to aid the victims.
politicizing and corruption in times when help was badly needed aggravated the suffering and poverty of the victims.
"while it is true that passing and pointing the blame can only add to the damage and slow the process (of helping), we should not confuse ourselves with what is right."
"we are told to do what is just," TFUC said.
this negligence of the Aquino administration is allegedly a crime, according to TFUC and Tindog.
"the lack of preparation of the Aquino government before the typhoon and the not immediately responding for the relief and rescue of the victims was the disaster done by the regime worsened and afflicted the victims of the typhoon," according to Benavide.
according to Benavide, instead of the providing relief operations to the hungry victims were done by the soldiers, they prioritized the maintenance of peace and order more than the growling stomach of the people.
rise and fight
for Tindog, someone from Aquino government should be accountable and charged for its negligence.
there are still issues of corruption and cover-up of liability and that is what they will not allow to happen.
we will not allow to be continually victimized by the Aquino government.
we will join all victims to call for justice and to assert our rights from the government for us who survived and for those who died," said Mark.
some of Tindog's appeals are to have a 40,000 pesos subsidy for the victims, livelihood for the devastated, a proper burial place for the casualties, and to ensure the basic needs of the victims of the calamity are adequate.
more than two months after typhoon Yolanda's destruction on November 8, but it seems the damage it brought to the victims has not yet ended - whether alive or dead.
but for the survivors, they will not allow to remain victims.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
