<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_91818051.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
this hurts
we were one of the first to praise the traffic enforcer selling rice cakes while wearing the MMDA uniform.
we were joyed when he was promoted by Chairman Francis Tolentino because he was impressed with the story that the MMDA employee is working hard to increase his income for the college tuition of his child.
but many complained about our article that praised the said enforcer.
there were also MMDA employees who complained a bit: why was their colleague who had a sideline during work hours promoted, but they who are focused on their job were not?
the effect when an employee uses his uniform in order to sell is the resulting issue.
not so different to the story of teachers who sell tocino to the parents of their students?
or prosecutors who sell condominium units to the people negotiating cases in court?
is this right or wrong?
does the teacher use his position in order to sell tocino?
does the prosecutor use his power in order to sell a condo unit?
indirectly, it can be.
this point should be clear and the exact provision in the anti-graft law or in the code of conduct and ethical standards for public officials and employees should be looked at.
for me, it is okay for government employees to have other jobs in order to earn more, but what they can do should be clear, what is right or wrong.
for example is the traffic enforcer in uniform who sells rice cakes to bus drivers.
but what is worse is the complaint that this MMDA traffic enforcer really uses his uniform in order to sell rice cakes and in higher prices.
I was surprised by those who approached me, since our article which praised him was released, there are evidence of the corrupt acts against this person whom everyone admired.
there are many issues that we are going to discuss in the following days about this, even it is painful to all our feelings.
subscribe to our column.
what is just important now is to not be deceived by people using symbols of our government agencies.
email your reaction to ariel.inton@gmail.com or text 09178295982 or 09235388984.
Sibol/Attorney Ariel Enrile-Inton
</TEXT>
</DOC>
