<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_20395100.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
are Binay, Mar and Duterte anti-KK?
Amba's Briefs by Roy "Amba" Seneres (Pilipino Star Ngayon) | updated November 16, 2014 - 12:00am before you think negatively about what KK means, I am referring to corruption and contractualization.
my mind is still not made up on whom I and the OFW Family party-list will support for president in the 2016 elections.
but anyone of these three who can convince me that he can annihilate KK, I will campaign house-to-house for him.
Can VP Jojo Binay really fight KK?
maybe he can.
he must explain well to the Filipino people that he really is not corrupt.
he also should explain that he is not in favor of contractualization because it is against the constitution and Labor Code.
he should convince us that there are no contractuals or endos or 555s in shopping malls in Makati City.
Mar Roxas who is the boss of the Liberal Party should state that his party is against contractualization since the Labor Code banned it some 40 years ago.
he should be straight with the public that no contractualization happens in shopping malls owned by his family in Cubao.
I was leaning to Rudy Duterte to become president in 2016 but what if he "shoots" me later.
I really approve of Rudy but he should also convince the Filipino people that even if he became city mayor of the largest city in the Philippines for a long time, there never was "tongpats" or corruption in public works projects in Davao City, and because he is a great lawyer and knows the law that contractualization is illegal, he will guarantee to all the Filipino people that the contractualization plague has no victims in shopping malls of the Ayalas, Gokongweis, Gaisanos, Sys and others in Davao City and if not he should "shoot" those implementing contractualization there and in the whole Philippines when he becomes president.
KK are the big issues in the 2016 presidential elections.
let us examine well the platforms of each candidate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
