<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_26462199.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
few sane by Rey Marfil November 30, 2016 Philippine National Police (PNP) chief, Director General Ronald "Bato" dela Rosa, would rather choose a limited force of the police rather than more but is associated with different syndicates.
that's why the imminent dismissal of 174 members of PNP that was positive in using illegal drugs in the conducted drug test is not a concern to General Dela Rosa.
General Bato knows that at present, we have insufficient force in PNP, but in spite of that, he is prepared to dismiss police that was proven to violate the law, like using illegal drugs; he'd rather have that than having them stayed in their posts and influence other colleagues.
other than the PNP, Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana also confirmed the dismissal of 36 people in Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) that uses illegal drugs.
the discovery of 36 that went positive of illegal drugs is the result of the conducted random drug testing of Department of National Defense (DND) for around 19, 163 soldiers and civilian employees of DND.
hence, all AFP personnel, who turned out positive, were dismissed.
it's only just that PNP and AFP dismissed their people that were positive of using illegal drugs.
they will not be credible enforcers of the government Duterte's campaign against illegal drugs if some of their people are confirmed to be using illegal drugs.
now that police and military positive of illegal drugs were dismissed, other agencies of the government should follow the aforementioned and carry out random drug testing for their people, to continue the cleanup of government on their end from those who use illegal drugs.
in case there will be a gradual implementation in government sectors to dismiss those who are positive of using illegal drugs, it will be easy for the government to also clean some of the private sectors from the usage of illegal drugs.
it is difficult to serve as an example in a cleansing, like what the government is doing now with illegal drugs, if the enforcers or people in the government themselves can't even be cleansed.
we wish for the continuous cleanup of illegal drug users whether in private and especially in public offices so that the drug-free Philippines desired by President Rodrigo Duterte can be achieved.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
