<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_92372617.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
#forwardmarch: groups marching forward against pork barrel
by Pinoy Weekly Staff September 15, 2013
even if this was smaller compared to the previous gathering on August 26, more or less 15,000 people in Luneta still loudly demonstrated their opposition against pork barrel.
placards, banners, streamers, flags, effigy and other visual forms of protest were not prohibited but were encouraged by the organizers of #ForwardMarch.
there was a solemn prayer, and loud music from bands and musicians were also heard from the stage.
because of this a colorful, creative and vibrant protest was demonstrated by the people on September 13.
of course, organized ranks of the people joined the protest.
militant groups, their allies, and progressive individual citizens and netizens of the Abolish the Pork Barrel Movement (#AbolishPork) organized the protest.
aside from these, various schools from public universities to exclusive and Catholic schools also joined.
while organizations under the New National Alliance (Bayan) were assembling in Liwasang Bonifacio, priests and the religious celebrated a holy mass in San Agustin Church in Intramuros before marching to Luneta.
going to the park, they met with fellow religious people from the Protestant Christians along with whistleblowers headed by Jun Lozada.
the religious Protestants was with former Chief Justice Reynato Puno.
click the picture to enlarge it.
#ForwardMarch in Luneta Park, 13 September 2013.
(pictures attached by Pher Pasion) in Luneta, an ecumenical service was again held by religious Catholics, Protestants and Muslims.
it was ended by a speech from Archibishop Emeritus Oscar Cruz who boldly called for prayer and action.
"let us pray," Cruz said.
"but let us also act.
"prayer is good but prayer is not enough."
he said that these two are powerful - prayer and action - to object to the immorality happening in the country today.
he also mentioned the anticipated belittling of Malacañang and the media about the protest of the people that day.
"if someone says that people who are not present here (in Luneta) agree to your pork barrel system (President Aquino), you are mistaken," said Cruz.
people who did not participate in the protest might have no fare or have an empty stomach.
"but it is impossible that they agree to the things happening in our nation today," the Archbishop concluded.
towards the end of the program, there were speeches, performances and a concert titled "Rock and Rage" of musicians who boldly declared disapproval against the pork barrel system, corruption in the government, and exploitation by some of the majority of the people.
they promised to continue the protests.
one is set on September 21 but before and after this date, it is expected that expression of opposition will continue against all forms of pork barrel until it is abolished or its promoters removed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
