<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_16719288.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Tuesday, December 11, 2012
Bicam, condemned by the militants
press statement
December 10, 2012
in approval to a P35 billion target of Sin Tax for the year 2013
Bicam, condemned by the militants!
five thousand laborers, vendors and the urban poor have gathered outside Hotel Sofitel Grand in CCP Complex carrying placards painted with, "enough, too much! Tax System, time to change!" "P-Noy and Sin Tax, the suffering of the masses" and "Tax Revolt, the answer to Regressive Taxation!"
as a condemnation to the held sin tax bicameral conference which agreed to P35 billion target profit from the sin tax of the government for the year 2013.
according to Gie Relova, Secretary-General of the Organization of Filipino Laborers -National Capital Region-Rizal (BMP-NCRR), "we are strongly condemning the decision of the bicameral conference committee.
the Filipino citizens are vehement on the conspiratorial passing of the sin tax bill.
this is contrary to the 1987 Constitution where it states that the taxation system should be developed in a progressive manner but the lawmakers have favored a regressive system which contributed more to the suffering of already miserable lives of the citizens.
even though the militants have much disgust on Bicam, Relova quickly added, "millions of laborers and farmers in the whole country are condemning President Benigno Aquino III because of permitting to be obedient to the commands of the global financial institutions like the International Monetary Fund and to a one large foreign corporation.
the foreigners will raise trillions of pesos without creative livelihoods while our local industries are being offered at the altar.
what Relova describes as the large company based in London is the British-American Tobacco (BAT) which will come back in the Philippines after it has left last 2009.
the return of BAT which is manufacturing the cigarette Lucky Strike is only piling its excessive tobacco in the country.
the BAT company clearly benefits a law in sin tax which is its way to break the monopoly in the market of one local company which only means an increase of its market share.
meanwhile, according to Anthony Barnedo, Secretary-General of the Congress of the United Urban Poor - National Capital Region - Rizal (KPML-NCRR), one of the founders of the Peoples Coalition Against Regressive Taxation (PCART), "the government is hoping that it can profit through the sin tax but surely, this will never happen because of the higher price of tobacco and alcohol products, no one can afford these, surely, the industry melts down."
"we should not also expect the government to develop the health programs in the country even if we say that it can reach its target profit from the sin tax.
the Universal Healthcare Program that they are boasting remains a dream which will only arrive in nightmare if the privatization of twenty-six public hospitals will be started," he added.
"while we are celebrating the 64th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), our highly "respectable" senators and congressmen have chosen to violate our labor rights and protection from job loss.
and because of the impending massacre towards the work and livelihood and taxation system which is being prepared by the Aquino regime, it is courting a civic revolution which they will surely regret," the BMP leader added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
