<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_98111858.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
work in congress there is no doubt that the ferocity in the ring of National Fist Manny Pacquiao has returned.
he made American Chris Algieri roll on the canvas six times.
even if the enemy knockout desired by the fans did not happen, his victory was still very impressive.
yahoo!
applause!
- boxing analysts said, no one can equal the skill of Many, aside from the undefeated Floyd Mayweather, Junior.
Floyd is the current pound-for-pound king that was also formerly held by Pacman.
but Floyd is all talk, always avoiding the wish of boxing fans that he fight Pacquiao.
supposedly the styles of the two are really a good match on top of the ring.
Floyd as a "master" of speed and evading and Pacquiao is also very fast and hits really hard.
- when Tim Bradley defeated him via split and he knocked out Juan Manuel Marquez, many said that Pacquiao-Mayweather is unlikely to happen.
but after getting revenge on Bradley and recovering the WBO welterweight belt, pounding the taller Brandos Rios and Chris Algieri, the former ferocity of the fighting congressman supposedly has returned.
great!
great!
let us applaud it again.
- Pacquiao is already back in the country.
okay, let us let him rest first.
let us make him enjoy first the honor he received.
but hopefully after he rests properly Pacman will return to his job as representative of Sarangani in Congress.
- it is already the second term of Manny as congressman but he supposedly has not passed even one law.
his colleagues in the Congress are trying to understand his absences in the sessions because he needs to practice and win the fight for the honor of our country.
but now that boxing is over, hopefully he works as a congressman.
lawmakers are worried that after resting, Manny will focus his self on the Philippine Basketball Association as coach and basketball player.
if that happens, his role in congress will no longer have meaning.
he should not run in the next election.
Kanto't Sulok/Nats Taboy
</TEXT>
</DOC>
