<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_65078224.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
<no-speech>
Commission on Higher Education approved the increase of tuition of more than three hundred universities and colleges in the whole country .
more than eight percent or equal to forty pesos per unit is the average of the tuition increase .
Sherry Ann Torres is a witness .
<no-speech>
additional tuition needs to be prepared by those who will be enrolling in the three hundred and forty eight colleges and universities in the country .
this is because the Commission on Higher Education or Ched has approved their petition to increase tuition and other fees .
the resulting average increase just this year is about eight -- eight point three percent right .
now translated to pesos this per unit is less than forty pesos .
according to CHED the tuition rate increase that they have approved now is lower than the ten percent average tuition hike in twenty twelve .
most of those who were allowed to increase tuition fees are in Metro Manila followed by Calabarzon .
there are no tuition hikes in state colleges and universities .
before they were allowed petitioners were required to consult with the students' parents and the faculty as well as school organizations and prove that seventy percent of the surcharge will go to the salaries and benefits of teachers and staff .
for now the Commission on Higher Education is still completing the list of schools and universities that they allowed to increase tuition .
they will announce this in the coming days .
those who will question or complain about the decision to the schools which will increase tuition are (()) and can file a complaint at Ched .
according to working student Reynaldo Carillo the unstoppable increase in tuition was the reason he didn't enroll in a big school .
he is a dishwasher at a restaurant that's why it's a big deal that the five thousand peso tuition for the Hotel and Restaurant Services course remains permanent .
if it sometimes gets hard I fall asleep at school because I don't have enough rest .
once I graduate I also want to start my own restaurant .
but a number of the parents we spoke to were dismayed that there was no final list of colleges and universities that will be increasing tuition .
it's really unjust .
<no-speech>
because of the very high tuition of course .
the salary is just right .
that's my logic Ma'am I'm obliged to bring my child to school but the case is what I'm doing is Ma'am to request first if my child has no tuition .
I'm Sherry Ann Torres your witness .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
