<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_86293519.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
new program of the PhilPost. I want to greet the management of the Philippine Postal Corporation (PHLPost) in the leadership of Chairman Cesar N. Sarino and Postmaster General Jose dela Cruz because of the new and beautiful programs implemented in the corporation.
so it is not a thing of wonder that the changes are continuous towards a stronger public service of the primary and largest mail and logistic service provider in the country.
and one of the proofs that the PHLPost has gotten back the trust of the public is when the Comelec has chosen PHLPost to become its primary logistics service provider in relation to the presidential and local elections to be done on 2016.
based on the signed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) of Comelec Chairman Sixto Brillantes, Junior and PMG dela Cruz, the PHLPost will send to all the corners of the country all the materials such as forms, supplies and other equipment that will be used for the voters registration in relation to the coming elections based on the set Republic Act No. 8189.
this only proves that the service of the PHLPost is similar if not more than what other logistics service providers in the Philippines can do.
and that is true because only PHLPost has 1,500 branches in all service providers which can be used for a more effective service.
aside from that, the program Juan Click was launched by the corporation recently.
included in the said program is the new pleasurable personalized stamps, Filipino email and mobile application for the receiving of the pensions of the pensioners.
for the personalized stamps, the clients can now make a personal stamp which can be used as a gift or for souvenirs.
the PHLPost also explored the new technology where businessmen and the public can buy and choose products by just a click in their computers.
the PHLPost will take care of the delivery of the products which can be brought and taken wherever part of the country.
the leadership done by Chairman Sarino and PMG dela Cruz is truly skillful.
included, of course, the members of the Board who are directors Ronnie Tuazon, Joel Otarra, Jun Hidalgo, Mory Sison and Inday Varona.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
