<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_58682693.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Claudine Barretto and the two ground crew of the Cebu Pacific who were allegedly shouted at and cursed by the actress on the sixth of May after learning that their luggage were offloaded have made up .
even the ground crew denied that they were cursed .
the two supposedly don't have plans of filing a complaint against the actress .
let us find out the reaction of the opposite camp we will be able to talk on the phone line with Attorney Jovito Barte lawyer of Ramon Tulfo .
good morning attorney .
good morning Tunying .
yes attorney what is your reaction ?
they've supposedly made up the the two sides .
the camp of Claudine and then of the two ground crew that was became the source of the trouble in NAIA .
well from what you mentioned those two became the source of trouble in NAIA right ?
well two things first it's pleasing because they already made up .
Mister Tulfo doesn't want for them to not really make up .
second it's saddening to know that the two supposedly whom Mister Tulfo offered his life for seem to have turned around because -- I heard they probably retracted what they said no it's saddening .
why ?
because if considered that is the reason why Mon fell into that mess .
but hopefully even if they made up their mouth won't shut for the truth when there will be a -- case trial .
Attorney Barte now that you mentioned it the case won't it weaken the legal stand of your client because what the two themselves said -- two ground crew they were not cursed .
well if you noticed in the first press statement of the mother of Miss Bokbok .
<no-speech>
she even cried on T_V because to quote she said I did not raise my child just to be cussed at .
so maybe just there we can see that there is abuse done by Miss Barretto .
which is why it called the attention of Mister Tulfo to record .
yes .
and it is also what brought him trouble .
in your opinion why they withdrew from their earlier statement like you said the two ground crew who were cursed at by Claudine ?
there are many many possible reasons .
yes .
but of course if I mention that they will accept it as speculation .
yes .
this is my last question .
don't you see any arrangement here with the two sides ?
well in the camp of Mister Tulfo you know (()) we are just of course he was the one who was inconvenienced here and what's saddening here is he is the one -- made to look like the one who started it all by the opposite camp .
obvious in the video no matter what you do that he was the one who was inconvenienced and overpowered .
in effect it's like he was really neutralized totally in fact if not for the intervention of the security even if their reaction is like that maybe the damage caused on him is much worse .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
