<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_41645169.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Usher and Stalzer at home in the Philippines by Robin Mendoza
September 3, 2016
Foton Philippines will now be facing an intense match in the AVC (Asian Volleyball Confederation) Asian Women's Club Championship but first, get to know the two imports of Tornadoes who are Lindsay Stalzer and Ariel Usher.
the veteran players from America are no longer unfamiliar to Filipinos because they have already played in the Philippine Super League.
Stalzer has already attended two PSL conferences including her championship with Foton, so they were chosen to represent the country in the AWCC, while Usher has already played for Cignal last year.
the two are glad with their return to the country and seeing their Filipino fans again, but what the fans did not know was that the two foreigners more delighted with the Philippines and the Filipinos.
"why would I not want to come back?
I had such a good time last year, I had fun playing volleyball, I had fun seeing the Philippines and the culture and obviously making friends here it was such a good time I had to come back," said the 6 foot 1 outside hitter that is Stalzer.
the two blonde beauties shared the experiences they had in the Philippines and also the Filipino words they have learned.
"I did ride a jeepney a couple of times we were on a trip in Puerto Gallera, it was fun and I also tried balut," Stalzer told happily.
"thank you with this (acting cute) wave, older sister is older sister, that's the two that I know for sure," said Usher.
"and you guys speak a lot of Spanish words like cuchara, derecha, I just hear a bunch of Spanish words, I know Spanish."
"and your numbers are also spoken in Spanish and the days Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.
it's funny cause when they start talking I don't know what they're saying but then I hear some words and I'm like oh, maybe I do," she added.
Stalzer is hoping the they will be able to iron out their game play especially their defense for the tournament on September 3-11 at the Alonte Sports Arena in Biñan, Laguna.
Foton Philippines came from Thailand to join the Sealect Tuna Thailand Volleyball League.
"I mean there's always an improvement in every team," said Stalzer.
"I think we need to strengthen our serve, make our offense a little faster, we need to be more disciplined on our blocks as well as coming up with this taller, more powerful teams."
Stalzer and Usher will be joined by core of Foton who are Jaja Santiago, Angeli Araneta, Rhea Dimaculangan, Maika Ortiz, Bia General, and RC Cola Army opposite spiker Jovelyn Gonzaga, F2 Logistics middle Aby, and Petron libero Jen Reyes.
Foton Philippines will be facing LienViet Post Bank of Vietnam at Kwai Tsing in Hong Kong.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
