<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_90814086.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
we Filipinos are naturally brilliant and skillful especially if we talk about technology right Vi ?
that is true Dray do you know that the evidence there are these projects done by engineering students of Adamson University that are really awesome Sir all right because their theme now is eco-friendly .
let me do this first okay oh well Iya this -- bicycle charger made ma'am by the The Boss Team through the initiative ma'am of Carlos Dominic Bautista a beautiful morning to you Carlos .
a very good morning .
okay Carlos what Iya is doing that's not going to be destroyed right ?
not really .
okay what -- what is this project and why have you taught that you would make this one .
what is this ?
because big brother Andray we all know that summer season has frequent blackouts or power outages in our homes .
so as computer engineering students sir we thought of how we can apply more of what we have learned .
so this is our project this bicycle charger sir .
so three are the processes it undergoes .
first is to create electricity that we store in the battery battery then supplies the electricity to the gadgets like this cellphone .
this cellphone it's charging while bro is biking it's charging the -- the cellphone .
yes .
ah .
and we can see that it's not just for gadgets .
where else ?
this is also for household appliances like this electric fan .
electric fan ?
so while .
so it also gets power here it's plugged here .
this is great look at this Alex .
if it's brownout if Iya gets tired riding the bicycle the electric fan will work you'll even lose weight here .
yes .
thank you very much .
good luck to you .
that's great .
Venus what do we have here ?
that's good Eyer it's great .
this on the other hand we don't need electricity or charcoal because this is what we call the solar-powered grill .
let's see okay .
fail or not .
we conducted this with the guidance of Jose Cyril Magno of Solar Boys Team .
guys what -- why did you think of making a grill ?
we thought about the grill because all of us Filipinos are fond to eat especially if it's grilled .
that's why we came up with this project which is environmental-friendly because we don't need to use charcoal which is hazardous to the body that is why we came up with this project .
this is great first we don't need to cut off wood as coal for cooking .
second we won't spend for electricity because the smoke that can damage the ozone layer is removed here .
yes .
you mean the water will dissolve .
that's it then .
okay .
Dray what else do we have there ?
Venus this is what's elating here Kapamilya oh my usually if there's an oil spill consumers are affected because of the sudden hike of fish price .
that is why the X_R Team came up with the remote-controlled floating robot that has an oil and water separating technology .
am I right Mikael ?
we are with Mikael Kim Mikael Cabella good morning to you .
please explain I'm amazed by this but for our viewers please explain .
good morning to you Andray we got this project from the idea of Guimaras oil spill which you know has affected the fishers and their livelihood after the price hike .
right .
it's functions as a remote controlled device that sucks the oil and transfers if to the pod there .
then it will dispense the clean water at the back .
now when it filters contaminated water the oil it will go into the pod and it will produce clean water .
yeah .
Alex you've mentioned the coastguards to our coastguards if you will not do your jobs right you may lose your jobs .
these kids are great .
oh good luck all right good luck .
let's now go to Venus Vi .
this one Dray is good and they call it flood rate detector .
this is made by the G_G Team .
it's summer right now but it is still raining sometimes .
the beautiful thing is that we were told to prepare early .
it's much better now that we could detect that even before the water goes higher and rises .
this is great right .
we also have an R_C mobile pollutant detector with filtering system which is a project made by the Aerial Team and there are other items and materials later .
but there are still many projects made .
this is what's amusing about our youth today especially these Adamson engineering students .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
