<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_83570285.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
what is prohibited in the Catholic Church?
Pope Francis has done a lot which are against to what is prohibited for the priests, nuns and bishops of the Philippines.
one of these is the baptism of children who are children of single mothers or child from a maiden birth or the so-called bastards and child of those who are not married in church.
he also married those who have children from a maiden birth and the partner whose marriage is nullified by the church.
he also married those who have long been in a live-in.
because of the last point, it is prohibited to surrender for a man or woman in bed until there is no marriage.
Oh, God!
but if something already happened and tomorrow, for example, the woman gives birth or has given birth, a confession is a remedy to have the live-in partners get married.
if you and your live-in partner do not want to go to confession, nothing, men, because it is all sex, or committing sins is what you are doing and your situation and you will be picked in hell.
geez!
it is also prohibited for a maiden to marry someone who is separated from a marriage because of the belief that "whoever God has unified should not be separated by man." whoever the Lord put together, let no man put asunder.
it is not permitted to give baptism to bastard children and children of those who are not married.
but now, Pope Francis has loosened the regulations and he himself has conducted the baptism and marriage.
but, are there other issues that the Catholics want to clarify?
if you are divorced, are you allowed to take communion?
and if you are not Catholic or your parents are not married in the church or civil, are they allowed to enroll in a Catholic school?
hopefully these will be clarified to help those who are closely affected.
if not, the affected Catholics go to other religions until there will be a lost of collection, alms, someone to have a mass on or burial in Catholic cemetery which have all payment for the priests and bishops.
in truth, many are going to other religions because of the many requisites in entering a Catholic school and they themselves are also wondering why those who are enrolling to them become lesser and lesser.
crocheted/ Jun Briones
</TEXT>
</DOC>
