<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_25323570.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Saturday, November 14, 2015
the end of time and right time: reflection for the 33rd Sunday in ordinary time year b - November 25, 2015 - year of the poor
is the coming of "the end of time" necessary?
is it similar to "the right time" which no one can say when?
many of us are scared of the coming of "the end of time."
why do we really fear it?
is the "end" truly scary?
in a large mall, where many people flock to because of a fast-approaching Christmas, someone suddenly shouted.
a person dressed differently and holding a sign with "the end of the world is near!"
he was shouting loudly "it is the end! it is the end!"
when suddenly someone answered: "idiot! it is just the fifteenth!"
do you see... not all ends should be feared.
there is an end that is anticipated!
I am not referring to the "end of the month" because of the monthly pay that is anticipated.
to us Christians the end or the end of time should not be feared but instead we should even anticipate it.
actually to the first Christians they really looked forward to the coming of the end of time.
what they always said was "maranatha!"
which meant "come, Jesus!
come!"
what they assumed was his arrival was immediate so many of them sold their possessions and no longer worked.
but Saint John corrected this mentality.
this kind of preparation is not the one expected by our Lord.
the end of time is scary if our preparation is wrong and perhaps especially if we are not preparing.
what is the right preparation for "the end of time?"
first, remove bad habits and if it is necessary to go to confession we must do it.
there is no better preparation than having a pure heart.
second, let us make our prayers and church-going realistic through doing good and helping the needy especially the poor.
the "year of the poor" or "year or the poor" is about to end, have I done any service to them?
let us not reason that we are poor as well.
for Saint
Theresa of Calcutta, it is not necessary to give big she said: "if you cannot feed one hundred people, you can feed one!"
so what the church said is correct that there is no person too poor to not offer help to others.
our helping our neighbors does not end in the year of the poor.
every day we have the chance to do small acts of kindness for our poor fellowmen.
in our gospel the Lord warned of the coming "end", not to scare us, but instead to help us prepare for the coming of this day.
true, no one knows the day, hour and place where it will happen.
it is no longer important when and where.
in our faith we announce the end of time.
actually we always say in mass that "Christ died!
Christ has risen!
Christ will return in the end of time!
meaning, we believe what is called the end of the world exists and we also believe there is a God who is just and loving who will not abandon us on that day.
the end of time is only about to come...
the right time is now!
let us act today and prepare for his coming!
</TEXT>
</DOC>
