<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_96183497.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
I, I am a true Filipino, true Filipino, brown spirit flows through my veins, in the depths of my heart, mind, and soul, one who will continue my heroic and colorful history, then, now, and forevermore.
I diligently fulfill my natural responsibility for the welfare of my Motherland.
I am always ready to defend my race and community from any harm, abuse, and grief.
I am absolutely loving, sympathetic, and a supporter of principles working towards a free union that is pro-God, pro-family, pro-nation, pro-environment, and pro-justice.
I have only one ambition and biggest desire, to see and experience the Philippines become a true free nation; democratic, prosperous, just and with an open Filipino society.
natural is the wealth of my nation, from the creative and supportive hands of its people, the 7,107 beautiful isles containing rich lands, to the rivers, lakes and its surrounding seas that is generous with fish and its wealth, the forests that provide life and commerce, to the mountains containing minerals and natural resources, and being the primary center in Asia and current events.
it is simply fitting to call my country the Pearl of the Orient.
I value and take pride in it, anywhere in the world, whomever I encounter, and at any time.
never have I been shy to introduce my brown race.
many foreign strangers with their own ideologies and religions were enchanted by it; from Islam of the Arabs, Catholicism of the Spanish, Protestantism by the Americans, fascist nationalism by the Japanese, to their personal organizations and foreign politics that set fire to revolution, from Raha Lapu-lapu of Mactan, Gat Jose Rizal in Bagumbayan, Gat Andres Bonifacio in Balintawak, General
Gregorio del Pilar in Tirad Pass, General
Macario Sakay in the mountains, and many more.
the fight goes on.
as long as there are greedy foreigners and fake Filipinos who continue to connive and spread the twisted and rotten system of the Filipino society, my blood swirls around the seed of heroism planted by my ancestors.
its flare is the one that sets the flame that,
I, am a true Filipino.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
