<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_57149572.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Muntinlupa continues to progress.
the recognition given to the City Government of Muntinlupa, headed by Mayor Jaime Fresnedi, continues after it got the 10th overall ranking in the National Competitiveness Council's City and Municipalities which was held in the Philippine International Convention Center last July 14.
included as bases in conferring the award are the three categories such as Economic Dynamism, Government Efficiency and Infrastructure, managed by the Regional Competitiveness Committees, and assisted by the United States Agency for International Development.
meanwhile, the city hall conducted an extensive clearing operation on the streets of Alabang to make the flow of traffic and pathways of people orderly.
this step by Mayor Fresnedi is in response to the order of President Rodrigo Duterte to clean all roads so the constructed footbridges in various parts of the city can be utilized.
his goal is also for all motorists and pedestrians to be safe in their everyday travel on the main streets of Muntinlupa City.
Mayor Fresnedi also led the inauguration of the MRH Multi-Purpose Covered Court in Soldiers Hills at Barangay Putatan last June 8, 2016, which can be used by beneficiaries of the socialized housing project of the local government.
in the war against illegal drugs, 257 drug pushers and users surrendered to the police department and promised to completely change their lives and to never return to their vices.
included among those who help each other in this program are the Philippine National Police, Drug Abuse and Control Office and Barangay Anti-Drug Abuse Council, and some 264 houses included in their intelligence report have already been visited.
meanwhile, representatives of Maynilad Water Services, Incorporated explained to the Muntinlupa City Council regarding customer complaints because of the loss of water supply in the city and other neighboring areas in the Metro Manila South area.
according to the MWSI Business Area Operation head, this happened in the Metro Manila South area because of a problem in filtering water coming from Laguna Lake.
they also promised to the City Council that they would do everything that they can so that the loss of water supply in the said city and its neighboring areas will not happen again.
bustle/ Alvin Feliciano
</TEXT>
</DOC>
