<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_84968933.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
despite the extreme heat there is still no -- noted damages from the severe El Niño in region twelve .
that is according to the monitoring of the Department of Agriculture .
Rean Acosta reports .
Aling Lucia feels the effect of the extreme heat in her almost one hectare pineapple plantation .
the growth and quality of the fruits of her pineapples are not good so she is worried that she might not earn from her crops at present .
even their corn crops almost withered too because of the extreme heat these past few days .
<foreign> according to the Department of Agriculture they have not noted any damage from the crops here in region twelve because of the effect of severe El Niño .
because there are still rains experienced in some parts of SOCCSKSARGEN .
they are confident that it will still not have a serious effect on farmers .
according to PAGASA rainfall classification in areas near Kiamba Sarangani are still above normal .
rain for areas in Senator Ninoy Aquino in Sultan Kudarat and even in Maitum in Sarangani province is already below normal or low .
way below normal for areas in Koronadal in South Cotabato General Santos City Makilala in Cotabato province and Isulan in Sultan Kudarat .
and according to the Department of Agriculture severe El Niño in the country will hit worst in the provinces of Sultan Kudarat and Cotabato province this January up to February .
but come March almost all of the provinces in region twelve will experience severe drought that can be likened to or exceed the El Niño experienced in nineteen ninety-seven .
based on our monitoring of our weather condition here in region twelve so far we don't have any affected areas by drought yet .
because as per weather we have for the past two weeks there has still been some rain .
the Department of Agriculture has assured that they are ready for the impact of El Niño in region twelve .
the machines are ready and they will implement cloud seeding if needed .
although we still have preparations for our El Niño litigation plan and this was prepared as of September .
so we are watching our weather condition as of now and the monitoring of our cloud seeding technicians right ?
we have cloud seeding experts that are going around to see if this will be continued once we are already experiencing the summer heat for a period of two to three weeks to one month that is when we will request for cloud seeding .
they also continue to encourage farmers to try calendar shifting in planting to avoid the effects of severe drought .
the D_A hopes that the heat being experienced will not worsen anymore because as it can be remembered it was just this summer of twenty fifteen that there was roughly one billion pesos of dry spell damages in region twelve .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
