<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_12212019.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
and the cold right .
we have red tide alert on Balite Bay in Mati Davao Oriental .
yes .
in -- in Bohol we also have -- in Dauis Bohol in the coastal waters of Daram Island in Daram .
Villareal Maqueda Irong-Irong and Cambatutay Bay Eastern Samar .
similarly in Carigara Bay in Leyte we also have that there .
and even in Sapian Bay in Capiz too .
and the coastal waters of Altavas Batan and New Washington in Batan Bay Aklan and the red tide .
<no-speech>
quite a lot because even Higantes Island which has not been visited by red tide for a while yes also has it .
and the coastal waters of Naval Biliran province is also positive for red tide .
even President Roxas in Capiz .
wow .
and even Leyte Leyte is positive already with red tide toxins .
so somewhat as of December our latest red tide bulletin is five and we are not taking that back because ongoing is our monitoring what the status is in these bays .
does this Usec Perez does this red tide organism normally become active during cold weather situation or cold weather climate ?
no actually Sir Francis because sometimes -- we saw that we are more we have had a somewhat long drought right ?
yes .
maybe we have El Niño .
the others looking at it they seem to attribute it here .
but for now there is still no clarity on (()) you know this red tide organism when the blue mark is full that's good .
it's still not thoroughly understood why .
so for some reason now we are observing that when the rain is somewhat lacking well it seems it then appears .
but is this Usec Perez only there with the shellfishes ?
are shrimps and some crustaceans not included ?
oh no .
what is included here is only the shellfish particularly and also this shrimp is also prohibited nowadays aah shrimp that is okay because yes because it also eats planktons and maybe the concentration of toxins of planktons will increase in the shrimp so it will also affect those who will eat .
oh dear the shrimp paste industry is affected .
they do not really catch during that time because we are prohibiting that there according %incomplete
okay so you still don't have a time frame set until when um but how are our shellfish farmers who are only depending on those mussels oysters clams scallops .
how about their everyday living Usec Perez ?
because the harvest of grow of our -- fishermen here is doing dual .
that is not their only livelihood .
so there is also fish those fishes is still fine and also normally the process although mussels and oysters are prohibited -- prohibited to harvest today those on the other hand are still getting bigger .
this means these get even fatter and gets bigger so when they sell it is more expensive .
but in the meantime in some areas already declared for example Capiz and also Roxas .
I understand that (()) so that is to enable them to help their -- fishermen who depends here in this industry .
so generally because it is actually true that these mussels and oysters do not die what just happens is it seems like these get bigger and of course -- the -- the production will only be delayed but we understand that to the others who really depend on this their livelihood is affected .
oh no those -- seafood our shells are so delicious .
most especially during these times right .
when you bake mussels that is really delicious .
yes but we are somewhat resting for the meantime .
can we really say Usec Perez that is really dangerous to eat those affected by the red time organism ?
when there is a red time we are really that is we really um -- we are really doing all the ways for people not to eat because we already know that people will die (()) accident yes your death if ever you really eat these yes shellfish with red tide .
there in our waters where it is that organism if in case we have fish caught there wouldn't it be dangerous for our fish to eat those ?
no -- no .
we just need to remove the gills .
yes (()) the cleaning we normally do .
yes .
that is what we need to do but fish are not affected by this shellfish organism .
because they do not bio accumulated much and unlike these shellfish which are filter feeders that as they say are really -- what they eat are the the deep lettuce like that those organisms .
they are not like yes fish so so so with fish we do not need to worry there .
now I have something I want to ask an explanation about our fishing aspect .
used Perez because once I talked to someone still from the D_A right .
related to what is said to be what is this the aspect of micro -- organic -- what is this ?
%incomplete
the one which can affect food too in pigs in animals in -- microbial antimicrobial organism resistance .
antimicrobial resistance Usec ?
about that .
there is also supposedly stuff that no like it can affect our fishing not just in agriculture what is supposedly being discussed now .
the antimicrobial resistance .
the use of antibiotics or feeds on -- on animals as well as on fish .
ah yes yes .
that is the use of antibiotics in feeds .
yes .
where is the reason in order for the people (()) to still eat fish .
yes .
or animals will become the germs will become resistant to the antibiotics .
yes -- yes -- yes .
and then it will become difficult -- to treat the people doesn't it mean you must be the use of antibiotics in some (()) reasons .
which and then will result into like (()) yes you will become immune .
yes .
yes yes yes .
and you already had many medicines you will no longer be affected like that .
yes yes .
that is a matter we will address because you know our feeds now you know -- our feeds now certain chemicals are banned to be added particularly certain antibiotics .
yes .
so we have that too .
what is done to animals that is also what we do to -- to fish food .
wherein the presence of banned main ingredients like antibiotics is also being monitored there .
yes especially for those who culture the our marine culture parts that if they can somewhat see that there are lethargic fish they will give feeds with antibiotics like that maybe they should consult first with the authorities at B_F_A_R before they dispense any medicine for their fish right ?
ah that is correct .
but not too much -- not like in other sectors perhaps .
this is not much the use of antibiotic on fish .
un huh .
yes it's not that widespread .
on how to use it because they know that most of our fishes are exported okay .
and also the shrimps .
okay .
and our trading partners are so strict .
if they noticed that you have banned antibiotics they will send the shipment back .
wow .
so yes they return it .
it's not that it's not that many times that we have received a return and why we are strict in monitoring there and in the end this is not on -- on for for -- for health reasons but because of those taking care of the export themselves (()) otherwise when one container of shipment costs a lot when returned to them .
there .
so that is why we are a little bit conscious when it comes to our -- our fisheries that certainly should not be using banned antibiotics or ingredients in the feeds .
and it is only right for them to carefully check the feeds that they feed right ?
or and actually in that level of manufacturer they motorized the feeds because it will be very difficult for the individual farmer .
so that is for the level of feed manufacturers .
there .
now please let me check about the please tell us some stories about your successful travel in Malaysia for a big meeting Under Secretary Perez .
this was in Indonesia in Indonesia .
yes Indonesia was our .
yes that was our last travel where we attended in the Western and Central Pacific tuna (()) meeting .
okay in tuna .
yes that takes somewhat long .
I spent this five days in straight meetings .
yes .
and six days in H_O_B .
the somewhat shortest one there is still the (()) continuous fishing there in the Pacific .
yes .
wherein what is always discussed there is what we will do .
so that we can maintain the number of tuna .
yes .
and at the same time we can remove the threat there to our (()) species of tuna .
you know Sir Francis maybe our fellowmen do not know that when you say tuna there are many kinds .
yes .
yes we have what we call yellowfin yellowfin the yellowfin .
yes .
that is the its back its fin is a bit yellow .
yes yes .
there is a shade and in yellow yes .
yes with a shade of yellow but there are two there is a shade of yellow there is also what we call frigate tuna .
yes .
the fin is also yellow but the eye is a bit bigger when it is already growing .
well yes .
the -- the frigate tuna that is made into sashimi as well as the yellowfin .
those two what is their difference from the Matambakol ?
<no-speech>
again the Tambakol that is the Yellowfin .
ah that is the yellowfin yes .
that is the yellowfin .
yes yellowfin and then depending on the area the fins there in the bigeye are matambakol too .
yes but the -- the point there this big eye are a bit rare now .
ooh .
yes unlike the tambakol or the yellowfin which are higher in number .
that .
so %incomplete
</TEXT>
</DOC>
