<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_61289988.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
God who is alive...
God of life; reflection for 32nd Sunday in ordinary time year c - November 10, 2013 - year of faith
after the earthquake in Bohol and super typhoon Yolanda, what will be the next calamity that will come to us?
project Genesis seems to be coming true!
why are we a favorite of calamities to visit?
does our "hospitableness" have something to do here?
there is a nice comment I heard in CNN about us Filipinos in our devastation by typhoon Yolanda.
one commentator said: "time to get to know the Filipino people ... unbelievably resilient, long suffering, good natured, uber friendly, loyal, ingenious, and a bunch of survivors.
at the end of the day, the Filipinos will just shake off the dirt from their clothes and go about their business ... and smile.
they do not complain much, they will bear as long as they can..."
where do we draw this courage to face the challenges that come to our life?
perhaps we cannot deny that it is because of our faith in a living God!
we believe that there is a God who is alive who will help us get up again from our fall in any hardship in life.
we believe that our god is not a God of the dead but a God of the living!
this is also what our reading today is saying.
in the book of Maccabeo we have heard about the solidity of the faith of the Jewish brothers who did not want to obey the order of the king to eat food taboo in their commandment.
even death was not an obstacle for them: "I will die happily in your hands because I know that I will be resurrected by God."
in the gospel Jesus once again reminds us of the truth of resurrection in saying "...
God is not a god of the dead but of the living - in him all are alive."
perhaps there is no one else to give us more hope that we have a god who is alive and it is because of him that we are all alive.
so even in death our hope is alive.
notice that many of us celebrate All Souls' Day on the first day of November when we celebrate All Saints' Day.
isn't All Souls' Day on November 2?
my explanation here is that perhaps our view of death is very positive and because of this, our hope is alive that they are with our living God so we include them in the ranks of the holy.
in the end of the year of faith, let us keep our hope alive.
no one can separate us from our love of God.
whether it may be calamity, conflict, or poverty...
all of these cannot match his love.
the living God is the God of life!
</TEXT>
</DOC>
