<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_28167129.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
be prepared for a fiercer war against drugs. a big change in the war against drugs by the Duterte administration is about to begin.
allegedly, with the power of Project Double Barrel Alpha, politicians, policemen, military, officials and employees of the government and famous personalities, who are involved in drugs, will be pursued.
this is also related to the continuous checking of data on those who are accused to be involved in drugs until what is left on the list are those who have a real connection with drugs in the form of methamphetamine, marijuana, cocaine, heroin, party drugs and others.
changing record. it is said that a latest record was submitted by the police to President Rodrigo Duterte about those involved in drugs.
during the first part of this month, President Digong himself said that there are 5,000 barangay captains and around 6,000 police officers who are involved with drugs.
question: is there a big difference on the data about this in the new record submitted by the police to the president?
did the number of involved government officials get smaller or smaller?
but President Digong is saying that the pile of papers containing the list of those involved in drugs is very thick.
help from Congress. because of the large number on the list of those who need to be arrested for being involved in drugs, the help of the Congress is already needed.
like senators and congressmen.
question: what if there are congressmen and senators who are on the list of those involved in drugs?
but one of the real problems is how to unite all government agencies against those involved in drugs, especially when we consider that there are very many, thousands actually, members of the government who are involved themselves.
6,000 armed policemen. if the number of policemen involved in drugs would remain at 6,000, how can they be faced especially when they are armed and the government itself is the one who armed them?
what if they unite?
this is a great force that would be the cause for a really huge mess.
but if something can be done to neutralize or paralyze them while it is still early, there may not be any problem.
so if I were PNP Chief Roland 'Bato' dela Rosa, well, I would begin to disarm them and confiscate even their private weapons.
can you imagine if these policemen would counter the government with weapons at hand?
certainly many would die, especially if they go into a rage with all their actions organized and planned.
they might be backed up by politicians who are salivating over handling a new government that doesn't want to have change with regard to drugs.
court. one major problem seen by the Duterte government is the slowness of the courts to solve cases that can be charged against those who are involved in drugs.
he said the cases would take forever to solve.
what if the cases would take 20 years or 30 years like the Vizconde massacre case and Olalia-Alay-ay double murder case?
certainly, the drug problem would remain and the war against it would be useless because the persistent President Digong might die without a single case of conviction done by the court from the regional trial court up to the Court of Appeals and Supreme Court.
s... of a b...
join the war. but what is certain is that there will really be worse killings because of the involvement of thousands of policemen who are all armed.
high officials of the government, who definitely have policemen, the military, NBI, CAFGU and other armed government men in tow, will never let themselves be caught alive.
the police and military forces might become divided into pro and anti-drugs.
what about their alliances and conflicts regarding this?
even if citizens want to meddle in the war of officials and armed forces of the government, how can they have the power to assert what the Constitution is saying, that they are the real power in my beloved Philippines?
so President Digong is right in his appeal to all organs of the government, even to the citizens, to help against drugs and those who are running it.
oOo any complaint or criticism can be sent to www.remate.ph or texted to 09228403333.
ultimatum/ Benny Antiporda
</TEXT>
</DOC>
