<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_95079957.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
look for someone ugly: reflection for 4th Sunday of Lent year B - March 15, 2015 - year of the poor.
there is one priest called "Parekoy", who is funny and likes to tease his parishioners, especially those who are applying for marriage.
once, someone approached him and asked, "father, how much is it to get married in your parish?".
the priest answered her, "well, it depends on what your betrothed looks like."
then the woman brought her handsome boyfriend and the priest said, "child, your marriage costs ten thousand because your boyfriend has good looks!".
afterwards, someone asked him again, "Fadz (short for father), how much is it to get married in your church?".
the priest replied again, "well, it depends on what your betrothed looks like!".
and the woman insisted on dragging her embarrassed boyfriend.
he was scanned by the priest from head to toe and said, "child, your marriage is for free!".
and the priest said in a whisper to the woman, "why is he the one you chose to marry?"
your appearances are so different.
"when you get married, it would seem like he won in the lottery, and you, as if your house got burned down."
and the young lady said, "father, I loved him; not for his appearance but for his heart!"
I fell in love not with his face.
I fell in love ... with his heart!
indeed, sometimes the saying "love is blind" is true!
the world has a different standard in love.
that is why the song of Andrew E before, which is "look for someone ugly and love him truly!" is so funny!
but if we analyze, this is what the Lord did when he gave his only Son.
he looked for someone ugly and loved him truly.
we became ugly because of our sins.
but in spite of this, he loved us very much.
in the letter of the apostle, Saint Paul, to the Ephesians, he said: "the mercy of the Lord is so bountiful and the love that he gave us is so great..."
in the gospel, Saint John narrated how this was proven by the Lord: "the love of the Lord for humanity is just like that, so he gave his only son, so that those who believe in him will not be harmed, but have an everlasting life."
which is why in the time of Lent, it is only right for us to understand the great love of God for us, and hopefully, this will also be our standard in loving our neighbor.
the love of God excludes no one.
his love has no condition.
hopefully, we too can manage to show this to our fellowmen after experiencing the love and forgiveness of God.
during this season of Lent in the Year of the Poor (Year of the Poor), let us strive to make the love of God felt by our neighbors, who are struggling in life.
let us be one with them in poverty, as an act of unity with the suffering experienced by Christ.
let us learn to understand, forgive and love without condition or looking for something in exchange.
like Jesus, let us love not only those who are lovely.
let us look for the "ugly and love them truly!".
</TEXT>
</DOC>
