<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_17525401.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Philippines education as solution to poverty .
that's advocated by the legislative chamber now through the Party-list Kabayan Party-list led by Representative Ron Salo .
we'll be interviewing him live here in our studio .
sir good morning .
good morning to you Jules .
okay sir .
so you have a proposal regarding in the reformation of education .
but sir of course let's first talk about what happened recently the system of K to twelve system was just changed just launched here .
before we talk about your proposal what do you think about our K to twelve ?
our K to twelve is in order .
actually at present the budget of Department of Education is being discussed particularly for K to twelve and we also saw that the Congressmen had concerns on the implementation before so far so good .
okay .
sir here let's start at our present basic education paradigm .
you're saying we have what we call three R's .
this is the reading writing and arithmetic you said should be the three C's in your privilege speech .
so instead of three r's three c's character craft -- craftsmanship and critical thinking .
what is the background of these three C's ?
those three C's that we're promoting this is giving what we call life skills to people .
this is not just for children but for all .
we wish for all the Filipinos to have critical thinking craftsmanship and character .
and if they have what we call in English life skills .
and in Filipino we call this Jules as tactics in life .
that's what Filipinos usually lack .
although there is what we call function of literacy .
Filipinos know how to read write and count .
of course K to twelve focuses on something deeper and higher .
however we say that's still not enough .
what we need Jules first is for Filipinos to have critical thinking .
what does that mean ?
this is the ability of a person to think with depth .
those things we learn we're taught how to read stories in books that we read however the question here is how can this help and how can this help a person to have a deeper and better life .
okay Congressman you mentioned already your strategy in life because it is ordinary this is not really taught in school right like that is already your personal strategy but this this your aspiration to pass in the curriculum itself .
but I want to focus on the character .
how important is it for our education system to focus on -- our education system to shape the character of one Filipino ?
that's a very good question Jules .
of course these three are equally important which is the reason why we want to focus on critical thinking .
that means the cognitive skills of the child .
at the same time the skill of craftsmanship .
but generally it's the character of the person because the character of a person will determine .
what life will they have and how will they function in the society ?
of course usually we mention I know we're both from P_U_P and the question always isn't where the person came from but if you are strategic ?
are you efficient ?
mhm .
because your skills will be a waste your knowledge will be a waste if you're not strategic .
at the same time you have strategy in life but you don't have character .
at the end of the day your strategy will not be enough and in the sense that you already step on the rights of others and it will mean nothing to you .
character is important for although Filipinos want to improve their lives but at the same time you're not stepping on other's rights while you're developing yourself .
at the same time you're prioritizing the sake of the the generation the next generation .
you're not focusing on the %incomplete
yourself %incomplete
yourself now but you're also considering with your character with a good character what the next results will be .
okay .
Congressman for the longest time our education has been three R's the system that's being followed .
in your proposal you'll really go against the long time you might say institution those three R's .
how will you sir convince the congressmen of course in house including the senators to support your proposal ?
Jules it's better to also correct our perception for it not to be completely overhauled by the education system .
this is a change in paradigm .
because K to twelve we're delighted with this because this has opened the door to what we've been advocating the critical thinking craftsmanship and character .
our only wish here is to improve more for K to twelve the point of view here is still the ability to be employed .
however we want to deepen this Jules .
what we want is not only the concept of playability but also empowerment .
okay %incomplete
that one person is truly empowered .
he can think deeply of what can quickly -- make his life more beautiful .
what ability does he have for him to improve his life ?
what is your character that he has ?
what the molding of his character for his progress in his self and society he is not able to join others .
all right Congressman here in Good Morning Philippines I am not the only one asking the questions but also our fellowmen there is a question that will be given to you .
so let us go Mang Tanong (()) good morning Philippines and good morning there Jules in the studio .
I have reached Shaw Boulevard to gather questions about the issue we are talking about .
and we are with Miss Flor now .
and I have heard he has a question for Congressman .
Miss Flor what is your question ?
is it enough or the teaching of technical skills in the k to twelve program ?
oh .
are the technical skills taught in the k to twelve program enough ?
is that enough Congressman ?
just a question .
<no-speech>
sir let us just respond our quick response there .
are the technical skills in k to twelve enough ?
not yet .
we need to enhance this because the technical skills education for our K to twelve today our Department of Education is just choosing what they will teach .
for the kids it is the same .
uh huh .
however in these three C's that we are pushing forward it is important that the technical skills that will be taught are localized .
this means if I am from Pangasinan and our usual source of income is fishery I will be taught how to fish .
on how I can multiply the fishes I catch .
if a person is in the mountain what will be taught to him is how can he develop his life even though he is there in the mountain .
there .
so it is really like this K to twelve will be more holistic if ever these three C proposal of yours sir gets in .
let us go back to the three c sir shall we ?
this proposal of yours how will you concretize if ever these three c's will be implemented in your bill ?
<no-speech>
what will happen here is we require the Department of Education to continue fixing their curriculum .
yes .
that it is more anchored in this paradigm that we are saying that critical thinking development of critical thinking .
so it means this does not end there in the teaching of information .
because those books of ours those that being taught for example in history this is information .
however the question there it should just not be when what who and how -- how it happened but instead why why .
okay .
and Congressman why is learned in college right ?
you're right Jules .
that's really our concern .
usually the deeper discussion of issues are left to the higher education .
okay .
now Congressman let's go back to Mister Question because the question of the woman earlier was already answered .
Mister Question ?
<no-speech>
<no-speech>
and that's the answer of Congressman .
miss did you learn something from the answer of Congressman ?
yes I learned from the answer and question of Congressman .
thank you .
there thank you .
because I told you you won't get an answer if no one will ask .
I'm Hanz Urna the only Mister Question .
back to studio .
<no-speech>
alright .
thank you so much Mister Question .
okay Congressman as a last note of course it's important to use this chance for our fellow citizens to know that there's this proposal .
your message to our fellow citizens support this proposal .
thank you very much Jules .
to all the viewers of Good Morning Philippines thank you very much .
what we're promoting is not just to give knowledge or skill to an individual .
what we wish here in this proposal that we're promoting in the legislative chambers is for each of us to have real empowerment .
each of us knows how to think with depth to have the skill to improve and better his life and to have true character to even more improve not just his self but the society he's in the entire Philippines .
thank you very much .
again we have here in the studio Representative Ron Salo of Kabayan Party-list .
Thank you so much Sir .
thank you as well Ju -- I'm Cathy .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
