<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_40997580.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
EYEWITNESS | 'The shots came from the police'
by Pinoy Weekly
two Moro leaders bore witness to the massacre in Kidapawan City.
read their story.
editor's note: more or less 6,000 farmers from the town of Makilala, Mlang, Tulunan, Magpet, Roxas, Antipas, Arakan, and the city of Kidapawan in North Cotabato participated in the four-day barricade near the warehouse of the National Food Authority or NFA to call for the 15,000 sacks of rice intended for the victims of drought due to El Nino.
despite it being promised by the government, Cotabato Governor Lala Mendoza refused to give in to their request.
instead, she offered three kilograms of rice to each victim in the span of three months.
of course, the farmers refused this offer and continued in their protest.
Yesterday, 10 o'clock in the morning, the dispersal of the barricade took place as described by Bai Ali and Jerome.
the details remain incomplete as this article is being written.
However, the Anakpawis Party-list realized that three of the five who were allegedly killed were Rotello Daelto from the town of Binoongan, Arakan; Victor Lumandang from the town of Alobayon, Magpet; and Enrico Pabrica of Kidapawan.
two females allegedly slain during the incident have yet to be identified.
meanwhile, no less than 30 people were injured, including Jerome and Sheena Duazo of Bayan-SMR.
Jerome Succor Aba
Suara Bangsamoro
El Nino has been around for six months already and the 36,000 individuals affected by it still have not received any assistance.
That's why the Lumad farmers decided to barricade the national highway of Kidapawan City in order to pressure the government to release the calamity fund.
January 2016, the local government declared a state of calamity but did not yet release the fund.
thus, the farmers insisted on the distribution of the 15,000 sacks of rice.
the provincial government was adamant.
in past negotiations, we insisted they release the 15,000 sacks.
but their counter proposal was three kilograms of rice quarterly.
let us continue to defend the barricade in the presence of the police and the military.
this may be the only rally where those barricading were faced with long firearms.
and the firefighter faced it, of course.
this day, the fourth day of the barricade, Governor Lala Mendoza called for negotiators.
By noon, there was a negotiation.
after this, we were supposed to call for a press conference.
Our press conference got called off because of the sudden arrival of Mayor Joseph Evangelista of Kidapawan City and Colonel Alex Tagum, Senior Superintendent of the Philippine National Police (PNP) here in the province, in the barricade.
they were accompanied by a barangay chairman who asked us to sign a document stating that the barricade be removed.
they said the barricade was causing a great inconvenience.
"sir, we are waiting for the negotiations with Governor Lala," we said.
but Colonel Tagum answered, "there are no negotiations.
the negotiation is finished."
that's why he commanded, "Men, ready. Push!"
they pushed.
we defended our line from the striking of the policemen.
the line really did not break because there were very few policemen.
it was 200 against 6,000 protestors.
that's why their last resort was to open fire.
the farmers were shot.
were killed.
no one else was armed other than the PNP.
Sheena and I clearly witnessed, as did Bai Ali Indayla in front of us, those who had fallen, the farmers beside us who were hit by the bullets of an M-16 rifle.
that's why no one other than Governor Lala Mendoza, Mayor Evangelista, and Colonel Alex Tagum of the PNP ordered for the dispersal of the barricade.
on the very first day of the barricade, the Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) and PNP were already there on top of the firemen with long-armed rifles.
after the shooting, we withdrew.
we went to the United Methodist Church.
they were still shooting there too.
after that, Sheena of Bayan SMR was hit by a rock.
Her head was bleeding.
I, on the other hand, broke my leg due to the hits I took from the shields and police clubs earlier.
earlier, Sheena and I were brought to Kidapawan Medical Hospital.
Bai Ali Indayla
Gabriela Women's Party
earlier this morning at around 10 o'clock, while we were having our program at the barricade in Kidapawan City National Highway, we noticed the police were already on alert.
they announced via their sound system that they would violently disperse the barricade of farmers.
we still tried to speak with the policemen's boss, Provincial Director Alexander Tagum.
I spoke to him, I told him that negotiations were to take place between the farmers and Governor Lala Talino Mendoza.
they cannot use force just to scare the farmers.
but Colonel Tagum answered that there would be no negotiations, that the farmers had to leave because they really were going to disperse the barricade.
and so the dispersal took place.
I saw it myself because I was at the front of the barricade, how they struck with their batons and pushed our farmer companions and even used firefighters to force back the farmers.
First, pushing and striking, whacking.
Then they used the firefighters.
When the barricade did not disperse and the farmers continued to push the picket line, the police fell back and continued to use the water cannon.
when the striking of the police intensified, the farmers were forced to pick up rocks.
And fought against the fascism of the police.
when the throwing of rocks started, the policemen did the same but the barricade really did not disperse.
thus, the police used their guns.
I myself saw two of our companions at the picket line get shot.
one was hit in the face and, unfortunately, did not survive.
the other was brought to the hospital but eventually died while being treated.
his name, the one who died, was Rogelio Daelto.
he was the one who got shot in the face, which became the reason for his immediate death.
many were injured earlier due to the relentless shooting of the police.
at the front of the barricade (was where the shots came from).
From the line of policemen.
the ranks of policemen faced the national highway towards Davao City.
those who barricaded faced the direction going to Cotabato City.
now, in the midst of the police's shooting, and there were already casualties, the farmers were forced to enter Spottswood in the United Methodist Church compound and even up to the gate of the Methodist church, they were followed by the police who continued to shoot.
the farmers peacefully protested. it was clearly stated that they were to be given 15,000 sacks, 15 thousand sacks of rice requested by the farmers who, for six months, became victims of El Nino, of drought and didn't have anything to eat because there was nothing to harvest.
nothing could be planted because their lands were barren due to the El Nino.
Despite the call of the farmers, Governor Lala Talino Mendoza firmly refused to give them the P130-million calamity fund through distribution of rice to the farmers.
Instead, force, bullets, guns, and the killing of farmers were shown by the government of Noynoy Aquino and Governor Lala Talino Mendoza.
Where did the shots come from?
we saw them ourselves because we faced them.
we were able to hide, me, Sheena Duazo of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan - Southern Mindanao Region, and Jerome Aba, spokesperson of Suara Bangsamoro.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
