<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_78570907.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
January 2015: 700 thousand will die out of 1.4 million victims of Ebola
the estimate of US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Ebola virus disease is terrifying.
according to USCDCP, the people who will get Ebola will jump to 1.4 million people this January, if the people will not take action against this.
and if the victims will actually reach 1.4 million, it's possible that mortality will reach 700, 000.
brothers, this is based on the 8, 399 victims; while we're on this, mortality has reached 4,033.
almost half has died.
honestly, we're in pain as we're typing this letter, also because of our sympathy to the victims and fear of the disease entering our country,
Ebola is leaping.
Ebola is leaping to other countries.
just from countries Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea this February-March 2014, disease has spread to Nigeria and Senegal which are in Africa.
disease has also leaped to United States of America, Brazil, and Australia.
while these countries are in a hurry, including Canada and many countries in Europe, to get their people home from Africa which is attacked by the disease, surely, the disease will spread around the world.
and from there, it will become contagious.
some already died in USA while two Catholic missionary priests have already died in Spain.
Father Miguel Pajares from Liberia and Father Manuel Garcia Viejo from Sierra Leone died in a hospital in Madrid, Spain while Thomas Eric Duncan, a Liberian, has died in a hospital in Texas, USA.
the two priests died after they helped those who were hit by the disease in the countries they came from; while Duncan escape the Ebola, the killer disease still caught him.
11,000 OFW there are 4,000 overseas Filipino workers in the countries Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea, including more than 100 soldiers and police that are members of the United Nations peacekeeping force in Liberia and 7,000 in Nigeria.
but the Filipinos in the said countries or husbands and wives of Africans are not just simple OFWs.
there are also doctors, priests, nuns, and others who fight against Ebola.
how about our government's plan to bring them home?
if they come home, they will spread to different parts of my beloved Philippines because they came from Appari to Jolo.
can you imagine, brothers, how dangerous Ebola is if ever these OFWs come home to the Philippines?
symptoms and maturity Ebola has symptoms.
usually fever, internal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, and stomachache are the symptoms of Ebola.
but if all of these have reached a really high fever, higher than 38.6 degrees centigrade or 101.5 Fahrenheit, blood in vomit, feces, tears, saliva, and other liquids of human, call altogether the Lord, people from mortuary, and doctors.
they'll just race to save the sick from death or to bring them to a doctor, or cemetery, or altar.
if people gets contaminated with Ebola, the disease will instantly mature, like in two days.
but display of symptoms may take up to 21 days.
because it takes a long time before the symptoms comes out, we don't notice that we're already contaminated.
and don't mind that our behavior is no sleep, and we only have peeing as rest when we take care of the sick.
and if the contaminated dies, oh man, Ebola will severely spread.
because of that, the relatives of the deceased in Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea doesn't bury them anymore.
only the government picks up the dead from, anywhere, from the streets; and they will be the one to bury them.
the Africans no longer wanted to adopt the orphaned children in fear that they will be implicated in the killing.
airport and piers two doors of the country have been entered by Ebola.
airports and piers or ports of boats.
where is our strict safeguard of countries entered by OFWs, foreign tourists, and other tourists?
we have plenty of airports and ports.
do we have guards, brothers, in these places?
let's think: if USA who are experts at guarding, and other progressive countries have been entered by the disease; do you think, us who have uncertain background, knowledge, and tools can't be entered by the disease?
include funds for condom the government should have prepared funds, people, hospitals, and places by now, to control the enter of Ebola, and treat, if ever, the victims of the country.
money of the country should not be exhausted to buying condoms and other things, and more importantly not be exhausted to this politics.
let's all unite, brothers, in fighting against the terrifying disease that's more severe than HIV-AIDS.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
