<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_13812067.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
stardom: Rhian does not want to be fantasized by men in the bathroom! by Dondon Sermino July 7, 2016 a new branding, says Rhian Ramos, for the style in FHM magazine, so, she was convinced to pose sexy, coming out this July.
but if it is just as same as before, that there is a column or story about sex, or experiences of people about having sex, Rhian will not permit it.
she tattled at the pocket press conference of Your Lying Heart, held at GMA 7 studio, that FHM pursued her for 7 years. and usually their answer was "no".
but now, she is convinced, and the situation is smooth and appropriate, where the pictorial is conducted in France, before Solenn's wedding to Nico.
anyway, Rhian's photos in the men's mag is a great click to her Your Liar Heart's leading men Rafael Roselle and Kiko Estrada.
Kiko even said, he will buy a lot, he will give these as gifts to his friends and male cousins.
same as Rafael, in full support for Rhian in the said men's mag.
in my conversation with Rhian, she admits that it's not her type being used as men's fantasy. like her photos are put in the bathroom and used for immorality.
but I told her, she could not stop the boys to do what they want to do, using her sexy photos.
"I just don't want to become a bathroom material. you know what I mean, that they are really fantasizing. but, almost all girls are having fun that they are made as fantasy by boys. perhaps, if they dream of me in a different way.
"depends on what are their fantasy. there are fantasies which can pass. but, there are really which can't (like masturbated on). that is also the reason why it reached 7 years before we gave permission to the magazine. when I checked the magazine content, the previous item that I don't like was already gone. so, like, I just didn't want it to be 2 pages away from my photos, the sexual experiences of other people. just like that. I don't have a problem with being sexy. like, I think when I posed for Men's Health, I mean, my tummy is shown. because we are talking about a fitness routine. and what is only talked about is the routine so I showed my body," tells Rhian.
daddy's reaction? did she ask permission?
"not really asking permission, but I was from London, before going to France for Solenn's wedding. so when I was running and running, he said, I am on vacation, so stop working out. I said, I have a shoot. so, he knows.
and, your boyfriend?
"my boyfriend, he knew too. he was actually with me, he was there in the shoot. Solenn was kind enough to invite him as my plus one in the wedding. so he and Bianca King were there, cheering me on, giving me wine, telling me I'm sexy, for me to believe."
anyway, Rhian will not walk down the runway for FHM, because there is no such event this year.
"not a walk for FHM runway, because as of this time, they have no such thing. what I know, like a red carpet type. or party. a mixer, we can go there. talk to people. sign some magazines. but, unlike before with only me and underwear.
"yeah, I'll go, and I'll make sure that I'll still be sexy. ha! ha! ha! even not a walk in the runway, still sexy!"
gone are those walking in the underwear. if it's like that, I wouldn't" she frankly said.
anyway, Rhian's relationship with her Chinese boyfriend is one year and seven months.
"so far so good. we were together during The Rich Man's Daughter but, just still with My Destiny, he was already courting me. when he was getting to know me, he knew me as busy, that he could not see me everyday. and then, when the show was finished and we became a couple, I see him everyday. in The Rich Man's, we are already. and that was his first experience that I am really, super busy. and we made it through that, and I'm confident that we can survive now that I have a new show."
"they say, the hardest part in a relationship is when you are not seeing each other. but I'm confident that we can still make it through. because he's very supportive, and not a jealous person. and I don't know how he does it, that even he is not in show business, he understands," she said.
her boyfriend is 32 years old and a Chinese and Rhian is 25.
"not bad, right? perfect!" Rhian said.
"actually, I did not know he is Chinese before. because he's one of those Chinese who are wide-eyed. when I met him, I did not really know that he is Chinese. we're on the same race team. I continued. that's my once a month kind of like distressing.
"wedding? we don't really talk about it like pertaining to ourselves. he brought me along with his friends' wedding and I brought him along with my friends' wedding. so, we have talked about it, a wedding like that, like this. so, it's like views, but it's not about us.
"I mean, there is no rush!" Rhian said.
anyway, Rhian also tells that she was shocked when she read the script of Your Liar Heart, which was starred in the film before by Vilma Santos, Gabby Concepcion and Aga Muhlach.
"I was shocked, because, the sun is still out during afternoon prime. but the concept is super daring. all daring shows will be put in the afternoon. what I thought of, if daring, we air it at midnight. when the kids are asleep. or the last in the time slot.
"but I guess, because the kids are in school, why it is put in the afternoon. but I am daring her. lots of love stories. love story with Rafael and love story with Kiko.
"there's a lot of love in the air. with Kiko, I don't know yet if we are going to have a love scene. but with Rafael, sure that we have. but I have a funny feeling that Kiko and I will really have a love scene," tells Rhian.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
