<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_62816968.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Saturday, August 2, 2014
poet Pablo Neruda, died in cancer or murdered?
poet Pablo Neruda, died in cancer or murdered? by Gregorio V. Bituin Jr.
exactly forty years when the poet Pablo Neruda (July 12, 1904 - September 23, 1973) rested in peace in his graveyard, but a big controversy about his death has shaken the world.
Pablo Neruda had been said not to have died but he was poisoned.
Pablo Neruda is a famous poet, not only in his country, but also in the various parts of the world.
in fact, I have known him better when his book "Pablo Neruda, Selected Poems" is published last 2004 in our country.
this is a project of Filipino poets in translating the poems of Neruda to our language.
among them are national artist Virgilio S. Almario and UP Prof. Romulo P.
Baquiran Jr. the editors of the said book.
Pablo Neruda, the pen name of the Chilean poet Neftali Ricardo Reyes Basoalto.
said to have based this pen name from the Czech poet Jan Neruda.
he is a member of the Communist Party of Chile.
Pablo Neruda was awarded a Lenin Peace Prize last 1953 and achieved a Nobel Prize for Literature last 1971.
so the news that Neruda was murdered and had not died in cancer was shocking, especially those who idolize him as a world poet.
he is hailed as "the greatest poet of the 20th century in any language" of the late Colombian novelist Gabriel Garcia Marquez.
according to Manuel Araya, driver of Neruda before, Neruda was murdered.
the poet was said to have been injected with poison while he was lying on the clinic.
according to the report, a mysterious Mr. Price had injected, which in some investigations identified him as an agent of the CIA (Central Intelligence Agency).
Neruda died twelve days after the successful coup d'état of General Augusto Pinochet, and ousted the socialist president Salvador Allende.
the poet Neruda is one of those who are severely criticizing against the coup d'état and Pinochet.
not more than two weeks, the poet died.
he was said to have been planning to leave the country the next day.
because of this revelation by Araya, the Communist Party of Chile is taking interest so it is calling for an autopsy again on the corpse in order to know the truth.
there is said to have been a third party involved, according to Atty. Eduardo Contreras, lawyer of the Communist Party of Chile.
that is why Judge Mario Carroza mandated for the examination of the corpse last February 2013.
nevertheless, the leader of the Pablo Neruda Foundation, who is Juan Agustin Figueroa, does not want to exhume the corpse for examination, because this is a spit on the memory of the poet.
the Pablo Neruda Foundation is founded by the widow of Pablo Neruda in order to support and retain the legacy of the poet to the next generation.
the poet has been buried for forty years, and at the length of that time, surely, the corpse has already disintegrated.
Dr. Luis Ravanal, an investigator from the Ombudsman of Chile, has doubts.
according to him, "time is a heavy aspect, because this is an aspect which may erase the evidence.
the flesh is going to rot, and if there is a poison used in the murder, it is possible that there has been no traces."
last 8th of November 2013, after seven months of investigation of the 15 members composing the forensic team, they released the result.
according to Patricio Bustos, head of the medical legal service of Chile, no trace of chemical or poison that can be related to the death of Neruda.
Neruda is a great poet known in the world, even here in the country.
because of this, I have translated in Filipino his two poems - the Clenched Soul, a love poem, and the poem Chant to Bolivar, which he dedicated to Simon Bolivar (1783-1830), one of the great leaders of the revolution against the imperialism of Spain, and serves as an inspiration of President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and other countries in Latin America for Bolivian revolution.
I also wrote a sonnet about his death.
Clenched Soul, poem by Pablo Neruda, translated by Gregorio V. Bituin Jr.
we have lost even in twilight. no one saw us this evening hand in hand while the blue night dropped on the world.
I gaze through my window the arrival of darkness in the nearby mountains.
sometimes a piece of sun burned like a coin in my hand.
I remembered you with my soul clenched in that sadness of mine that you know.
where were you during those times then?
who else was there?
saying what?
why will the whole of love come on me suddenly when I am sad and feel you are far away?
the book fell that always closed at twilight and my blue sweater rolled like a hurt dog at my feet.
always, always you recede through the evenings toward the twilight erasing statues.
Chant to Bolivar poem by Pablo Neruda translated by Gregorio V. Bituin Jr.
our Father thou art in Heaven, in water, in air, in all our silent and broad latitude everything bears your name, Father in our dwelling: your name raises sweetness in sugarcane Bolivar tin has a Bolivar gleam the Bolivar bird flies over the Bolivar volcano the potato, the saltpeter, the special shadows, the brooks, the phosphorous stone veins everything comes from your extinguished life your legacy was rivers, plains, bell towers your legacy is our daily bread, oh Father.
In Your Death, Brother Pablo Neruda poem by Gregorio V. Bituin Jr.
15 syllables for each verse
few days after the coup d'état of Pinochet when you passed away in the time of cruelty did you really die in your cancer illness?
or murdered in the hands of your enemy whose anger was great?
forty years from this world you have left when your driver revealed the murder that happened how great is legacy in the world the reason why the murder is unforgivable
shocking, this is really a big controversy until your body is exhumed, autopsied, said the government, you were not murdered, Neruda, your remains did not have traces of poison, according to them
long live and your legacy to the world your poems will be read continuously, heard
</TEXT>
</DOC>
