<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_32253112.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Aiza Seguerra, Ryzza Mae and other EB Dabarkads displayed skill on their Eat Bulaga Lenten Special drama "mystery".
posted by: hataw tabloid
on March 30, 2015
in show business
while the EB Dabarkads are having their vacation in Osaka, Japan, staring this Monday, March 30 through April 1, six back to back stories in "mystery" Eat Bulaga Lenten special will be available for public viewing.
this holy Monday, we will be able to see two stories: "destiny's joke" about the May-December love affair of Keempee de Leon and Nova Villa accompanied by Paolo Ballesteros and Jimmy Santos directed by Mark Reyes which will be immediately succeeded by "a leaping in the blood" which will be the first pairing of "little miss Philippines" products Aiza Seguerra and Ryzza Mae Dizon who both already displayed competence in acting.
and this will be under the direction of Gina Alajar with the cast including Pia Guanio, Julia Clarete and Ricky Davao.
on holy Tuesday, we will witness stories reflecting the true meaning of love and how long you can endure for your beloved.
it will be starred by Pauleen Luna and Rocco Nacino who will play a married couple and supported by two multi-awarded actresses Jacklyn Jose and Dabarkads Anjo Yllana.
it will be from the direction of Jose "Javier" Reyes.
much anticipated is the dramatic encounter in "Pinagpalang Ama" of Joey de Leon, Wally Bayola, Jose Manalo and Ryan Agoncillo who will be portraying a gay person who is fond of joining gay beauty pageants, and Miss Joyce Bernal is the director of the episode which will have an important role played by Miss Pilita Corales.
for the final back to back episode, the GMA-7 primetime queen Marian Rivera and the hottest young star Bianca Umali can be witnessed on "caring of the heart" this coming hole Wednesday.
Bianca will be playing a retard and they will also be accompanied by one more excellent TV, movie, and stage actress, Miss Irma Adlawan, and Miss Joyce Bernal will again be directing the heavy drama episode that will make the television viewers tear up.
you will be able to see boss Vic Sotto on his excellent portrayal of a teacher in "love's change", which will be the last story you will get to witness in mystery Eat Bulaga Lenten special, also including Tito Sotto, Ina Raymundo, Seff Cayadona and Allan K and the high caliber Joel Lamangan will be directing the said episode.
before the release on the Kapuso network, Eat Bulaga screened the series to students in selected schools which gained praises.
the said EB Lenten special is delivered by OPlus Grande, Kopiko Brown Coffee, PLDT Home DSL and Tide.
by Peter Ledesma
</TEXT>
</DOC>
