<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_19568372.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Jason Abalos proudly worked with Nora by Ruel Mendoza December 21, 2016 Jason Abalos Kapamilya actor Jason Abalos did not expect that his wish to work with superstar Nora Aunor will come true.
it became a reality when he was cast as one of the children of Ate Guy in the 2016 Metro Manila Film Festival official entry Kabisera.
incidentally, it is also the first time that Jason has a movie in the MMFF.
"I have been in showbiz for eleven years and I have never had a film in the MMFF." so it is fun to think that my first movie with Ate Guy is also my first movie in the MMFF. "before I merely watched the MMFF movies of my friends with entries.
now it is me they will watch and in my first MMFF movie I even get to work with Ate Guy," he prides.
Jason's mother who is a solid Noranian was supposedly the first to be joyed.
"Mama was extremely happy when I said I have a movie with Ate Guy because Mama is a Noranian. so in the premier night, I will bring along Mama so she can personally meet Ate Guy. I do not know what her reaction will be because she has wanted to see Ate Guy in person for a long time," smiled Jason.
when Jason got to work with Ate Guy in Kabisera, he saw that the one called Superstar by many is just a simple person.
"at first, it's like you will be intimated by Ate Guy because she is the superstar.
but she did not make that felt on the set of Kabisera.
"when we are on set, she is just simple, with no airs.
"so the intimidation I feel disappears because we are relaxed when we are with her.
"I was delighted by her because she even gave me a book.
the book of Himala. she even signed it for me.
"so the feeling is unique. we can really approach Ate Guy," Jason Abalos ended.
John Vic de Guzman, from sports to showbiz John Vic de Guzman one of those introduced in the horror-thriller film and 2016 MMFF official entry Seklusyon is volleyball player John Vic de Guzman.
Director Erik discovered John Vic and made him take workshops to act as one of the deacons in Seklusyon.
John Vic is team captain of the volleyball team of College of Saint Benilde Blazers, so it is a different career he entered after a few years of playing for his university and for the national team.
"I really have no acting background. really none because I'm more into sports.
"but Director Erik asked me to audition for the role of Marco. I did not expect to pass. until now I still can't believe I'm doing a film that then qualified for the MMFF," stated John Vic.
John Vic supposedly was worried on his first days in Seklusyon.
but he could not forget what he learned in the acting workshop.
"because I have no acting background, I used what was taught to us in the workshop. "Director Eric wants me to release all my emotions through my eyes. based on the feedback from Director Erik, I was able to do my acting properly," he smiled.
John Vic is about to graduate from his course Human Resources Management.
so according to him he is ready to enter the new career showbiz.
"since I am graduating next year and it's also my last year in the volleyball team and national team, I am looking forward to have a new career, particularly here in showbiz. it's different from where I came from. but I learn a lot. I'm a fast learner, so I will also give this a chance," he stressed.
John Vic has a leading man aura because of his height 6'2" and his tan features. there are surely many that can be paired with him.
John Vic no longer has a girlfriend so no one will be jealous.
"we had many disagreements. we argued most about time."
because of what I do for the national team, I spend less time with her.
"and then I entered showbiz, further lessening my time with her.
"it's better for us to separate than if we always fight," ended John Vic de Guzman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
