<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_63705802.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
all right also live Sir we are joined with our colleague here in the studio Commander Lawrence M Calimag Navy Deputy Director of Center for Naval Leadership and Excellence of the Philippine Navy and we are discussing the skillfulness of the maritime force of the Philippines .
good morning Sir .
good morning Zarina .
and we are still with Sir Aljo Bendijo good morning Sir .
I will now go first with the question about this Palladium Balanced Scorecard Hall of Fame .
what is this sir ?
<no-speech>
good morning I am Commander Lawrence Calimag the Assistant Director of the Center for Naval Leadership and Excellence of the Philippine Navy .
the Office for Strategy Management of your Philippine Navy is the Center for Naval Leadership and Excellence .
yes .
this Palladium Balanced Scorecard Hall of Fame for -- Executing Strategy is an award being given by the Palladium Group .
which is based in the U_S .
the Palladium Group was a formed by Doctors Robert Kaplan and David Norton of the Harvard Business School .
so they were the ones giving the -- Palladium Balanced Scorecard Hall of Fame for Executing Strategy .
so the Balanced Scorecard Hall of Fame for Executing Strategy was started in two thousand to recognize the different organizations different institutions using the Balanced Scorecard Framework of Doctors Kaplan and Norton .
so they have a system the Strategy Management System through their execution premium process .
we have a system that is being followed in implementing our strategy .
so they can only recognize the organizations this is the -- those that excel in the balance scorecard system that -- is their balance scorecard framework .
so around the world there are almost two hundred institutions awarded that were inducted in our Balance Scorecard Hall of Fame .
so some of those that we know are the U_S army the Portuguese Navy the Brit -- British S_X Police .
so it has been already inducted in the -- Balance Scorecard Hall of Fame .
there is only here in the Philippines before the -- we got the award (()) there are only three in the Philippines all of them are local government units .
Iloilo already got that first last two thousand ten with San Fernando City of Pampanga .
San Fernando City of La Union then followed last two thousand fifteen .
yes .
then this twenty sixteen technically -- twenty sixteen when the award started but it was officially given we were inducted just last March .
this March we're with Balanga City Bataan and the (()) Army Navy of the Philippines there .
so if the Navy is transforming and reforming in fact we have modernization in the Armed Forces of the Philippines congratulations A_F_P .
the second has already arrived right ?
another two so our fight eagle only lack two more .
huh fighter aircraft .
just four -- because one squadron arrived yesterday yesterday two .
okay so there .
we'll still use that in patrolling in Benham Rise and our disputed territories in West Philippines Sea .
now if the Navy is transforming Commander and reforming why do we still have intrusion in our territory now and also does it mean that there's no longer corruption in our Philippine Navy Sir ?
<no-speech>
that's our buzzword in the Armed Forces now we -- we perform while we transform .
yes .
you know like other organizations your army navy is not a perfect organization .
it also has gaps that's why we developed the sail plan for us to change our inefficiencies .
we align our systems .
we improve how we do things .
yes .
even the systems that are -- old which we're changing we're even updating our doctrines for it to be updated in the (()) present time .
yes .
though we still have a long way to go as we all know the coast line of the Philippines is three -- thirty-six thousand kilometers .
that is too long to be covered by your Philippine Navy .
as I have said with -- we -- we perform as we transform .
so your Philippine Navy is currently transforming .
(()) those assets of ours some have arrived .
so still lacking .
<no-speech>
maybe when time comes when that really comes (()) our capabilities then we can say what is more important Sir the ship than the airplane or airplane than the ship ?
both .
both (()) because your Philippine Navy has also its airplane .
if you can remember just two days or three days ago our T_C ninety has arrived from Japan .
that will help in our maritime surveillance .
the three ?
still two yet .
still two yet .
-- are you feeling a pressure ?
I mean how can you handle if you are feeling a pressure especially because you have been given things for modernization then this issue about the territory .
how are you handling those like that ?
all the more that our trust is really in your Sir .
really a heavy responsibility on the shoulders of your force (()) but let us remember the Philippine Navy is just a force provider .
we are only giving the ships of the battalion of Marines .
we are giving that to the unified (()) of the A_F_P .
so they are the ones employing those .
they are the ones using that those ships that we give .
okay .
sure Commander later we will come back to you all right -- we are going to come for you oh let us go back to Commander .
Commander Calimag going back there in the Palladium Balance Scorecard what is the impact of this on the Navy or like what is the meaning of this for your institution sir ?
of course pride of the Philippine Navy that we have inducted to the Balance Scorecard Hall of Fame .
but not only our honor this an honor of the whole (()) Armed Forces of the Philippines of the Department of National Defense and the whole Filipino nation .
this is not the end of all .
as we said earlier we perform as we transform .
the transformation of the New Philippine Navy is ongoing this will not be finished by twenty twenty .
in fact this coming third quarter we will review our sail plan .
<no-speech>
we -- we'll align to the G_H_Q the ah in their visual that's it twenty twenty eight .
so this only means that that the -- our award is only a proof that the Philippine Navy is committed there in our mandate to protect the our sovereignty .
and one -- this means that what we are doing in the Navy is a proof that the trust of our stakeholders is getting bigger .
yes .
you have mentioned the sail plan what is the meaning -- sail plan -- is the sail plan this is what we call the Philippine Navy Strategic Sail Plan twenty twenty or more known in its name sail plan .
this is our organizational development strategy -- it means this is our plan to develop internally .
this is our long term plans for us to make our mandate to there then %incomplete we will that we can -- we will deliver our mandate excellently .
so internally it means then in in their own only -- internal in -- in Navy .
in your organization .
cleaning is included there .
developing our personnel developing our organization developing our capabilities our ship plane the firepower of our Marines our communication equipment are included there .
so those are what's included in our sail plan .
so it's a long term plan .
so our vision is on twenty twenty .
so three years from now .
by twenty twenty we shall be strong credible .
(()) we can -- boast to the whole world .
that we can really defend %incomplete
as long as what we have planned will happen .
the -- material training wherein if we accomplish what is in the sail plan which we target by twenty twenty we can say big sis -- big sis we are a strong navy .
because the -- credibility we cannot say that but instead the people .
the training needed there is the training for the equipment the arriving modern equipment .
that is important because we are already purchasing modernization of planes -- sometimes -- there are plans %incomplete
that is the submarine submarine right ?
we have a plan for that but in the near future .
but even now -- we are preparing that already .
so we already have an office studying that there are people studying submarines for %incomplete
so let us invest in our very personnel first .
yes because that's what is needed when our submarine or modern ships arrive they will be ready .
yes .
but Commander and I are talking they are still insufficient .
of ?
of members or personnel I'm sorry .
sir is it right ?
for now our recruitment of personnel is continuous because when a ship arrives it comes with people .
so that one ship usually has a crew which are almost hundred personnel .
our new -- that our (()) F_X seventy the people there are (()) more than one hundred .
as well as our strategic (()) vessel .
almost one hundred people there .
so the insufficiency is still really big .
the ship used in Benham Rise how many people are occupying there ?
I think the people there are one hundred thirty-five .
okay sure thank you so much Commander Lawrence Calimag of the Philippine Navy .
thank you so much and good morning again sir .
good morning also Zarina good also morning (()) .
okay .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
