<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_78393089.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
advance the revolutionary movement on land reform
Communist Party of the Philippines July 11, 2013 translation: advance the revolutionary land reform movement
within 25 years, clearly shown by the reactionary Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP) that it is a big deceit.
the economy and politics of the Philippines is continued to be overruled by backward and anti-progressive class of landlord.
the landlords continue to subjugate millions of Filipino farmers in feudal and semi-feudal exploitation through their hacienda and other feudal properties.
the CARP has no difference and its expanded program, the CARPer, in Presidential Decree #27 of the Marcos dictatorship and all of the past fake programs on land reform even before the beginning of a colonial state.
after seven decades, the Filipino farmers remain landless and being subjugated in intense exploitation and abuse.
the CARP and all of the initial fake programs on land reform are projects of deceit of the reactionary state dominated by landlords.
it is only aiming to disregard the widespread plea for land and extinguish the democratic struggle of the farmer masses for an authentic land reform.
covered in the falseness of the CARP is the truth that the huge hacienda remains untouched and in the monopolizing control of big landlords after 25 years of implementation.
this is intensely highlighted of the truth that the reactionary state is currently governed by Benigno Aquino III, grandson of the Conjuangco landlords.
the Hacienda Luisita, the most brightly colored symbol of feudal kingship, remains in the control of the Cojuangcos through deceit, bureaucratic manipulation and armed suppression.
the villages are continued to be dominated by huge haciendas.
the families Aquino, Roxas, Araneta and other families of huge landlords are wading through luxurious lifestyles.
they live in palace-like houses, wearing expensive clothes, eating imported meat, drunk in expensive liquor, feasting in high-rise hotels, going back and forth to other countries and racing their cars gluttonous of gasoline just to have fun.
they are numb about the poverty and destitution of the farmers and other masses of the children of sweat.
the most surfacing exhibition of the lack of real democracy in the Philippines is the lack of authentic land reform.
the majority of the Filipino nation, which is composed of farmers without land and poor farming workers, is suffering everyday in high rental of the land, low wages, high expenses on agricultural production, low prices of farming products, high interests on debts and other forms of feudal and semi-feudal exploitation and abuses.
a hundred thousands of farmers are driven away from their lands because of landlords' widespread conversion of the use of agricultural lands to non-agricultural to make a roundabout on land reform laws and quickly gain interest.
the national minority are intensely sent away from their lands in the flock of foreign mining companies which are poisoning the land and rivers.
there is no economic progress that can give jobs in the modern industries than the work force in the villages.
the villages of the Philippines is a big ocean of those who have nothing or lack of jobs where the wages are too low and the masses are drowned in hunger and poverty.
society with no justice under the CARP of the reactionary state.
the CARP is thrown as garbage by the organization of farmers as a pure real estate transaction in which the feudal lands are bought by the state in higher prices than its real worth.
those considered certificate of land transfer (document of transferring the ownership of the land) of the farmers is vanished because of their inability to pay a high interest amount of amortization.
in the name of "economies of scale" (larger economy), the identified beneficiaries are obligated to join in the "agrarian reform communities" to force them to join the system of big plantation for the production of banana, sugarcane, rubber, oil palm and other export products.
they are asked to buy seedlings and equipment in agriculture and forced to sell their products to big landlords and exporters.
the feudal and semi-feudal systems and backward agricultural production are continued to be taken advantaged by the foreign capitalist monopoly in order to bribe a huge interest and plunder the wealth of the Philippines.
the big landlords and big bourgeoisie buyers are the most trusted allies of the imperialists.
they are serving as suppliers of raw materials and channel of surplus products from imperialist countries.
the aspiration for a real land reform remains the biggest democratic wish of the Filipino nation.
this is the primary content of the democratic revolution of the nation which aspires to correct historic and societal injustice which is whipping the masses of farmers, and free them from the feudal and semi-feudal exploitation and abuses.
in the implementation of real land reforms together with the national industrialization, the whole ability of productive forces in the Philippines will be released.
the assertion of real land reform is continually fueling the civil war.
in every day, the red warriors of the New People's Army (NPA) and the revolutionary forces under the leadership of the PKP are planning campaigns for land reforms in accordance to the Programs for the People's Democratic Revolution.
implemented in the whole country is the minimum program for land reform.
under the National Federation of Farmers (NFF), an allied organization of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), the masses of farmers are organized and mobilized to confront the landlords through asserting the lowering of rent for the land, raising the wages of farming workers, lowering the percentage of interest in debt and raise the price of their agricultural products.
through the guidance of the PKP, the PKM is organizing the beginning form of cooperation and collectivization to raise the production and have an additional profit.
the PKP is waving the banner of authentic land reform to dismantle the economic bases of exploitation and abuse of landlords.
in its implementation, the revolutionary forces in the villages are triumphantly rooted deeply, the New People's Army is raised and the organization of political power under the People's Democratic Government is formed.
the positive effect of the revolutionary movement on land reform for the masses of farmers is huge.
the huge majority of the red warriors of the BHB is composed of the best children of the masses of farmers.
a tornado of civil war continues in the whole country.
it will advance to a higher level in the next years together with the advancement of the revolutionary movement on land reform.
(this statement is released along with the 25th year of CARP which was made into law by Corazon Cojuangco Aquino last June 10, 1998).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
