<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_19753747.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
evidence on the order to kill by Aries Cano
December 18, 2016
President Rodrigo Duterte is prepared to resign if there is a member of the Philippine National Police (PNP) or a troop of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) can tell that he has a mandate to kill the criminals who surrendered.
the uttered statement of the President about his resignation from his post is in connection to the statement of Vice President Leni Robredo that the statements of the President about killing is alarming, because it seems he is advancing the culture of injustice.
"you can ask.
there are about how many thousands of military we have, 200 plus, the police are 300.
ask one if I have a command to shot that person kneeling, tied from behind," the President said.
"ask one.
if someone told you that, Duterte said, I will resign, I will resign tomorrow.
look for a soldier or police who can tell what Robredo is saying," he asserted.
the President clarified that he does not kill recklessly without benefit.
he announced this after his initial statement that he had killed someone when he was still a mayor in Davao City which was condemned by the White House.
President Duterte defended when he talked yesterday at dawn at Davao City International Airport when he arrived from a four-day state visit in Cambodia and Singapore that it was an incident that he fired a gun during a kidnapping that happened last 1988 which resulted to a shootout.
"so, I might have hit them all or none at all.
but the fact is I was there and I fired at them.
it was a pure case of kidnapping.
it happened during my first term in 1988," Duterte explained.
the President asserted that he was the mayor and he would not allow the civilians to be oppressed, therefore, he did not think twice to exchange a gunshot.
the President asserted that he fired a gun to protect the citizens and he is not a dictator who kills his political enemies just to remain on the position.
"so, at least I killed to protect people.
I am not here a dictator killing my political opponents to stay in power," according to President Duterte.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
