<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_58286072.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Senator Antonio Trillanes and Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile admitted that it would take long before they would reconcile after the debate they had yesterday at the plenary .
yesterday here in our point by point Trillanes and Enrile reached out again and argued once more .
meanwhile the palace was distant from the dispute .
but it was clarified that no blessing was given to some statements of Trillanes in (()) notes like involving the name of the United States .
and the said apathy of the Filipinos in pursuing the Scarborough Shoal .
<no-speech>
together with us here is congressman Antonio Tinio who is the representative to the congress of Alliance of Concerned Teachers or ACT .
congressman a beautiful morning to you .
a beautiful morning Anthony .
maybe our fellow citizens are asking what are you doing here .
here is the issue of the senate .
first of all let us us address it directly .
that issue between Senator Trillanes and Senate President Enrile what is the where do are you inclined there ?
well for me well I think I should not let it pass Senator Enrile being Senate President right ?
that -- there -- there is I think their strife has been pretty long between another -- senator Senator Trillanes who he even treats as kind of his protégé .
yes .
or like his endeared one right ?
it looks like they are now fighting .
but I assume that it should not be missed that in their personal quarrel Senator Enrile involved the issue of the West Philippine Sea .
yes .
this is one one dispute that is that is ongoing .
yes .
a very sensitive is -- issue .
our National Patrimony has an involvement with this .
yes .
our territory .
and suddenly Senator Emil -- Enrile used as ammunition in his personal dispute the very sensitive internal discussion .
it is indeed our position that I think it caused harm .
it harmed our position .
in China .
what I want to know there if if Senate President Enrile mentioned the that thing about -- Senator Trillanes being the negotiator in China are you saying that like -- like -- like he revealed to the public the the secrets that should be discussed only ?
yes these are internal discussions right because that was not yet the revelation of the role at the backroom negotiator because it looks like at least in the part of the media there are already those who know right ?
yes .
but what more is that ah exposing of those notes .
yes .
of apparently one from D_F_A is our ambassador to China .
yes .
in relation to a supposedly confidential meeting .
yes .
(()) the problem here is it seems like a dispute or a disagreement appears between D_F_A and Senator Trillanes .
so it looks like the problem of the Philippines has been magnified or disagreement in -- because of what Senator Enrile has done ?
yes or like in this um well like the card was -- revealed to our enemy .
yes .
and because of that it may be taken advantage of by those we faced in the negotiation .
yes .
but is that sir thing in your opinion is enough also -- enough to punish Senate President Enrile of to remove him of of power as president of the senate ?
like what wants to happen now that would be an internal discussion in the senate and the senators will be the ones to decide right ?
depends on the count on the count of numbers if released .
this is one issue only .
I just comment on what I think is wrong and should not be dismissed .
yes .
you know it's as if Senator Enrile prioritized his personal interests over the interests of the country in relation to the very important issue of the West Philippine Sea .
yes .
I said although we have what is called inter-parliamentary courtesy the one asking for is facilitating now working now to remove Senator Enrile is Senator Trillanes and he confessed to that .
will he be able to get sir a support in we -- like in your group sir ?
<no-speech>
well I think this is a maneuver of the of of -- of the ruling party that has long had -- had an attempt to get the senate presidency .
I'm talking about the liberal party for instance right ?
so for me maybe we should remember it's September twenty-one today anniversary of Martial Law and maybe it's time for us to recollect those roles taken by key actors during that time of dictation and maybe we should think of the politicians who prioritized their personal and shallow interests thanks to the interests of many .
referring to whom ?
well that includes Senator Enrile .
<no-speech>
in our line is Senator Jinggoy Estrada and our Senate President (()) .
Senator Jinggoy how are you ?
a beautiful morning to you ?
good morning Anthony to all viewers .
yes .
(()) .
yes .
senator in your perspective is something going to happen here in the movement of Senator Trillanes to to oust the president of the senate from his post ?
oh nothing will happen there because first and foremost they are the (()) of his grievance about Senate President Enrile .
yes .
I think those (()) they are not moving to oust Senate President Enrile .
yes .
how will a (()) succeed against Senator Enrile sir ?
if it will have thirteen votes then oh if it there are thirteen votes from the senator to oust Senate President because the Senate President will come down .
yes .
so -- give us an idea for that Senator Jinggoy .
right isn't there a -- there is Liberal Party there is Nationalista there is is a force of Filipino masses that one with you and then Sir there's a National People's Coalition .
how would the division be done here sir ?
we are a bit confused so if ever sometimes so .
there is sir .
which division where ?
the -- the division varied because because the party where our senators belong .
the liberal for example where are they ?
where are the nationalists ?
not the we have the majority and the minority .
yes .
the majority there are composed of liberal party P_N_P in Mindanao (()) .
N_P_C and (()) are in the majority .
yes .
only three are in minority .
in the minority is senate Senator Alan Peter Cayetano is in is the minority square leader .
that includes Senator (()) Senator Villar (()) also Senator Trillanes .
yes .
so there's four .
Arroyo Senator Marcos we're also with Senator Miriam .
part of the majority .
yes .
so those are the current minority you mentioned .
let's remove Senator Trillanes first .
if they'll be joined by other nationalists who are in the majority and the liberal party will they get the majority ?
not yet .
that's still not the case .
<no-speech>
okay .
what is the the possibility that Senate President Enrile will be dismissed if the Malacañang will interfere ?
well if the Malacañang interferes the influence is big but (()) Senate President of Malacañang that Malacañang supports Senate President Enrile one hundred percent .
yes .
sir this is my last question .
what would you like to say to Senator Antonio Trillanes ?
first on his movement to -- oust the president of the senate .
second is the way that he does to express sentiments release to Senate President Enrile ?
first of all is that -- that desire of his to replace the senate president .
as long as he has thirteen votes or they have transferred to someone who wants to replace the senate -- senate president .
then they should just do if the senate wants Senator Trillanes to take the seat as long as there are thirteen senators who signed then will step down Senate President Enrile will step down that is no problem with him .
yes .
secondly in his in his (()) tirade against Senate President Enrile well maybe you know being a senator there for a long time Senator Drilon said he has been a senator for fifteen years me a senator for eight years well only now (()) have seen a dispute on -- on the attacking of a senator to a fellow senator .
that is not nice .
(()) Senator Trillanes will think that there is no more (()) .
he does not hold a battalion that he does not hold his battalion in the senate .
I hope he will change and asks for an apology from Senate President Enrile .
Senator Jinggoy Estrada thank you so much and a beautiful morning to you .
Senator Trilla -- oops senator do you think Senator Trillanes will have his political career affected because of this event ?
Senator Enrile is very popular today .
well it is clear that he is attacking one reason is because of the impeachment .
yes .
Senator Enrile is very popular but well Senator Trillanes is really a mistake what we have seen that on his career in the military .
yes .
and well good luck to him right ?
last question .
will -- will it be better for the country if Senate President Enrile will be replaced ?
<no-speech>
well it depends on who will replace right ?
yes .
<no-speech>
what we need in the Senate is those who are really standing for the interest of the masses example the issues on R_H reproductive health .
yes .
then about passing this right in turning the freedom of information bill into a law .
yes .
unfortunately the work of the Senate is derailed because of this personal quarrel in which the Senate President himself is involved .
Congressman Tinio thanks a lot to you sir and your voice is still good sir thank you sir .
for our poll question are you in favor to the call of Senator Trillanes to replace Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile ?
those who answered yes is twenty-eight percent and those who said no is seventy-two percent .
<no-speech>
members of my family the smoldering blows between Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile and Senator Antonio Trillanes are scorching .
we can understand where the fury of Trillanes is coming from but we cannot like the methods and language he used to attack Enrile who is almost well his grandfather already .
his allegations against Enrile can be true but perhaps it has not yet been accepted by the greater majority of Filipinos the scene where it seemed the kid vulgarized an old man .
what you will admire in Trillanes is that he bravely went forward and admitted that he was the one who was brewing a coup d'état against brother Johnny .
they are both subject matter experts there .
but it seems that Trillanes did not remember the principle of Sun Tzu's Art of War that he should have learned from China .
in several months of negotiating with the Chinese with officials .
know your enemy does Trillanes know who his enemies are ?
well now those who want to take a hit at Trillanes are suddenly appearing front and back because of his tension with Enrile .
surely if Malacañang refuses to join the fight against Enrile then it seems that it would be unlikely that this plan will go anywhere .
and the more important question is are the sugar-coated sentiments of Senator Sonny enough to remove Manong Johnny ?
in truth there are still many -- supposed arrears owed by Enrile to the people if we look back in history .
from his role in Martial Law of which today is the anniversary and the most famous ambush me .
in his role in the removal of Marcos and in the coup d'état against President Cory Aquino .
he should be thankful for the impeachment of Corona .
Johnny Enrile's stars are shining and the said sins against the country are forgotten .
family members it's not every day that the senate receives a high trans-rating .
we also don't usually get a senate president that is trusted by seven out of ten Filipinos .
for me the tobacco plantations do not need to be touched .
it would be better that Enrile is there and hopefully we can benefit from his -- let's benefit from his unique wisdom and newfound support from the country .
someone I spoke to a while ago said he may even be fit to become president if only Grandpa Johnny weren't so old like Grandpa Jose .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
