<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_64720138.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
dining table
by Emmanuel Jerome Tagaro
it has long been my habit to observe on the road, most especially when I go to eateries. observing always brings me joy when I notice each move of those around me. for me, it is an escape from my everyday boredom in life.
today, I am seated at a restaurant again, and I really notice each flick of the hand in the opposite table, the simple glances of the man to his companion every time he looks in the distance, or even the creases in the dress of the woman in the farthest table.
whether I personally know or not the customers wherever I eat, there are always notable characters in these small spaces.
security guard
the very first to welcome you upon entering a restaurant is the muscly security guard. he is often alone, sometimes observing the place or greeting "welcome po!" he holds a baton and a gun without bullets. they may be the only ones needed in restaurants, because if some evildoers arrive, it is easy to ask for help. hopefully they won't be that many so that he will not be plowed before his backup arrives.
crew
next to welcome you are the hardworking crew. they always have smiles on the face, ready to get the order of customers.
they may be often contractual and with low pay, but they continue to work hard to have something to feed their family.
chef
he may always be hidden and not always seen, it is still the cook who next offers service.
he cooks food he cannot eat the whole day, and facing the kitchen he does not own.
I also do not know if he has eaten, or if he can even afford what he cooks, but he is the one who makes it for the customer and for his family too.
he should be thanked.
manager
for the long run of the restaurant it has undergone so many managers, and each one of them has a different style.
there are the sleepy ones, strict with time, or focused on work, but many of them possess one characteristic - and that is putting the interest of the restaurant first, ensuring that the revenue is still high, more than the welfare of the customers.
customer
no one knows who and what each customer that will come out of the restaurant be, but they are now in the care of the restaurant.
each customer may pay for their food, but they continue to have little freedom inside the restaurant.
there should be acknowledgement that each grain of rice served is the sweat and blood of the people working here.
often I end up smiling when I catch myself thinking about this in each restaurant I try.
but maybe it is just better for me to share to those reading that all of this reflects the complicated business of society.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
