<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_15669306.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
prohibited but still continues: gambling, bribes, explosives
after the loud welcome of New Year of 2014, Year of the Wooden Horse in Chinese Zodiac, the year 2013 bid its goodbye.
along with it is the end of many lives and injury of many because of the fireworks in New Year.
Department of Health says that in January 2014, 809 victims have already died.
this includes the 3-month old baby, Von Alexander Llagas, of Caoayan; and Rhanz Corpuz of Ilocos Sur after they got hit by stray bullets caused by firing of shots by unknown suspects.
one 2-year old girl named Diane Vocal, of age 2, of Caniogan, Pasig; and Carmen Samson, 50, of Rosario, Batangas luckily survived the gunshots.
because of these, and just like expected, proposal for total ban of explosives has begun again.
this is believed to be an effective way to prevent an increase rate of death and injured from explosives.
just like before, manufacturers and vendors of fireworks strongly protests.
the ban will kill the industry.
the association of those who manufacture fireworks also denied that what they're selling are of poor quality.
the who are licensed manufacturers of fireworks and pyrotechniques have quality control in their products.
and if someone dies or gets injured, the victims should be the one to be blamed because they didn't lack reminders and campaigns on right way of using explosives.
if we pay closer attention, the steps to be implemented should be thought of thoroughly so that there would no longer be a large number of casualties or injuries from firecrackers.
let's accept that the manufacturers and vendors of explosives will not admit to their responsibilities for the victims of their products.
their excuse is: they didn't lack in reminders or campaigns on how to use explosives.
but after all, they know that in the moment the buyers of explosives leave their store, "they're up to themselves." if that's the case, the consideration to prohibit or not or campaign to stop the use of explosives is not on the manufacturers and vendors.
primarily, a stronger campaign against explosives is to push forward the change of mindset of Filipinos ion why we use explosives.
for example, it's not true that fireworks can drive away misfortune, it even brings misfortune.
consider accidental injuries from pyrotechniques, while just gazing at the fireworks display, a misfortune, like with what happened to some people who who were watching in Mall of Asia.
and what hurts the most is the misfortune brought by the bullets from the inconsiderate people who fired shots, regardless of its prohibition.
in practicality, use of alternative ways to make noise, that symbolizes a happy welcome to New year, has lots of benefits.
first, big savings and more safe in using torotot.
or loud music with happy tunes.
second, less pollution of air that our children who don't use explosives might inhale.
third, when morning arrives, no garbage from firecrackers or fireworks containers should be swept.
all of these were my experience when I tried to not use explosives at the end of the year.
and I discovered that my character was nothing less; or that there was no decrease of received blessings from the Lord - even if I don't light up bulbs, or snake, or fountain, like with how I'm used to from 2012-2013.
spending time with our family, not firecrackers, causes joy.
if it's like that, the initiative to avoid explosives should come from own self, and not from the ban - may it be partial or total ban.
the mindset to avoid explosives and to the misfortunes it bring to the victims should be realized by many.
only an effective campaign against explosives is the key.
firecrackers ban is a concrete step to solve the conceal the problem.
but we, Filipinos, know that it's hard to go against tradition and mindset.
like gambling which is supposedly a part of Filipino culture; or accepting bribe every election, which has an economical aspect for Filipino voters; or the idea of using firecrackers every end of the year has elements of Filipino culture, character, and mentality.
if that's the case, this can't be stopped by a regulation of a prohibition.
the only thing that will overcome this is smarter thinking.
to educate people- voters, gamblers or those who use explosives - to explain to them is the key for them to start the change and have a smart practice.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
