<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_36820082.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
17 schools in South Cotabato are given solar power kits
February 17, 2016
City of Koronadal, South Cotabato, February 17 (PIA) - reached up to 17 schools in the far-flung places in South Cotabato are granted recently with solar home lighting kit system which is a donation of the NV Vogt Philippines Solar Energy One, Inc.
the NV Vogt is the largest solar power investor in Mindanao.
this one also built the 5 megawatt solar farm in Barangay Centrala, Surallah, South Cotabato.
included in those who are given with solar photovoltaic home lighting system are the schools in Sitio Lubol and Kiantay in Upper Sepaka and Basag in Salacafe; Sitio Demamis, Dangkong and Salabanog in Laconon; Sitio Kebuling in Basag; Sitio Talambong and Motokling in Mongkayo; Sitio Balnabo, Datal Tablo, Coong, Datal Colon and Bengue in Maan, all in the municipalities in Tboli.
given also with similar facilities are the schools in Sitio Lembuto in Lamlahak, Sitio Tboyong in Lamfugon, and Sitio Bulol Lahak in Klubi in the municipality of Lake Sebu.
each school is given two solar photovoltaic home lighting system.
the turn over ceremony was done last Monday in the covered court of the Provincial Capitol.
together with the solar photovoltaic home lighting system are two LED lamps, home lighting system, AC-DC adaptor, mobile charging cord and 10-watt photovoltaic panel with stand set.
the South Cotabato Schools Division sent out their utmost gratitude for the gifts of the NV Vogt Philippines.
in his message, Assistant Schools Division Superintendent Mario Madrero said that this is a good opportunity for the students in the most far-flung parts of province to experience having light in their classrooms.
Madrero also expects that more schools will be granted with the similar facility in the coming days.
it is better, according to him, if the schools will be given with solar power kits which has the ability to operate a computer and computer printer so that the teachers will not need to travel to the town to encode and print the report that they are going to submit and make the instructional material.
(DEDoguiles-PIA 12)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
