<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_88935034.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Janella-Elmo, not on the same level as JaDine and LizQuen! by Glenn Regondola
June 9, 2016
Janella Salvador feels the pressure of her loveteam with Elmo Magalona.
being "ElNella" which is usually compared to solid loveteams such as KathNiel, JaDine, LizQuen of Kapamilya network, she knows she and her tandem have a long way to go.
it will start on Primetime TV series, Born For You; but the Kapamilya young actress believes that the television viewers will also love them.
"there are even lots of fans who react, but we can't avoid that."
but there are also lots of fans who say that they support us.
"we're hoping, but it's not good to expect too much."
so, we're just really enjoying what we're doing, and we're just hoping the best for the show.
that's all," said Janella.
what is really the difference between their loveteam and the loveteams mentioned?
Janella explained, "perhaps, we're the loveteam that will just really focus on music."
"what makes me really excited is music."
it's gonna be a big part of the show.
"and I'm excited about it because there are so many surprises."
"I have a good feeling about the show, because just by reading the script, I can feel how amazing it will be."
is she also ready for her show to be compared, especially because it will replace the show of the loveteam KimXi where viewers of TV series, The Story of Us of Kim Chiu and Xian Lim is also adored?
"well, we can't avoid the comparison, but we don't want to compete," she said.
how did they adjust to each other, especially when they came from different and quite established loveteams as well?
Janella with Marlo Mortel, on the other hand, Elmo with Janine Gutierrez?
Janella added that, "this is my very first soap that has romance in it."
because my first soap, Be Careful, was all about family.
"while my second was about God, so this is really the." "but when we talked, we were really comfortable with each other's company."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
