<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_55778911.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Yassi, found an excuse for her absence in 'Sawi' July 17, 2016 weird was Bea Alonzo's feeling on her first day of shooting with Gerald Anderson for How To Be Yours of Star Cinema because they had a relationship before.
"at first, to be honest, it was so weird. the feeling was so weird on the first day but now very comfortable with each other and hopefully you will see that in the film," Bea said on the press conference of How To Be Yours.
Gerald said he had no reluctance or hesitation when he accepted the project. "well, on my part, our meeting had not lasted twenty minutes yet, I accepted already. I said yes at once. of course, this is a blessing for me," Gerald stated on his first movie team up with her ex-girlfriend.
Bea added it had been planned for some time for her and Gerald to work together on a film but it always did not happen and maybe, the right timing is now.
Dan Villegas is the director of How To Be Yours. Dan denied the news that there is competition between him and his girlfriend, fellow director Antoinette Jadaone.
in fact, according to Dan, Antoinette and he are each other's critics, after admitting that his girlfriend is a better director than he is.
Irene Villamor, friend and co-director of Antoinette Jadaone in Relaks, It's Just Pag-Ibig, also has a movie project.
Irene is the director of Camp Sawi, the film of Viva Films starring Yassi Pressman, Kim Molina, Andi Eigenmann, Arci Muñoz and Bela Padilla.
Irene feels lucky because she was chosen as the director of Camp Sawi.
the characters of the aforementioned actresses in Camp Sawi are unlucky in love and like them, Irene who is still single up to now is also unlucky in love.
"I was assistant director to Director Joyce. even back in college I was cutting classes to join her. the reason I met her, is because I was chasing a crush. I was in college, doing OJT (on the job training) on her movie. I was supposed to go to another movie. but, my crush, he joined Viva Films. he was really my crush. he was able to join Kailangan Ko'y Ikaw, the movie of Robin Padilla and Regine Velasquez. my crush was able to join that, so I chased him. I called Director Joyce."
"but I didn't have papers. Director just said, 'you are hired, go! come here!"
Irene is unlucky in love because she and her crush who is now a teacher in UP did not end up together but they are friends.
"we're friends. he knows fabulously that he is my crush," Irene added.
yesterday is the last shooting day of Camp Sawi in Sampaguita Gardens in Quezon City but the main cast is not complete because missing is Yassi Pressman who entered the Pinoy Big Brother House in Vietnam as a housemate.
Irene shared that she was surprised by the leave of Yassi because they just found out about the singer-actress joining PBB, two days before she entered the house of Big Brother.
because it was Irene who wrote the story of Camp Sawi, she found a way so that the absence of the character of Yassi will not be noticed in the scenes shot yesterday in Sampaguita Gardens.
"two days before Yassi entered PBB, that's when I found out. I understood a bit, because, that was confidential. I was just shocked but it seemed manageable. because this, this is the ending already. this was easy. majority of her scenes, are done," stated Irene."
YES editor-in-chief Jo-anne Maglipon confirmed that the most beautiful 2016 issue of the said entertainment magazine will have a reprint due to high demand.
Maine Mendoza & Alden Richards are the most beautiful stars of 2016 of YES and the unveiling of the magazine was only on Monday (July 11) but the publisher immediately decided to reprint copies because of the large number of buyers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
