<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_32661667.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Arci, spaghetti twisting upwards and upwards!
Nathalie, likes Lara Morena by Noel Ferrer
December 30, 2016
the approved/disapproved list has become our tradition every year.
we do it after Christmas, before New Year.
in the list, the approved are those who gave a positive contribution to our industry.
they are those with stories of inspiration and good effort.
the disapproved are those NI ... needs improvement.
those that lack impact despite how very hard they tried.
hopefully, your celebration of Christmas is approved.
and hopefully, we will not be disapproved in the New Year.
approved: Charo Santos-Concio (for beautiful projects since her retirement in ABS-CBN.
kudos to Ang Babaeng Humayo). disapproved: Nora Aunor (hopefully Ate Guy will choose already the next movie she will do.
she no longer has anything to prove with her acting so hopefully, she will get to work with good projects and talented directors only.
) approved: Sharon Cuneta.
after the The Voice Kids and a successful 2-night concert in Solaire, we can really feel the return of the Megastar in showbiz with Your Face Sounds Familiar Kids and her reunion movie with Gabby Concepcion.
she also has a Cinemalaya film waiting.
disapproved: Kris Aquino.
from queen of all media, she has become the queen of social media.
like other say, showbiz, is just like politics.
there is a time for everyone.
approved: Judy Ann Santos.
Juday chooses no time.
even without a regular show on TV, her endorsements continue because of her good example to the people.
she was honored as an Anak TV Hall of Famer this year and recognized for her skill in the Cinemalaya entry Kusina.
she and Ryan Agoncillo renewed their wedding vows after they were blessed with their third child Luna at the start of the year.
disapproved: Claudine Barretto.
the negativity that comes with her persona needs to disappear.
an impending court case is her latest issue.
when will all of that change?
approved: Daniel Padilla.
as time passes he becomes more handsome.
possesses kindness and depth of acting.
disapproved: Kathryn Bernardo.
lacking.
approved: Liza Soberano.
her simple beauty really stands out.
possesses kindness and depth of acting.
(hopefully, she and Daniel will work together in a project.
disapproved: Enrique Gil.
lacking.
approved: Agot Isidro.
smart, beautiful and respected.
disapproved: Mocha Uson.
played with in social media.
approved: Ang Probinsyano & Alyas Robin Hood.
soaring high.
off key: Forevermore and Till I Met You.
already ending.
approved: ABS-CBN Star Magic.
just look at their catalogue and even up to MMFF, their talents soar.
disapproved: GMA Artist Center.
the biggest stars of their network are not from the Artist Center.
why?
aside from TV, the talents do not have major films and lack endorsements because of lack of branding and are lacking in many aspects too.
more disapproved: TV5's Talent5.
they have few talents left.
the talented in them have transferred.
approved: MMFF 2016 movies.
change has come in Filipino movies.
disapproved: Super Parental Guardians, Enteng Kabisote & Mano Po.
resistant to change.
approved: unanimous rated A films - Sunday Beauty Queen & Die Beautiful.
outstanding.
disapproved: Kabisera.
a misstep by the CEB.
approved: Arci Muñoz.
career bloomed.
the new Rufa Mae Quinto.
disapproved: Nathalie Hart.
no matter what she does, still disapproved!
the new Lara Morena?
approved: Eugene Domingo.
comeback best actress of the film.
with a love life too.
disapproved: Kiray.
was a hit in Love is Blind but immediately become disapproved in I Love You To Death.
what happened?
approved: Paolo Ballesteros.
his skill was recognized by the whole world.
he might have been suspended from the Dabarkads, but he was able to return and even bring honor.
disapproved: Baron Geisler.
take a break for now.
reflect.
change.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
