<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_50402742.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
in Trillanes versus Cayetano: respect also! - Koko by Eralyn Prado September 17, 2016 let us respect each other. this is the plea of senate president Aquilino "Koko" Pimentel III after he disliked the sarcasm and shouting that happened with senators Alan Cayetano and Antonio Trillanes in the hearing the day before yesterday of the senate committee on justice and human rights related to the extrajudicial killings.
Pimental particularly disliked and he called "foul" what Trillanes did in turning off the microphone of Cayetano.
"turning off the microphone, that is not nice to see, because the senate is a legislative body. the real weapons there are words because it is really a deliberative body. but I wish there will be no more physical interference, of physical space of people where you reach out and turn off the microphone of the person," according to Pimentel.
because of this, Pimentel appealed to his colleagues to maintain respect with each other in order to ensure that the senate will become productive and not affected by any personal misunderstandings.
"because if we have no respect with each other it will be difficult for us to achieve anything," Pimentel added.
the conflict started after Trillanes questioned the long interrogation by Cayetano on the witness that exceeded 10 minutes of the allotted time by the committee.
meanwhile, senate minority leader Ralph Recto also has an advise to the public not to easily believe the testimonies of the whistle blowers instead their allegations should be proven first.
this also conforms with the explosion by one self-confessed member of the Davao death squad who is Edgar Matobato against president Rodrigo Duterte particularly in the involvement in extra-judicial killings in Davao city.
"my advice to the public is not to immediately believe in testimonies of whistleblowers. he or she must prove his allegations first," also according to Recto.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
