<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_19490695.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
watch and attack. it is really difficult now to trust others.
even the people that you have been in company for a long time and you have almost given your own food so that they will get hungry, could still make it to become a traitor against you.
we have experienced a lot of that where you could be still put in harm by your own friends just because of the small amount of money.
in the dire difficulty of the life here in the Philippines, many of us have forgotten the importance of dignity when money comes to the discussion.
what they have not known of, these types of tactics are only momentary.
not later, your style will be exposed and surely, those people who can help you will lose their trust in you.
that is exactly what happened to the Art Gallery Philippines which was victimized by its own supervisor.
the supervisor of the AGP Rita Orr seemed to have been blinded with the glitter of small sum and now she needs to be accountable in law.
recently, she was formally filed a case of qualified theft in Makati City Prosecutors' Office.
this is based on the complaint of the AGP that she has taken away the P250,000 payment for the two pieces of artworks.
according to the complaint of the AGP, Orr stood as the supervisor of the art gallery which sold two artworks which cost P250,000 from its two regular clients last September 16, 2013, but instead of returning it to the case, she put the said amount in her pocket.
after the incident, Orr suddenly made an AWOL (Absent without Leave) and disregarded the plead of the AGP management to return the money she has taken away.
in the resolution of the Makati City Prosecutors' Office led by Makati City Chief Prosecutor Jorge G. Catalan, Jr., it is clear that there has been a grave abuse of discretion on the side of Orr so it is justifiable to file a case on qualified theft.
until the present time, the police is still searching for Orr who hid after she made the crime.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
