<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_46047547.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Hebrew series 19: a new testament written by God in the heart of men by Zayith Hebron October 13, 2016 we are continuing with our study on the overall message of the Epistle of the Hebrews.
this book can be found near the end of the new testament of the Holy Bible (between Philemon and James).
the main texts we will examine from the book is the following: "this is the testament I will create in the house of Israel after those days, said the Lord; I will place my commandments in their minds, I will write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they will be my nation, "and each one of them will not point to their neighbor, or each one will say to his sibling, 'know the Lord,' because all of them can see me, from the lowliest to the highest of them.
"because I will be merciful to their evil, and I will not be concerned about their sins anymore.
"in discussing the 'new testament', he made the former the past.
and what is made the past grows old and almost disappears."
(Hebrew 8:10-13) this is a very important part of the Epistle of the Hebrews.
here the author says that the 'old testament' is past.
actually, he just mentioned again what was written by the prophet Jeremiah in Jeremiah 31:31-34.
which means, it was back during the time of Jeremiah around 627 B.C.
when God first announced the prophecy of his nation; and it was also the time of Jeremiah when the God Yahweh punished the land of Israel because of its pride.
God allowed Babylon to conquer Israel, destroy the city of Jerusalem, and take away the Israelites as hostages.
Jeremiah was honest in teaching about this judgment on Israel and he did it for 40 years.
God told Jeremiah that there will come a time when he will create a new testament between him and his nation.
Israel failed to comply with the old testament.
they did not fulfill the conditions of the old testament even if they swore to God that they will follow him.
let us look at the notes of Exodus 24:33 - "Moses arrived and told the nation all the words of the Lord and all the rules; and the whole nation answered with one voice, and said, 'we will follow all the words spoken by the Lord.
"but because the Israelites are disobedient, also as a result of the sin that runs through the veins of anyone, they did not obey the Lord.
they accepted the serious misfortune of the destruction of their city and being taken as hostages into the land of their enemies.
a bitter past.
but here the author of Hebrews is saying to Christian Hebrews (around 700 years after the Babylonian capture of Israelites) that it is over.
they should not return to the old testament of the Jewish religion.
it is just a shadow of a better new testament that came to them.
the perfect statement of the will and image of God is Jesus Christ himself.
Jesus is the center of the new testament.
Jewish rituals, ceremonies, and feasts no longer have meaning when it comes to the recovery of the damaged relationship of God with the Israelites.
it also brings a message to the whole world; to all the people not Jewish or not Istraelite.
let us return to what Hebrew 1:1-2 says - "back in the day, God spoke to our ancestors at different periods and in different ways through prophets, but on the latter days he spoke to us through his son..." before, the old testament was written in two stone blocks.
God entrusted them to Moses to make the nation of Israel follow.
today, the old testament is no longer written in "tablets of stone" but in the heart itself of real believers of Jesus Christ - as their savior or messiah, as their primary priest who offered himself for the forgiveness of their sins, as their God they will follow every day of their lives.
this new relationship between God and the people is more effective than the old one.
the former failed to make the people loyal to God.
the new testament in the blood of Jesus possesses the blessing of absolute forgiveness to anyone surrendering his life to the messiah.
the cleansing of sins of believers is absolute.
Jesus did it more than 2,000 years ago, there in the cross in Calvary.
together with that cleansing is the assurance of eternal life in heaven for anyone who believes in him and his deeds.
friend, this message is important.
have you thought about believing in the true messiah and God that is Jesus?
you need him to have assurance of eternal life.
the bible says that if we will reject his offer of salvation nothing can be offered anymore to pay for our shortcomings to God.
our life on earth is just temporary.
our life after death is longer, and at that point man has just two possible destinations.
think about it well.
Lord loves you, so he is offering this amazing blessing to you.
follow Shower of Blessing every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
shalom and god bless!
</TEXT>
</DOC>
