<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_28725247.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
sidekick of Lopez has a racket.
it was suspicious when DENR Secretary Gina Lopez ordered the closure of several small mining companies, while she allowed the operations of big companies with a lot of environmental violations to continue.
it was contrary to what Lopez promised when she was appointed by President Duterte as secretary.
she promised to close down mines that have been abusing our natural resources for a long time.
so there are some who ask: is the DENR secretary crazy or does she have another reason for immediately going back on her promise?
I decided to investigate and I found out from DENR insiders that one "silent partner" of operators of erring mining firms is a ranking official and adviser of Lopez.
no wonder now!
and here are some companies that were identified to have not passed the DENR audit and inspection, but are being allowed to continue abusing the environment: Libjo Mining Corporation; AAMPHIL Natural Resources and Development Corporation; Krominco, Incorporated; Carrascal Nickel Corporation; Marcventures Mining and Develeopment Corporation; Filmenera Resources Corporation; Strong-built Mining Develeopment Corporation; Sinosteel Philippines Mining Corporation; Oriental Synergy Mining Corporation; Wellex Mining Corporation; Oriental Vision Mining Philippines Corporation; CTP Construction and Mining Corporation; Agata Mining Ventures, Incorporated; Hinatuan Mining Corporation; Benguet Corporation; Lepanto Consolidate Mining Company; Oceana-Gold Philippines Incorporated; Adnama Mining Resources Incorporated; SR Metals, Incorporated. this was seemed to be noticed by the Commission on Appointments, which was why her appointment through the faulty selection of Brother Digong cannot be approved.
Brother Digong should think twice before extending Lopez as DENR chief.
she doesn't care, anyway, if she is confirmed or not as long as the president keeps extending her term as DENR secretary.
what kind of thinking does Lopez have?
Tsk, tsk... Deadshot/ Erwin Tulfo.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
