<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_75163893.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
the P_N_P SAF commandos who were wounded at the Mamasapano clash are continuously recovering at the hospital .
despite what happened to them the members of the elite force of P_N_P remained fearless .
live from Quezon City Cedrick Castillo has a report Cedrick .
Jessica one source confirmed with G_M_A news that uh some SAF commandos who survived at the Mamasapano uh clash in Maguindanao went to senate inquiry .
but this is in respect only to the invitation of the uh senate but they still did not face the inquiry for the security of their relatives .
<no-speech>
the story was complicated uh .
got wounded in the battle and lost comrades .
two weeks after the bloody encounter at Mamasapano in Maguindanao the fifteen special action force or SAF commandos who are in the P_N_P General Hospital are continuously recovering but their morals remained high .
they have a really high coping mechanism .
remember this people are the people who responded also to Zamboanga seeds .
the first (()) is sad right .
uh they you know a little bit surprise of what happen knowing that uh they had successfully uh accomplish their mission .
there is now changes in the members of the eighty fourth Seabourn company on the fourteen of the SAF commandos who are in the hospital at Camp Crame .
they belong to the strike team who were supposed to issue an arrest warrant to the slain who was Marwan .
included in those who are recovering is the sole survivor of the fifty fifth special action company who served as blocking force of the extracting team .
bullet wound at the back and amputated finger are the gravest wounds obtained by SAF commandos .
morning and afternoon their wounds are being cleaned .
and in -- in the mid -- mid -- the morning before having lunch they undergo psycho-social uh conferences and they briefing .
like miss Venus Raj and miss Ai-Ai Delas Alas and then uh there is miss Ellen Adarna what .
this people took time out to -- to see them and the because it helps it boosts moral .
despite the clash they experienced the members of the elite force of P_N_P are still fearless .
actually uh some of them are eager to go back immediately .
for the security of the relatives of SAF commandos it is prohibited to take a photo or video of the recovering police .
the P_N_P is aware that the target is not ordinary as he was previously in the most wanted list of the F_B_I in America who is Marwan .
as of now there has been no reported threat to the relatives of the SAF commandos .
we can uh easily uh deploy uh personnel on their respective areas or respective uh for these families to ensure their safety .
just in case this becomes an issue .
the P_N_P ensures the public that there should be nothing to worry about now that the authorities have slain the proclaimed Osama Bin Laden of Southeast Asia .
meanwhile the alert level like before stays high in the Mindanao area .
in the area of uh Visayas and Luzon uh it is in a manageable level .
we are guarding the possibility (()) of a possible uh (()) attack .
<no-speech>
Jessica the camp Crame is prepared to coordinate should the senators uh decide to do the executive session to the survivors of SAF commandos inside the camp Crame general hospital .
Jessica ?
yes did I hear it right Cedrick that there are celebrities who came to uh pour moral to the wounded uh SAF ?
<no-speech>
uh that is correct Mam Jes what at least three uh celebrities were already mentioned by uh -- uh by uh health service of P_N_P to us and visited the wounded SAF commandos .
uh this was as part of their uh psychosocial uh recovery and uh we also learned that there is an advice to the celebrities who went there that they are prohibited to take pictures for the security of the SAF commandos Jessica .
hmm uh so there is aside from curing their wounds there is also psychosocial counseling being done Cedrick right ?
<no-speech>
yes uh Ma'am Jess actually those are two categories uh we were being told by uh our resource person what uh their uh the physical uh their state needs to be ensured before if ever uh the P_N_P decides to discharge them they returned to their -- their respective units .
but aside from that of their physical injury there is a need to secure their psychological state too .
uh after all uh it cannot be denied how traumatic the uh -- very traumatic in fact what they uh a -- a said to have experienced .
and there is uh said to be a possibility that this trauma accumulates in fact some members of this uh SAF troopers who had an encounter here at Mamasapano in uh two weeks ago is uh also got to join there at (()) in the past uh year .
and uh it is also possible uh %incomplete
in fact there is one of them was injured in (()) at got injured also here at Mamasapano encounter Jessica .
hmm because there what we called war shocked right .
that is what's needed to be remedied with injured soldiers or injured police .
Cedrick ?
<no-speech>
uh right ma'am -- yes ma'am Jess those war shocked physically we asked and it looks like no one have experienced it here .
and uh as told uh by uh chief -- chief inspector uh Dude Santos uh the resource personnel we spoke with there is continuous uh recovery of uh SAF commandos who needed uh care right now Jessica .
many thanks to you Cedrick .
</TEXT>
</DOC>
