<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_39095529.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
quarrel on the WPS, drop in oil, fight against Zika virus
there are three international issues that are troubling the Philippines I love right now.
the struggle for the possession of West Philippine Sea territories, the possible derailment of many overseas Filipino workers on Arab countries and the spread of Zika virus.
what are the things our government is doing to solve or just to alleviate these, and to make the interest of our nation prevail?
quarrel on the WPS
the quarrel on the WPS is being heated up by the closing in of American warships on the islands which are being claimed by both China and the Philippines.
these past days, the guided-missile destroyer USS Curtis Wilbur came close and was sailing within a 12-mile radius of the Triton Island.
according to the Americans, they are not seeing any Chinese ships in the vicinity but this is in contradiction with what China said that they made the ship go away.
last October, the guided-missile destroyer USS Lassen closed in on the islands manufactured by China for their military forces and settlement for their men.
China supposedly only warned the Americans before they complained.
based on China's tone, they owned the said islands and no one should come close or enter even on the seas of the islands without asking their permission.
until where?
where will this quarrel end up?
will there be a bloody war?
in case all arguments lead to the firing of military arms, what are the preparations of the Aquino government in this situation?
will it remain dazed and depend on the result on their case in the International Arbitration Tribunal in the the Hagues, Netherlands and not challenge China's fencing of the islands.
will it send military arms and troops against China's intrusion?
remember that even the islands stationed by men from the Philippines are being claimed by China.
Saudization
one of the causes of the derailment of overseas Filipino workers in the Middle East is the Saudization program that hastens the economic fall of the said Arab country.
according to Saudi Arabia, they are able to replace the foreign laborers, including the estimated two million OFWs, with their own citizens, and the only remaining jobs are those that can't be done by Saudi nationals.
the economy of Saudi Arabia is declining because of the recession in the oil industry, which is its main source of income.
equivalency certificate
professional workers like engineers and architects OFWs in Qatar are now having problems.
there is nothing else but the treatment of engineers and architects who only finished "two years" in college education.
so, the mentioned professional OFWs reaching 12,000 - 23,000 may be disqualified.
although it is not mentioned by Qatar, is it possible that their questioning of the educational attainment of the OFWs is also connected to the economic fall of the said country?
and the expulsion of the professional OFWs is one way to lessen their burdens and the money they are shelling out for foreigners?
what are the different solutions being thought up by the government for the possible derailment of the lives of thousands, if not millions, of OFWs in Qatar an Saudi Arabia alone?
what happens if other Arabs appear in the country who will regulate further against the OFWs?
style against dengue
assuming that we can't stop the Zika virus from entering our country, what are the things that we can possibly do?
is guarding the airports and harbors against possible carriers enough against a disease with no vaccine or medication which may cause the destruction of the body and the head, and death of the victim?
or the dissemination of information that whatever cleaning we are doing to our surroundings against dengue will be enough to fight the Zika virus?
in the news, there is already one OFW infected by the Zika virus.
how about the other people who may possibly come home to the Philippines carrying the Zika virus?
how about the rush of foreign tourists who are possible carriers of the said virus which are anticipated to reach millions in numbers and reach thousands in numbers day and night in our airports and harbors?
remember that foreign tourists visit the Philippines not only for the beautiful sceneries but also for our prostituting countrymen.
the foreigners are taking advantage of the country's poverty which pushes a lot of men and women to enter prostitution.
are they resorting to illegal activities?
oOo
any complaints or suggestions may be sent to www.remate.ph or through text message to 09214303333.
ultimatum/Benny Antiporda
</TEXT>
</DOC>
