<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_62017590.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Mark H., will marry Winwyn in 2018! by Jojo Gabinete June 16, 2016 at the press conference of Sa Piling Ni Nanay Mark Herras spoke with finality that Winwyn Marquez is the last woman in his life and two years from now, the lead actor of the new afternoon drama series in GMA 7 plans to marry his girlfriend.
according to Mark, Winwyn is God's answer to his prayers.
"actually, yes. I prayed for her. I said, I want a partner who when the time comes I don't have to look for another. I want a partner for a lifetime because I'm not getting any younger. I'm turning 30 years old. I want a family whom I'll legit save for them. have a business with the love of my life.
"every time I pray to the Lord, I ask help from him, from my daddy, from my grandmother and now, from my mommy. in some way, I have 3 guardian angels above. I really ask help from them.
"Winwyn and I discuss that we want to get married after 2 years. I'm very happy, I'm very thankful that everything's going well with my career, with my love life.
I am really thankful that after all these years, there's someone who is really set for you and I'm hoping I can do everything for Win.
I will do everything for her so she will not be disappointed.
"she really is the one I want to be the mother of my future children," Mark shares his new inspiration full of hope and love.
Mark is also thankful to GMA 7 because of the good projects given to him, Sa Piling ni Nanay that will start on June 27 and the sitcom Conan My Beautician that can be seen every Sunday afternoon, starting June 26.
"I'm so thankful GMA 7 still believes in me after all these years. maybe, they have seen that I do my job properly.
"I never gave up, I just didn't expect. because sometimes, you will be given more chance to really express your acting skills in different roles. me, before, who would expect that my first (guesting) in Karelasyon with a bad role will bring good result.
"it also feels nice to be able to try different kinds of roles.
you're not always rich, boyfriend of this or poor, the parent of this doesn't want you," Mark's opinion about his return to leading man status in the programs of the Kapuso Network.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
