<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_79917313.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
but is it okay ?
yes .
so what are we going to cook this %incomplete
this is just simple .
morning ?
okay this is a special river spinach .
ooh .
yes .
you know in our house that river spinach is the most favorite .
I do not have a problem with that vegetable because my children really like it because they know the vegetable .
for us yes aunt ?
a unique dish that's what we are going to do .
hmm that's why I am already excited .
so what are our ingredients ?
of course the cooking oil vegetable oil .
oyster sauce soy sauce we are just using a little bit of butter so sugar .
garlic here sliced chili the one for sour stew .
so yes %incomplete
the green larger we cut it removed the seeds .
so the river spinach .
hmm .
and for our topping this garlic .
this we will include in cooking pork rinds .
there is pork rinds with garlic chips too .
yes .
could also be shrimp .
hmm could also be pork .
but I chose pork rinds so I will first as usual we will be mixing our sauce .
this is where he is making it not in -- not -- in a cauldron auntie ?
yes so the flavor can be adjusted .
so soy sauce will go first oyster sauce the soy sauce around two tablespoons only and you put some sugar .
so the flavor that should be achieved here is like sweet .
<no-speech>
so it could not be done in a cauldron okay .
then you slightly taste it yes .
you can also put in a little bit like you slightly want it a little spicy for the mister .
yes no we have chili .
but if there is no chili is it also possible ?
yes spicier the more chili .
<no-speech>
that's okay already .
hmm okay delicious .
so we warm it up put so dissolved properly is the sugar .
<no-speech>
then fried tilapia like those right ?
fried tilapia is already delicious too .
<no-speech>
I learned that from chef Reymar that apparently you need if you what butter there is a little so that the butter because if the butter is burning it becomes bitter loses the what it separates .
yes .
yes only our stir fry .
so garlic first .
we will immediately follow with the water spinach and chili .
slightly brown only a little .
<no-speech>
actually this is uh could be appetizer taken with alcohol then if -- maybe auntie if they mastered this sauce they only have to change the water spinach .
because sometimes what I do is I make button mushroom ?
allowed -- in can ?
spinach ?
spinach possible too .
or those Baguio beans .
because like that so sometimes I actually learned that if one sauce turns out okay example let's say with chicken aah it is possible for the same recipe I will only alter the sauce that's allowed because sometimes even in a week that is our problem as mothers thinking what dish for the whole week .
<no-speech>
it's like you have an exam .
because I am always like that .
it is really hard .
now we will put this .
so our sauce .
sauce .
mix auntie .
hmm .
<no-speech>
there are others doing it like this .
like sometimes in Chinese restaurant the spinach with garlic .
yes .
broccoli with garlic .
it could also be like this only with the oyster sauce .
yes no more .
it could also be just garlic and oil only .
yes that auntie .
let us put already the .
so these garlic chips of ours .
why I am putting the pork skin crackling here for for the pork skin crackling to absorb a little oyster sauce .
it is tasty .
<no-speech>
it's good right now ?
like I told Edu there are already oyster sauces with less sodium you are conscious with saltiness right .
this let us not overcook the vegetable because and then it's delicious if the river spinach is a little bit crispy .
so it was that easy .
this is that easy .
<no-speech>
other dish and perfect also is that dish for figure conscious and healthy too is this dish because it contains one hundred seventy calories .
so it would have less calories chicken breast can be used as a substitute for pork cracklings .
chicken breast or fish whatever you want is possible .
and of course we know that river spinach is good for crude fiber .
this is good for relieving our problems with constipation .
so here is our very delicious very simple but nutritious and very flavorful river spinach special by Mommy Lally .
so let us call %incomplete
</TEXT>
</DOC>
