<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_78509183.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
Saturday, May 9, 2015
there is forever!: reflection for 6th Sunday of Easter year b - May 10, 2015 - year of the poor
do you believe that "there is no forever"?
if you are a member of W.F.T. (there really is no forever) then you are on of those "bitter" people your life is as bitter as bitter melon!
only because his boyfriend replaced her with another there is no forever already you are only bitter sister!
instead of being bitter maybe our view in life should become more "better" there is forever!
more so on us Christians we should believe there is forever!
there is forever because our god is love like what saint john said in his first writing and his love for us is forever!
this is also what Jesus emphasized when he said "the way my father loves me, I also love you, remain in my love!
remain forever, never ending forever!
what is the attribute of this love?
the first attribute of love is the capability to sacrifice for the sake of the welfare of others.
"there is no love that can surpass the love of one person who offers his life for his friend."
there is one place in Chicago that is called Oliver Milton's park.
this was named after one soldier who knelt on a grenade to save his companions from death.
a person who truly loves puts the welfare of others first before his.
this means giving of own time, abilities, knowledge, and even wealth to the needy people.
"I don't care!" are words not in the dictionary of a person who loves.
the second attribute of love is the capability to love all without favoritism.
there is a story of one soldier who wrote to his parents that he is coming home and will bring one soldier friend who will live in their house.
he explained that the soldier does not have two feet because it was bombed by a landmine in the heat of the war.
the parents won't allow it and said not to because the person will only become a burden to them.
that was their last conversation.
as years passed they met again in a morgue when they heard the news that their child died in an accident and they were utterly surprised when they saw that their child had no two feet.
a love that has no favoritism means acceptance of our fellowman without condition.
this is like what Jesus showed when he offered his life for us especially for us sinners.
he did not look at our defect or shortcoming, even our ugliness as people brought by our continuous sinning.
the redemption given to us by Jesus by offering his life is for all people: whatever religion, race, culture, gender, custom he possesses.
our love should also be like that.
oftentimes, we loath our enemies and we are affectionate only to our friends.
but this is not the way of the lord.
the lord showed compassion and love for people who are unlovable, and people who are sinners.
we also hope that we can find people who are not given attention, the less fortunate, those who strayed from the path, those lacking in love.
this is still the message that he wishes to deliver to us: "love each other like the love I showed you!" one love that is not selfish, one love that if focused on everyone, one love that is ready to offer itself for his friend.
this is the love shown by god to us and he wishes for us show it and make it be felt by others.
one love that says there is forever!
</TEXT>
</DOC>
