<DOC>
<DOCNO> MATERIAL_BASE-1B_63277249.translation.eng </DOCNO>
<TEXT>
human life most of all even if signing the Sin Tax Bill has a huge effect on our budget, we public information officers decided to support it through a resolution we signed during the monthly meeting of the Association of Information Officers in Metro Manila (AIMM) held at the Philippine Information Agency on Visayas Avenue in Quezon City.
last Friday, our guest was Health Undersecretary Ted Herbosa, the great advocate against smoking.
today is the critical signing of this law in the Senate so the DOH and doctors are asking for support so that the Sin Tax Bill will be passed.
supposedly it is only now that this happened, that his fellow doctors support a proposal like this.
because for them, more than becoming a revenue measure, it is a health measure that can lessen the victims of diseases caused by smoking.
turns out ours are the cheapest cigarettes if compared to other countries so you will notice what tourists carry out of our country - reams of cigarettes.
Herbosa's father died from lung cancer due to smoking so he immediately stopped smoking at age 33.
he started with this vice when he was only 9 years old.
it was a result of peer pressure and a desire to be "in" and "accepted" by his classmates back then in an exclusive school.
according to him, he made it a campaign so that the Sin Tax Bill will be passed because he wants the lives of more people - most of all the youth - to be saved as a result of stopping or avoiding smoking.
"opposers of the Sin Tax Bill say that many people will lose jobs because of it.
what I can only say, the job that will be lost can be replaced with a new job.
but we can never bring back a life lost due to disease," explained Herbosa.
the additional revenue from this tax can be used to fund government health programs according to Herbosa.
we are lucky to have someone like Doctor Herbosa who supports this bill that will benefit thousands of families when it is passed as a law today. like what I said earlier, we are one of those who will be affected by the price increase of alcohol and cigarettes when the Sin Tax Bill becomes a law today - but, we support it because of its greater benefit to more people.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
