Maja, walang malisya kay John Lloyd
Sharon, sunud-sunod na namatay ang mga kapatid sa ama
By Noel Ferrer October 13, 2016
HAVEY: Nasa Dubai ngayon ang grupo nina John Lloyd Cruz, Edgar Allan Guzman, Vin Abrenica, Empoy kasama sina Jimmy Marquez, Tart Carlos at Viveika Ravanes para sa Awitawanan.
Sinasabi nilang ‘Single And Ready To Mingle’ ang male team samantalang ang beki at female members ay parang nasa happy & interesting stage ng kanilang lovelives.
Single si Lloydie after ng break up nila ni Angelica Panganiban.

Sey ni Maja Salvador, walang malisya ang paglabas-labas nila ni John Lloyd.
Si Vin naman, sinabi nang waley na sila ng dating Artista Academy co-winner at ex-girlfriend na si Sophie Albert.
Gaano katotoo ang balitang nasagap namin na sa isang meeting sa ABS-CBN, nagsabi raw si Sophie at ang management nito na hangga’t maaari ay huwag na silang pagtambalin sa Kapamilya networks projects?
At si Edgar Allan (EA) naman, break na ba talaga sa starlet niyang girlfriend na sobrang nakaapekto sa kanyang pag-usad ng kanyang career bilang waley na ring career ngayon ang clingy na wannabe na walang ginawa kun’di mang-stalk at mag-react sa social media post ng dyowa?
Malalaman natin ang mga kasagutan dito kapag nakausap na natin sila en route to the Middle East.
WALEY: Nakikiramay kami sa pagyao ng isa na namang kapatid ni Sharon Cuneta sa kanyang ama.
Ang sabi ni Sharon sa recent post, “I have been quietly dealing with so much in my personal life, all while taking advantage of the opportunities to enjoy that working provides me, and just trying my best to stay grateful to God for His faithfulness and goodness.
“A month or so ago, I lost a half-brother, Kuya Danny.
“I was never particularly close to him, but there was no bad blood between us.
“I wanted so much to help him more, but I myself had way too many obligations to have to meet and like I said in interviews recently, though I would still be considered quite wealthy, I do still have huge concerns, like other investments that would not allow me too much freedom with handling cold cash at the moment.
“About two weeks ago, I lost another half-brother, my above brother’s brother, Kuya Freddie.
“I felt worse about losing him as our Daddy wanted nothing more than all his very many children to get along.
“Kuya Freddie and my Mom had a falling out years ago.

And, well, you know how fiercely protective I was of my parents. I regret that we never had the opportunity to make up and forgive each other in person.
“Today, after a happy first rehearsal day for my Solaire concerts, then dinner with KC, Frankie and Miguel at our favorite Makati restaurant, Sakura, with the bonus of meeting Alden Richards there (Frankie is a big ALDUB and Liza Soberano, Daniel Padilla fan.
We all are too.), I come home to see my Miel and my husband and settle down in contentment, finally, when I decide to check my phone (which everyone knows I rarely do nowadays).
“And I see that I received a message from my niece Josette saying that my half-sister, the last of the three siblings (children of one mother), my Ate Ningning, passed away today.
“Ate Ningning and my Mommy were able to spend time and talk in the hospital two years ago just before my Mama passed away.
“I grew up seeing Ate Ning and her children Abby, Bunny, Patrick and TonTon in our house more often than my other Cuneta relatives (except for my Kuya Butch who lived with us for a few years and who I still adore and love dearly).
“I never had the chance to talk to her in the past several months. You always think there is going to be a tomorrow, until there are no more of it.
“My condolences to all their, our family…
“I wish I could say more, but alas, these are private matters. All I can say is that if I could have been there more, in more ways than one, I would have without any hesitation.
“May God give all of you strength and peace at this most painful time, Abby, Bunny, Patrick and Ton. And all our brothers, sisters, nieces and nephews.
“I do not know what else to say, what else to do with myself. I lost Tito Teddy Del Rosario too, Boss Vic’s brother who I grew up seeing in all the years I worked for Viva since I was a teenager.
“My deepest condolences to the whole Del Rosario and Viva Families, too…
“It feels like so many are being taken away from me… I pray this is it. At least for a long while.
“Thank you for bearing with my sadness. I don’t plan these things as you know. I promise to try my best to deliver better and happier news again next time, no matter what is going on in the life I live that you do not see.”
Sana’y malam!!pasan ni Shawie ang lungkot na ito as she mounts her comeback concert after about 4 years sa The Theater Solaire starting this Saturday.
Goodluck and stay strong, Mega!



