Gerald, in love ulit kay Bea A.!
Kimeralds, AshRald, nagsama-sama para kay Gerald!
By Dondon Sermino June 16, 2016 In love ulit si Gerald Anderson kay Bea Alonzo. Una siyang na-in love sa dalaga ilang taon na ang nakalipas, pero hindi nga nagtuloy-tuloy ang ligawan, at nauwi sa friendship ang lahat.
At ngayong magkasama sila halos araw-araw dahil sa shooting ng ginagawa nilang pelikula, inamin ni Gerald na in love ulit siya kay Bea. Hindi raw puwedeng sabihin na nanumbalik ang pagmamahal niya kay Bea, dahil hindi naman daw `yon nawala.
Anyway, dahil sa love ni Gerald ang kanyang mga fans, ang mga ito ang nakasama niya sa surprise trip to Ocean Adventure noong June 12. Ang pangarap nga niyang maging sundalo ay naging totoo sa isang buong araw na celebration ng kanyang 10th year anniversary in the business, which he called the Anderson Boot Camp. To further get the military feel, the fan groups who are present at the event were given the apt team names.
Ang Team Army ay binubuo ng AshRald and Sagefied members, ang Team Coast Guard composed of the Super Friends and Gerald’s Angels, Team Air Force composed of the Geraldnaticx, Team Navy composed of the Solid Kimeralds, and Team Marines composed of Kimerald 4ever members.
He personally welcomed his supporters to the venue and ushered in the event with a welcome speech. Along with Gerald’s fans, also present in the event were some of his friends like Joe Vargas, who spearheaded the warm up session before the games officially began.
To get the ball rolling, the supporters first battled it out in a cheering competition where AshRald and Sagefied (Team Army) won the first prize.
According to Gerald, he has long wanted to attend a real boot camp hence the theme of his anniversary event.
“This is my way of giving back to them for the past 10 years of support,” explained Gerald why he opted to spend the special moment with his fans.
The boot camp’s obstacles were especially designed and named after Gerald’s previous projects. They were Meso Soup, Mayan Pizza, Inside Track, Challenge Pitch, Budoy Factor, Bone to Pick, Kayak, and Catch Me I’m Rollin’.

After the nail-biting competition, Gerald Angels and Super Friends (Team Coast Guard) finished first place and eventually bagged the trophy.
“‘Yan yung number one factor kasi as a person nasa isang position ako to inspire other people and ‘yun ‘yung mga gusto kong i-inspire eh. ‘Yung maging physically active and healthy,” he said.
After the event proper Gerald got the time to bond and chat with his supporters. The boot camp ended with a sumptuous meal with everyone at the boot camp boodle fight style.
Gerald’s 10th year anniversary event would not be possible without the help of his sponsors Ocean Adventure, Cosmo Cee, Hearts & Bells, H&M, UniSilver, Kopiko LA Coffee and Secosana Urban Bags.



