Alden, napahamak sa block screening
Aldenatics, naningil ng P1,700
By GORGY RULA July 23, 2016
AYON sa aming source, mahigit P150M na ang kinita ng AlDub movie na Imagine You and Me as of Thursday.
Hindi ‘yan padded.
Nakuha namin ‘yan mula sa aming reliable source na updated sa box-office performance ng IYAM sa mga sinehan. Medyo bumaba lang nitong nagdaang araw, pero inaasahang lalakas na naman ito sa weekend.
Ang tantiya nila, aabot ito sa P200M hanggang sa Linggo.
In fairness sa Aldub Nation, hindi sila nagpapabaya at tinitiyak nilang hindi ito manghihina sa takilya.
Sunud-sunod ang mga block screening nila mula sa mga fans club ni Maine Mendoza at pati kay Alden Richards.
Dumadalo si Alden sa mga block screening na binubuo ng mga Aldenatics.
Kamakailan lang ay nagkaisyu ang block screening kung saan merong isang grupo ng Aldenatics na nag-sponsor ng block screening naningil ng special price ng ticket.
Sa Robinson’s Magnolia ito kung saan naningil ng P1,700 sa VIP tickets na ibinebenta sa pa-special screening na iyun.
Syempre, negatron ang dating nito kay Alden.
Napahamak ang Pambansang Bae dahil sa kanyang fans!
Nakarating ito sa ama ni Alden at nagparating siya ng mensaheng mag-usap sila nitong isang opisyal ng Aldenatics na nagngangalang Gelie Fandino.
Ayon sa ilang taong malapit kay Alden na nakausap namin, huli na nalaman ng Pambansang Bae na ganu’n kamahal ang bentahan nila ng ticket.
Nagpaliwanag naman itong Gelie Fandino na fundraising project nila iyun para sa Kapuso Foundation, sa Damascus Foundation at Senior Citizens of QC.
Narito ang official statement ng Aldenatics:
“This is to address all the rumors and derogatory words that had been thrown against Aldenatics and some of its members, particularly Gelie Fandino, these past few days.
“It is to inform everyone that last July 13, 2016, 3:00 o’clock in the afternoon we held our Special Block Screening of Imagine You and Me at three (3) Cinemas of Robinsons Magnolia for Php 700 inclusive of movie pass, snacks, shirt and customized ticket.
“We indeed offer (40) VIP tickets for members for Php 1700 to cover the payment of one cinema, particularly Cinema 1, to all the beneficiaries of our Blockscreening (Damascus Foundation, Senior Citizens of QC and GMA Kapuso Foundation) to be able to watch the movie for free.
“This Cinema 1 housed all the beneficiaries, special guests, VIPs and Alden and his entourage. All sponsors gave packages that were all given out as raffle prizes to all attendees in cinemas 3 and 4.
“The Meet and Greet with Alden was just a mere consideration for all those who willingly availed the VIP tickets. That the excess of the proceeds of our Special Block Screening were fully donated to Damascus and Senior Citizen group of Quezon City…
“We will be posting all the documents to support and justify everything in due time.
“We hope that this could bring all the issues die down. We are also just like everyone else, supporting Alden and Maine in their first starring movie and we would not want to stain the name of our beloved Alden Richards.
“We may be the official fans club of Alden Richards only but we will never malign or dishonor anyone who is special to him, more particulary, Maine Mendoza.
“We barely expose our charity events because we believe that every charity events should not be acknowledged and made public, but due to this unjustifiable derogation of our names, we are constraint to do this.
“We also do not tolerate cyber ullying especially if these are baseless and unmeritorious accusations. We are consulting our lawyers and may end up taking legal actions.
“We will continue love and support Alden. And for you Alden, we love you and we remain! — Aldenatics”



