
We are not able to fight!
By Boyet Jumuad, June 11, 2016.
One way back to the Senate and a "tanim-bala" senator, who gave the assurance that it will not be known by anyone or even President-elect Rodrigo Duterte, the Supreme Court of the legislative chamber.
Senator.-elect Panfilo Lacson and Leila de Lima are both complaining about the lawmakers of the Congress not to stop or not be an obstacle to his war against criminality and illegal drugs.
Lacson also emphasized that anyone can decide on what should be done and they should not do anything because the lawmakers and former PNP Chief have a mandate to do their job just like conducting the investigation.
If the President will stop from attending the cabinet members in the Senate investigation, they will not be able to think that they will be disqualified by them in order to be imprisoned in the Senate.
"The Congress, the Senate Blue Ribbon, city or the municipal hall of the provincial government, city or municipal hall will be filed in exchange of hearing aid to the President of the Republic Act (Commission on Elections) that was held at the state of the Our Lady OPLAN)," said Lacson.
"We will be the will be a subpoena, to be in the top of the power to cals for him in the power of In Our Lady OSB," a warning of the senator.
It can be recalled that Lacson still supported Duterte's campaign against criminality, but he questioned the advancement of the citizen's arrest especially the shot-Quiti Kill to arrest those who will fight against the arrest.
On the part of De Lima, the former leader of the Commission on Human Rights (CHR) was the former leader of the Commission on Human Rights (CHR) before he became justice secretary under the Aquino administration, he made sure that the Senate will not be silent for the complaints of the abuse of the war against criminality.
The senator stressed that they are not elected by the people for being a decoration and rubber band that will only lead to the Duterte administration.

"He / she was asked to be the leader of the senators who can be considered by the Senators (WHO) that will be the first will to be taken to by the executive branch of the executive branch," said De Lima, "" said De Lima, "" de Lima, due to his courage.
In the speech of Duterte in the past party party in Cebu, he warned lawmakers not to be a hindrance in his campaign against illegal drugs and criminality in the arrest of the investigation.
"Don Bosco," there is a Road will end with someone.
This is the reaction of De Lima, if it is true that Duterte has said it, it seems that he has already killed a "check in the government and is causing" filling, "these statements in the Congress.
