Dog and cat-mindedness.

The couple is not a joke, not just like the hot rice wrapped in tears when they get burned.

I have seen a lot of people in a happy relationship, however, a couple and wife had a big puzzle for the incessant quarrel of the couple; after almost a few moments, the man and the woman are blaming each other when they saw each other in the afternoon from work.

The fight will start and exchange of these kinds of words, even if there are small things that have no value, there is no issue and reason for each other to cover a toothpaste that is not returned to the word War.

There to others, in the peaceful and strong relationship of the relationship, the couple has a time to set aside the normal events in the whole afternoon, in the belief that this is part of life to be firm and be peaceful to continue the tasks.

It is possible that they ask for opinions about the same problem and even in the level of their difference, however, they have a chance to give importance to each other, especially when they continue to give importance to each other, especially when they continue to give importance to each other.

According to my wife, three piglets were involved when there was an argument between the conversation; the man, the woman, and the relationship started to be touched, and he was always observant, and the chance to end a simple conversation.

If the couple consider this in their relationship, whatever argument is he voluntarily stop and asking for an apology that he is experiencing, it is nothing to show one, that he is the only one who has the reason, "My Mama" or the highway! "

There is no meaning, Talubay, does not need to have a right feeling or wait for the right time, what is important is to get carried away and put off the argument, but after this, what's important is that it can be taken away, but after this, how can they get back the words that almost can be taken back to the souls' soul?

It is easy to capture the words that are derogatory, which is much more, and it is being crushed on the character of a person, but this is the one needed to wake up and change the person you're talking to, or, this is part of the repression and controlling in the freedom of being defeated?

You beat up the body of a person and he will forget it but the hurt his feelings is a bitter memory only on him.

What is the right way or the right path to get married, the pain or father of the heart is easy to get the right way to get what they want.

Someone wants to speak, "if you will arrest a fly, you will be able to catch a fly, more than vinegar (vinegar), that is why you still need you," do you need a lot in their relationship? "

A simple way to all is a simple way to all.

In marriage; the man needs deaf and the woman is silent.

To men who have a wife, will try to be strict with your wife and this is part of before.

Your wife needs this to increase her with kisses.

Especially if he is behind and doing something in the kitchen or whatever side of the house, and if you are going to talk to you, and thank you to take care of your attention, and thank you to take care of your attention, and thank you to be able to learn how to love her, and thank you to love her all your heart.

By what happened, before I forget it, I have one important thing that my wife and my wife continue.

"It is a very simple and two words," yes, dear?!
