Malicboy, May 4, 2012.

It is a good principles.

The bridge between treacherous and success can be great discipline.

It is an effective treatment towards the success of 8-May that you are trying hard to open your actions, your ability, and be effective in every job?

Do you notice that you are already weak?

What is the meaning of Disiplina?

In my grasses; the Discipline Office is your own father, to fix the regulations that will be followed, full of training, double-mindedness and proper attitude of bringing yourself and even the other organization.

You are hardworking, punished, teach them, correct, fix, control, control, and suppress them.

Full of head, take care and followers of discipline.

If your goal is to be certain with success, you will overcome what you want to support.

There is no important thing that it was never used to have no discipline and every work depends on it, and that is the only thing that makes them be used to, and if it is not being used, and if it is not being used, and if it is not being used, the bridge is all failures and discipline.

A genius does not believe in luck, he is becoming fortunate in undisciplined people being used in all tasks, and in training to be an expert in this thing, based on his own principle and system, that is why it is always succeeding.

There is a time for a time to make this website; "in the advancement of the country, discipline is needed, and it is a big help to the attitude of the people because this is a big help from poverty and freedom to improve one's attitude, and his feelings to finish your tasks.

The discipline is the primary policy of the players and those opposing in the competition in order to make sure that they are winning in the playground, they know the need of discipline, training, and together with great suffering for it, and their actions are laid down on the minds.

As a basis of Disiplina 1, there is a plan to follow.

2 - it hurts and even knows how to know himself.

The activities are taking care of all.

4 - there is a clear rules in the right attitude.

5 - be honest and knows how to follow rules.

6) has a responsibility and will be given to his colleagues.

7 will be one of the bad perspective in general success.

Their personality is headed by undisciplined residents.

If you do not have personal work, your attention is always positive, good, and prosperity.

They have forgotten to eat, but they don't forget to read what would happen in their living room.

The dresses are organized and scheduled for the right time.

Small, ready for the needs and healthy future are the responsibility.

- you will not be suspicious and in your opinion and events, it is attitude to look at the good than the side of reason, not in pretending to be harvested.

Observe and slowly be friends, but they want to take a lightning if you leave it.

This will come up, not surprised, and be impulsive too.

They study first before speaking and if you speak you are doing well and praises.

- there are four reasons, no one is hiding; frank and not making a bath at the bush.

- there is one word, and all truth is, if there is a promise, I will not be released and always have the right words in the right events.
Personal activities and actions are in the right steps.

The result of work is effective and effective.

All he can do, and will become a model for everyone to make oil.

Your heart is in service and generous.

That is patriotic and has faith in God.

.

I will only follow my follow, 26 November / 11).

If the heart is open, there is something to be placed, if it turns out that nobody can enter it.

For each move, discipline should rule out.

To those who want to change the situation, the most important is the discipline, this is the reason why people unite and take care of all the things you do.

The goal is good to push for the view, unity, comfort, happiness, resourceful in actions of the changing condition, where there is always a stand and responsibility.

There is no vitality, no motivation, no ambition, if the discipline is lost in actions and there is also no hope to succeed.

For your own prosperity, discipline is what you need to succeed in life, discipline and care.

This is where everyone starts and guide the success.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
