
What is amazing.

It is also good that Caloocan City Mayor Oscar "Oca" Malapitan presented why you have reached your servant that he is not like other politicians who are in politics.
Aside from this, there is no mixture of arrogance in the body, the former is very low and will file a long distance from the other people we know.
"If you do not know him," if you see Mayor Orca, who is the city council because he is close to everyone else, he can still do all of others, he is still able to read and interfere with them.
"It is like Mayor Orca, as they say, as well as the people of Well," it is not surprising because the victory of his victory in the local government is severe?
That's why your servant cannot hide that Mayor Orca is not noticed and revealed to the public especially to the readers of the new mayor of the historical city of Caloocan.
It is also possible that many employees in the City Hall are the one of the former mayor who is now congressman of District 1, Representative Recom Echiverri and of course, Mayor Orca knows this but it is nothing for him.
Mayor Orca is not going to be under the commandments of her, they will just show loyalty and dedication at their respective jobs that they will not be raped, only one day, it is back to work and service to the people.
That's why he can easily get the feelings and support of almost all employees, all of them were impressed by the good attitude and treatment of Mayor Orca that they thought will be in accordance with the first mayor of the city.
How can Mayor Orca assured the employees, that's why he has been with them for a long time with the public service.
Mayor Orca is tired of this, if we are talking about the service of the entire city and your servant is also being followed by your servant how he started serving the simple but honest with its citizens.
He has already been a councilor before becoming a vice mayor and became a representative of District 1 for nine years where he could have brought a lot which is useful especially in the entire city.
It is also found out that the city council of the city council is in full support for the suspension of my client, Vice Mayor Mac, Asistio and the best councilors in the town of Tell Tino, anus, and Opork barrel.
Even the barangay chairman, "does not need to say that there are still many who are" pro-Recom, "but all of them salute his simple life, Mayor Oca.
It is fine, isn't it?
In total, there are many problems that Mayor Orca is sure to complete the city so it is important for him to get the support of all good luck!
