Act on Sabah.

According to our fellow countrymen who have gone home from Sabah, there are also civilians who are killed in the said place.
Aside from this are the military and police of Malaysia in the houses and community of Filipinos, illegal or not.
Because of the killings and cellular phones, the fingers lost their livelihood and opportunity for this.
"Is it that thousands of thousands have experienced poverty and hunger there.
Include (ALL-1090451.
Those from the Department of Foreign Affairs and Malacanang are hardworking to answer to the media's interview.
But we noticed something, Bro.
The response of these from the crying and complaints of the victims of death, hunger and hardship of those in Sabah, which they have gone home to the Philippines, is not happy.
Those from the DFA and Malacanang said, that they are bashed by their elder sister.
It is being determined if it is true or not to invent a victim that has already returned to us.
The government of the of Verano has also been sent to a Malaysian government about the said reports of killings, harassment, harassment, harassment and others.
The of Verano, Bro, is a letter that the treatment on the issue is very good because it has no signature from where he came from.
But he asked of Verano to the inhumane treatment of all Filipinos in Sabah.
"It is not true - Malaysia
Now, Malaysia has answered.
There is no truth in the accusations of Filipinos.
No murder, no abuse and anything else.
The question now is who should be believed by those in Malacanang and DFA: The Filipinos who just came from there or Malaysia?
International Red Cross.
The government should not be ashamed of what happened even if Malaysia says that the stories of those who went home are not true and they were sent to Sabah.
It is good to call the Philippines government to the International Red Cross in any agency of the United Nations to meddle with the events.
Because for us, it is more believable that the story of our countrymen is more believable about what Malaysian Airlines are doing to them.
"If Iris and agency of the UN is already moving and they will not be allowed to be allowed by Malaysia in the nearby areas, that would be proven that the statement of those who went back to the Philippines is proven.
What are the next steps of the government?
DSWD Action Force is not enough.
It is not enough to take care of the Department of Social Welfare and Development is the hundreds of evacuees from Sabah although the agency should take action for them.
What we are looking for the action of the government is that he can find himself in Sabah and taking care of it, and for sure, the civilians caught in the fight with the forces of the Sultanate of Sulu and forces of Malaysia.
The KL and Ambassador.
In the statements and actions of the DFA, it appears that the embassy is useless and even the Philippine Consulate in Malaysia.
Are the ambassador and how we use, do not feel like it?
That's why we are not happy because of that kind of time.
Or the DFA and Malacanang is hiding their reports on what really happened in Sabah from the eyes of the people?
To where and to whom the ambassador of the ambassador to commit suicide?
Is the good relationship between the Philippines and Malaysia what is more important than the government to provide aid to the hundreds of Filipinos who experience death, are continuously hungry and suffering in Sabah?
Case to be filed against the UN?
If I am PNoy and other leaders of our country, it is a chance to file the United Nations or the proper agency in Sabah.
Anyway, the issue of UN is noticed and this is becoming a national issue.
If President Ferdinand Marcos and Diosdado Macapagal of the back of Sabah from Malaysia, it can also be done now.
Our leaders will be tested to study the evidence shown by Kiram, including the giving of an old Sultan of Sulu in the government of Sabah.
The leaders also see the content of the constitutional solution which is said to be a part or territory of the Philippines to Sabah.
Look at a law that has been implemented and prevailed in 1968 to say Sabah and this is the basis of Macapagal-IBIG of the Philippines in Sabah until the two countries broke into a candle.
Bombing.
One of the things that the Philippines should complain about the use of Malaysia due to war on the forces of the Sultanate.
This is using a bomb in order to eradicate whoever was criticized by a bomb, even civilians.
Wouldn't be ashamed to kill a race or killing a race or is it not a severe violation of human rights that are protected by the UN?
