OFW: Recruitment and Recruitment.
By Crib July 7, 2016), that is what President Duterte ordered by President Duterte to Foreign Affairs Secretary Perfecto Yasay, according to thousands of Filipino Workers (OFW).
So, he said that his order from President Rody is to ensure that it will reduce red tape on the process given by the leaders of Foreign Affairs and Labor Law.
Well, that is also what the President wants to happen to all government agencies - remove the red tape that becomes a source of making and corruption.
What are the agencies that are being referred to for OFWs: To the side of the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA), the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (POEA) and Overseas Filipino Welfare Administration (OWWA).
There are also the Social Security System (SSS) and PhilHealth, who are full of bullying by the fellow OFWs.
True, a one-stop shop is really needed for OFWs in taking advantage of everything that they are hiding, including the NBI Clearance or 120,269 or a Mahogany from the National Statistics Office (Nheart).
OFW Dila.
Just like what we said recently, the Duterte administration's plan to build the Department of OFWs including the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office is in the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office in Manila.
"Wtch, the Pambansang Kamao, the First Division, the First Division, the First Office of Recruitment and started, up to the time, he / she was able to step down to the Kevlar Help driver, we was able to take a glimpse at the Help driver," says Yasay.

!
Don't take a way for the applicants for working abroad?

For one, the meat processing is very easy, and because there will be less less, for corruption, expenses will also be lessened in the process of vehicles.
It will be gone to be under the table "to pay and the sports system that will be released by the docking (Helenensure Tindan, which is supposed to be put by the tons of Closeup forever (CCTV) that will be put under the low price hike for OFWs.
Shuler, a good start for the administration is the plan to step down by the OFW Recruitment and deployment today, whose agenda can be imposed in the OFW Recruitment and repatriation.
