Art and clinics line for rights are art.

If it is the objective of cybercrime to the cybercrime law of 2012, the critics of the government should silence and stop their critics in a creative way, seems to be mistaken for the orders of it.
The different form of protest against this is spreading in the social line and online sites that the discussion about the law is getting worse, and there is a clear proof that the netizens will not withdraw in their right state of online.
Meanwhile, the actual gathering of the said law is quickly spread to express the opposition of the said law in the past week, and of course, it was headed by kilometer 64 (PM64) and of course, it was led by Kilometer 64 (K64) and of course, the Supreme Court led to the Supreme Court on January 15.
In the said gathering, various souvenirs, songs and speech as protest are shared to those who attended the office for their owners and men of arts, this way, they are able to save the issues of society including cybercrime law.
It is possible for freedom.
According to Pia Montalban of K64, it was only in the morning when they heard the news on television or radio, they were able to write to the television or radio, they will immediately write to the people the issues in the upcoming way.
"There is a big effect even to us of the protesters so that these laws (cybercrime law) will not be dismissed if we will be charged with libel which is why we will be charged with libel," according to Montalban, "according to Montalban.
He also added that only the internet is only for the internet in order to share the art of the fastest way to finally disappear if the said law will not be dismissed.
"The media is dominant and rich in the country, if the internet where we make a case will be charged, not only the writers have no way of communication to make it better to understand the heavy issues that has been in society," said Montalban.
According to Mark Angeles, he received an award and acknowledging, there is a big role in the lives of the citizens as protest.
"Culture is what the people's thoughts are going to finish, this is what the colonists could vote for us, and they already know that the UV Expresses will be used to each other because they do not want to have unity for the people," said Angeles.
He also said that, "he opened it and there are times that we will be united if we will be united, to get away from the Spanish colonizers.
Law to anyone?
For CEGP, the issue on cybercrime law is not just about the internet of course, of course, the rights of the people in expressing.
"It is not because we resisted the cybercrime law that means that we want to be a person who is happening in the internet because if we will look at the cybercrime law, it's true that it is progressive or critical for those in government," Ginger Estella, chairman of CEGP.
According to Estella, the crimes on the internet, like child pornography and present, there are laws and proposed laws against them, instead, the cybercrime law will add to the problem or we are sure that the online libel will surely be used against journalists.
"It is clear on cybercrime law, what the government wants to do is to silence the citizens and journalists on social issues that the government is with this for a long time with the issues like killing, wages, and others who are continuing the present," according to Estella.
Estella added that it will only benefit more on this law (cybercrime law) those who are in power and not the ordinary citizens, there is a need to change this - through culture or in the upcoming fight.
