Cooperation of Cardinal Tagle in life and fighting of the workers.

By Christine Kaye.
There is 3, 2013.

Dignity, integrity and rights of the workers before the money or pipe.
This is one of the suggestions of Cardinal Luis Antonio Tagle, with his sermon to the mass for the workers last May 1, the Independence Day of the church in Quiapo, Manila to the advice of Tagle as a response to the problems faced by the workers in the Philippines.
In a mass held by 25 other priests, leaders of church in different culture of christians, and progressive countries, he said that even if there are different types of workers in the Filipino workers, he said that even if the workers are planning to support the dignity and their rights.
According to Tagle, "the person has the right to have the right, the rights of the workers cannot be reduced even if it is possible that the honor and rights will not change."
Tagle made the said International Airport to fight the workers in different kinds of protests as well as their rights.
Tagle said that it is against the rights of the workers is against the rights of the workers.
The former president is calling out and counted to the leaders of the catholic Church in the country to be united and to take action for the betterment of all the workers.
Tagle also said that part of the mission of catholic priest and catholics joined in the issues of the workers and meddle with the issues to achieve the meaningful change for the betterment of the workers.
"Many, thank you very much to all the workers, if you do not have a, there is no society," Tagle said, at the end of his sermon.
Different organizations of workers who were headed by Kilusang Mayo Uno (PAR) were attended by the mass and there were also some leaders who are progressive, that the cooperation of the leaders of the Catholic Church in the struggle of the workers is happy.
After the mass, the priest and the church was headed by the priests and in the church, which they celebrated with the workers for a simple food.
The highest-mindedness of the church is happy with the active offer of Tagle to the movement of the workers.
According to Atty. Sabino, general secretary of the Promotion of Church People's veillance Response, "the message of Cardinal is timely.
