It is an old news in 2016.

It seems that in the coming election in 2016, the controversial Priority Development Assistance Fund) has a connection with corruption, the controversial Priority Development Assistance Fund) is certain that the controversial Priority Development Assistance Fund is certain that the controversial Priority Development Assistance Fund) is certain that the controversial Priority Development Assistance Fund is certain that the controversial Priority Development Assistance Fund) is certain that the controversial Priority Development Assistance Fund) is certain that the controversial Priority Development Assistance Fund) is certain that the controversial Priority Development Assistance Fund) is certain.
Those who benefited from the administration who benefited from the administration of President Benigno Simeon Aquino III and the "Ipit Gang" who earned money from the unlikely way.
But they will make sure that the bronchitis, most of them, are the ones who are living in fear that the issue will be done which is why it's only the only thing that the "pul-politikos" should be brought about.

This is what I think is that the trunk containing our "pul-politicians, similar to our driving economy, which is written by B. S. Aquino, is a millionaire of a few influential political dynasty are they only one-mannered family.
This situation is really true, especially in the provinces, it's as if it's just a small kingdom, which is owned by the political family.
The politics in us is not based on the issue and skill of the candidate but with the construction of a candidate, who usually is a famous surname or good face of a candidate, that is why it is unlikely for us to progress because the projects which are scattered all will start.
The truth is, most of you, my followers are better than the "pul-politikos" that's why there's no money that we will have to give back to the voters, that is why when my "pul-politikos" can earn it, that is why when my blood can earn or feel bad.
The grandchild of Hambi'll be able to listen to their cheerful personality, it is good to listen to but what I hear is old songs in 2016, I'm sure he does not have a lot of eardrum.

The people should monitor every action of B. S. Aquino III and do not only rely on his "Tuwid na Daan" it is clear now that if the basis is the final events, he will be released by the Congress in order to remove the Congress in order to follow his will.
"That's the only use of this and there are still no more than what you call there right now?" William Subong said that she is getting rid of her Romeo this Juliet: "Ang Rose by any kind name."
