
Pork barrel should be used for OFWs in Syria.

How much are the remaining Overseas Filipino Workers in Syria?
How many OFWs in the Middle East are so many in the Middle East which might be affected by the chaos in the said country?
We are asking this, Bro, in relation to the approval of the Congress of America to the proposal of President Baryo Obama that they will fully implement the government of Syria.
The reason for the Americans in their meddling in Syria is the use of the latter's alleged chemical to eradicate the rebels here.
The OFW was stuck.
Thousands of OFWs caught in the country Syria and most of them are considered to be treated.
It is estimated that around 9,000 OFWs have already been in Syria three months ago and when the government declared that it is on alert level 4, which should be focused on alert level 4, the evacuation of the OFW.
Starting this time, there are only a few who will go home to the government and said that he will shoulder the expenses in leaving and going home to the OFWs in the said country.
Repatriation.
It is said that the convoy of American troops that will enter Syria to other hours or days from now are around the area of the said country.
They are planning to take action upon helping the rebels who are fighting back to bring down the government of Bashar al-Assad.
This means, Bro, the fight there will become bloody.
And no one knows what will happen to the OFWs.
Bullets, nothing.
The Americans are saying Strike will be done to attack in Syria.
Included in the attacks by Strike was paralyzed for the military forces through the arrest and destruction of military airport, pier and camp.
But of course, most important is their target in the life of Bashar, just like what they did to Otto Bin Laden and Clarisma leader Saddam Hussein.
But if they did not immediately kill Bashar and his followers?
There, the fight will surely last for long and the fight will be held in the house.
That is where the lives of OFWs are going to be dangerous.
Strong winds.
It is also dangerous, in truth, the use of the Americans in the bombing are to be used by the bomb squad done by the government of Syria.
He allegedly had something and Saddam Hussein attacked him.
In hoax, a big bomb broke down and are lacking in the hiding place of Saddam and his family and followers.
It is not impossible that the Americans will also do this against Bashar.
How about the OFWs if the bombing are going to happen again?
Weapons.
If it is true that the military has weapons and used it against their rebels, they may also use it against the combination of the Americans and rebels.
They will use it more than other weapons.
Because, the weapons of Syria military is certain against the weapons of the Americans.
How about the OFWs in having a chemical?
Thank you!
We want to say, Bro, the evacuation of the OFWs should be exported.
They will not work hard for them and they will lead to his request.
We can't do anything if people from the embassy or Philippine embassy will not show up to the Philippines, just like what they did in the past months.
But the government should still do what he can to save the war of OFWs.
All kinds of communication should be used by people in order to find the OFWs.
It is an important thing for the people to do not use all their office so that they will accept the OFWs and communication for their campaign.
Prepare for the faces.
What are the countries who might be affected by the bloody war in Syria in the entry of the military forces there?
This is what the people of the government should think about in fact, a lot of people are still shaking on this issue.
There is an existing fear, not only in the ranks of OFWs but also in part of their families who are here in the Philippines.
Millions of OFWs, family members.
Millions of OFWs and more million families are affected in case the war in Syria will spread to other countries.
This is not a joke, Bro, why?
It is the child of tofu, we are already in experience that the government is not able to save themselves.
There is lack of lack of money or funds to spend.
The lack of things and places used by the OFW are still there.
Pork barrel.
The good thing to do now is to use pork barrel in saved the OFWs that will be affected in the war and remove the funds from the President until the congressmen and senators.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.
