Ermson Acosta, is being threatened and threatened by the military.

Macky Macasaverted!
October 28, 2012.

Eramson Acosta (a photo from the transfer of Anti-son Acosta.
The family of the prisoners who was Ermson Acosta complained about the threat and threats to them by alleged agents of the military.
IAcosta stated that they received the driver of a consecutive text message on October 24 and 25.
"We are innocent.
Acosta believes that the threat and threats came from the agents of the military, because Ermson was the prisoners jailed in Calbayog Sub-provincial Jail which is being monitored by the military.
"He should have been imprisoned, but in the truth in the military operations, Ermson," says IAcosta.
Acosta added that they asked for permission for the immediate medical attention for the illness of Labangan, but after the three months passed since it was released by the motion, he is still not taking the necessary action.
Even if the private doctors failed to give attention to Eramson, "we understand that they are afraid because they were surrounded by military who was Erjas on," stated Acosta.
The older Acosta is also disappointed with the statements of President Aquino about the cases of human rights, which are just a propaganda. "
"My daughter was hospitalized for a long time and illegal imprisonment was filed at the Department of Justice (DOJ) that has been more than a year still alive, while a 60-year-old child was only for 60 years to issue a resolution," he said.
Acosta asked, "why did the president ask for help to resolve the cases of abuse, while all of them have their power?"
"I want to ask the President: Who will be responsible if something bad happened to my child while he is imprisoned and did not get the justice?
Acosta said, instead of justice, insult and threats are accepted by the families of the victims.
This is also the grievance of other victims of human rights to challenge the President to release the record in resolving the cases.
"If President Aquino was talking, it was as if he was able to do something for the victims because he and his administration were not able to stop justice and work, the mother of the missing student of UP named Karen Emano.
According to Edita Burgos's mother, Jonas Burgos, the President's statements were lack of concern for the victims.
"It is the call Tindan, the Priority Development Assistance Fund) of the Height-headed by Chambers (WHO) to be the search for the Lord, WHO) to the Lord, WHO), in the witness of Tampos," stated by Burgos.
Burgos's fear that the President's statements might be the reason to continue their abuse.
"Because of the statement of Malacanang that there is a propaganda in violation, it means that I cannot see my child?," he said.
In the last data of Karylle, there was a 114 victims of the extrajudicial killings (EJK), 127 victims of the failed murder, 70 are victims of attempted murder, 70 were forcefully raped under the two years of the Aquino administration.
