
The Filipino people are against it to anchor the newspaper or any attack of USalas.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
February 1, 2013.

The Filipino people vehemently denied it that it can anchor in one of the US in Subic Bay, which is one of the additional slap to the people after the entry of a ship of the US in Tubbataha Management and reserved reward. "

The entry and anchor in Subic Bay will anchor in Subic Bay "said that it is a disrespect of a specialist government budget for the Philippines," said PKP, which shows a lack of importance to the national dignity of the Filipino and to insist to end the controversial military of the US and in violation of the territory of the Philippines.
The USS Guardian will anchor in the day after the USS Guardian found a boat that started at 2,000 square meters and created a protest against the military by the US as a month, and the US can anchor in Subic, Nony Villon, and the US.

In the plan of the US, they need to raise the presence of martial law in the Philippines and in the Asia-Pacific, more than 80 percent of the ships of the US in Subic, Manila and other positions owned by the US in Subic, Manila, and other positions owned by the US in Subic, Manila, and other positions owned by the US in Subic, Manila and other positions owned by the US in Subic, Manila.

"In every anchor of the warship of the US in the Philippines, this is the only serve as the military forces of the US in Asia-Pacific and as well as the possible effects of the environment of the US in the ocean of the Philippines," said PKP, "said the possible disposal of the flood and poisonous chemical in the coast of Subic last year."

The Ueki in Subic Bay assured the issue of safety in danger of burying the newspaper and the violation of the implementation of the US Pacific Command, the US Pacific Ocean, which may have the ability to face the judicial system which can cause the newspaper.

"It should be criticized by the Aquino administration with a measurement of US and its military in defending the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA), Aquino said that the VFA is not related to the presence of the USS Guardian of the presence of the USS Guardian.

"This is a direct lie that is called up to dismiss the VFA," said PKP, the PKP, said that the ships of the US in the Philippines are conducting under the condition of the VFA.

"First of all, the USS Guardian went to the ocean of the Philippines and landed in Subic, most more, because of the VFA, the American soldiers who are involved in the entry and destruction of the environment of the Philippines are now out of the authorities of the US in their based on Sasebo, Japan.
