Our culture experienced from corruption in the place.

Even though I believe that corruption is only a symptoms of cancer in our society, I agree with the response to this, it can lessen the or its cause of it to the country.
However, it will not be resolved by the violent corruption of our society.
The root of corruption is in our low culture.
It's because we don't have mercy on their children, but they are going to fight with each other.
We are waiting for our colorums to be famous so this mentality, which is usually hiding in our being generous and generous, is buried in our senses.
Because we are having too much difficulty in remembering the Spaniards, Americans and Japanese, it seems that we have the right to make every Filipino cocho or comfort that we can find for every day of our daily tasks.
This is also the mentality of the majority even during times now that's why they do not follow the current laws or Ali that can be seen as the mark of a slave or a symbol of the authorities.
The blind protest of our countrymen is being hardheaded.
It's because we feel that we are always watching the streets and because of our lack of strength, we get back through violation of rules.
"That is" what I want to call, "Joneal."
From the depths of the heart of corrupt politicians, I cannot see that corruption is wrong.
Senator.
That is also the reason why they will take revenge directly to the country.
If the "pul-politikos" can be distributed, there are part of their feelings that they say that they are a hero of their feelings, that's why they do not have the right to judge them aside from what the enemies are doing.
That is one of the reasons of the circle of cruelty to our country.
He / she was wearing.
If even if you think it is a hold-up, I mean, DAP (Disbursement Acceleration Program) what I can say is: "Your intense, Chong."
In the name that is only meant for Filipino, "programs that will speed up to spend," should be suspicious, that is why this should be the question of the Supreme Court.
In my understanding as one hour of course, the DAP was illegal.
According to Parkinson, 5, Section 25, Article 6 of our Saligang Batas, the President could not be touched by the president which is not from the questionable expenses of the government agencies.
In this instance, Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago said, the money used for DAP was not from the money he does not like.
If the senator's allegation is true, DAP is clear that DAP is just like an ordinary hold-up that is prohibited in the law.
