Four days and a month.

The suffering of the whole country is finished regarding the accident that DILG Secretary Jesse Robredo has done.
Like what is expected, the end of everything is sad.
Meanwhile, Police Captain Jun Abrile ado died, Robredo died and the two pilots on the Piper airplane that they rode.
Four days of calvary.
Four days are being carried by everything before there was a clear result of the search for Robredo.
Accept or not by the authorities, the incident showed how much the Philippines is with the Philippines in facing the accident.
Can we expect the divers to make the lives in order to know the real situation of Robredo.
There are times that we will gather in the ocean even a few kilometers per depth but the authorities are not around each other.
"Is it that English which is going to make a deep hole on the ocean.
It has tons of private but we are just wondering that they have not used for the search and rescue.
But what we are puzzled about is why does it not stop the government?
7,107 island.
Everyone who is in the government knows that thousands of island will increase our country.
When it is low, almost all islands in 7,107 and if high level is at 7,100 only.
Included in the islands in the Philippines are Panatag Shoal or Scarborough Shoal and other islands being taken to us by China.
Because of this, it should have been long before, there are things that the government saved up for the events like what happened to Robredo.
In a simple word, Bro, we should have machinery for the deep ocean inside our territory.
We are still in the territory of the Philippine Dee that is considered as one of the two biggest ocean in the whole world.
Many accidents.
There are so many accidents on the ocean like a lot of accidents on the ocean, so deep in the airplane and in the streets, which also fell to the ocean.
The number of fishermen attacked the boat.
Thousands have died, but why is it that until now, Bro, we do not have one habit to attract luck under the ocean?
Corrupt and corrupt.
Of course, we cannot avoid to blame the children of the crocodiles in the government.
They did not do anything but go through the tax of the people.
No one thought of them to complete the government of things for these kinds of accidents.
What they are thinking is to make them look for their own.
They make sure that they will never experience hardship and get hungry even if they get old.
And their children, parents and relatives to control the government of their families and they can continue their corruption and corruption.
Challenge!
Corruption and corruption, the government's form of accidents and negligence of government officials is a big challenge to President Noynoy.
Let us choose to buy the government for a few hours that will be assigned in the whole country.
It's because it has not only been used for defending our territory but for the accidents on the ocean happening.
In making the law for the budget for the budget for the next year, the buying or making coal at work and other similar things for the emergency of us will be the same.
Made a movie.
We have a factory in Cebu and is also making a ship in Subic Bay Management Authority.
In the company of Filipino people, I know that under the factory of the ship in Cebu, the Koreans have been seated in the SBMA, the Hanapi.
Why did the government not order the new tax on these companies?
From JO KHala.
We should not buy worth of shots that flowed down and other items used to be saved from the ocean.
We will test the use of a new chance that we can use for civilians, police and military who aim for it.
Maybe the government has to do anything in order to complete these things that we will buy, maybe one day, we will serve and kill our citizens.
INTECAIDdizziness.
We are thankful to those with good hearts that are degrading, "one of the German, almost died because of the search for Robredo, the government should immediately do anything to know this person.
Most of this, the government needs to be used to the deport of Filipinos so they can move quickly during the time of accident.
But they should be given all things that they need for the good, for sure and they will be quick action.
