TV Patrol, February 28, 2013.

Fight for justice.

How will you explain the words that you are saying "

"From what you are doing without waiting for anything in exchange, even if you need to make it first, it is better for all your actions to make you happy and improve one of your hearts,... that there is no expected and no intention to rule out.

This is the true and pure love, if you love you, you will do everything to prove this and if you will not need to understand what is happening, because all these events come from you.

Only you will believe in your responsibility.

What if he has no response, despite what I am doing?

"There is a line of line in Inged," Viceral or Victor? "Is the win or loses?

Happiness or sadness is the real love and nobody is waiting for.

No one knows the next moments, but we continue, because we are trust, and with faith.

Even if he has no love for me?

"If your love is true, everyone can possibly happen according to what you want, but if you have no feelings for you, that is why you have no initiative to answer, that is why you have no initiative to answer, and always be honest all the time.

It is painful to love a person without giving love, it can be said that she does not have any feelings for you, but more than sore are continuing to love her when you do not have the ability to let him know of this person.

The worse part here, is that you are making up, always hoping, and dreams that there will be a change that will come in the bait that you can make in order not to be freed. "

How will you feel this, and until now?

"Your pure love is eternal.

The bait that you are not awake, is becoming a jail for you to be in jail so that you want to identify the meaning of their trap?

"Love is a bait; because when you are in love, what you see is the light, and the shadow is not noticed.

There is no one who wants to be noticed, give attention and feel the importance of it to achieve everything that can be used to achieve it from beautifying; while others have almost exposed that they are the ingredients in full trap due to their bait that it seems to be caught by the bait that they are from (MCMC) to be caught.

This desire is to get whatever he wants, it is only natural and it is normal if you want to be with you like you.

Those who have no dreams and shallow are the only reason why others can do it, and as long as the others will be accompanied, it will be the one you will go with.

And if you are not awake, you will easily get rid of you or were able to get back to you anymore and forget to know the intention of who is going to carry or have a gift.

The last wish of Lolo Kiko, that if it comes to your arrival you have a show and has a show to someone else, if you will not persevere with your person, if you do not have any intention or interest to do with him.

Do you need to be your friend even if you are from you?

"Why not, if this is in accordance with what you agreed on to me, your true friend is being patient, and that you are always fighting for you, even if you're always fighting for you, and that you are always being used to all of their kind of friends, and when you are different, they get tired of you.

That is why, if you can get someone to be with in your whole life, make sure that he is your best friend because it is included in your relationship because it will affect your relationship.

A close friend is a type of things that you can sit beside you, without the words that uttered, like the worries and repression of things that happened to you.

Because this is the truth; that the importance of things is becoming important when we do not know the amount until it is still in us, but it is also true that we do not understand what is missing from us until it comes. "

How to love?

"It is two things to know a person; when he is in love and drunk here at first, she is a crazy man here in the end, he is drunk and has no reason.

It is only proof that love is blind.

There are many kinds of love, it is in the level of love and it can easily be felt if you feel that the world is always in love, and the beloved is always in love, but only one day he will be loved, but in need of life, he will forget him.
Do not be attracted to your physical appearance, because this might be a wedly not pay attention to your wealth, even if you want to be happy to love, but there is a poisonous person that you chose, the nightmare that you have chosen to be with you.

Do not expect that your feelings will be enlightened.
