There is no "K" in BUCOR.

Some of the candidates are applying as director of the Bureau of Corrections (BUCOR), who are currently not seated in position aside from PO 3 Secretary Leila de Lima, is from the office of the Philippine National Police (PNP) and Bureau of Jail Management and Penterm (BJMP).
There's a famous name of former BJMP Chief Dir. Rosendo diets for the Armed Forces of the Philippine National Police Office (IED) because this was being considered by Secretary de Lima.
De Lima was grossed out from diets who is also a member of the influential religion.
However, the names of Manila Police District (MPD) director Chief Supt. Alejandro Gutierrez, which is OPLAN), will also be criticized because of the upcoming age of 56.
Gutierrez's birthday is in the jurisdiction of the election ban.
Gutierrez was reported to the Palace the current mayor of Manila, Mayor Alfredo Lim.
But other generals who are applying for BuCor director Chief Superintendent Franklin Bucayu, Regional Director of Ilocos Region (Region 1) and boyfriend of PNP Chief Dir. Gen. Alan Purisima at the Philippine Military Academy (PMA) Class "81.
Under the names of diets and Gutierrez as candidates of BuCor, many of their jurisdiction and former personnel are pleased because they know the two in running their office and jurisdiction.
In BJMP, there was a lot of changes when he sat as the chief of dialing including having his own building in Mindanao Avenue in Quezon City and benefits for its personnel.
Also in MPD where are the people who are together with Gutierrez who are shot to get the position of the former director of MPD, General Ernesto Diokno.
There are also those who are happy that Bucayu is the director of the national jail and that is a few of his jurisdiction.
You really want to lose him from their eyes.
According to an employee of the Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG), Bucayu cannot stop jueteng in his jurisdiction of Ilocos Region such as Pangasinan and Ilocos Sur, will he still look back the prisoners who are in the national jail?
Is it not the bribery of the rich prisoners imprisoned in NBP because of making a crime crime?
His boyfriend did not have a call anymore when having problems in BuCor because it is not the jurisdiction of the PNP so it is better that Bucayu is just quiet.
It is not a thing for him to be full of national prison because the people cannot take it to them.
The prisoners are not like the gambling Lord who can easily talk to and scare them without giving a good money "and" protection money. "
My goodness, it is good that Purisima has not became a bet of Purisima for the BuCor director because it is certain that the former President Benigno Aquino III will not be able to make it if he sat on his position.
"There is no" K "in rights.
Why does Bucayu have doubts that he is not his job.
The result, problem and headache.
