A married man, killed by the troops of 88th IB, Isabela.

NDF-Cagayan Valley (northeast Luzon.

Being judgemental, 2012.

The act of the 5th Infantry Division of the Philippine Army was fully revealed that this is the sentiments of the right people and following the "Rules of Health" when they were shot by the troops of Alpha Company of 86th Infantry Battalion in the leadership of the 2nd Lieutenant.

The two old couple are Bernardino St., Barangay San Miguel, Echague, Isabela last three o'clock at dawn of November 23.

The farmer identified as Vicente Valenzuela, 60 years old, and his wife Rosario Valenzuela, 51 years old, who sustained several gunshot wounds in the body, and they were shot by one of their relatives who were riding a bolo knife and brought to their camp in Soque, Echague, afterwards.

Upon arriving at noon, a civil operation between the NPA and AFP from San Miguel, Echague, even though there was no conflict between the NPA and AFP in San Miguel, Echague, even if there was no conflict with the NPA in that season.

The relatives of the victims immediately went to the local station of the radio to expose the real incident.

The officials of the barangay continues to help the Priority Development Assistance Fund) which affects the human rights to hold accountable those who have taken the military and give justice to the couple of Valenzuela.

In the interview with Bombo Radyo DZNC, Ka MJ Felipe, the press Pag-Illegal Drugs Group of NPA that occurred between the NPA and AFP in San Miguel, and the residents of Echague and other places in order to give justice to the couple of Valenzuela.

Despite these, thick, seems to be made out at the mass media by the spokesperson of the 5th ID-NPA, who killed the couple, and it is true that there was an encounter that happened at Bulos, they say that the AFP are supporting "Rules of human" and the right people and they cannot do the killing of two old civilians.

In the continuous statement of the civil operation of the 5th ID-ranking officials of the 5th Special Action Force at the mass media, and also for those who are calling the military operations in public places like the towns of civilians, and other similar incidents of troops of civilians, and other similar to the barangays of civilians, and other similar to the barangays of civilians, and other such as January-November.

The murder of the couple in Valenzuela is part of the violation of human rights of the AFP from the southern and Middle Isabela after the consecutive offensive of the NPA in Isabela this October and November.
