
We are traversing the first path.

By Rolando Nana, August 13, 2012.

There are two films who got my attention in Cantos, 2012, The Legal Wife (Gino Santos), and Onok Island, including the media and social media for his own position, including the media and social media who have been involved in an intensive position as a taxi driver.

The end is because it is going to be an old path, and imprisonment of the widespread poverty, and imprisonment of those who are here in a community of poor city, and the story of morality which is happening in a noodle house where the dead can still be paid.

Not all the movies about poverty have happened in the category of "Poverty.

The documentary about the construction is becoming full, and they are going to climb the possibility of greater proliferation of its implementation, which aims to make a platform as well as the performance of their platforms.

From the first attack that was given by the small world of the youth, the widespread gambling in the ranks of the poor, those who are able to organize the livelihood of the poor, the people are hoping to fix their livelihood, and in the death of a single son, and a child who is currently detained in this life.

The passports to undergo autopsy, the corpse of the poor is needed, there are many corpses that can be used, which can be used by the morgue of the poor, police and neighboring houses of poverty, life is easy, and even the dead is a source of living.

Here is the based on the lower part of the Holy Week, the situation in this world is dying, and it can't be difficult for the consequence of the final action - what may have been discovered by the final action - what can be considered as a dirty and famous mother, the attraction of horseshoe, the oil that comes from.

Hopefully, this can be solved immediately by the more research in the world of accident.

The Model Shop is successful because a lot of details which is amazing is the viewers, even if they seem to be a billionaire to be recognized by the authorities, and the chase by the authorities, and the chase by the authorities and the suspect in the edge of the streets, as an example.

In OPLAN, it is expected that a distance of deep hole in the ducks and social gatherings are hoping to drive away from poverty and poor, aside from the crash site of the victim's life and the corpse of the residential area, and the source of difficulty in order to fetch him in a noodle house.

And this is the observation of a judges in Camply, he also liked the movie, but I also saw in other movies, but even if there are some of the best acting of weakness, and even if there are a few featured weakness, the film is complete with me.

It made me think that there is still a need to do an indie films which is creeped out in an indie film; and on the other hand, it is also a success of the poor people who are living in the indie film; and on the other hand, it is also a success of the poor people who are living in the indie film; and on the other hand, this is also a victory of indie films which led to an indie film (indie film), that is why it should be implemented again.

And this is what we salute as viewers, and they need to take the show that they want to continue the show of poverty, not only based on the use of poverty or politicking, not only in the source of use of elements and styles now but instead of taking advantage of the story of the story.

The story has a direct basis, we have an acquaintance or have read about these kinds of personnel and experience, but the goal of the movie is not only revealed now, but also to give her own world to rise from the unique creative, and critical direction of his film fest season.

This film, which is currently not needed to be a rock, but creative imagination, from putting on his movie, this is the tradition of director assigned in the history of movies in the country.
