A married man, killed by the troops of 88th IB, Isabela.

The act of the 5th Infantry Division was really revealed.
Philippine Army, this is the support of human rights.
Following the "Rules of Health" when they were shot by the troops.
Association of 86th Infantry Battalion in the leadership of a 2nd Lieutenant.
The two old and married couple are Bernardino St., Barangay
San Miguel, Echague, Isabela last three o'clock at dawn.
November 23.

The farmer was immediately killed as Vicente Valenzuela, 60 years old.
His wife Rosario Valenzuela, 51 years old, who suffered a gun.
There were many gunshot wounds in the body when they were shot even if they were shot.
One of their relatives said they are civilians and not.
And one military is screaming for civilians.
It was being shot at that before, Vicente was able to see Vicente who is holding something.
He was covered with a bolo knife on his coconut plantation.
When the NPA grabbed the body of the couple, they took the body of the couple and brought it to their camp in Soque, Echague, after.

Upon arriving at noon, a civil operation between the NPA and AFP from San Miguel, Echague, even though there was no conflict between the NPA and AFP in San Miguel, Echague, even if there was no conflict with the NPA in that season.

The police immediately went to the local police station.
They are relatives of the victims to expose the real incident.
The barangay officials continued to help the victims.
Tugna believes that people are supporting the right people to hold them accountable.
The military heard and gave justice to the couple of Valenzuela.

In an interview with Bombo Radyo DZNC, Ka MJ Felipe, the press Pag-Illegal Drugs Group of the NPA that occurred between the NPA and AFP that occurred between the NPA and AFP.
In San Miguel, it is said that the residents of Echague are going to take action.
Another place to give justice to the couple of Valenzuela.

In spite of these, thick smoke seems to be made out at the mass media by the spokesperson of the 5th ID-NPA, who killed the couple, and it is true that there was an encounter in Bulos, they are saying that the AFP are saying.
Those who are supporting the Rules of ID, and human rights and not.
They can do the killing of two old civilians.

For the continuous statement of the civil operation of the 5th ID-ranking officials of the 5th ID in the mass media, and also for the mines that are called by the Special operations team (which is currently being called by the Special Action Force (Development Assistance or CPDU).
They discussed more opportunities in relation to their respect for the people.
It is a human right, but along with this, according to the military is everywhere.
In public places like the barangay hall and beside it.
School, being resourceful in gambling and gambling and worrying about the most important thing to the people.
Yellowish, harassment of women, threats of those who are involved.
Troops of civilians, and other similar to the southern Isabela, recorded.
It is time on January on November when ten barbells are being monitored by the CPDC.

The murder of the couple in Valenzuela is part of the violation of human rights of AFP from the southern and Middle Isabela after the consecutive blows of the NPA.
In Isabela this October and November. Five days before this.
The 20-year-old troops of the 52nd Division were covered.
He was able to bring the company in the early morning of November 17 in Brgy.
Good payment, Echague, Isabela.
