A tragic state.

The Philippines is on the straight path, even if the economy is good, we will rise up from poverty!
This is the good news from the speech of everyone who will reach on stage of Congress for their state of President Benigno Aquino III in front of the country, on July 23, but this is not true that the economy is not good, and with the current administration and system, we will not rise from poverty.
In truth, Aquino is really different from the previous President, even in his previous SONA, Aquino has no different way, like Arroyo, he laid out his own administration, "he criticized those who are criticizing her."
Aquino is expected to make the removal of Renato Corona as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, but if he has not been used by Aquino, it is certain that Aquino will not believe in his power by Aquino, or even if Aquino has been buried in his power in the judiciary, this is not the meaning of the Marcos dictatorship.
At the beginning of the impeachment, it is very clear in the decision of the Supreme Court to take back the President's decision to take back the President's decision in the act of desperation and taking advantage of the role of Aquino's leadership and one of the criticisms against the regime of the "tanim-elected President."
After all, this is the true corruption in politics: The movement of Aquino for the interest of his adversary.
Meanwhile, Aquino is expected to be buried in the SONA to achieve the 6.4 million price increase in Graft domestic helper, but who can feel that this "is not the majority of the citizens.
It's not the millions of workers and people who have no work, which increased to 7 percent in 2011 compared to 7 percent in 2010.
If there is something that has been felt by the progress, "these are the foreign countrymen who are being servile in their increasing income while the salary of the workers continue because they are protected from the land under the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, Examination with Aquino) and personal supported by Aquino.
"It is felt that this" of 40 "the most rich Filipino", according to Forbes Magazine, is going to earn $41.4 billion in 2011, from the $13 billion pesos, according to Ibon Foundation, equivalent to the total wealth of 25 1.4 million pesos, which is estimated to be 11.1 million MT.
The government of the US can also feel the progress of the country of the US and UK after the visit of Aquino in the said countries last month, but it appears that there will be no benefits for the citizens in the said countries last month, but it appears that there will be no benefits for the citizens in the said countries last month.
It can still happen, Aquino has a hard work in exchange for the order of the US, who wants to increase the influential military in Asia Pacific as to the desire of the US to dominate the said region despite the growing influence and business of China in the region.
For the meantime, what they did for the SONA of the previous President is what they have done with the National Democratic Front in this issue, but it is certain that Aquino has not filed a victory, especially to the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, especially to the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, especially the prisoners who have not filed a case in spite of its promises.
In the face-NDFP members, the government of Aquino will make the release of the other arrested and imprisoned the Philippine Amusement and NDFP), which is contrary to the interest of the Filipino people and Moro, and refused to conduct any meaningful reforms that are being monitored by the filipino citizens and Moro, and refused to conduct any meaningful reforms that are being monitored by the filipino citizens and Moro brothers.
That's why there is no need to be proud of Aquino when the day of SONAs Tcrying, the people who believe in the division of the people and taking advantage of them are the strongest testament of the gruesome end of the controversial State of the United Nations in the Philippines.
