I will see all of you, I know, second at the Street Dilawan, here in other countries, I am just laughed and laughing.
This is what is called here is the talent of students to me, who is known to have been finished for high school in the National High School San Roque, which is why the food that we used to go back to, that what we used to say is that, what we used to say is that I did not see what we were doing so that I did not see what we were doing.
Us.
Wound!
No.
That is it!
Child.
Then there is still a case that I can cook so that he will cook and call me.
That's why we are very pitiful; we are the ones who took the things that they took from me, with his fries from the side of what happened to other countries.
Only five pesos is that Navotas is proud of them.
He / she is going to come from a noodle house; he / she can go to fish; we will do fish what is to be done to fish.
According to D V V, we are on our face to the milkfish but then they said that he / she's a big mouth, he / she ignores all the things that I am doing so that the process of my children will be placed under two hours.
You can do some kilo of income.
How much more than four kilos of kilos is what you can hear some kilos of kilos.
Two people.
For what happened in one kilo of five five plans, it was also a payment for how much was the number of bullets of Two who are being cooked for almost four pesos, and then transferred to a lot of things that will be seen for a pencil and then in our barangay.
Felipa four o'clock.
In all of you, watch out for the next way to the supermarket since we can see the respect of Navotas and we are now mayor Jonrey later good.
The investigation is thankful for what we are talking about and we are going to talk to them despite we are talking.
He is here.
They will wait for the documents to the doctor Navotas when they were able to endure the night last night so that we did not say yes, we have a lot.
You'll find a lot of your last mother here in the afternoon, we can't be removed from the high school school that we are going to end up to ten pesos.
Here, later on Monday, he / she should be prepared at Monday, he's ready to be given a chance for him to be given a chance at around seven o'clock in the evening.
There are many men.
I will like to like the computer this kind of class when his sibling is placed on top of him.
Was only wearing a plastic bags.
Let us focus on this kind of problem with Navotas and I am not afraid of this because you should be proud for you in the roof of the Philippines.
