Politics at the time of tragedy.

By Jerome Lantin.
"With the huge calamity that the country is facing now, we should set aside politics."
I will admit that my ear is giving up every time I will be able to read this in Facebook and in other social gatherings and almost along with the downpour of help for those affected by typhoon Yolanda, the influx of different views about it.
There is nothing wrong in expressing his own view on this issue because it is still good for each other to encourage our countrymen not only to cooperate in helping those who are damaged but to improve the situation of the country.
Meanwhile, in the continuous pour of new issues and problems to be faced, there is a danger that the first and even other current problems of the country - responded to it or not.
On the 25th of November of Hacienda Luisita, Maguindanao, and the Maguindanao massacre will be remembered on the 19th of November. Until now, there is still no justice for the relatives of the victims even if the victims are still not going to meet.
It is also difficult for us to blame the people who are thinking about this, so many incidents have passed since the issue of the pork barrel scam exploded last July.
Can't it be helpful to set aside the problem first before that until now we are still carrying it?
The fight of the citizens in pork barrel is already far so we should let this kind of thinking be deep so we should also set aside it and be in danger to forget it and if you think about it, the interest is going to take action on the issue.
This is not just the issue of punishment to those who are guilty, this is also a chance to change a system that has been destroying and serves as a burden to the country.
Putting on the topic in politics will not help in fixing the places where the typhoon passed, because if we continue to continue the relationship of the typhoon, because if we continue to stop in relation to the relation of things, we should not let go over or forget about it.
If you think about it, it is not far from each one to help those affected by the typhoon and the resolve in the issue of pork barrel, both of them are holding their duties as well as the government and the citizens, we should also hold the government to serve our citizens.
Because even if our fellow citizens will not pay attention to our countrymen, the country will just go forward to the right direction if there is no doubt that our system has no doubt to put in the interest of the people.
