
The town, 21, September.

The town.
21, September 2012.

The military continues to investigate the country.
Terrorism brought to the whole country continues in the whole country, where the military continues to declare martial law last September 21, 1972 and 26 years ago since it brought him to the said country last February 1986.

He took the PDC.
He / she was grossed out.
Marcos used the law to maintain self from power and strengthen the ownership of the foreign basic goods, big covetousness of the Lord of the Lord, and covetousness.

Despite what the democracy is used to come back, there is no big difference with the next regime during the length of the martial law, even if there is no formal declaration of the martial law, there is still no formal declaration of the law in the state of the state, it is possible that those who are taking advantage and understanding are the military forces.

This is done by the intensified campaign of the country from the regime of Corazon Aquino III, as long as the role of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), the Philippine National Police (PNP), and other armed forces of the AFP itself in the entire country.

Marcos was shot at the total force of the AFP from 60,000, 100,000 of the troops of the US to strengthen the Philippine National Intelligence Coordinating Agency (GAS) and the AFP troops of the US Marines to strengthen the Philippine National Intelligence Coordinating Agency (GAS), and the AFP troops of the US Marines to strengthen the Philippine National Disaster Risk Reduction and Parking Bureau of the AFP, which is almost a copy of the military forces in the Philippines.

In the 14-year-old military, the AFP and the military saved the power of its power in all the aspects of the Filipino government, who were able to cure the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of the Philippines, the AFP, who was seated in pushing and using the programs of the national budget, congress and the AFP who are taking position in pushing the programs of the Philippine government.

It is said that the use of the military is widespread to send public services that should be given by the soldiers of the Philippine government, which should have been implemented by the soldiers of the Philippine government, which can be implemented by the military and understanding of the country, which can be implemented by the government of the military, which can be implemented by the government of the military, which can be implemented by the citizens of the Philippines, which is why there is no proper response to the government of the military, which is why there is no proper response to the government of the military, which is why there is no proper response to the government of the military, which is why there is no proper response to the government of the military, which is why there is no proper response to the government of the military, which is why there is no proper response to the government of the military, and it is acceptable to help the people's awareness and understanding to the citizens.
