Different kinds of strategies.

By Tomas, Santos - March 25, 2014.

Even if it has been done, it has been done, the writers have their own ways of revealing the stories.
Some of the famous writers have gave different ways for the seminar that was done in the seminar, which was considered as "Tabag, at the 19th of March in Melchor Hall, University of the Philippines-Diliman (UP).
According to Chambers (berry Pascual, a pickpocket was annoying and professor in the university, the writers, especially those who are starting, should not be afraid of the lack of loss due to others depending on how he fails or "in the story."
"For example, the theme about the evil of theft is so vast, but there are many different species of evil spirits," he said.
Pascual added, those beheaded and other writers have no longer watching and made hope, particularly the local actions, in order to be guidance and inspiration to writing.
Jenelito de los Reyes said, it is also a professor of Filipino in the university and writers, that when it comes to writing the audience or joke, there is a need to identify a person who will understand and feel pity for those who wrote.
"
According to De los Reyes, there have been a joke - a joke - the "set" traslacion "or the most story of the author; the" kristo "who is from the direct part of the author; and the" epal "which is often given by the author.
"They already have two things - remove the unpart of the Intertropical Convergence Zone and take care of those with your circle," he said.
De los Reyes is talking with three theories which are beneficial if a individual is beneficial if a person is having a problem because of the weakness and mistakes of others; and what the people would make a pity for from unexpected events.
But in his personal perspective, he said there are only two kinds of jokes about what we have seen in text messages and in books, like a series of joke, "that is one of my grandfather,"
Get to know the people.
Eyebank Foundation also believes that the professor of a Filipino in the university is believed to be given a study by his personnel so that the problem of a story should be effective and effective.
"Whatever is too much and lacking in thinking and actions of the character creates a problem in the story, he said.
But Atalia insisted that the problem of one staff should not be punished with its problem since it was still hit.
"What should be remembered is what will be the problem of the character in his problem, he said," he should think of how his problem fails. "
According to Beverly Siy, writers, creative writing in UP, it is better to put the allySharonCuneta also, or even the names of the stars of the children's tasks so that the readers can easily remember them.
"
Siy has left with three kinds of problems in a story - a problem inside or self, problem of emotion and problems of nature, but he reminded that it is a deep sigh of problem.
"You should choose a cause of a problem from the" Tuwid na Daan "that this is an ordinary attitude, trait or interests," says Siy, who said that the protagonist is not necessary or complicated.
According to Atalia, the personnel have different kinds of language that's why one staff should act, think and talk according to its character.
He said that the novels are of the novels, "Paula," where no one can give it to the story, those who have nothing to give in the story are his personnel, "where the right incident is bigger than the story of his personnel.
A very big story can be followed in a "horseshoe, which is considered as the outline of next events," a non-coloured house or no other next events in the story, "or a few consecutive events in the story and"
