A thorns in you.

Mary Joy T.

Our group woke up early for the last stages of the task of Colina during the start of Holy Week and he went to a community to understand the situation of the citizens living here.
The day has a higher day when we leave the Punta as Donato Lebue of Bolinao, Pangasinan after we leave the jeep that we were riding in Lingayen, Pangasinan after we visited a community with a pillow in the controversial trade of black spirits.
We were able to identify the place because Vicente Mangubat Junior or Mister Vic, councilor of Brgy. Sabangan and President of AH, will be considered organic in Pangasinan, which was being pushed in Pangasinan which was being pushed in Pangasinan.
It was a picture of a typical passenger province and similar to other barangays, it also has a small school and chapel for an estimation of more than 2,000 residents that are usually made in palm or stones at the houses here, according to Mang Vic, fishing and farm the primary livelihood of the residents of their area.
The shore of Sabulao is also abundant, with a kind of irresponsible ingredients in making various products like being out of pork, dresses, and even items at home like the pan, cauldron and others.
As an important example of material things, attracting luck to the foreigners to be attracted to the colonizers.
Last June 29, 2011, the local government has given any permit to attract black spirits in the shore of Brgy. Sabangan, and three other barangays in exchange of beautifying the said area, there are also plans to build the 18-coloured car in the area, there are also plans to build the 18-hole in the area, there are also plans to build the 18-hole on the area.
This is the worry of the group of Mang Vic "if they need to remove the place, why should they need to remove the black dog?" Said Mister Vic Sotto, to prevent the increase of sand to avoid its collapse.
Since the company of the mining area arrived in the area, it was found out that there are many residents who are convinced that they will profit from mining compared to the afternoon to farm or fishing.
Because the houses were cut off and destroyed the fishpond in some barangays in Lingayen, to give space to the construction of the plant in the coast of Committee OV, Mister Vic Sotto explained, they were forced to leave the residents in their respective houses.
The sea has been poisoned because of the chemical being used in mining, many residents got sick since the water from the sea, Amy Quintos, secretary of Atejano.
In our gathering, it is noticeable that the shores is noticeable that it is as if there is a huge desert today, an estimated 20 percent of the total measurement of a white cloth, Mang Vic.
Before, the coast of Lingayen - arse, a kind of plants that hit sand in order to maintain the mold in their area, the residents always fear that the big waves reached their homes because of the low foundation of the shore.
Not only in Lingayen - the companies of mining companies which are caused by the residents there were also those who were made to destroy the residents.
Even those with human rights such as the taking of the houses and due to the disease, mining has a big effect to the destruction of nature, aside from the poison in the sea that happened in Santa Catalina, Ilocos Sur where it reached 100 kilometers in the landslides.
There are many bad effects that are not good about the environment and lives of the residents and the lives of the residents of Pangasinan, that is still being supported by the local government of Pangasinan, and the mining operations cannot continue if there is no permission from the local government.
Nevertheless, there are still people who are going to fight in the operations of mining in the leadership of Avena, the residents are monitoring the continuous mining in the shores of Sabangan and other barangays who are affected.
Adona, "
January 26 when the court formally stopped the operation of Committee OV, "says Aling Ami," it is not for us, for the next generation, to our children and grandchildren if we do not take action to where the life given to us? "
But if he is fighting and ready to compete with the government, there is still quiet in the middle of the chaos and controversy like Mister Ben Underwood, a farmer and a tricycle driver, he wants to keep quiet because he does not want trouble, especially since he has a child and he still has a child.
There are some threats to the lives of those who are fighting and watching so that there will not be the importation of a black dog and for him to finally stop the operation in Lingayen, Aling Amy, a few days with a black car outside their house during the height of their campaign.
"There is only one of the local community in the country who are affected by mining and we still continue to monitor our place," said Mister Vic, she fears that the operation will continue especially since the machine is still there.
Before the sun sank, we went back to the jeep that will bring us back to Manila.
