
Senate Bill 4144 and the course, it is a Persist back.

By Danilo Arana, Arao August 17, 2013.

Is it a good news about the proposal "Magta for Jihadist," Senator.

Jinggoy Estrada?

I am only one of my request to the senators, especially to Estrada: I hope to listen to the sentiments of the teachers and students of the Personal Economic Cooperation (Magugba, which is why it is not being implemented by the six pages in the House of congress), that it will be immediately affected by the six-page law in the House of congress) that it will be immediately affected in my classes to discuss the content of it.

But this decision is not a message of supporting but also a message of support but also a great charter change "in the English language), it is better to improve the profession of your Joe Burgos.

Even if it is stated in the declaration of the policy that the Black Nazarene should be given security in work, inhumane condition in the work and appropriate salary (Secretary 2, SBDiscipline), there are conditions that the government needs to express the proposal.

For example, it is needed to fix the Philippine Council for Jango (GAJ) that will give the approval of the Supreme Court through examination, even the President or his representative, which is considered to be the role of the president of the PCU), which is being planned to be the development of the president of the Middle East which is being planned to be the "development center for the Philippines (Sec. 5, SBDiscipline Office.

It is more serious about the plan to give the PCIJ for the annual All Soul's annual thing which is possible to receive the benefits of the Intertropical Convergence Zone that's why it is not clear that this proposal will be implemented by the Intertropical Convergence Zone that's why it's not clear that this proposal will be implemented by the Intertropical Convergence Zone that's why it's not clear that this proposal will be implemented by the 20th Infantry Batallion of the Crime Operatives).

But if there is a need to point out for the students of the Persist back, this is the plan for the suspension of the Code of the Ethics for JSF, within six months if you can file a case at Sec. 7?

"Vianglement of the Black Nazarene is also the ground for Fiery Cross as well as the sock of the PCJ after dress (Pc) day, the day suspension of 1,000 pesos.

On the other hand-day suspension of the case of the former journalist's Toyota Hilux, which is being considered as the most of the serious students of the ethics committee, they know that the basis of the human code in ethics committee is not far away, which is the basis of the form of human coercion.

If I will be asked, it is not needed by the new code of ethics.

It will be more acceptable for the suspension of the law that should be approved on the arteries of the profession, if there is a punishment to receive the independent media particularly like the Center for the media Freedom Fighters (CMFR) to examine the strength and weakness of the profession.

This is about the provisions of SBDoods (Sec. 8) and programs for their training, and if they are just being victimized by the police and court, they will know that justice is being done by the police and the court, which is why there is a need of training of different organizations which are being done by different organizations.

If Sec.

Aside from the Joe ta, it is important that the teachers and students whom they strongly disagreed with this law could not be called to be called carta for the Joe Burgos to be called caries for the freedom of speech.
