ABS-PS with PGMA, is said to be corrupt?

We are confirming the news not only in social gathering, particularly Facebook, if it is true that the high officials of Malacañang will command to the burial of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, which according to his visitors are the ones who have been taken care of or to OPS.
Aside from Facebook, we also know a few supporters of PGMA that is also the complaint of lily's Calvento Files.
If this is true, wow, that is a scary order if the basis is that if it is the responsible for it, it can be done by President Bensani or Aquino III? Or he himself ordered it?
Some officials of the church said, that the regime of Pres. Noynoy has not yet been punished with his former teacher but he is already being mistreated!
I am not ever pro-GMA and I believe in justice and if the accusations against him are true, it would have to listen to the court.
And if it is proven that the state will be proven and there is a strong evidence, let him be punished based on the need to suffer, but if not, should be set free.
What is happening in Malacañang?
It appears that that is what the people are feeling about, they say, the people of Malacañang are having sex, they are saying that they are being rude and others are afraid of what the ghost they did.
After all, Gloria FVR visited former President FVR, Eve, former First Lady and Ilocos Congressman Imelda Marcos, former Vice President Noli de Castro, former Vice President Noli de Castro, priests, bishops and archbishop and many personalities from private and former officials of the government.
All of them are calling President Aquino to allow GMA to allow him to go back to other countries if needed, but all suggestions of it seems to be no matter to Noynoy.
We just want to worry about our beloved President about his father, former Senator Benigno "Ninoy" Aquino Junior, when she was sick in prison then under the Marcos dictatorship from the Marcos dictatorship.
That is also what happened to former President Erap, they were allowed to be treated in another country, only the difference is that Ninoy did not return and instead he led the group against Marcos, while Eve was back to the Philippines.
We hope that we are wrong but we feel the fear of Malacanang or President Noynoy Aquino to imitate Ninoy Aquino, who might be able to imitate the movement of Noynoy, he will also build the movement of Noynoy, land!
