Unity of the native Aetas.

By P2,500.
April 20, 2012.

Unity and fighting.
This was promised by the different tribe of the native Mangaya in Mindoro, after two days of celebration of the sun's celebration, in Sitio Kalawag, Bongay, Oriental Mindoro this April 14-15.
On the theme of "Mangaya, Pahua and support!
"It is an important scene in this celebration for our ancestors because this is where we are reaching our unity, especially now the fifth year in our culture, similar to mining and construction of the dams," stated by Marcelo Carcrain, leader of Mangao., "statement of Marcelo Carcrain, leader of Mangao@-@ list.
Fight the weakness.
The latest celebration will be focused on the said celebration because the leaders of the indigenous people are part of the seven tribe of Mangaring that they are facing in the community.
"If these kinds of projects (mining and ditures will push through, it will really destroy our livelihood, especially that we have hope on our livelihood, especially that we have hope for the wealth of nature such as the forest," according to APD and Mindoro, organization of the native Aetas.
Mining's application to the present is the pending approved of Mindoro to help with 50 percent of land in the island when the citizens of the indigenous people will be affected, according to Pambao, spokesperson of Kalawaan in the indigenous people of the Philippines (Kiblawan PNP).
The ongoing implementation of the white neo-lualto policy and the law like the mining Act of 1995, which makes the natural resources of the Philippines to be allowed is the natural resources of the Philippines, and the foreign properties of the indigenous people in the country, is one of the incessant mining of the foreigners in the country.
According to Carcrain, the big mining companies such as Inlejon Dos who are the foreign company of the mining companies that have an operation in Mindoro are intentionally being faced by evil spirits.

"The indigenous people are not receiving any benefits that the environment will be ruined because of the community's rights that are being driven out of the community and as well as the rights of the indigenous people in our ancestors and also in their own efforts," he is defeated by Malayao.
The tourism problem is also a problem because the neighboring areas of the Mangya became part of the cave and around in the tourism, of Carclubs.
According to the eldest child, baptism, leader of Mahilum, the problem in the ditures will be faced by their tribe if it is certain that they will recover from their land ancestors and will be affected by the farmers in the lower part.
It is estimated that three big dresses are going to be built on the island of Mindoro.
"If we go to the dams, we will lose their livelihood because we will lose a way for our businesses and we will get stronger against our businesses," said Agaton Bernabe, one of those who are going to be affected by the project of the dentist.
"Mayor John said, we will cooperate in making the dams that they can give to work within 10 years, but if we remain to give a job for 10 years, it will last for a year, but if we continue to push through it.
Aside from this, the Mangaoans are also a problem of their tribe, according to Gabriel, the military remained in their community to scare them and accused them as a member of the rebel New People's Army.
Mindoro is one of the known places where Hen General Jovito Palparan Jr., the notorious official of the military who was identified as "tanim-" of activists, under the Oplan Bantay, and one of the indigenous people who were assigned to human rights and one of the indigenous people in this violence.
This situation is ongoing for the Filipinization of the Aquino administration under the Oplan Galugad conducted by the Aquino administration, according to Joan Jaime, the Pambansang Kamao of KimXi.
"They themselves are in the community.

Unity by the people.
This is also featured on the All Soul's Day and helping different sectors of society such as doctors, members of the academic, and even the people in order to donate the said occasion.
According to Doctor Melissa Claire Masaya, of the Philippine General Hospital, one of the volunteer doctors to go with the said gathering, the goal of helping the citizens like the Mangaya that rarely received medical services.
"If this is only happening, maybe they are not experiencing this," according to Masaya Street.
"I am" the first one that they saw as a doctor, we are not questioning their culture but they also need to see a specialist, "said Doctor Willie T. partner," said by Doctor Willie T. others.
According to Doctor JohnSen. Magallanes, "if it is difficult for the health condition of our community, if it is hard for the doctors in urban areas, it is hard for them to monitor this community, so that they need to monitor this community, to know that there are still a lot of problems and sins."
For those who are in academic, those who are in academic, those who are workers, farmers, employees and others, because the issue of mining are not only an issue by the citizens and the next race of the citizens and the next leaders of the citizens and the next leaders of the citizens and the next race of the citizens and the next race of the citizens.
"This is important to this, because this is the unique time for them, and only the people who were able to support their culture but also in their needs for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fight for their fights.
PO 1 Bayer said, indigenous people, from the correct process, said that they want to coordinate with the indigenous people in fighting for the mines and foreign businessmen who want to claim and destroy them.
They should not enumerate themselves to fight their rights, according to a Belleza, who just introduced himself in the Philippines on the issue of gratitude of the land.
Laws and programs.
The mining companies in Mindoro should not only be the only ones to face the native Mangaya, but they also face the laws that allows him, like the mining Act of 1995, according to Malayao.
"In the 17 years of implementation, it has no improvement of the progress from the community where mining is done especially in the places of the indigenous people," according to Malayao.
Along with the call of garbage to the mining Act of 1995, the plea to serve the New People's mining Bill which is an alternative law for the help of the Liberal Party-list such as Bayan Muna, AOIL, Gabriela, Sangguniang Kabataan and increase.
The goal of the People's mining bill to change the outline of mining in relation to the interest of the Filipino people and for the goal for the national market, the mining can no longer agree with what the country needs to follow.
In spite of the damage caused by big mining, the Aquino administration is still investigating the negative of its programs, such as the priority of the Philippine Development Assistance (PDP) 2011, Jaime, it is obvious in Mindoro.
In the program of PDP 2011-2016, the government has a goal of double the agricultural sector (mining) when it comes to the year 2016.
Rise and fight.
In front of the issues being faced by the Mangaya, they will strengthen the unity for the protection of their ancestors and the rights of the indigenous people.
"This is the fifth year of the All Soul's Day and more than many attended the different tribe," according to Gabriel.
Meanwhile, Kiblawan PNP has witnessed the recovery of agencies that cannot be saved from the height of violence of the military, especially during the time of violence in Mindoro when Palparan in Mindoro was allegedly showed to protect their rights, according to Jaime.
"The Independence Day of the indigenous people, the indigenous people, which are slowly being sold, should not be sold, those who are not being sold, are not claiming the indigenous people," Jaime explained.
This is where the indigenous people see the situation of each other so that it will be united in buying different sectors of society on the condition of the Mangaya in order to gather support and for other natives to experience the same problem, according to Gabriel.
