The death of crystal-Tetuan, became the center of protest against the negligence of the government.

A corrupt country was held yesterday by different groups as opposition of the increase in service such as electricity, water, and fare increase in the train; based on the price of oil; and price increase in the University of the Philippines (UP).
"The government is responsible for the suicide of crystal meth, and we protest about the small subsidy of the government for society, high prices of basic goods and services, and the policies of the privatization of the government, the chairman of Kilusang May Uno (equivalent).
Featured on the said protest is the execution of just deet in front of the Department of Health (DOH), Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office and UP Manila and UP Diliman, temporarily staying up in EDSA, Doctor Love, and to caravas of the drivers of the Department of energy (DOE).
According to Lahi, the salary of most Filipinos is almost no matter because of the price of price of goods and services caused by the negligence of the government, "it is also equivalent to the frequent death of the majority of Filipinos," he said.
Protest against the high price, according to the price.
In spite of the statement of the electric posts and water, they will lower their price for the next month because of the foreign businessmen who went to Adora, the different groups are not convinced.
"There is a doubt that they will conduct a few days before the leading country, but Maynilad and Manila Water will still get the petition to increase charges," said Nony Guerrero, chairman of Gabriela-Quezon City.
According to Ibon Foundation, the companies of the water has no right to increase in charge for the same foreign terrorists that they have to change their price so they were allowed to be charged by the CEve (CERA), that they are still allowed to be charged by the CEpiPen.

One more thing that the group gathered is the impending price increase in the train (MRT / LRT) that is one of those who patronize it, especially the common workers, employees and students.
But what became more, the death of a student of UP passed away after he was rejected by the administration of UP after he was rejected by the administration of UP when he did not pay for his tuition fee.
"The death of crystal meth is part of the rules such as STS.
This is also the sentiments of the students of the Philippines (PUP) for their fear that after 100 percent is the tuition in graduating school and a university, after this is the graduating school.
"
Aside from the increase in tuition in graduating school, the group also opposed the increase in chemotherapy.

Salvador also added that the number of students experienced the difficulty being experienced by Tetuan before he committed suicide by the Aquino government and the citizens because of abandonment he has his responsibility in education, he said.
The group blamed the continuous increase in different bills of Private-dugo Gang, Production of President Aquino.
Aside from the privatization of the public service such as transportation and reducing the budget of public schools, the 26 public public hospitals, according to the World Boxing Organization (PEP).
It is said that a few of those in the hospitals in the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office, San Lazaro hospital, San Lazaro hospital, Nihonggo, and others are interested in public hospitals that are the foreigners and local governments such as Siapt, General Manager and Mega Pacific Ocean.
"Visit to the province of public Hospitals will be bought by the Filipino Development Assistance Fund) of the filipino masses to be sold, as well as the Papal visit of the Philippine government," stated by Doctor Darby Santiago, chairman of Health Organization (BPLO) head).
"In the fourth party of the marginalized.
According to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), it is clear that the government did not disappoint Tetuan, as well as the filipino citizens, "said that he has shown a high price, or to Filipino workers who have no job," said Renato Reyes, general, and hidden in the Bayan.
"It is up to your life, this is what the government means," said Reyes.
