
Investigation by Meralco; CIDG Collector Dela Cruz.

While the issue of suspected alliance in the last was hanging by the Supreme Court and the increase in price of electricity will again be done by Meralco!
This is about the performance of it, to what they are calling for, which they are calling, which was given money by Meralco, but it's only yesterday that we received a "epal" from Meralco, and according to Meralco, we have received a "Ipit Gang" from Meralco, which according to them, which has been paid by P11,435.75 percent according to their "tanim-Illegal Drugs Act."
The reason he gave is that, because it is almost four years that we are renting for almost four years, that's why our monthly pay for electricity is always high, that's why it's only right for us to pay P11,435.75 pesos.
King-mother, if we are talking about it, there is no assurance that we will be able to pay for the proposed bill, they themselves will be able to pay their while although the value of our monthly payments will not be lost, not once!
Another problem here is the rape victims of Meralco, we are just renting and possible to return again to the province in the coming months, how can we get back from the province next month.
The question, to collect it, all the Meralco cable, has it paid, "it does not mean that it does not really have a capital to use it, but even before we will be used by electricity, we will be paid for it!
We are calling the ERC, even any kind of party's Football Federation, to scrutinize this new way of electricity! It is really desperate for the poor to raise it!
Entice the President.
In relation to our reported weekly kickbacks in the toll fee of alias "Milan, and PO 2 Lotero, some information received that there was a canal in the canal, it can be recalled that last year, many introduced themselves as one who killed each other.
Umm, it means that there is a chance that the first time that he will have faults with him, alias "Milan?"
As of now, it is definite that Milan for the Deputy Director Region 4-A carU-CIDG will collect it.
PO2 Ramacula, who was thrown by Cavite PNP Provincial Director Senior Superintendent Joselito Esmilla, Jr. of Indang, Cavite, continues to add up to Miputak, Cavite while you are assigned to MED.
Burp!
