Capture the millions of people for the armed revolution.

Editorial Department.
The country.
March 21, 2012.
The Filipino people are very grateful for the upcoming occasion of the 120th anniversary of the Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB) on March 29, in the middle of the dark and poverty, the BHB) and the armed revolution.

They are showing-out of the straight path "of the Marcos US-Aquino, it is clear that there is no other livelihood, but the stronger gap between those who have heard the kind of lack of suffering and taking advantage of the suffering and going to experience the country.

Under Aquino, they are still investigating the rules of liberalization, privatization of the Philippines in the crisis which could not be watched over by the price of oil, food, low wages, and mudslinging of a huge tax while the level of a bigger tax will quickly pass through the level of life of the Filipinos.

The Marcos regime is very blind and he is just pretending not to see the situation of the Filipino people, on the other side, he is just following what the big companies in the oil and the big companies in the mining and large plantation of the mining and large plantation of the country will be put in danger.

Aquino continues to hear anything for the salary that they are applying for in the country to give way to the poor cities from their houses to give way to the poor cities from the country and to take advantage of the entire ferocity of the police, military and the groups who are forcing to suppress the implementation of the citizens.

The Filipino people's patience in excessive poverty which will be given by the country US-Aquino is very intense, which is why the anger of the Filipino people and protests now that it exploded and gave birth to those who are taking advantage and understanding the system and understanding is being heard from the system.

It is very important for the situation to remove the armed revolution in the Philippines from the duty of all members and leaders of the Liberal, to capture all the major advancement of the armed revolution due to the huge advancement of the armed revolution.

The barbells are going to go through the wide scope of the capture of the filipino masses and the Filipino workers and the Filipino workers, students, students, corrupt employees, and foreign policy for the anti-ranking people, and foreign policies, the anti-Tropas.

Let us capture patriotism, and under thorough awareness of the citizens to push through the widespread brownout in the advancement of Filipino people, especially in the advancement of the supreme court, especially in the advancement of the supreme court, especially the ratification of the formal success in the past four decades of the SEA Games.

From the wide movement of the masses, we should make a wide support for the BHB and Filipino nation to do the widespread training of the new towns and institutions for the defense of the youth to widen the widespread training of the new Pizarro and military assets.

The Bagong HE is determined to continue to intensify the armed fight in the whole country, according to the call of the Liberal, it will continue to rise up to the armed forces of the Liberal Party which will continue to raise the ability of the armed forces of the military forces.

It is said that it is going to continue the ability of its ability in the launch of the violent operation against the enemies of the opposition to transfer the thousands of weapons from the hands of the enemies to be transferred to the hands of the Poverty.

The Filipino people is determined to push for the Filipino people to push through in front of a dark condition when the system is experiencing, the future of the revolutionary movement is clear.
