"The victims of Martial Law, will have been waiting for justice.

By Christine Kaye.
April 27, 2013.

"Do you wait for a long time for the victims of Martial Law in implementing Republic Act Number 10368 under President Benigno Aquino III?"
This is the decision of the ex-Laban ng Bayan), an organization of former political prisoners, because it is not yet implemented being implemented by the Human Rights victims who were not being implemented by the human rights victims of 2013 two months after Aquino signed it.
The human rights they were not able to provide for human rights during the time of 2013 will give solution to the victims of human rights during the time of the law, that the family of the victim was forcefully raped, including the family of the victim who was forcibly raped, 1974 until February 25, 1986.
In its implementation, the government needs to raise the leadership of Aquino to know who will be given protection and how much will be the amount given by the victims 15 days after the official published.
"A few months have passed since the President signed, and it went past to the information that he was given, but when we will just wait for any information from Malacanang about this," said Ronila Clyde Fernandez, "said Ronampuenga," said, Ronhardening.
According to Tabag-II of the said law, the board member of the said law should be composed of nine members of the new laws which is the members of the board.
Aside from this, it is also stated that the President is the one who ordered the councilors to take advantage of the remaining eight members of human rights including the cell.
But the cell said that they already presented the names of five Palestinian from the Board of high credibility last March 12, but was not yet acted upon.
The cell is hoping to complete the board to complete the names of the victims of human rights during the Marcos regime.
"The long waiting of the victims of Martial Law should be right now that they should be given enough attention," said Clyde Fernandez.
It reached P10 million pesos for the victims of human rights to the victims of human rights violations against the ill-mannered family of the Marcos from the ill-mannered family.
"The implementation of this law should be the way so that the giving justice to the victims will start, there is also no regulations that will be implemented if this law will be implemented, so that this law will be implemented," also emphasized by the Clyde. "
