Violence of Oplan Tokhang was the minors, even more.

The country.
There is 21, 2012.

The violation of the Armed Forces of the Philippines continues to increase and worsen compared to the rights of the children, and their parents are experiencing extreme cruelty to the children's rights under the public and right, aside from his narration to the people behind the masses.

In the reports gathered by the Ang Bayan, cases of ghastly cases of minors are increasing, including the cases of killings, failed murder, realization, the attacks of schools and the malicious act of the child as a young soldier. "

In the name of the oil that is centered on the people "by the Oplan Galugad, the AFP is giving his presence in the community with a strong movement in the name of the people and he is suspected that the anti-trafficking continues in the name of the people and fight, therefore, the anti-social encounter and fight will be implemented, therefore, the anti-social media will take advantage of suspicion and disunity.

The children or minors are included in the strongest violence of the AFP about the operation of armed soldiers in their schools and flood due to the destruction of armed soldiers in their schools, including their tactics of harassment from the children who are involved in the poor masses.

The privatization of the school and the community.

The AFP dispelled their rights and important to the civilians in the implementation of Filipino soldiers in the implementation of the armed soldiers at the very center of the armed soldiers in the very center of the armed soldiers in the center of the armed attack, which is a direct violation against the armed attack, which is a direct violation of the international law.

The building of the armed soldiers inside or beside the schools is a violation of the rights of the children, not just a few cases used by armed soldiers and what they will give in the climate of the children.

Widespread in Southern Mindanao is based on the military near public schools and other parts of the population and other parts of the population in Compostela Valley: Paloc Elementary School, Tabag Elementary School, Tabag Elementary School, Barangay Leyte Elementary School, in New Leyte Elementary School, in New Leyte Elementary School, in the town of Mackenzie.

In Compostela Valley, 72nd IB, is undergoing patrol based on the center of population in the barangays of Anzon, New Asturias, town of Bagong Visayas, New Asturias, in the town of Bagong Silang, which is at the back of the municipal hall of Pantukan.

In Northeastern Mindanao, under the military's final care center and health centers last June to July 2011 in Barangay long, Marcel, Surigao del Sur, due to fear, they were forced to evacuate their families.

In Police District, Davao City, residents have long been complaining about the camp of the 69th IB, near Paradise, Hacx-School and the houses of the civilians, who are opposing their presence was immediately being endorsed by the residents of Bagong Hala Bayan and threatened to be killed.

In Far South Mindanao Region, troops of 79th Infantry Battalion are continuously being harassed by the teachers and students of B virus (ALS), Barangay Upper Pangit, Sarangani until they were forced to leave the place for their own safety.

It has been four years since the Priority Development Assistance Fund) which is being carried away by the Center for Lumad are the projects of CLess (CLFS) and threatened to be killed because of the combat that were placed in school when March, they were forced to close the school.

In Bukidnon, it was reported that the soldiers were also reported with a branch of the school CLess of a town here, because of this, the residents were forced to stop the children.

In Pantukan, Compostela Valley, on September 3, 2011, a seven-year-old teenage boy was hit by the stray bullet that was hit by a stray bullet that was hit by a stray bullet that was hit by a stray bullet in one videoke bar.

On the other hand, in Luzon, according to the report of Saure went softer in Abra, the troops of military operations were destroyed by the troop of 50th IB, Abra last December 21, 2011 when they took the Barangay Golovkin that was not far from a school.

In Mankayan, Benguet, there are a few more places to stay at home at the center of Nagtahan Bridge, this was reported that the criminal case of the military was reported on December 2011 and February 17 to 20.

In Metro Manila, with the number of policemen in San Juan Municipal High School last January 13 to implement the violent demolition of the community of poor cities in Corazon de Jesus, city of San Juan.

In Barangay Libertad, Ormoc City, the soldiers of 25th IB, who were riding the five trucks and occupied by the barangay hall and takes care center, due to this were suspended in the classes of children in the dycare center last March 9-12.

In Barangay San Miguel, Las Piñas, Northern Samar, Northern Samar, and some parts of Parkinson and Moalong, Samar, the soldiers have a basis for the school and other public facilities for the residents in the very center of squatters.
