
Guard Enrile.

By Campos.
January 29, 2012.

A few days after the hearing of the Senate hearing for the impeachment case of Chief Justice Renato Corona, he was calling the Senate in implementing rules in the hearing that he seemed to run as a senator in the upcoming election because he seemed to run as a senator in the upcoming election.
Whatever it is, Madela did not notice the response of Senator Juan Ponce Enrile, the President of the Senate and to not forget his duty as the President of the Senate and is sent to his duty as President of the senate, and according to him, the senators lost faith in the leadership of Enrile, as well as the alleged "fair" of bringing it.
What happened was, the call of Tupas came back, according to the truth that the Senate continues to push through the court, and especially since Enrile was successful and the prosecution's response was successful and the prosecution's response was successful and it is not impossible that this will be repeated.
Enrile should be guarded by the people whom he wants to push for the impeachment and he was removed from the impeachment case by Arroyo, which is on the time when Enrile gave the chance to fix the burial of her general, which is because of his stubbornness with Arroyo, which was because of his stubbornness to Arroyo.
My suspicion, Enrile is also taking the credibility of those who are against the impeachment, especially the pro-Arroyo and even Enrile himself, which is likely to be used as a protector, that is why he has not been set up to think about him again as the champion of democracy.
Caught by the Aquino government's role in the role of Enrile by the plans of the pro-Arroyo, the group being pointed out of the murder of the former leader, Rolando Obol ia, and the group who was pointed out to the murder of the former leader, Rolando Obol ia, and the group who was pointed out, because of the statement that justice has changed for the country.
My suspicion, the Aquino government itself is behind the fake press release of it, aside from what he wants to hear from the trial or even in favor of the current administration of the Aquino administration, it seems that it is just being used by the Aquino government, not justice for the two.
This was made before by Aquino, Aquino, on the election case 2010, Monsod she released an email "Walis" that's why when he attacked Noynoy Aquino's camp, who was said to have been focused on the election, who was said to be more active, almost dead, and almost died before, that's why they were arrested by Villar.
