
Work, high-high-high blood against the flood and INCHS.

This is owned by the administration of Mayor Del R. de Guzman, and Vice Mayor Jose Fabian, one of the next 3 years of Mahilum, using a CCTV camera, text explosive devices in a high-high command center, and a resident of PLMar, Legislative Chamber, and a new city hall.
This is supported by Representative Miro R. Quimbo, who was elected as congressman of the second district.
De Guzman, Soledad, and Quimbo, is the so-called "three head" of Marikina.
Mayor Del Rosario thanked the great majority of those who voted for them because he voted for an example, 6 percent of those who voted for the mayor.
More than two thousand people attended the oath taking of the newly-elected officials of the city of Marikina that was held in Marikina Convention Center yesterday morning when the congressman did not come out of the first district.
The strongest pushed by Mayor Del Pilar that there will be Marikina of the Black Nazarene that will be used in the stretch of the river so that he will be raised and add to the length of Marikina River.
He reported the proposal to be released by the proposed protest against the flood-control which they agreed with President Noynoy Aquino III and DPWH Sec. Rogelio Singson with the help of Cong. Miro, who is one of the abts of the Liberal Party.
Mayor Del Pilar became emotional when he thank his family - his wife, Amy, and her children (3 men and only one woman), she said that she knew that her shortcomings was big even though they did not respond.
He thanked the understanding especially in the hours that he is not with them.
It's because it's because our mayor is different because of the downpour of time in service and the residents who need help, he usually goes to until dawn.
It is saddening that even if Mayor Del Pilar is in that hard work and honest, there are people who wants to malign him in the eyes of the public.
But what is right, is that the observation of many that because the mayor does not have any nonsense and anomaly, the mayors being thrown at him like the fight of neighbors, the "unpayment of debt of the bazaars here on earth, etcetera.
