TV Patrol, August 12, 2013.

Yes, dear?

A great love is standing up for giving respect, healthy things that can be washed away by admiration, and no trace of love and goodness for each other.

Many are confused and will be put in danger, if the orders of your partner will not be heard, especially if the orders of your partner will not be heard, especially the primary ingredients in maintain trust, loyalty, and most of all, love.

Even if the relationship is extraordinary and passionate with happiness, it will be better if you will die early; and you will surely do it to improve; it can be sure that it will be better for each other, but it can be sure that it will be better if your partner will be ignored, and become a habit to disregard or take revenge.

The feeling that was not given attention and put into oblivion, it creates revenge and a heavy sin, if there is no caution and forgiveness, it will just be noticed that this is already severe and the following chapter in life will be noticed.

The great relationship is not what is perfect, "the couple agreed and agreed.

This is when the "married couple is not perfect, he learned how to change their difference, and if the boy is a direct difference, and just like the man who wants to hug and celebrate their own color," the woman who asked for forgiveness will continue, "the father of my mother," the first one who asked for forgiveness is the one who asked for forgiveness. "

The first to forgive is the most strong and the first forgotten what happened is he is the most happy. "

What is the meaning of a married life?

"He / she is numb," he / she is very busy prison bars and is an influential man, "I am busy with the sweetness of my heart," she can't notice me, "Pogi", "what you want," Pogi "," what you want to be experienced now, "Atong", "what you want to be separated now, tomorrow, and Magpakailanman."

You did not marry a person; the truth is, you got married to three: A person whom she is thinking about him; and the person who is thinking that she will be the result of his marriage to you.

Question: What was the secret from the pure relationship of the couple why they continue to love each other?

The answer to this is the title of this article.
