M 16, he will not watch for its subsidy for the government, but it is lucky that she will not be someone else just to enter their room so that she will not go to their room so that she will not be able to reach their room so that she will not be able to go to their room so that she would not be able to reach their room so that she would not be able to reach their room so that she would not have been lucky.
So the time now is, if they themselves are the problem, what is the excuse that he uses so that they are the ones who can take advantage; maybe they are innocent.
A lot of people who were forced to buy from their homes and those who send a text message to the evident.
One case was the father of Mariveles.
Two ways.
In the government.
You are needed in order to find Zamboanga.
There are also a person who will not call the hardship and pain that the residents are wet.
It is difficult that he wants to go home many more handsome.
That is it!
We have to have no supply here in us.
We are sensible.
Assignment Section.
To us.
Siblings.
You said that in the next month, Chongqing, up to now, is now being felt, that even in the middle of the streets in the market, while a big market can be understood even if a big market can be understood even in the supply of food in Zamboanga.
Because there was a very beautiful place in Zamboanga past the past of all sorts of establishments; it is really fresh but since there was only a little and going to buy only because it's not too thick, all of the fishermen made it payment because it is a lot of people here in the Philippines that you should think.
Or to believe.
What?
My name is the fish.
Luneta!
You know.
What he is selling, not just like before, the small issues that have been affected by the small people are only wounded in their daily lives of our ancestors.
Labo is Sta.
We do not need trouble so that we do not have any trouble, we should end it.
We can find people that we do not have a house to return to our place, of course the rain is strong.
All of my experience in Zamboanga are being experienced because of this daring welfare of the bread.
That was where he was.
They will be able to understand the agreement between the M-L of the government, that's why you lose the government.
It seems like there is a problem not.
According to five:
It's not a time that we will go to school; he / she is very weak.
Five or different kinds of action and even though they are only small to four.
Two weeks two months ago, they called them that what will happen is what will happen to the whole, they think they will go there for a month, that they would go there for a month, which is why they will go to a small amount that will be given by the Commander of the Chairman of leadership in the debate with four years.
Two people whose problems are not just a small problem, he / she is just small, very small; so many things, even though it's small to do, even if the result of the story of Jessica is in my personal way.
Even the pension I ask, Development Corporation, the government should be careful; we should be careful with these people who are not true that this is not true that it is not true that this kind of president will not experience this because it is not a problem because it is not a problem.
Number Chairman yes.
Two months to sleep and has not yet gone with each other.
Two Wives.
Four years, what you are saying, this is what we have been saying that this is not what we should do to the ordinary members of the government, why is it not yet clear that this is still not clear when we will be able to go home to one thousand who lost their homes.
