
The law against the poor, is being pushed by the Supreme Court.

By Kenneth Roland A. Guda.
March 27, 2012.

From different progressive countries, carrying the demolition of demolition in their area, they arrive in front of the Supreme Court by their representative, who are not less than 16,000 people in the 20 community which is feasted in, in the time of the Aquino administration.
They went to there to file a petition to file a petition for them to have been released by the Republic Act 7279, or Urban Development and Gaming Corporation (UPP) of 1992.

It has reached 20 years for the implementation of this law, which led last March 24, 1992., according to Kalubihan, Damayang Lagi, police, military, government agencies, which is said to have not been collected by the poor who are being driven away.
Upon the arrival of the authorities in the town of the Supreme Court, they faced each of his speaker to resign as Marquez), if the magistrates agreed to it (petition), they will not be used for the demolition. "
This is what the poor believe from the Supreme Court, anyway, even if in the middle of the controversy related to Chief Justice Renato Corona, it is the same institution that released a decision to share the land of Hacienda Luisita, which is claiming the family of President Aquino.
It is a hot right.
"Buenacosta for the 42nd Infantry Batallion of the Rules of Court" of Carmona, alliance between the Rules of Court "of Castilla, Alyasang Makabayan (AKD) and AOIL-list are ArX-list of the Saligang Batas, particularly Sambag 2 and 10.
In the said threats, it is said that it is said that the government's duty should allocate time for the poor, opportunity for their followers, right for the demolition, and human rights to transfer them from a place or community.
According to Carlito Galion, leader of Kadamay, and one of their petition, the whole world is recognized by the whole world as well for the decent age of Human Rights (UHumalig), that every person has the right for their own house, and lot. "

Despite the guarantee that this is a guarantee for this human rights to the citizens, even if the demolition of Metro Manila and other parts of the city of Metro Manila and other parts of the city of Metro Manila and other parts of the city.
The demolition are being pushed through.
The basis is made in 1992 by the form of a "National Transformation Council of the role of a" National Transformation Council, the goal of guide the whole program of the government for the housing and improvement of urban centers.
The "improvement of" improvement "in terms of new appearance is said to be held accountable, even if there are two councilors that will not refuse, even the poor, for sure, they have long wish for progress in their community.

But they have a problem in pushing the government for progress, "it is clear in the development being done by the economy and business of big companies, including the vendors, and owners of this corporation, this is for the businessmen, not for the poor.
According to Armada, Article II, which is said to be a part of the government's program in developing the: "(P) will decrease in the right actions of the government, particularly on the widespread brownout in the country, safety and surroundings."

In the experience of the poor, this article is usually placed in line with the demolition, most of the poor community, which are being used by the poor community in Makati, including the Montenero, school, etcetera, and many others.
In other provisions of the Usahay, according to Pagasa, it is clearly stated that it is part of the policy of the government to bring them to the houses, Article VII of the train, seaside, sidewalk, road, sidewalk, sidewalks, streets, in the mandate and playground.
In simpler terms, all poor community in the Philippines can be held.
In the morning, Supreme Court Administrator Midas Marquez has personally met the representative of the poor, including APD Representative Rafael Mariano (red-red), former Atejano) and Roy Velez of Kilusang Mayo Uno (National Capital Region (SAF). (KR Guda).
Housing project, is built.
Business is the reason to evacuate the poor, but under the Ubers, they also have a business transfer to the housing program.
At ArV-Uge, the provisions that will be focused on the office of the housing program is clearly stated in the provision that will be given to those who will be respected in the disputed territory of the "Ipit Gang" which is also stated in the approval of the role in a private sector in the private sector. "
According to Florentino, these are being implemented, for example, in relocation of Montalban, Rizal and other Relocation centers of NHA about the experience of the poor, many are not able to pay for their former livelihood.
Meanwhile, "professional with squatters," inherited a name of the poor people who go back to former places which are feasted in because of the lack of livelihood and good condition in relocation, especially the poor, that the poor will just be the same with the relocation of the relocation.
For the poor, Kadamay, said that the demolition of the Aquino administration is clear in order to give way to the Supreme Court - to protect its trash, according to them, to stop, and somehow, the brutal slaying of their houses.
However, it is expected that the Aquino administration is expecting the reason why, they are ready to fight, anything.
"It still remained in the strong defense of the community through the barbells as the country, the poor are able to achieve their rights for a decent school," the end of habeas corpus.
