Politics is the politics of the calamity.

"
The most powerful country is the United States, but the citizens have reached a good crisis because of the lack of proper system of response by the government, but like the United States, Katrina in the United States, but it has not been reported to have been evacuated earlier and evacuated earlier.
In the release of the Philippines, almost every month there is a calamity, the image of the victims is tragic, that many of these are the image of children which show up, a lot of vehicles that passed by, trying to make help.
But it seems that the leaders have not learned about it because the government is always exposed to response to the victims.
Just this past week, after the earthquake in Bohol and Cebu, it was revealed in the television the image of the victims who were almost begging, and throw at the slow action of the government, and there was also a threat that a group of Red Cross in the leadership of Richard Gordon is released again.

Why is it that there is a controversy about the distribution of relief goods?
We will push through the event in the controversy that's being grossed for, based on the reports of the witness, the group of Red Cross said that they want to use the relief goods, and they want to use the relief goods, that is why they want to set the one to set aside from the Accountability in their donated fund.
On the other hand, Evasco defended that he only wants to make the prosecution to give and give them the chance to use the opportunity for his political ambition, he won't have a plan to use the opportunity for his political life, maybe she won't be able to use the chance to use the group of Red Cross in its last term.
In this time, the eyes of the politicians are not good, especially with the shots that happened in the government together with the long time experience of all politicians who take advantage of calamities just to look handsome.
The position of the two groups is right to help our fellow countrymen who are not bad to help our fellow countrymen who are not wrong with their help to the Red Cross in order to go directly to Red Cross in their help, and this should not be an opponent.
There is a problem when the Red Cross said that this should be distributed and set the truth to the local officials or local government agencies, if there is a calamity, those who know who should be given assistance during the time of calamity are still in chaos and are still in danger in facing any list of beneficiary.
In the midst of this controversy, it can be obvious that the criticisms made by Evasco, especially the huge media, let them have their own arguments with the Red Cross in every station of MRT and LRT, and to the stores in big malls.
The big question in the social media - can they find out the whole truth about what happened before they had a huge interest in the cross "Mayor Evasco, it is also possible that the people who witnessed the actual incident will have a huge interest on the actual incident, because there were also someone who witnessed the actual incident?
Is there a need to blame the controversy or controversies when there is a calamity, it is possible that the government is ready from the national up to the local level of the government, the government is ready for a few days before the response of the victims.
Usually, it is true that the first one who can give assistance is the private sector, and individuals who want to give immediate aid, this is the primary reason for the government to cross the culture of private agencies inside or outside the country.
In this issue, admirable is the resolve of Mayor Evasco.
The controversy in Bohol is what the politicians are showing that they need the pork barrel for the poor and to response to the calamities, that is why every time there is calamity, expect that there will be advantage of the victims that are hiding at the badge of agencies that are giving help.
