
God bless, THE, in the SONA we celebrate today.

The State of the Nation Address is a witness of the state of the Nation Address and there will be no content of it before Boss Benigno Simeon Aquino III will express this day.
That is okay with us.
But there are those who want to be washed away by the Palace, which is possible to be a report of everyone?
If that is true, hopefully it can't be harmful to everyone or the majority.
Old news.
Is one of those who will be deceived by the improvement of my beloved Philippines?
The truth is, it turns out that this news is coming out even in our newspaper.
What is painful here is that, it has not been a former president who said that they cannot feel the riches of the country.
Maybe, many say, they are the only progress or those who get rich.
Most of these are the 38 million workers who did not even hear "Wage Order," even though they have only heard a "Wage," even if the only consolation, its past birthday is May Uno.
Also included in those who cannot feel progress is the million drivers of the tricycle, jeepney and others being carried away by the oil companies because they have no end of "oil price hike."
He was disgusted with the Philippines.
Is it also included in those whom the President will say about the changes and riches of the Philippines?
It is possible that this has also no effect, because there is a foreigner who will give big capital for the building of factories to make sure that there will be a livelihood of many people and will also get their taxes.
Instead, they seem to be disgusted with them and they run in other countries in order to build factories.
It has reached a good score, "my beloved Philippines, but it has not been an equivalent place for the foreigners to take care of it.
When America has a bit more beautiful and it can go back to the economy or it can go back to this crisis, foreign invest in the called Stock Exchange or going to America to sell their capital or money.
From JO KHala.
It is also possible that there is a change in the military as a SONA.
It is possible that a ship of the military will arrive in the territory of the Philippines in the West Philippine Sea.
But others say, what can the ships that came from empty bottles of Americans in modern ships of China who are roaming in our territory in the said ocean?
Nevertheless, there have been an excuse that we have the same with each other for those who are going to ashes in Barangay Road, which can be used by congressmen, governor, mayor and captain, "it is better than mud."
Armed men.
Recently, the government offered many guns to the police to fight against criminals.
That is also good.
However, it turns out that the severe corruption in the police will come out now and the weapons they make will make peace to those who have no idea about their rottenness.
For example, suspicion or deaths are the cause of death of the two leaders of the ebola virus recently, it turns out that two of them know a lot of children, including those who were godfather and godmother in high positions in the police, in their criminal activities.
There was suspicion that between the police who fought against the territory in illegal gambling like what happened in Atimonan, which led to the death of innocent civilians.
It is scary that the police will have weapons in this incident.
Peaceful.
In many opinion, the agreement of the Philippines and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front is after the SONA.
Nevertheless, it is expected that the wide and long term peace in Mindanao will be expected because of this.
But there are many questions about "share wealth or contribution to all the natural resources that they will get from Mindanao.
Who will the participants of the oil companies, naturally, gas, gold and other big chunk of wealth in Mindanao?
If there will be a job for some of the ordinary citizens in Mindanao, they are going to be abused by their natural resources, can it be sure that the Philippines has a long-lasting peace?
But, the riches that is being sold are running out, and what hurts, it's likely that the biggest part of income or profit from these business and prevent it on the progress of the whole country.
Change in the Constitution.
Is it possible that the taking of the seat in the 1987 Constitution or the Constitution?
It is possible that this is also for the people.
And it is possible that the foreigners can be given 100-million pesos which is owned by the land; mining of oil, gold, water; water, medicine; food; food and other valuable businesses in the Philippines?
During the time of the Spaniards, the foreigners will property all the natural resources and businesses in the country and because of a curse that he has used to Gat Andres Bonifacio, their employers, Andres Bonifacio.
God bless, the Philippines!
Isn't it?
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.

Um!
