Military, rape and bait for Oplan Tokhang.

The 17-year-old lady Maker is going to be able to go out from the National Center for Mental Health (BTAC) to fix the condition of her child, after five months in the hospital, after five months of the 16th Infantry Battalion in Baras, Rizal.
"My visit last Monday, he was already known to me," according to the Filipino Weeker, Otto Becker, father of Mingo, but their fight is just starting for justice.
Mongkano entered the group of Gabriela because of the continuous progress of the case filed against the soldiers, the case filed against the soldiers was the second case of the Ipit Gang who responded to Gabriela this month, which is very important to the group of women.
She was raped.
Last Oct. 24, 2011, Pfc. Alexander Barrettos invited the victim to a Christmas party inside the camp of the 16th IB in Sitio Gatid, Barangay Pinugay, a soldier of his cousin and neighbors who were her male cousin and neighbors who were both minors.
Upon arriving at the camp at around 3: 00 in the afternoon, Barroca allegedly brought the three children in the hut of Private Rocky Balboa.
Upon arriving at the house, her grandmother was noticed that Maker is silent on the next day when she saw his classmate who was filled with blood, according to the copy of the examination of the examination of the body which is an indication of rape.
Five days after the incident, her relatives was immediately brought by her relatives when she went wild and she did not say goodbye to her, "according to Orocay," according to Onok Island, she said that she was always talking to herself, when she was always talking to herself, in the first month of the hospital.
Last November 4, the three soldiers were filed in Morong Regional Trial Court by the rape case of Orocay, until now, there is still no hearing hearing on the court.
The accused were also not imprisoned, instead they were just taking advantage of the barracks in Camp Caping, station of the 2nd Infantry Division in Tanay, Rizal, there were still news that the soldiers were still seen on duty.
He added that the military invited the family of P300,000 to dismiss the case, but his family is decided to achieve more women if they will not be punished, "said the father of Mucal.
AFP, "they are being accused of criminals.
In a Peret in front of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in Camp Aguinaldo, Gabriela and groups of human rights are criticized by women and children of the military.

Who was Erlinda Victor Abarca, mother of the missing student who are Sherawat Cadapan, who was kidnapped by Maj. General Jovito Palparan, which is currently hiding because wanted for the kidnapping of kidnapping, Sherawat became raped in the hands of Palparan's personnel.
"The AFP should be held accountable, which is the center of muscular body and violence against women and children, that he is one of the criminals like Palparan's," according to Lana, general secretary from Gabriela.
Linmei added that the arrest of the gang of rape victims in the Oplan Galugad conducted by the Aquino administration is said to be a part of their community, and the camp itself in the community, "said the women and children in this kind of tactics of fraud," he said.
Last February 2, invited inside the military in Aroroy, Masbate, Lilia Ladja, a 21-year-old victim of rape, seven soldiers of the 9th Infantry Division, led by Corporal Gilbert Quinta, who allegedly raped the young lady after he got drunk in a drinking session.
The soldiers were charged with rape to the Provincial Office solution Office in Masbate City.
However, Gabriela who has tried to come upon the investigation of the military, which is known for the criminals in their ranks but was praised by the group Mongkano and Lilia for their readiness to fight.
"We are calling the public to support these victims until the people who are guilty can be punished to hold the AFP as an institution where the rapist and the people are protecting them," said libel.
