Cancer, heart attack, Dick-blood, diabetes and landslides.

Let us continue the discussion of some diseases that is scary if we get hit.
Yesterday, we discussed the hundreds of Filipinos who get sick tuberculosis.
The government failed to control the TB and one of the reasons here is the failure of the government to help the citizens to improve life or free from hunger.
If you are hungry in stomach, TB is one of the diseases that will be with you.
Vitamin C is not enough.
Those with work are found, especially those who are in the office, which is lacking in vitamins, D.
Vitamin C, Bro, you can get from the light of the sun and for the food that they are applying for.
Those who are working in the office are still lacking in Vitamin C because they usually are inside the buildings and are not deported.
If you will always have three sons and you always have a need to fight against light or pain in your skin, it is certain that you will also be less than Vitamin C.
After that, if you are always snack and noodles as your food, you are dead because you will be hit by serious illness.
Eating on vitamins is eating.
There are many surrounding the oily foods in Vitamin C.
Part of this is the fat of fish, sardines, fish, fish paste, salmon, shrimp, soy sauce, soy sauce, soy sauce, eggs, milk, milk and many others.
Those good at food say, the movement of fish is rich in Vitamin C.
If you bite all of these and if you are often hit on the light of the sun, your body is rich in Vitamin C.
Cancer, heart disease, diabetes.
Here are you, Bro, the pain that will be with you if you lack in that vitamins is lacking.
Do not be wondering why you have cancer, who are being attacked by the heart, filled with diabetes, had a high blood and full of depression.
Hopefully, we do not want to happen that we have cancer because we do not have any fight here.
Also, let us not have diabetes until we lose their feet.
We hope that we should not have a high blood pressure and have a heart attack until we are not really limping and even vegetables in the whole life.
And we should not have depression until we think about suicide.
That is how strong, Bro, people who are lacking in vitamins, are like that.
An epidemic of disease.
The residents of the Philippine College of Occupational Health Organization (PM) and from the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency) and from the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency), an epidemic, is an epidemic of Vitamin C.
Well, with the number of people who get sick, we have said to be sick in the top.
The top 10 people who will die from the Philippines, included here is the pain in the heart of Number 1; stroke, number 2; high blood or magazines, Number 3; cancer, Number 3; and diabetes, number 7.
Let us pay attention to this, Bro, on the year 2004 until 2008 or in four years, a Filipino died from the heart disease and stroke while someone died from diabetes that is around 20,000.
It was only last 2010, when the cancer in the chest, most of them were women and died, more than half had cancer in her abdomen.
That is how much is the lack of Vitamin C.
Enough with the information.
If you ask your parents what is Vitamin C, Bro, you will know that many majority do not have any idea about this.
That is why, parents do not do anything to improve Vitamin C from their children.
"The baby tried to expose the sun and with Vitamin C but while they are growing up, they do not want to go down on the day," they said. "
Perfect!
Vitamin C also cannot be talked about by school even if you ask for students.
It is true that there is a daily exercise for children to school, they do not have any idea if they are always under it so that they can have a form of Vitamin C.
But what is bad, most of the exercise are being done in the school, Gymnasium and others who were not removed from the sun.
But what is really serious, is that the teachers have no idea how to be the teachers about Vitamin C.
Not really.
Because of life's difficulty, there are also many parents who don't want to give to the children of the proper supply of Vitamin C, aside from the same time they are not in the house looking for a job that usually has a low salary and their actual condition.
These teachers, because of too much exhaustion from extrajudicial killings which are being taken by the Department of Education for them, we are hoping that the children should be given the situation to have a condition of Vitamin C and so that they will not be hit by the deadly disease that we have mentioned.
But the primary job is to become aware of the value of Vitamin C in the government.
It should be hardworking to spread information here for the good health of the citizens.
