About the arrival of China and meddling of the peace talks by the United Nations.

It's a short trip by Cong. Jose Maria Sison, President Jejomar Binay, Liberal Party of the Philippines and Barangay Pampangga, National Democratic Front of the Philippines.

Reporting, Jose Maria Sison.
CPP founding chairman.
April 30, 2012.

Fellow countrymen.

Warm greetings!

I am thankful to my beloved friend, General Joone de Leon, in giving a lesson from my biological family and recommendation about the National Security Administration as to the National Security Administration in giving protection and recommendation about some hot topic related to our country and people.

In relation to the implementation and meddling of China in the Independence Day of the Philippines and the Panatag Shoal, I consider the issue of principles and teasing of the Philippines and the territory of the filipino masses, and the territory of the Philippine Sea (UMC) that is signed and should be implemented by the Philippines and China.

It will be considered by the Ubers which is the most strong basis under the international law to insist that our rights in the cities in the islands of the Philippines are being used by armed people in the Philippines in the islands of Paris, Bajo de Masinloc and Scarborough Shoal or Scarborough Shoal or Scarborough Shoal or Scarborough Shoal.

Despite what he insisted, China is still avoiding any direct power by China, this is probably why it is said that he became powerful in a peaceful way and to protect the American troops that became powerful in China, which is why it's true that there would be an extensive operation of the UN, that is why he is avoiding that the government troops are avoiding them.

We also need to treat a peaceful case of principle and duty to search for a peaceful resolution on the political issues in China, and as possible, we can always learn to finish the issue on the most early time, and as possible, we should always insist on the implementation of the case according to the International Criminal Court in the International Trujillo.

For the interest of our country to be involved in the Philippines and the Filipino people in any kind of damage caused by the US and China, we should remember that there is a big interest in the Philippines against China, that we should remember that our national sovereignty and territory of the US will continue to strengthen and strengthen the heals of the US in Asia-Pacific.

In relation to the peace talks by the GSU-NDFP), this is paralyzed because of the stubbornness led by the Presidential Adviser on the Peace Process (GAPAPP) and the revival of the legislative chamber that is against the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) and the suspension of the legislative chamber that is against the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) and under the legislative chamber that is against the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) and under the legislative chamber that is against the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) and under the legislative chamber that is against the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo).

Despite all the issues that has been mentioned, the NDFP members still believes that the two sides have already been working in Quezon City; and there were no formal agreement that the negotiators had ended up in Quezon City; and there was no formal agreement between the negotiators and the Philippine Constabulary before yesterday to give way to the formal agreement.

The NDFP members are continuously hoping to fulfilling the peace talks between the two panel when they continue to talk about the remaining peace talks between the two panel when they continue to discuss the appropriate process of planting and alliance between the United Nations and NDFP) to continue the proper process of the peace talks with the three remaining effects of the peace talks.

The general declaration of the proposition to be proposed by NDFP is a thing that could not object to any filipino countrymen who can stop the goal of the national sovereignty and middle of democracy by the national sovereignty and middle of the government's programs and culture; and improvement of democracy for freedom and international peace.

If it is true that the Aquino administration is really interested in making peace of a regular process of making peace through the ceasefire, there is no reason for the proposal of the NDFP members in relation to the general declaration of the legal goal, everything for the benefit of the Filipino people.

I encouraged the president of Golovkin to have a proper decision to fulfill his hard work in order to resolve the root of the armed arguments so that we will be ready to fix the root of the armed arguments, and let us help each other for the benefit of the people.
