
There are those who are doing something in the election and the youth.

Politics is very hot in relation to the election 2013.
The last victim was Lupata, Camarines Sur Mayor Leo Raul Matamant.
Mayor Matamana's last term is the one who will replace him as a candidate for his sibling.
We have no one being accused here but we can only say that even if politics is far, it is starting to be hot.
Because the truth is, it is not only Mayor Matambato, the victim of the election 2013.
There are those who went before him, based on the coming report to us.
It is difficult to wear.
In the past killings related to the election 2013, there is almost no clear reason.
The authorities are still investigating.
But we can say that all politicians are really target, whether the incumbent or candidate who is just about to leave.
The authorities are having a hard time to identify the reasons and to identify the killer-in-tandem.
This might also happen to the case of Mayor Matamiable.
Hopefully not.
COMELEC should act on.
In our opinion, Bro, until the problem with politicians, partylist and voters, the Commission on Elections is currently busy with it.
But he will file charges for certificate of candidacy so he can move early on the preparation of the election, with politicians from the spread of fire.
That's why the lives of politicians are at stake, are at stake.
That is why, we advise the COMELEC to make a step to protect the lives of politicians.
There are many who know if they will lose or not, and this is where politicians are having an early solution to their respective problems.
The killing of the opponent is the real solution to defeat or receiving victory.
Meanwhile, others just collected money and are taking advantage of the coming out of the politicians in their homes or office.
Counting machines.
Even if the people of COMELEC cannot admit, the use of the researchers, in the election is one of the root of killings in politics.
It's because politicians are going to find it hard for cheating in using additional wages, vote buying, Flying V, defamation and many others.
There in the survey, the fight will be equal and there is a need to see who will be elected by the people who will lead and serving them.
Like what we have said, the murder of the opponent is the most effective weapon against the opponent.
In front of this problem, what the COMELEC is doing is what the COMELEC is doing to protect the politicians?
They should also be guarded.
It is normal for everyone to write to the news that they are pointing out.
After their reports on the newspapers, radio, television and internet, someone is happy and gets angry.
Those who are angry should be guarded by Uamen, no matter how much the news being reported to be taken, there are some who get angry.
Like our experience, this is also where the killings in our ranks are.
We don't know that the bastard politicians are not contented with the poor people.
With us through libel cases.
We are trying to be buried in the hole, in the cemeteries.
COMELEC and MNC recently.
Let us also ask the COMELEC on what they are preparing for to become amen.
If we're trying to find the COMELEC, protection of politicians from COMELEC, is the search for being a protection from the Comelec?
After all, the work of Camen will follow all the footsteps of the politicians and report to the public about their tasks.
What can the COMELEC can say if they can consider the sake of the life and death?
It's because we are just thinking, Bro, teachers and other mothers of the COMELEC, as well as the COMELEC, as well as their followers in making clean election.
The Comelec denied this for them.
Also the care of the COMELEC?
Are you okay with the youth!
Anyway, even we are waiting for the death of us, we are still rushing.
It's because we are going to bring news to the people even in any issue, like politics.
Look at me, Bro, which will make your inspiration and inspiration.
Do you know that after the Maguindanao massacre happened, there are number of youth who want to get the course of media?
Some parents are afraid for their children.
But the youth have their own efforts and they do not insist to get a course of course for a long time.
They the youth are our inspiration and gives us more shouting and continue our profession.
The strength of the heart, the courage to face the death of the Philippines and truth is what we should be aware of to our youth.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.
