Against terrorism, against poverty.

However, the condition of President Benigno Aquino III is not good, he still left the country to attend the 25th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit in Cambodia.
The President has a cold and cold so his feeling is not good so that before he goes to Cambodia, he would not attend a few meeting that he should have to face.
There is no problem with PNoy if he is not able to attend a few meeting here in our country because what is important to him is to strengthen the relationship of the Philippines and Cambodia in his opposition to the transition national crime and terrorism.
Many are criticizing President Noynoy because of the alleged weak fight in terrorism of his government, it is not true that the administration of PNoy has been giving a long fight against terrorism because he believes that terrorism will be one of the persons in the development of our country.
The Philippines and Cambodia, the outline of the Memorandum of Agreement on Elections (Priority Development Assistance Fund), which is why the two countries are ready for the formal signing of GAA.
Included in the agreement that the Philippine National Police is getting along with the Philippine National Police is coordinating with the Philippine National Police to implement the law, fight against criminality and those similar to it.
The President will comeback on November 20 in the country because even the progress of terrorism will go back, but even the progress of the country is coming, it will be together with the progress of the country because the citizens will focus on improvement of their livelihood.
Which is often affected by terrorism.
Terrorism did not only have the point when PNoy goes to the 21st ASEAN summit but also in strengthening the relationship of the two countries in relation to culture, agriculture and education.
Aside from this, President Aquino will try to have a single position in the ASEAN community in the disputed territory in the West Philippine Sea.
