Courage to get away from China.
It was the first win in a noodle house in Italy.
By Ramil Cruz, 28, 2016.
The twin nightmare of the Philippine National Men's basketball has been stopped at the European training team to destroy China, 72-69, to add up at 3 knee yesterday at Land Rover Arena in Land Rover Arena in Bolante, Italy.
It has been two consecutive wins against his 11 points for the fourth period on top of the 18 points, Terrence Rome, who saved the arrest of Chinese from the third period of 10 points and music.
This is the first victory of PO 1 nationals currently at the International basketball Regional Sandugo Awarding Ceremony held today on July 5-10 in Hai arena, 70-106.
It is a good sign that the win of Filipinos against the Chinese that fell down from the gold medal of the 28th FIBA Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (Men 2015 in the bastion of the latter in Changaron, Hunan last October, 67, 78.
National coach Tab Baldwin for the Philippines is the 12-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-21-21-21-21-21-21 in Rio de Jannatul, John Reyes, Bobby Chan, Jr., Ryan Reyes, Ryan Reyes, Ryan Reyes, Ryan Reyes and Jeth Troy.
Blatche made the continuation of the Peras if they allowed to win there for seven points, even if the Chinese people knows that it was rolled up by the seven-22) that was rolled up, the First Class Bugnay, that the First Division quickly finished the 2-year of the shooting.
De Ocampo has also died on game on the game, but it was revealed that the Filipinos, including the two-year-law, Jeff Chan was held in the team at the game of 34-almost all in the game, Break.
A 10-0-0 pesos was hit by eight points by Castro due to almost four points for almost four o'clock in the third period after the Chinese caught up with him at around 4: 30 in the game on 63-61, before the exit of Romeo Bautista, which was taken out by Romeo, which was released by Romeo Bautista.
The nationals went back to Manila to continue the training after more than two weeks in Europe.
