Dennis, is still alive for Jennylyn June 7, 2016.
Dennis Trillo is handsome and handsome as we were able to go with yesterday at the set of Juan with happy Love.
Dennis "directly led by Dennis" on the news Break, she is already happy with Jennylyn Mercado, according to Dennis, she is still happy with Jen and they are okay now.
"Why are they already separated?
Is they going to be upset with Jen who is together in IG?
"It is not for me, I was not able to erase it, and that's why it's not just because they have a problem or what is already a problem, right?
"That's what's difficult with what happened, that is why there are a lot of hornets based on social media)."
According to Dennis, they are not really fond of Jen to be posted by politics in Together.
Because the former had a fight again, that's why it already happened that he and Jen had a quarrel.
"That is not what they know (other people), right?

They do not know what is happening.
"They are just all your imagination, they implement it so we really want to be private," added the actor.
According to Den, he is also not "the type of" Maritez-Break for his girlfriend who has become president of politics in social media.
He said he had a sharp blade in his former relationship, "the old person in their previous relationship, was still there, the old man in Together" was still there, it was found out where they had the next trip of Together because they have not discussed anything.
Because now they are both busy with Jen. Den may have been busy in Camp Sawi, Cordon, and partner of Bela Padilla, and then, he still has another chance to be his partner in Anne Currimao.
Why doesn't you think that I am handsome of May Boyfriend Kong? "A comedy movie with Paolo Ballesteros and to be direct by Jun Lana.
Dennis's soul is beautiful because she is happy with her female boss, Heart Evangelista, who will improve its feedback to the form of their way of show.
According to Dennis, they are happy watching a lot of people because they understand each other every night.
They are defeated by their honest show in spite of it.
There are still a lot of affection in Denise as husband and wife now that they are already married in Juan a happy Dr. Love Untold which can be watched in GMA Telegant after Once again.
