
You need a new basis for the town (1)

The continuing failure of the current Aquino administration to fix the problems of society, especially the very big difference in the livelihood of our countrymen who are poor and of 76 families who have control of our economy is the symptoms of the failure of the current white neo-lualto organization.
This is a sign of need for the new outline of politics and economy for the people.
The institution is built by the people to serve the people and not the opposite, the people should serve the institutions that they built.
The failure of these people to serve the country is a strong basis for reform or destroy them to build the outline of those who will be appropriate for service.
We are said to be a free country but we do not have a free chance to build the institutions and economy serving us.
Malolos Republic is built under the protection of the United States while 1935 Constitution is approved by the American government before we have been used.
The Aquino administration (1943-1945) is in the hands of the Japanese while the 1973 Constitution has a questionable approval, aside from this, it is said that the military is being monitored by the military by Ferdinand Marcos.
The 1986 1987 Constitution by Missus Aquino meanwhile is only returned to the Lord Almighty and oligarchy that is also from the "1935 Constitution, from 1898.
No care in our culture and flow of thinking that the Americans were brought here to us by the Americans.
However, in their desire to have a new leaders who will lead in power, they do not feel different systems that are brimming with us by the Spanish tourists.
The dynasties of some of their families are made more wealth.
This situation caused us a long-lasting relationship in the aspect of society, politics and economy.
This is also the reason why the culture of lack of responsibility or culture of exist.
We are looking for the system of management of Americans but it is funny here and there are still alive who are still alive but the anti-anti-graft system brought by the Americans.
Because of this, the control of some families in our economy will remain in our economy, politics, and political culture.
It is considered as the small kingdom of these families are considered to be a small kingdom of families.
This is the root of what our style is, in spite of being a kind of style, the governance is still going backwards, which is better known for the call of Page politics.
If you want to take a bath in a private Starex van, you went to the Infines Subdivision, Barangay Bagong Kalsada, City of Calamba, just near Metro Manila and from here, you are looking forward to the holy mountain.
