
The PKP has an assurance for the victims of typhoon Pablo.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 1, 2012.

Disbursement Acceleration Program.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) released this day about the following statement.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is doing all the revolutionary force to give thanks to the hundreds of poor farmers in Davao Oriental and Compostela Valley, Cebu and Southern Negros Occidental including some of the destruction of strong winds, rain and along with flood and livelihood.

The PKP has to reach the death of no less than one hundred residents of New Bataan after the mud and water from the crooked mountains of Compostela Valley has to need help from some of the neighboring towns of Compostela Valley.

The government fund of the Philippines should be held accountable for the continuing to solve the complaint of poor farmers and Filipino workers who are extremely suffering due to the worsening calamity caused by the incessant calamity caused by the incessant rain from the environment.

There's been a long time coming from the big foreign countries and their companions in the business, the Aquinos are continuously allowed to undergo operation to mining even if there is wide damage in the environment that has been at risk for the people in danger of calamities.

The KP has reminded all the crooked force to look back the complaint for the immediate relief of the victims of calamity, the PKP is calling on the international community to make sure that it will go to the people and will not go to corrupt people.

Yuan, the units of Bagong Hunan Bayan in the affected areas are the ones who were held by the masses, included in the first conducted by rescue operations (operation) and help the people in facing the calamity.

Because of the plans to be fervent, it is possible to suspend the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs operation against the AFP from a short time, it will release a direct command to the Liberal Party of the Liberal Party (NDF) regarding this.
