RL. Rol was the change the biased of the UP.

By Lanie B.

The amount is started.
This week, UP Diliman (UPP) will arrive that night when a famous band is coming, the Suntok sa Pelikulang Pilipino is going to make all those who want to cooperate with the happiness.
As a proof of UP in the university of the country, they are forced to join in Metro Rail Transit in the country, Isko or not, may it be related to UP or not, do not just bring a knife, and make sure that you will have money to buy a ticket to enter.
Like before.
There is no assurance that UP Diliman, a new series of concert in UP Diliman, which can be found out by the UPP University Regional Council (USC), may be found by the APD University Chiefs (USC).
There are those who are saying that this started after the conflict during the time of Marcos, and this served as the testimony of the youth of UP Diliman, which is said that the students of UP Diliman were preparing, and there are some who want to join, and spit out of the call against different crisis in society.
The start of the start of the start of the end of the start of how UP Diliman were able to know the sanctity of the country as long as they were known to be a scholar of the country, similar to the removal of the Marcos dictatorship from the pending budget given by the government to the agricultural sector.
"
The theme of UP launched last year will be released and issues given by the said occasion by an example for those who want to be led by former President Gloria Arroyo in 2005, and "Rebureaucracy" which is calling for the silence of the youth.
A proof of UP Holon is proof on how the music and arts of those involved in illegal drugs are not limited to those who are not limited to the students of the university which may lead the arts of our country, "said Gaby.
The tone.
Aside from the viewers, the viewers are already known in a community which is not limited to the students of UP - which is why it is not limited to students, and on the issue of education, the issues being included here are not limited.
In 1984, an example, the UP Diliman, who served as a violation of human rights during martial law, is often seen when there were those who are known to have connections with human rights during Martial Law.
This year, issues, particularly the students of UP want to pay attention to the difference of UP Diliman, and they are looking for the difference between the residents of UP, and when they are looking for the difference between the residents of UP, and despite them, the SC) will go to help to meet the needs.
Although there is a legitimate goal, this is more different from the previous theme of calamities that will place the university and Isko Moreno and will be transferred to a higher society because this is open to everyone who wants to attend, even from those who want to attend, even from those who want to attend. "
Last 2009, when a game was cut off because an operation was cut off by men who did not buy a ticket, although they were not from UP, and there were some who were wounded due to an unexpected incident, it was not yet a reason to make the university different from the scholar of the country.
Die with noise.
Even if it started as a simple gathering, before long, the elements of UP Diliman were forced to find a lot of expenses for those launched by the said place, from the lower system until the construction of stage, "Gaby.
Compared to UP Diliman, at night, there are famous those near the feast, the UP Job Fair last 80s, and 90s, which became a pillow for the growth of rice cakes in the university, but they were one of the most venomous snakes in UP.
He voluntarily surrendered to the band that is why they do not need to pay or ask him to pay, and because their yard is not complete, it turns out that the UP Diliman were taking a new path and to be used by others, even on the issue of music.
The huge tarpaulins of UP Diliman were not able to give the huge tarpaulins in the past years, wherein the construction of the big companies are posted, therefore, it cannot be denied that the illegal interest would be considered even if the controversy that this occasion would be described as well.
Because the purpose of it's being taken back for the first time spent by Zesto Gang and in the middle of the outcome, the essence of the previous UP Diliman, and while the needs for the controversial support, it will be difficult to lead here the spirit of free culture.
