The person who is humble will be cut off even if the parents are not able to accept the program.
They will last for almost two years when they were able to wake up; that's why they call the child to walk after the child.
It looks like the child of Mama Guardian of the son of her four children, the return of her four children in a high school school, which was only one hundred years old, just recently finished.
The occasion is intelligent that our enemies are wise in my children even though it is just small salary between the heart, we are only doing everything in the exam all of his mother.
In the coming school implemented by Father Ed, the problem wherein the studies of a child for two years and a year in high school things that he didn't want to do is to leave for ten thousand because he has been seeing that he will go to the school of the children.
There are already a lot of people who are proud and are proud.
.
Ah, they are angry at a Sunday.
They don't look at what she looked at.
They will use things that they will buy for a long time because it is okay for a rat.
That's why what will happen to us is that we can see each other again.
It's not that there is a solution, that's why there's no solution, that's why there's no solution.
Is it a solution on what we are talking about.
Okay, no matter why there is a fight for the dead.
I said that it is good for a different number game to pick up; that's why.
What will be done will happen.
That was the plastic bag for us.
It is only difficult for them.
You will answer now that you are with you for the decision.
Answer three twin previous programs.
And then a Japanese.
It was the afternoon to grandmother to your children here on the first day of parents, sister-on-way to the videoke movie, you will be courted more than two years what is in EDSA.
I hope that we will find out that our students will be able to investigate our students who are short of school whose business will wait for you to work in working so that you will not be bitten by a mosquito so that you will not be bitten by a business that will not be bitten by my business.
They did not give each other for free to those who entered and when I went there, of course, we will go there for a few days here to the parents.
He said, the health said the key in front of us.
It is also in education that the sister-in-law and sister are sick in the head; I have forgotten to feed our countrymen for a long time to change the attitude of the president for a long point of view because they will be a friend of our friend.
That's why they need to work so that they will be able to work hard, to be able to work.
It turns out he can live for him.
Quick, the politician is going to die when the politician dies.
To work after we share the fight.
Who will tell this if that is what I said that we should fix my siblings in-six-six-six months, but I said that we are going to do that we are going to do that we are going to go to school; we say that we are going to go to school; we say that we are going to go to school, as long as the First Class High School which can be seen by French fries from the Philippines.
Who else will be added to your ex-E? "Who are the things that we have four persons after we are four members of both four years.
Two worry that you want to say there.
Chuwariwa-u said last night there in the past few years that they went to, there were also people who also went to prepare for it.
Crazy!
Because we have a lot of parents, I do not like the 19th of March when you arrive here.
Early.
I said, that's why we are stupid; we are saying that they are going to do this present.
No.
You are at night today in our school going to two thousand three years.
I told me earlier that we are going to go to the ocean; because the ocean would be done here in front of my parents in the program, I am looking for the parents of my parents in Baclaran to kill the parents of those who have told me, my parents are calling for my second-mannered family.
My government is drinking medicine for our youth in school to achieve our positions just like what we are saying to change the mountain so we also say that we are going to change the internet because we have something for other countries that we have to help in our country.
Many.
