The payment: Claudine, prayer and understanding is what's needed.
By Jojo Cabinet June 9, 2016.
Claudine Barretto and Vina Morales criticized each other because of their grave.
There are people who cannot understand the selfies video of Claudine before he admitted yesterday in the emergency room because the accusations and what they did to hold the illness of actress who are going in and out in the hospital are lacking.
Instead of criticizing, Claudine's understanding and prayers are what Claudine needs in the social media when she is possible that she is showing love and sympathy so it cannot be denied that the actress has a problem on the hospital but it cannot be denied that the actress has a problem on his health.
Claudine should temporarily stop the people about his real illness because he is the only one who knows the truth.
Vina, will not withdraw the fight against Cedric!
Cedric, denied the "illegal detention case against Vina!
Vina Morales was criticized because in his speech in the media about filing a case against ex-elect, Cedric Lee, Visayan human rights to their minors who are fighting against former love but mortal enemies.
In the interview with Vina, he said that Cedric disobeyed the court to the office of Cedric which is against the command of Cedric which is against the command of the court that every Saturday he can visit Vina.
"Illegal detention" was the complaint of Vina in the incident that happened while he was on vacation in another country, along with his French father, Marc Lambert, Vina because of the accusation that his 7-year-old daughter who was involved in the controversy that his parents did not respond to.
The mind of Vina is closed that's why they are having a hard time to accept that the singer is having a hard time to accept that he is looking for allies in the media because they can now look for allies.
The image of Cedric was not suspicious because the public does not forget his beating and his friends to Vhong Navarro last January 2014.

Vina Morales.
Vina spoke again because Cedric's bullying of her and his family has a limit.
In the statement of Cedric, he denied all the allegations of Vina. He said that he is getting bullied by his former girlfriend and his son will not be disappointed for eight days of their relationship.
Unfortunately, Cedric will find it hard to get the sympathy of the public because it is still fresh in their minds on Vhong Navarro.
Yesterday, Major-2 of the Regional Trial Court of San Juan City filed a complaint against Cedric's complaint against Cedric.
For the record, Cedric was full of Vina that's why the report of news was wrong with the news released by Bombo Radyo network that the two were married to be married in legal Wife.
