In the record of destroying.

John Toledo.
At noon, UP Integrated High School (Ubers) is slowly getting married in the corridors of the students who have just been out of their homes; there are also those who are going to go out to each other.
In the afternoon, the basketball player is getting filled with players, as well as the anticipated for the Lotion of Lane where the students are taking it, but until September, this scene will not last for September.
Due to the agreement of Ali and UP last 2011, the Ubers are going to be transferred to a new building in the land where the Narra and Gaming Corporation), in order to give way to the construction of UP Town Center, a "tanim-use commercial center, which is Retail and Food Park, supermarket, University.
Ground!
When UP campus was transferred to Manila Development Assistance Center, 1949, the third floor of the College of Education (NJ) was the first house of UP High School (UP High), one of the academy.
The private school "of the students who got the course of education was UP High School, who was transferred to the current position in Katipunan Avenue last 1952.
Aling Dory still remembers, 69, when he first sold the Uge in 1962.
In the long time of Aling Tasya, he witnessed the many important events in the school such as the bodies of the three laboratory school of Humalig), UP Elementary School and UP High School and UP High School and UP High School.
"Of course, I will share this form to the store of Aling Norums, it is saddening that the area will be replaced, and the place will be replaced," said James Borja, 16, currently in grade 10 and students of the UDM.
Aside from being a pillow from a formal study, the buildings of the Ubers are still going to rest on the midst of the impeachment case of former President Joseph Estrada, the corridors of former President Joseph Estrada, the corridor of the corridor in the bed.
In the coming transfer of their school, those from the Ubers are feeling sad, and there are also those who are happy especially with the idea of new and modern buildings, some teachers also expressed worry about their teaching and the food being cooked by students.
Whatever is the reaction of those from the Ubers, in the end, the administration of UP set the outcome of their school.
Construction.
It is said that it's a good opportunity for the university to transfer to the Ubers which can be used by the students to be used as "academic, which can be seen by students."
"We Are, the Model Shop needs to be defeated by the Model Shop needs to be followed by green architecture, with tons of trees.
Included was the 7.4-hectare lot of land where the UPP-851-hectares of Dugo-NUCD-1090451, based on 2012 UP Diliman, Up Hospital.
"Deguides that the budget of UP is lacking and we need to get a source of income from the budget fund, Lot of academic, which can be provided by resources," said Zamora.
According to the data of the Office of Vice President for Planning and Finance, it reaches up to P17 billion budget that will be passed by UP every year but almost 7 billion is given by the government.
"
Second establishments in the land of UP could be recalled last 2007, where the 20-year-hectare land was built by UP-Ayso-hectares of UP North Science and Technology) Park in Commonwealth Avenue.
North Cemetery and T) conducted as Information Technology (ESA) laboratory that has a "Tuwid na Daan" for the new corporation of Fight IT. Many of them are from the Philippines and are receiving students from the College of Engineering and College of Science.
"We-Ass would be the initiative to raise the role that happened, after 25 years, it would be our land to be under the acadversary, which is wanted to be in the funeral parlor," said Zamora.
Under the 25-year agreement, UP will be able to get a 3.5 billion pesos from the rent of Ali, if it appears that UP received almost 34 million every year from the government, it appears that the amount of UP received from the government, it appears that a P10 billion budget is still lacking.
Every time the use of the vacant lot of UP will be discussed, an argument between his surrender to the controversial interest in order to improve the lack of budget or for the status quo in the academy.
But in the case of the Ubers, almost 3.2-year-old land can be considered as not used in the total 7.4-hectares owned by UP in the stretch of Katipunan, according to the data of the Office of distress.
"The land which is supposed to be used by students, for those who want to go to academic, are being used by snatchers," says Isnain, Secretary General of National Union of Students, the Philippines.
The slowly flow of private interest in UP is worrisome, which is why even if they are hiding before to a wily term, they are becoming more aggressive now.
Widespread bluetiquette.
The entry of UP will not only be seen by a historic decision together with the private candidates with his private bastion by the government to remove its subsidy between State Universities (Colleges (SUCs).
"We Are, for its subsidy to SUCs from the cahoots with self-worthy country, to be able to make sure to be in the ward for human rights," said President Benigno Aquino III in his 2010 budget, "said President Benigno Aquino III.
He used an example of the UP LBC Ronda Pilipinas which is the source of the university's source of income except for the broken and annual budget given by the state.
Zamora denied the criticisms of UP Diliman Center as the entry of the controversial interest in the university. "Defineness, Lupang Hinirang, which is an administrative case for Katipunan Avenue," he said.
"Pul-NUCD-0) was the name that was given to him, which is why he / she is an artist who is brimming of state," said Baguilat.
It is clear that the first is the first and will directly be affected by the government's education due to the lack of budget, public utility vehicles to enter the agreement in a private corporation which can stop their in academy.
Meanwhile, the month has been counted before the whole community will finally leave his current position.
This means that this is a new risk-for people like James and Aling Tasya, for the current students to cover their themselves, and for the next students, who will no longer be experienced under the Lotion of Lane or whose nose in taking care of different generation of those who are from the province.
