The troop of forty-four who went to the troops of forty-four who went to the Islamic Liberation Front, which were also killed in the other side of a child who died in the other side of a child who died in the other side of a child, didn't have an emergency action to not yet Cotabato - two six-six-six-six-six-six-six-Illegal Drugs Group.
Inheritance that you are riding and the truth that you call for the families of the family while they continue to make the investigation in order to know what really happened to the woman, what really happened to the woman, what really happened to the woman, what really happened to the woman.
That is why there is still crying who is mad at home in the barangay.
We are doing anything in Mindanao.
A husband of mother.
That is what the soldier is alone.
A blanket is going to be a blanket, on the five years of January two pregnant with your children, how do you stop the suitcase.
Or really a lot of things happened.
We cooks.
That's where he leaves.
It is the only thing that the authorities experienced and experienced the trip of the family while our family is preparing for the suffering of one day for their players.
I still believe what is called here.
They are saying.
Covetous, fur.
Agreement (friend.
And what's that, she is still going to talk to him even if you are still going to talk to you, you are still not able to know if you are not able to pay it and be more patient like others when she comes from him.
At five o'clock in the morning, they went back to the house of the nephews in their area, because they were not in the house, because they were not in the house, but according to his condition, he / she was said to have been hiding in the house, but to his condition, he / she was said to have been hiding in the house.
In spite of vegetables, he is still beautiful changing vegetables, where are you in the morning?
Because there are many examples of ten minutes.
You are far.
At their first taste, it is dark that she does not know his enemy, I put it again.
Lord here, they do not have two people who don't get out of people.
Talked to.
Said it.
We, like that, "he said.
We will hear someone who has personally entered it.
What is the reason why we left here?
He avoided getting the same.
Nobody is seated.
They were shot at each other; they were shot, two were killed in our two but they were not able to go there.
Why are the innocent people who are innocent who are going to be involved in barangay chairmen, they are both married and their second daughter in the province of Mindanao, "
It was only five o'clock in the morning.
The plundering and two of the legislative chamber is going to go back to their respect because we have lost their respect, we will take care of us from the house there, they are still sleeping in blood.
It cannot be broken.
I motorcycle.
You saw a while ago.
They say they are under debt.
For the mass it happened to the mass.
Ah,
Well.
Emergency center can see yourself and six are injured by the child.
Child on Saturday, four are wounded and back.
The lit up.
It is painful for friends later that later when you love the house, we still see each other, if you see each other, you still do not lose hope when they miss the viand.
Peace was the only thing I have been waiting for.
Who will come that we are going to go to school; he / she can go to school; he / she takes care; and even the Villa Family that you have talked to.
The reason was, while he was calling, it was really you.
The fittest; he / she could really believe that he / she would really believe that he / she didn't want to make the record because they entered four of the government without permission, according to him, how will you kill the story, which is why they will kill the story in this.
Not here in the barangay Felipa, your mother to him, at around five o'clock in the morning, they will be able to go out of the taxi near their place so that they will just be able to let them go out that they are going to have to go out that they are going to pass the area at the entrance of air that they appear.
That may lead, Kuya Popoy called, to a game with stubborn people, that's why it's not five years that you have done it and this Sunday, you should go home to many people.
At twelve o'clock, avoid former soldiers who get hurt from this.
It is fine for those who are standing up to Lacson because of what happened to me.
Both of them were found dead by Boom in a former interview with his wife, that we are hesitating to go down to the moments here even if they do not know who are my enemies in there, they know that they are not interested in those who shot them there.
Who is the Chairman of those that might be in that kind of places that might be in that kind of places, they are already dark; it's dark because in Binondo, one week that we got.
Four PNoy.
It's okay you can't hear me.
I am worried that we are anxious in this situation, thirty-year-old crops, who are still in the hospital, because they have not yet known each other, that's why they say that they did not say anything, that's why it's dark; that's why it's dark; that's why it's very dark; that's why it's already dark, who are the ones that you got.
You will be together in the house here to those who were given to the students here, because they did not park in the wall that happened earlier at dawn, but when they had a color to the baby who was pointed at them, they did not go here to the house that they did not let them stay here, which is exhausting.
He is also not allowed to answer the store.
Why do you do not want to do anything about it and to be able to tell them that there are no one who can tell them that they are passing here in the bridge, fog; and uncians; "isn't it so that the agreement with the problem has been left for so long.
Let us just call it as a little thing, if I will really look into it, we will see this about our conversation with the long time and good of the government that you really want to happen or at around three o'clock in the middle of our opinion.
I probably said in Facebook when the government has a solution on Facebook.
It also appears that the noise of the people who died was worse than those who died and one of them did not only happen, it was not good that it was not good, that's why it was very good; that's why he / she was able to pick up; that's why he / she was able to go back to the same age.
Christians who died.
Maybe in basketball, maybe for the fare, it is possible that the PERhea is going to call a lot of examination of our lives here on the internet.
They do not take sides but their statements are what they are saying because they have two days to them if they have something and hurry us even if they know each other.
Do, based on these, they have been able to go to health; we are not able to go to health; but look at the list of those who are five-years old; we will see that this is in the back of those who are in the back of those who are in the back of them.
The blessing is, but it's just a different place for him to understand but it is a part of it, in front of, there is a bad elements.
You are other Monday, so you can say it is hard to say now if there is something proud for the departure which is being done, Saturday and nine of the truth is gone because it is almost a big resort to be fought about.
He saved a bonfire from him / her to say that.
!
To the baby in their house.
Meanwhile, what they are saying is not what we are saying, that we do not know who really is the real reason why they are the ones who are really close to them, they do not know who really are the ones who are really close to them and they think that they will not lower down, so you will not turn, and thank you very much.
