So short; our parents, as well as the parents, especially to the future of our children to be observant of their studies to be observant of them, do you know that this is a way to protect their place.
It is called that the children are only five in order to reach it.
Students bit her pictures.
You can look at each other; we are with our teacher while you are still sleeping that your child is sleeping with me.
These youth are because of the many material things that he can use, many of the parents can be used to destroy their meeting.
Yes, like this.
We just give way here, we still haven't given a text message that is not good.
Lorna said that we are just three of us who will share to that, that is different from the building, English one, and then they saw that we were able to see each other.
We need to hear it.
We also need to think about it.
That is what they have done today to help them.
No matter how important this is the soldiers who will come to you what you need to teach to them my parents.
It's because they should know that every child who died is going to change and learn that they are the children who are already writing to each other, that they really want them to be with one piece of two children when we have been talking to each other before we talk to each other before, but I did not understand each other.
They really see whatever it is, they understand that it is easier to learn.
You!
It depends on the age of the child depending on the age of what you want, later at a pattern.
There are times that a child, who is very young to go to school, is very young; we should put our five-six-four children who are going to go to six-six-two children who are going to enter the Greening Program of Two five-four children who were able to go to school.
Hurtful words and teasing.
A help to help.
Luckily, it depends on me not yet.
Because he will really be focused on a job of many organization, I will lose weight and I don't even think that.
He has been able to go to me for four years with two Filipinas there.
Covetous, dearse, full-mannered; not hope.
It is also possible that your former partner will be followed on duty, okay, it is okay to understand the bait that they have gone from.
That is what they already know.
I have five years old but I don't know about it, they understand the same.
One one.
That is when you know that you know how to tell the number of two girls that they will be paying to make yourself together with other people who are going to be paying for each other or whatever we are saying, we are going to save two thousand.
And then the teacher is good.
Ariel ica is still not able to cut off because I do not know how to be a teacher in the house sometimes, a teacher fought with what a teacher said, "a teacher said that in the next day, he said.
Because they are hungry; we are proud.
What happened to me is what I will go back to my father that I am going to return to reading the favorite award.
My father needs to work quickly before deciding to change what is important to those who are going to do with the house where they will be able to do whatever it is that they're going to be with the car in the '70s; we are not in the car at the' 70s; we are not in the car at the 'hness; not or two four o'clock. "
