
The CBCP is mad at the horseshoe.

Before everything, my position is clear in the Reproductive Health Organization.
Those who want to be deacons, together with the victim, so that a woman who is having sex will not be pregnant except if the government will be able to spend for the buying of Hacadversary, the government.
The catholic bishops conference of the Philippines and of course, even the Pope in Rome, where he is the only part of the Catholic Church, will not agree.
The order of the Pope, like the order of a king, is not a nuisance, and of course, the command of CBCP can be remembered because they are the king of the church.
In the Philippines.
That is why CBCP recently warned teachers and students of Ateneo de Manila University where they will build on this school if they are in favor of the RH bill.
What is the position of the showcase on the RH bill? The question of CBCP to us: What do you want, life or death?
If you are going to choose a life, you will refuse the RH bill if death is what you want, okay, pro-acacons.
"What kind of life and death is being done here?
The person who has the fault in the word "of the Constitution" of the Constitution which is called by President Cory Aquino was chosen by President Cory Aquino when he had an emergency powers through the EDSA that Revolution was filed.
Here is the Constitution.
"The state of the state of the body of the body of the body of the body of the body of the body of the body of the body of the body of the body of the body.
How can you kill a "Ipit Gang" so, the child was not able to give birth?
And what the 1987 Constitution has said about the article of 11: "The State Warriors in the state of human rights that is being full of human rights (Art. II, Section 11)."
The child who is not used to be born is of course, that is not a child, and for sure, that is not alive.
And if you have not used to be born, of course, it's not human rights and even without human rights.
The root of this argument is the failure of our Constitution which is used by the Catholic Church and the government himself.
For example, it is prohibited to have a state of "state" in the church, but the church, he can meddle with the state of government.
It is also possible to remove the professor of Ateneo if they are pro-RH bill when they can't get involved with the Department of Labor, Department of Education and the Commission on Higher Education.
