
The PKP has ordered the Botchok (HB) to prohibit armed groups.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
April 23, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (CPP-NDF) order for NPA to be held with Armed Forces.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) ordered the ban for bringing weapons to the candidates for the election and they are campaigning in areas related to the implementation of the country's territory in order to ensure the protection of the rights and obedience to the people.

The KP has released the statement after Benigno Aquino III, the president of the Republic of the Philippines, to the armed forces and police of the state that the Malacañang and his allies are just deceived by the only one of politicians in the country. "

The PKP has dismissed the order of Aquino as "without meaning, the AFP and PNP insisted that it is impossible for the members of the armed forces and police to implement the power of the armed forces and police in the jurisdiction of the Philippines where there is no presence of the armed forces and police of the state."

"According to the policies released by the democratic government budget, it is possible that the New Hala Bayan (BHB) as one of the many steps to express peace and order and to ensure the protection of the rights and violent attacks by the masses."

"It is possible that the leaders of the Bugnay, the committee of Liberal, to ensure that these kinds of armed politicians who are fighting in the rules of the government budget will be used to protect the rules of the government agencies so that it won't end up to the rules of the armed forces.

"The policies of the government budget regarding the proliferation of the division of the upcoming elections are widespread during the use of armed forces with the cooperation and coordination of the armed forces with the local government," said the PKP, to encourage all the candidates to go to the local forces and following the existing policy.

While they are taking care of the construction of the establishment that might be a certain target of the enemy, the PKP has said that it is possible to build the enemy of the military and police to become a target of the ambush or the police to make them recover from the trap.
