Don't be swayed by Binay (2).

The followers of Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte are confident that because there is no one from other places in the Philippines if it is compared to Davao.
They are proud that the city is peaceful compared to other places in the country, which is why even their self is lying to their rights and this is the president of the country.
And because the president of the country is still our country, it is good to compare this to Duterte and it is Vice President Jojo Binay who served as mayor of Makati, if he will run as mayor of Davao, probably, they will meet VP Binay.
The Land area of Davao City is 2,444 square kilometers of oil and this is the biggest city in the country, if the numerous fruits that we are being sold in other countries are coming from other countries.
The Makati meanwhile is 27.36 square kilometers per hour and even small in some barangays or district in Davao City.
Davao City, as the center of trade and business in the entire Mindanao which is rich with natural resources, "that is up to now.
The Makati then is full of grass and now is one of the modern cities.
The followers of Duterte are proud of the modern cities in Davao City because it is said that there are CCTV in every corner, a traffic light and the emergency Shelter Assistance Fund unit has been complete.
In Makati, they have been with this for a long time and it is not only that, the biggest hospital that the city that is being implemented by a local government unit.
In Makati, education is free in public schools and all barangays in the jurisdiction of its own school from Pag-school to high school.
The equipment of the schools are complete and modern, which is also the reason why few of the youth in Makati are entering their school school.
In Davao City, when you go out of the center who will cover the first district, you can see the real face of the city.
It is a very difficult life for the people to be united especially in areas such as district district, which up to now the many citizens of Davao City who are working in Metro Manila to work together.
