
World, Doctor "Day, teaching and have grown up.

By Danilo Arana, Arao October 5, 2013.

Teacher, activists.

Even before, I do not want to be called activists. Although it can be said that my perspective is progressive, it is still not enough to use the word "activists" beside my name.

My argument was simple: For me, a "real activists are using his whole life for the purpose of becoming a higher than him.

He is looking at his task as the political role that he does not care about their salary because he is not the concept of work in his personal personality.

Everything she is doing is for those who want to support him until he / she gets old.

Ft or full-time because this is using some individuals who chose activists for they have no monthly salary, they are just depending on donations for the people with money who are sympathizing with their work, it is clear that they do not have financial benefits.

In fact, they chose a life full of sacrifice!

Is my case really like this, I don't have a regular pay and there is security at work, you can even say that I am a slave to change my job, and this is one of the time that we have been centered on my job.

As a teacher in the university of the Philippines (UP) who is a state university, it is a part of the university which you have been going to do, especially during the time of former President Ferdinand Marcos (1965 in 1986), if the term of UP has not directly committed suicide, especially during the time of former President Ferdinand Marcos (1965 in 1986, he will still have a big responsibility for those who are known as the national university of the country.

Where will the arguments that will be in favor of the anti-citizens cannot come from it, who are the primary issues that the government use to maintain the privatization of the majority?

It is hard to become a teacher in UP if you are in critical condition and in the very part of the festival in 2008, there was a big possibility that there would be one of his former comrades in the department, that is why he did not want to transfer to other countries outside the academy.

In spite of this situation, there is still a limited space for the delayed teachers in the legislative chamber that they see, which is why they just want to conduct protests on their minds, they just want to conduct protests?

But what will happen in the time of disaction, especially to the anomalous status quo, just tell you the situation if you are not getting along with the power, do you know the story about a teachers, do you know the management of the department?

Have you heard the teachers who were forced to resign from his duty because he cannot suffer more than the ranks of his companions who are not just entering the class?

If you are interested to know, I also experienced politics at the start of my entry as a full-time issue, "I know I will not leave a simple reason," I know that I would not leave a simple reason, but I know that you will do something wrong, especially in the whole of our college organization, "I am being used to use the principle.

But there are still other "activists.

In the occasion of the World, "Day this October 5, it is better to give tribute to the teachers who take care of our minds during the time of our young age until when you think about it, they can be accompanied to people like me who are able to go out of the four corners of the school?

Teachers of activists, although it is time to give tribute to the two, it is better to protest against the second.
