Ladies "!

Mary Joy T.

"Chuwariwa-out of the Shadows and the resolution of the scheduled shape of a very popular church in Magazine (FHM) Philippines for their issue this March.
It was immediately replaced by the said photo of salt after being washed away by negative comments and response from the first witnesses, it was opened up by the foul odor of discrimination among those who attended the society.
Hmmmp!
Even if it is not yet taken out, it is not yet released by the criticisms from the people when this is when the management of FHM for their exclusive interview in Facebook is extremely saddened by the majority of the discretion and dark women around the white center of the white center.
Many opposed the picture because it has shown the noodle place of the black spirits compared to those who are white compared to those who have passed through the colonization of the countries in the west where it is true that this kind of view is true.
"The FHM was really border," hey, "Roland Tolentino, said to have no communication," according to the kind of communication, "according to the types of guns," according to the use of three African-Filipina, that is also a woman. "
In addition to this, the black ghosts that are black compared to white cloth have shown a low kind of low kind, the black model, the black model, who are looking for him to serve as collectors and even if those in the center compared to the surrounding him, has been considered as higher.
But it is not just an issue of discrimination based on a race which is being linked to the said magazine as the FHM for the use of women's bodies to earn money, "Judy Taguiwalo, professor in the Center for Women's Month, they are white or dark.
It is estimated to be known.
FHM has been known for a long time as a magazine that is being used by women to earn money because of the products they are naked and caused by the readers that most of them are men.
Because prostitution is widespread in the Philippines, many women were selling their bodies to quickly earn money, in the field of showbiz, it was also seen that there was a reason for money in the field of showbiz, and there were also a few actors who became brave and became brave.
It was moved by a picture of women to the world of men, that's why they are considered to have sex with women in society, that's why they treat them as a product and is not able to respect, things that are also needed to respect, something that is being monitored by the public media.
The issue of discrimination among women is a rope and will not be able to separate from the issue of race and kind, according to bell pepper, but also the state of the society, that is why this is not the possible implementation of the women in the present, even if it is not true that this is not happening with women at present.
According to Tolentino, it is possible that it is based on the race which may be based on the race which is also based on the race of the Philippines, after the experience of Americans, Spaniards, or the Chinese are serving as the contribution for a person.
It is as if the media is supporting these kinds of foolishness, such as women who are stubborn, like women with women who are always being shown, with a point when speaking, and working as a house helper.
Cul!
Aside from the media's social activities, it is also able to set a standard for the groups at the bottom, it is also able to set a standard for different issues in the stretch of EDSA, example, it can be seen that the large picture of the model actors who are supposed to be recognized by the people.
According to Tolentino, it is possible that the bodies shown by the foreigners will be common, or more based on the standard of life of the foreigners, instead of the body of the farmers, whose abdomen has been broken because of work in the farm.
However, the view of Maria Clara is easy to set aside from this time that it is easy to mention the personality that has been placed in the world of politics or business as a proof that the Filipina-Chinese, who is a former president of the Philippines, or Wan Hu's Filipina, is being considered as the one who is the basis of the mistreatment of the current society.
However, if narrow-mindedness of the media to the women, it is appropriate that this is not to be separated from other veins in the implementation of the society, it is clear that there is a gender, race, or kind of sectors which are intentionally being pushed through space and power.
