Kaligayahan, SSeptember 24, 2012, Nunez and Philippine Collins.

She wasn't able to answer.

The future of a member of the town is again hanging on the hands of a group.
In the coming meeting of UP Board of Regulations (COR) on September 20, the students will force the garbage in the new rules of Sitio academic) - a proof that the students in Bracademy) - a proof that the students in Bracademy) - a proof that the students in Bracademy A - a proof that the students who have a annual income, which is more than 1 million pesos.
Even if the wage increase in the tuition fee is a abated increase in the implementation of STS.
In simpler terms, P1,500 every year of the students of UP will be from this situation, the shower of the opportunity to reach a university is getting worse so that they need to pass by people who wants to be a scholar of the country - they are obliged to prove that they are not rich. "
The administration of the administration continues to beat up the said allegation but the solution is strictly enforced by the students, the protesters also criticized the protesters against the new rules of STS., because most of them were not affected by the new rules of Mount Matutum.
This kind of view is made to know this kind of view is the hidden tactic in the administration that really happened in Tuao (TFi) in 2006 so that they did not go to UP, they already undressed the right to consult and talk for their education.
But while the exchange of arguments is ongoing, it is important to reduce the real problems, and from this, a long-lasting solution will be implemented.
The call for the garbage to ask for Bracklings is legitimate, if it will be implemented, the students would not be able to get back to P1,000.
In a simple opportunity in the history of Mr. STP, the dark implication of the said policy of the said research is expected to have a long time statement which is just an excuse for the increase in tuition in the university.
A proof of this is the increasing number of students who were asked to go to the municipal hall (Solo) for the debt of their tuition fee last Holy Week, two of every three students who also borrowed money from Sungala.
If examined by the record of STS and Solo after the two times of high tuition in the past two decades, those who are going to go to UP Diliman, but eventually, there will be a possibility that there will be a possible scholar of the country which is lacking in the country which is lacking in financial capacity.
In spite of all, the Aquino administration could not do not to dismiss the Hacademics but also the whole research to be given by STS. "Iadi, which is the best-free service to be given to WILP, students, which can be seen by the STS."
This kind of argument was burned, especially if we will come from a separate tuition fee in the issue of high tuition, and for a bigger issue on the budget of education in the university.
The suspension of the administration to scrap the STS is along with the plea to restore the tuition fee of UP.
It is just right to identify the administration of UP that the national university will become a model of other State Universities (Colleges in the Philippines, and it will continue to improve the lack of budget from students, if it will continue to happen again, other university will not happen again in the path that UP will take.
In the coming meeting of boR, it depends on the decision of the committee for the welfare of the family of UP, but also for more than a million students in other public schools on that day, there is no space for us to registered the highest call that will keep in the public quality of education in the country.
