Hopefully, it will be action immediately!
June 10, 2016 - Chief Superintendent Ronald "Bato" dela Rosa said, "that's the first P10 million worth of the drug lords in his head by President-elect Rodrigo Duterte.
According to this, this is based on the intelligence report that they have an idea, this is not a joke, that is why it can be said that there is a serious network now in the police.

The price is really clear.
Dela Rosa did not say who, but he said, those who are imprisoned in Bilibid in Muntinlupa are planning to work in Bilibid, because this is really his courage to work in different positions, the chief of police of Duterte in Davao City when the latter was mayor.
Even at the end of his statement yesterday at the latest press conference, he tells the criminals that we are just in front. "
This is the reason why PO 3-elect Panfilo Lacson was able to comment that there might be a wild boar, wild West, the Philippines, especially when President-elect Duterte himself asked the public to catch or kill (if needed) by known drug addict and criminals in their area.
The question is, it is known that the new chief of the national police is known as if there is no action now.
According to him, from Bilibid), those who got killed by the former President did not want them to say that they are not going to pass the NBP, but it looks like nothing is being referred to the NBP, which is why it seems that he was referring to the NBP, "which is also held by Dela Rosa.
While we are trying to find the action of this new PNP Chief, he will force what to pass through the right process and make sure that every move in suppressing criminality will be based on the law, especially the operations against illegal drug addicts.
It will not help and it will not be acceptable because she is taught to get along with the road.

Even dela Rosa wants to teach or tell President Duterte himself, he needs to give a chance to give his side the accusations being accused in the right court.
It cannot be placed in the hands of anyone.

There is a system of justice that should be used and respect for all times and situation.
