
Wednesday, March 6, 2013.

Being loving.

Being loving.

(Lk, 15: 1-3, 11-32).

What kind of discipline will ask your family?

We have different experiences in the family, there are children who are full of advice and warning to the parents and parents, and there are also children who forcefully put the slippers, beat and rattan.

The holy things that we give in the house will leave our personality and will leave our character more when we get old and it is affected in our face in different situations in life.

It is introducing us by the evangelists in a father who showed an extraordinary kindness to her child, here is a father who believes in the discipline of love, how can she let this love be made?

First, he respects the decision of her youngest child, the youngest's request is not ordinary and he needs to choose which should be given importance and fail your child's wealth and let his child be given importance to his child when he is more than wealth.

Second, the father accepted the child when he returned, there was no reason for him to go wild; there is also no search for all their riches, what is important to him is to be with their children again.

Even from far away, the father already noticed her child, what means his father can be seen from afar, waiting for the return of the child, the father felt that he will return and return to their child.

The father given to the child to kiss and kissing.

Third, the lover, who is the father of the eldest child, is accepted by his eldest child, he is diligent in his beauty and worth of the return of his sibling, she also tried to understand the eldest child that they have shared in their livelihood.

At that point, what's important to his father is to bring back the family in love.

The father of the tongue is member of God's treatment to the child's treatment to us.

How many are like that?

First, God has a big respect for our freedom.

It is a great handing of God for the desired to be thin when he knows that it is possible to abuse and use the fight against him, however, he is not forcing him to trust the ability to decide.

He knows that this may bring a sad and difficult experience, but can also be used to the separation from the former system of life to experience more comfortable life.

Second, the Lord accepted everything that comes back to him, God does not want anyone to be harmed but the truth is he is waiting for his son to be harmed but the truth is he is waiting for his son to go back to his kingdom.

Third, God is happy with the regret of anyone and return to her own family.

How are we, how can we accept the discipline and love of God?
