Bira Wt-5.
Cavs buried in Game!
By Rico as June 7, 2016.
OPLAN should be buried, California - the Cleveland Cavaliers got at a disadvantage, when Kevin Love, when I accidentally hit the head of Harrison and 77 loss against the team of 110-77 loss against the team of 110-77 loss against Golden State Warriors last Monday (Manila season) in 75.th NBA finals 2015-16.
The 2-0-0 will have been buried in front of their own jurisdictions, Cleveland) for Gays, on Wednesday and they might be blamed by it because it is still being pushed by Doctor Love in the third period in spite of being pointed at it in the third period.
Dr. Love is only limited at 20 years play in the back of 2-for 7 shooting, it seemed like a sign that it was taken to the playoffs without 2-0 lead, 28 people who won in the playoffs without 2-0 win in 2006 against the Dallas Mavericks.
But LeBron James has not yet grown up, the 19 points, which has been tainted by 19 points, dets and eight rebounds and not, Dr. Love, in Game Basig.
"Quiti Kill is hard for me to have a job for being a race against James." Tulay na Daan "by James." Obvious.
"Wunuyan was not able to look for an estimate of Two games for twenty-one or a little from the US and Tibagan, Walis point.
Barnes was unintentionally pointed at Dr. Love, at the back of the head at the top of the Second period.
He fell down on the floor and the hands were put on the back of the head when it was taken out of the head by an hour of examination of the guard after it was taken out.
He went back to the game, and the First Class was finished that's why he went to the noodle house room of the NBA who got dizzy, and then play in the third seen in Camp Crame, which was why they cut off the league of connotation.

NBA requested that Dr. Love was not able to get dizzy and was not able to find someone who was able to get unconscious of the First Class and Echerness, which was supposed to be left behind in the game.
"
Kyrie Irving and 10 points will roll up the weakness of the nine-year-old king in the center of the defense of the defense, around 12-36 in the two games.
The Cavs are also not stupid in the finals, which is why the presence of the year together with a healthy energy, which gave hope to the camp of change the results of the Golden State in the finals.
But, you should forget the 52-year drought, the Cavs should think that they will be one of the candidates for the next game.
