Family, massacred in Camarines Norte.

The country.
March 7, 2012.
A farmer who was massacred in Camarines Norte while another farmers were kidnapped by the military in Laguna, harassment and harassment of the political opponents and students who were stolen from the human rights gathered by Ang Bayan.

February 26, three leaders of the College was Edusma's Office of the Philippines (CEGP) is being harassed by the military while they are conducting the CEtau Island in the University of Eastern Philippines in Catarman, Northern Samar.

Meanwhile, the armed forces identified as UULINTECAYETANO, deputy secretary-General of CEGP who is not known to go near the three to ask where they were going to them and when they did not allow them, they suddenly shouted.

While they were walking going to the house of Reaecia, they noticed that someone following them was riding a tricycle and did not let them ride when they arrived in their living room, there were those who are observing them when they arrived at their cellphone.

It was also found out by the CEker and Reallecia, which is placed in the "order of the AFP in Samar and target of being attacked by the military.

February 25.

The couple and Ka Ginger i was resting after she talked to the hut when she was suddenly showered with bullets by the military in the hut without taking care of who was inside the house.

February 23 was confiscated by the members of the PNP Custodial Center for the typewriters of PNP Custodial Center and other Philippine Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) in the order of their eking Police Superintendent Cesar Magistrado.

Before this, Magforced him to be blamed or the documents sent to his lawyers through his close relatives who were not able to go outside and needed to wait for his rights to get the said documents until he was not able to answer.

According to Tayaban, Magwants to stop who continues to reveal the cases of not just, although the prosecution and illegal arrest, prosecution and the tension of the political leaders in the custodial center.

The typewriters were sent to the NDF peace sentence by NDF panel when they can use their activities related to the peace talks.

Last December 26, the political leaders were also complained in Camp Crame for being confiscated by Maganto.

February 14 and 17 were kidnapped by elements of the Special Action Force (ASG), resident of Barangay Pinagsama Village, Laguna.
