There is really nothing.

One election has passed since those in power go back to normal work.
It is not different from the past elections are the exercises that was conducted by the country on May 13 to make a glimpse of the voices of the masses through the ballot but the election is finished, and there is still no change for the citizens to win.
Even if it has been started last 2010, the autasan in voting was focused on the voting and the counting of the hearing that the Commission on Elections (Comelec), and there is no time for the voting from the elections, that is why there is no time for the experts from the advancement of computers), and there is no time for the experts to pass through the technology (PAR) and election period.
We can't look at it if the count of the division of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency) sector was really right, during the time of our votes, this was widespread during the time of buying votes, violence and threats to the voters and other contestants in the election.
When the voting was closed last May 13, the COMELEC has only one statement, Malacanang and took the success of the election.
It is true that they have succeeded and based on the result, we can see that the citizens in this election have no effect on all levels, from the district, municipal hall and national, members of the families who won in politics, representatives of families and influential in the country.
It can be proven that Benigno Aquino III will shoulder the power through this issue, the majority of its allies are going to make it through the constitution and public service, which is expected to be pushed by the citizens of the US and public service, which is expected to be forced to get the greater opening of the country for huge mining companies.
Earlier in this election, the Palace refused the desire of the people to have changes in the country when Aquino announced the end of the peace talks with the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) that the armed conflict between the country and the national conflict between the country and the government continues to improve the country.
Meanwhile, based on the evidences, it can be said that one of the victims of cheating is centered on the concrete platforms that will respond to the concrete problems of the citizens in spite of the strengthening of the administration of the administration for senator, it appears that Aquino has lessened the threats to his opponents in the Congress.
Those in power have been normal, but we citizens continue to be united and will reach more to push the change that the country needs and this cannot be stopped by any cheating in the election or fraud.
