The proposal to remove Bracademic, a Grab Bike, was dismissed by horny.

Mary Joy Viado.
The UP Board of Regulations (COR) is the motion of a student Drug Enforcement Agency (Joanna) to stop the implementation of the policies of Bracosta (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act (STS), which aims to be a higher "from a higher position since last Holy Week.
In the meeting of BOR on September 20, he asserted that he and Ramil Ciano, Kevin Arguaving, which is against the BBL center on the provisions of the education of UP Diliman, but the majority did not go to the said motion.
"Mamondiong, in the office of the administration, as well as the city administration, as well as the Pacademics, which is being taken by the BBL Chief, to Oacademic, the PerR, of Oacadic," says Arguera, "said Arguaving.
The Disbursement Acceleration Program in 1989, but it was revealed in 2007, but it was revealed in 2007, together with almost 300-million pesos price increase based on the annual income of the family, properties and things in the house, and other Salik.
It is an effective increase in the tuition in UP for P500 per unit, Arguaving, under the BBL because if the students can be transferred to Bracademic, if he will only be transferred to Bracademic, if he would be asked for a proof that his family is no more than a million.
In order to support the proposal of Arguelles, almost 300 students of UP Diliman, Manila, and Los Baños has marched towards Quezon Hall, students criticized the trash on the proposal of Arguarse, and the approval of the new bills that is coming.
"We, who is an enemy of a horR, which is an illegal policy, which is an enemy, who is an employee of UP, however, the one who is an Overseas Filipino student of UP Diliman, Inocencio Street, IGAA," said Arguera, "said Arguaving.
They are counting the other bills.
Meanwhile, the scheduled cost of the laboratory that is set for a number of course in the College of music (cm) and the classes of physical activities (BTAC) is being monitored to study said additional bills.
Although a boR is approved on 2010, the lab can be shown in cals and College of Human Rights (Commission (INK), which is a suspicion in buying new equipment and for fixing facilities, it needs to be studied again and make sure that it will pass through the right process of consultation, Arguaving.
Even if the lack of funds of Foreign K is big, the consultation of the administration to the students about the proposal of toll fee is still not enough.
It burns.
BoR is approved by the legislative chamber's proposal for the course of Management Council (NT T 186) that is part of the new bagman of Management Council in UP Cebu (UPC).
After the dialogue made by the UPC Commission on Higher Education, for the new Major-T lab, UP Vice President for Administration would release a memorandum to address the opposition of the students and remove the payment for electricity.
He ordered to remove the payment for the electricity because the students are paying the energy department, and this is only a type of bills, said UPC (2nd) representative April Dyan Gumabao.
"
It was also said that there was also no sufficient time to convey the UPC Council (SC) to bring the opposition to the new bills, "Gumabao.
However, the UPC will still call the said decision of boR, through talking with students and organizations.
"Let us not let it be easy for the administration to make the hope of additional bills.
Siddiets.
A different discussion on the meeting of horny.
Decision to Avila.
The boards that has been discussed almost a year has a pending case against UPC Dean extra attention, UPC Inspector Alpupera, Sharif, and UP Los Banos (UPLB) Administrative Florendo Samsuraji.
Contrary to the initial proposal of President Alfredo Pascual to remove the said officials of UP, the boR has decided that they will be suspended for six months, according to the six-month, Sharif, and Samonte, "of Staff Regalonga, sister.
Avila was facing a case against Sharif and Pineda, the case which was held on duty "because of the arrival of the contract with the Greanbantayan Corporation, a private company, which was supposed to be exhibition and Gaming Corporation for South Road Project towards UPC.
In relation to this, Avila was said to have violated the organization ProcuisAct because of the illegal formation of Bids Blue Ribbon Committee (NC) for the said project.
In a separate case, Avila was also used to send the graduating fund for giving protection to the employees of the UPC.
"
Additional benefit.
In the same meeting, boR is approved by the additional benefits for the employees of UP under the Protective Services Program Agreement.
Included in the additional benefits received by a sack of rice, P2,000 on the pension increase, and P5,000 Special snacks.
New schedule.
In November, a boR is going to meet again after having a boR, which every time they have made a meeting, so each committee will give enough time to talk about the dining table in boR, said Pascual.
There are also many opposing parties who will attend the meeting, Arguaving, in the past three weeks of horR, Aurora Rep. Juan Edgardo Angara, and Senator Edgardo Angara, all the representatives of the Congress in boR.
Being criticized by former Julie Ma. Tausug and the new chapter in the meeting of boR. "Fight IT.
