
The priests, Bishop Teodoro Vir is not happy.

The fire broke up in Immaculate Conception Parish (ICP) of the Catholic Church in Brgy. Barretto, Olongapo City.
This is the truth: Bishop Espartero has ordered to read all the Catholic Church in Zambales and Olongapo in his statement that father is suspended, father, Rodel San Juan as "parish priest.
There have already been a threat to the suspension of the suspension of the suspension of Father San Juan that he can file a case against Father San Juan, which is why he did not go back to his post, including the "computers" from 1986 until 2013, and about P12 million fund.
There is no formal suspension received by Father San Juan who remains in the church where there are those who are on the church wherein there are those who are on-guard of the priest and who attacks them because they are not in the proper action of Bishop.
And in the departure of Bishop Lavarez, to all priests in Zambales and Olongapo, to read their respective church the suspension of father to Father San Juan, the priests, who are wondering and hurt.
Many of the priests were forced but there are some who cannot stand the order of Bishop Lavador, which is why they refused and said that the Bishop threatened that they will be attacked.
This is the truth: Not only the church of Barangay Barretto is affected by the trouble, these are everywhere in the whole "Diocese of Zambales and Olongapo.
And everything was due to Bishop Lavarez who tried to restore the employees who are cases of robbery.
According to the catholic bishops conference of the Philippines, they do not have the jurisdiction of their members but for us, you can do something if you will just take action.
Even Cardinal Tagle is possible to have something to find out if he is just taking care of the affected catholics.
Maybe, it is timely when Pope Francis will examine the ways and governance of the Bishop, especially in the Philippines.
It is not a good example being shown by the public service to the Lord.
It should be stopped and finished this is the truth!
