Senate hearing again?

The last Blue Ribbon (or Yellow?) Committee against Senate President Franklin Drilon is worthless.
Why not, is it that, the primary accusation that former Iloilo provincial administrator Manuel Mejorada said that he did not have an extensive evidence against Drilon?
This is what we are saying before that we should stop any kind of hearing in the Senate.
Time is running out, time and money of the people.
At first and the second hearing, if the evidence is strong, the case of the Court should be filed immediately, which is only the authorities in the hearing and makes you happy in the case.
But, like what is happening now to VP Jejomar Binay and Drilon, we know that this is a pusher of political ambition.
When will this be finished, only senators who are involved are involved!
The truth is, Mang Kepweng oy Vic Vizcocho, said that the budget or allowance of the senators in every hearing of the case is, will they admit the additional income from the pocket?
Who is the truth and who is a liar?
It would have been okay if the senators are facing anything but until now, the conclusion to what happened in the Senate hearing is personal defamation to those who are involved.
Yes, there are documents that were showed but what the people are waiting for should be imprisoned!
Where are the cases being charged and investigated by the Senate? And if it is true that there is a need to travel outside the country, and if it is true that it is true to us from the Senate, there are "benefits that the investigators are going to do with us?
President Noynoy and Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago himself said that he already felt the boredom in the Senate hearing, especially the yellow ribbon committee of the committee.
Advise them that if there is a strong evidence, it will be filed in the Court when it can be found out.
But Senator Koko Pimentel and Franklin Drilon agreed to tell Aquino and Santiago not to talk "at the work of the Senate and that the two would be ashamed that they have not heard anything like that?
It is time to fix the senators and face the order of their duties.
Analyze, study the current law if it is effective for the state and citizens.
If it is old and not working, their work is not working in order to fix it in the way of the amendment to pass or, make a new law!
The Senate hearing is right.
You will be irritated and there is no benefit from the people, it is still still there!
