Because of the illness, prisoners Ermson Acosta, temporarily freed.

February 18, 2013.

Ermson Acosta is already able to go out from the prison after now.
They agreed in the temporary release of the political prisoners, Acosta, in the jail, Memorial Regional Trial Court in Samar, to ask the court of Persida Rubella, chief of Public Attaché and Office (PAO), that Acosta is allowed to be under the medical check-up at the National Transformation Council (NKovalev) in Quezon City this January 18.
Despite the temporary release, Acosta is still in the custody of the members of the Bureau of Jail Management and Penterm and Aquino administration.
"Believe in not, this is the first time I rode in the airplane," Acosta, a-year-old boy, a relative, relatives and supporters who were shot at him at terminal 3 in Ninoy Aquino International Airport after it came from Calbayog.
Videz was initially dismissed by Erlan Acosta (not related to Ermson Acosta (not related to Ermson Acosta, along with a medico-legal process of human rights violation, this was asked by the family of Acosta, the family of Acosta, the family of Acosta, the family of Acosta.
It was found out from the complaint that there was a large plastic bag, or swelling of stone (kidney), Acosta.
The court has not set it when Acosta needs to be returned to jail, or when the next hearing of his case is on, he is expected that he will remain in NJ for the medical examination and treatment.
"We have long been waiting for Eric to be checked by Eric's nickname for Acosta, which was a hidden talent for the doctor for her womb but she could not bear the pain," said the mother of Acosta, which is the time of Acosta, 80.

According to the medico-legal defense of PAO, Erwin Erfe of a doctor, she needs to go under Acosta in the "Tulay ng Mga Bayani, which can be exhibited to be exhibited that's why he / she became horseshoe, and Perelejos family."
Renato Reyes Jr., it is the friend of the political prisoners, the temporary release of Acosta, is the temporary release of the said prisoners if the government immediately released him because of the clear lack of basis for his post.
Rueda also said that he / she has been paying for a case against Acosta); and Are all Philippine Army, in the list... the researchers, the researchers, on top of the researchers, serving Tristan (Our Lady OPLAN). "
Meanwhile, relatives, friends and supporters of Acosta celebrated the NKovalev last morning of January 18 in the arrival of Acosta in the said facilities.
For Angie IJ, spokesperson of the organization of ex-Laban), the Aquino administration has long been released by the Aquino administration for a long time because he was compared with the case of the said prisoners in other new cases of arresting activists for a new case against activists.
Included here are the filing of cases of 52 activists in Negros Oriental, as well as the case against the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of government that doesn't want to be identified as Randy Vegas and Raul Camangano, activists in Cagayan Valley, and the leaders of Kilusang Mayo Uno are charged with different kinds of cases.

Acosta was arrested by the military last February 13, 2011 after he was seen with a laptop in his things while traveling to San Jorge, Samar.
Acosta and the near to a group of farmers in the said area was charged with the military by the illegal number of dollars because he was seen with a grenade inside.
Acosta vehemently denied that, who said he does not know how to reduce the grenade explosion.
Under the toll fee, his friends and supporters launched the widespread campaign for the release of Acosta, politician, and personalities similar to Ricky Lee, Bibeth Montecza, National artist in Little and Bienvenido Meca, and many others, the said campaign.
Previously he got a glimpse of the Philippine Collins in the university of the Philippines-Diliman, who was also known for the centered movement of the alliance between the opposition, computer and journalists.
