Editorously opened the bank accounts and went into a check immediately!
July 6, 2016, the process is not right, but it has been long been given to the Philippines this kind of style), it is good that President Digong Duterte has not named the generals of police who has been threatened because of the connection of illegal drug pushers.
We have also challenged the president several times, even PNP Chief General Ronald "Bato" dela Rosa, that they should not just be considered as a rust "in the police because it's not really just that he was able to make it even if there are just a few who get involved.
In his speech yesterday on the anniversary of the Philippine Air Force (PAF), five generals who was named by the President and he said that he was able to investigate the contents of his speech at first, that he was really serious with his promise to the public that he would crush illegal drugs in the Philippines.
Second, this is a clear message to corrupt policemen who does not want to insult the administration.
It is really right to purge the corrupt cops, especially the generals who are using high positions for their illegal and questionable activities.
The President is really right in his statement that a cheating was given to their sworn duty and the people that they should work in front of the heinous position for the syndicates of illegal drugs.
If it can be proven that in a fair and clean trial, the greatest punishment of our Constitution has to be four to them, if you think about it as a payment for life and the future that was destroyed by illegal drugs.
But, even if the president himself said that his name is still important, it is still important to pass through a realistic, and in a thorough investigation, the serious accusations are very important, and the serious accusation is very important, but the serious allegations.
What is being discussed here, aside from their names, the benefits of retirement and the integrity of their long time for serving as a law of law.

The accusations are easy, but there is a different discussion in taking advantage and enough evidence.
One of the most fair way that needs to be done "been delayed, or better if those involved are in a check and opening of their bank accounts.
It is a good thing for this if there is truth or there is no heavy allegation.
