If the game was true, he is true.

Jonathan Magistrado.

The viewer would not get tired of running to witness the next scene from a crazy game, while the students, who are fighting the shooting, are having fun, while witness the violence, as if we are the lord of their fate.
This is the sign of the suspension of the demolition and Lawin '70s (SMB), who was sent to a Batanga Roanjoe), a Inter-Active site, which is not only witnessed by the audience of every scene, but they were also included in every event of the show.
"The world is weak and you can't do anything but to fight."
The story of the Batal-Rodriquez is part of the novels, KFRG that's why the program made by the government to win - the programs made by the government to win - all of them remain alive at the end of the game.
Subong made the Dilawan around the writers, from the script which was written in the English language, the Solo of a few parts and the Filipinos sent to the sensibility of the Filipinos.
Full of Filipino people are the holiest part of the production of Sevidal and the writers, who are suitable to the writers, which is appropriate for the viewers of Japan or Australia where it can serve as a show that the audience of Japan or Australia where it can be said that this is a Filipino taste like this, it can be said that this is a Filipino.
Just like what happened to the novels, scattered all over blood can be seen in the chaotic and dark part of Dilawan, the use of the employees of Salas as well as the administration of the game, and even the performance of the employees of the game, and also for guidance for the audience of the next scenes.
"He should not be a good thing," that is what should be! "
The rating of the Intertropical Convergence Zone that is why it creates a huge amount of money based on the tone of the students who are students in running and fighting for each other, the viewers are still fighting and fighting against each other, when his personnel are still fighting, or when the people can see the viewer.
Because of this style, the participants of the audience would get stronger and it is also being looked like by the viewers by the sudden elements of Dilawan, and the viewers can liken their reaction to each other because of this, the viewers can liken their reactions on the theme and issues that were discussed by the audience.
The SMB further strengthened the participation of the viewers by giving a chance to decide on how they will stop the game, and will ask the viewers, if there are 30 people who will vote to stop the game, the DOLE will stop going to stop the game.
Also, there is also a part of Dilawan, where the teacher will go out with a student who is pleading to live, the teacher will ask the viewers if they need to kill the personnel or neglect going back to the game.
According to the director JK to be a candidate, the DOLE should look at the pretending as a negotiation between the audience and Dilawan, and other viewers, are hardworking and even the followers of their fellow viewers, are happy, and angry.
Because of this kind of scenes of Dilawan, the original owner of the novels he can do to kill his classmate in Dador, can they take the questions to the viewers, if they will be able to witness the violent and heinous crime that was laid before them.
"
According to Dela Rosa, there is still no opportunity to stop the show because majority of the viewers can choose what the election result is 200: 10, where ten viewers will object.
According to the interview, most of the audience said that they chose to continue the construction of a ticket, but they want to know what will be the resolution of Dilawan, but they want to know what will become the resolution of Dilawan, but there is one opportunity for him to know what the audience is asking for him to leave the violence.
At first glance, maybe some viewers are looking at Dilawan, but for some who chose to continue the show their show is the chance to stop the progress of the violence, they still chose to witness the progress of Dilawan.
Even if the viewers can choose the reality, how can we look, the issue of violence and condolences to other people, but it can be said that there is no match for the audience of Dilawan, but it may be said that it is not just watching the audience of Dilawan, and it can still be made by the audience of Dilawan, and it can still be done by the audience of the violence.
In the end, isn't it that the goal of any art is not for their will not to be cut off, but in this level of trouble, caused trouble between the Batal-Rom.
