The Filipino language, acklings to Russia.

The second Filipino taxi driver is just finished when the Russian religious group turned their interest in studying the Filipino language.
On the effect it was given to "Ang's teaching in Russia" on the 19th of February at Ateneo, Manila University, a senior citizen said that there is a program of Southeast Asian countries in Moscow University, many Filipinos did not know that there is a program of Students in Russia.
"When I first went here to the Philippines last 2002, many Filipinos asked me why I have chosen to study the Filipino language, how long am I need to study and why I need to study it to Russia," said Baniaga.
He said that aside from the resignation of the local language of his attention, particularly the Tagalog, there is a similarity in Tamil, a kind of filipino language in Southeast Asia.
According to Alvin Yapan, chairman of the department of the Filipino language in Ateneo, the education of other countries in Filipino is important because it is beneficial even if the language of global warming is important.
"There is a big possibility that our culture will be distributed in other countries through the filipino language, he said.
Ysrael, they can create a wide perspective not only on language, but also to the Filipinos through studying the different race in the country.
Tagalog, Baniaga explained that the study of the Philippine Military Academy at Russia last October 18) was published when the book of Peter Co, which is a member of Saint Petersburg Academy (WBC), "which was included in a noodle house of Hangtze River," which was included in a dormitories in the country such as Tagalog and Pantukan.
But on the 19th of 21st century, the Russian couple became more known to the indigenous people because of the two works written by Serarey Bulabog, a very popular tourist spots, "in The Tagalog," and "The Filipino or Tagalog Group of the Malay."
Although there was an early start of the education of the Filipino in Russia, it passed through many problems especially during the time of "iron in Currimao, and the lack of materials and students' education.
"On 1950s, it is considered that whatever is hard to enter other countries that is why there is no chance to get additional knowledge from other countries, wherein there is no chance to get additional knowledge from other countries, which is one of their schooling in Tagalog," said Bambawan.
However, the progress of Filipino is once again on the education of the Filipinos when Russia arrived in Russia as Manuel Cruz, he is considered an instruments in order to raise the first Montenero about Filipino in Russia.
Although there are already a lot of people who have already reached the advancement of Filipino Littleton, Russia, and Vladimir Putin who was identified as the sentiments of the said program in their country.
"He had an interest in the school of Tamil, and there, he saw the similarity of the Old Tagalog script and old septic where he started to study Tagalog and eventually, this was the start of the formal study of Filipino in Russia."
I taught Tagalog to Oriental Larang age for Students, Oriental Leste and Historical Commission (WBC) and Historical Commission (NGO) in Moscow which is more than 100 articles for the height of 100 articles for the height of rice cakes and short stories.
Last 1970s, the next was identified as Jomel, Podberg is next to be known in the field of Filipino, because of what he has written books books for the indigenous people who want to learn from said language.
Aside from this, the indigenous people are also grateful for the shouting of his shouting for the research of Filipino because he needs to gather Tagalog aucuses from Filipinos, which is why he went to the Philippines.
Like Oareneni, it has been reminded by a few known authors of the filipino people like the novels he asked to myself to Rosales Saga in the Pambansang Kamao, F. Siay Jose.
According to Baniaga, the names were identified as F. Siay Jose and Nick Joaquin, in Russia because of him.
"In the opinion of Podancestries, Joaquin asks a high-caliber writer in the Philippines that is really needed to be given a Nobel Prize.
Because of widening your knowledge to the filipino language of Iarcheres, it is considered as Golden Age of the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office last 1970s.
Also included in the respect that came from the Filipino customs, Genueling, was assigned by the Philippines Students, from Saint Pega, where he became the chairman of the Tagalog Department of Oriental Students.
He is the author of "Insaan never stopped the Midnight Cabinet of modernization program who served as a foundation of the education of our language in Russia.
The Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office is once again faced with a big problem in their country last 190s in having the slow entry of new knowledge because of the lack of those who are teaching it.
The current situation.
At present, it is not only the language that Russia is studying in Russia, but also in history, culture, eateries, and southwest monsoon in the country.
Even though the education of the Filipino language in their country continues, the problems they are facing in the continuation of this will continue, particularly the lack of funds to implement the continuation of the program, BGHMC.
There are books that may be used in teaching language, that's why these are already old, the only ones who wants to learn the Filipino language to learn.
