
Virgin P: 24 years of lack of land and freedom.

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
June 14, 2012.

Driver of a small private vehicle, expressed support from the protests of the farmers in the Independence Day (moon-Remontadoses have expressed support.
If the Comprehensive Tax Reform Program (COP) was successful in giving land to the farmers, they will not go back every year by the foot of Mendiola to protest the alleged lapses of the mother of President Benigno Aquino III.
June 12, Independence Day, and two days after the 25th anniversary of the First P, Southern Tagalog, and Negros Oriental expressed their testimony on how they still do not have a lot, and freedom, under the current administration.
From Quezon, Mylene's anger towards Quezon, Mylene, who used to be affected by the group, who got away from Quezon, and competing in Hacienda Tan, town of San Francisco, town of San Francisco where the New People's Army's Army (NPA) will be charged.
Mylene really used to be a competing farmer in Quezon: Allegedly the NPA because the land is fighting for the land (months but Quijano.
The military abducted the military and was assigned inside an eight hours, and if we were able to ask us to be members of the NPA, would we still go here to convey our complaints? "He said in his speech on top.
According to the Filipino Weeker, the members of 764 Infantry Batallion are going to the leaders of the farmers in their respective houses, "why are we not being discontentment with being rude," he said.
It is about more than 3,000 hectares of coconut plantation in their area which was owned by the asenne, Juanito Tan, when he died, his children shared the land, and no one went to the farmers, in spite of it being part of the Black Nazarene.
It is expected that there is a democratic governance, along with 40 percent of the harvest that goes to them, while 60 percent is going to them, most of the expenses, most of the payment, most of the payment, most of the payment, most of the payment, most are the ones who pay their children.
According to the data of Katipunan, Samahang Magbureaucracy in the southern part of South Quezon and Bondoc), there are 16,000 hectares of South Quezon and Bondoc) including the uncle of the President Eduardo "Danding" Cojuangco.
When asked why he was against the suspension of the First P, he insisted that he failed to share the land, and just give a huge distribution of land, and it is just giving a huge distribution of land, and it is also giving a huge distribution of land, and it is also giving a huge distribution of land, and it is also given to us the land. "
"Ayoy es, Go of home!," one of the popular Americans in 1992, is believed to have been based on the US in 1992, it is believed that the US in the Philippines through the Visiting Forces Agreement (several years Quijano might continue.
Meanwhile, the National Football Federation of Synod) conducted by the National Bureau of SWorkers (NFN), it appears that 41 percent of the agricultural sector was released by the land title, or 25, 336 at 61,375, 336 in 61,375, 336 in the AFF Suzuki raider (SDO) and to be a medical exam.
As a matter of fact, the ownership of Cojuangco in the entire island of Negros Oriental was raised to 5,030 hectares of the entire island of Negros Occidental, because of the said ordinances that will spend under the past 24 years of Boxing P, according to Coastal Mall.
"There is an unexpected coincidence, while the country is celebrated with 114 years of alleged freedom, the majority of the Filipinos, the most important elements of our freedom now, is the most important elements of our freedom now," said Deputy Secretary Mesa, general secretary in the union of Manggagawa sa Pelikulang Pilipino.
After the protest in Mendiola's protest, the farmers and other sectors already went to the embassy of the United States, they blocked the road of more than 50 policemen in a program in Kalaw Avenue, which is said to be a proof of the continuous lack of freedom of the country.
