Unity against high prices.

Everyday, Aling Arlene Casiple, 48 years old, of Tondo, Manila, where they are living together with her husband, almost three times (her husband, Aling Tasya, is like a job for almost three times.
The salary of her husband reached 300 million pesos, but it is not everyday, in twenty-20, you can make it enough for every day, "Aling Cecilia said that she will pay it all every day, even the two kilos of rice that they are running out in one day."
"I buy 32 pesos per kilo of rice, because the P30 of NFA (National Food Authority)," he said, said.
He was supposed to be a child who is studying in the first year of damp and in the past year, but he was forced to stop him from school, because the 50 pesos in the expenses in school on a day is free, but almost every day there is a project, "said Aling Dory.
From June 2011, they still do not have electricity in the house, "said Aling Dory, because the price of electricity is still expensive, it is expensive to buy-up, up to 30 minutes and above all the water for him to drink.
He admitted, there are still days when they are married for days and eat at one day - the children are working on each other for days.
Aling Dory, and improvement of the poor people, in the cities and basic goods, the price of oil continues, especially when the price increase of oil continues, especially for the increase of price of goods, especially the results of the price of oil and desperation, the result for the people like Aling Alagan.
The result of the majority of the citizens is hungry and desperation.
It's signature against high prices (NBP).
During the first two weeks of February, the members of Gabriela, groups of militant women are busy working in crowded places in Metro Manila, they are going to build a boils in crowded market in Divisoria, Quiapo, and Divisoria, to gather signatures, for their fellow citizens, for a petition.
"My fellow mother already signed, in the petition of high blood pressure," a member who introduced himself as "Gabriela Conejero," he said, is the national campaign to gather the signature of the citizens as against the incessant price of goods.
Those who are buying are usually signed, according to LinLinmei, general secretary of Gabriela, only one noon, on February 3, they will gather 1,000 signatures in Carriedo, even their father, they have nothing to control over the prices; now, they can do anything.
"It is being led by women to be brought to Malacañang and Congress for the wish of the citizens for the action of their situation when we are tired of their situation when the government cannot do anything for the high price of oil and electricity and other products," said Linmei.
The wish of Gabriela: Lower and control of the government is the price of the basic goods, the price of oil is said to have been made into a high price, which is why the price of oil can be punished with the price increase or too much price or too much price.
They say, if you really want, there are a lot of ways, if you do not want, there are many reasons.

It may cause more price increase.
In the decade of 90 to early parts of the past decades, the series of laws which is part of the negative rules of the forehead of Ramos, Estrada and Arroyo passed through.
On this point, through the laws and control of the laws are removed from the regulations or control of the government, the services of the oil (Commission 8479), it was passed by some bills of the electricity (Water crisis Act of 1995), and other policies of the electricity depends on the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2001.
The result of this is the incessant price of oil, services such as electricity, and price of basic commodities.
In oil, it can be seen that last February 1998, the price of diesel will reach 7.5 pesos per liter, and P140 pesos per liter, while ODL. 18) is up to P4.8 per liter, while ODL.
In the service in the water, in Metro Manila, there is no incessant increase in charge for the Manila Water and Sebuage System (MWalis), the increase of 449 percent in Maynilad and 845 percent in the Manila Water.
In the electricity, according to the study of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), from P4.87 last 2000, the eight percent price hike of Meralco last 2000 was reported that the eight percent increase of electricity supply was reported that it was the highest charge of electricity in the entire Asia.
Meanwhile, the profit from the companies that has control over the said services is high, including the most rich corporation in the Philippines, Petron, Shell, Chevron (Caltex), and others.
In the implementation of Kilusang Mayo Uno (equivalent), the center of the militant groups in the country, that it is possible that the actual price increase in the price of the oil and so estimated to take a peek at the books of the said company and know how they put under the price of oil.
Because the oil and products are using oil (especially in its transportation), its price is directly affected every time the price of oil continues.
"Be united and act.
Last year, the members of the drivers and operators Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan), and other militant groups under the Bayan, of the series of protests against the price of oil continues.
Last September 2011, they launched a "elected town" and non-stop from the destruction of the huge companies of oil and the government, President Aquino was forced to talk and promised to study and promised to study by his administration.
The administration built by the administration to review the financial condition of the oil companies, but it is noticeable that there are businessmen who are still known as lawyers of Hacienda Luisita, Mendoza, who is better known as a lawyer of Hacienda Luisita, which is better known as a lawyer of Hacienda Luisita, Incorporated.
"We do not have an illusion that Iric Arribas of announcement because it was built by the Aquino government, who is an active alliance in the companies of oil and served as their spokesperson of the oil companies and served as their spokesperson of the oil companies and served as their spokesperson of the oil companies.
For the militants, it has been proven that there is a sign for unity of the poor, women, workers and other sectors who take advantage on our protests in the next week to force the government to stop the price of petroleum products, "said Liwag.
Meanwhile, in the poor community, those who are working like Aling Dory are working almost every time, even if they are their children, they are also working in relation to their poverty and taking advantage of some powerful, and rich, he is joining the campaign against high price.
Just this past month, he was included in the signature of the signature for the campaign Allowance (WHO) last February 14, everyday of the hearts, Aling Arlene is one of the buyers of Divisoria to sign at the said petition.
In just more than an hour of exchange, they immediately received 500 signatures of those from Gabriela who have free blood pressure due to lack of blood pressure, join them to join their organization - to end a high blood pressure.
