
The surrender of Napoles and the pork barrel is there.

Let us allow our readers to express their opinions especially about the pork barrel scam.
Noon for the irresponsible people.
Hardiets for those who are involved in the pork barrel scam, to Japanese or Japanese, carrying extreme shame or when they were able to bring them to the country, the one who committed suicide by a glimpse of a "kristo" in the right part of their stomach.
"Perhaps," those who are involved in the "pork barrel scam," he does not want to admit it, but you don't want to admit it, but you don't want to admit it, you should not be ashamed of and let them know that they do not feel pity and thank you as a good citizen, 09438 DD.
The command.
The order of PNoy is to ish the PDAF, PDAF, and bureaucracy.
There is no alternative.
In the million peso rally against pork barrel, the militants have led the pork barrel of the lawmakers but they do not have an alternative which is limited to their jurisdiction of the National Bureau, Development Assistance Fund), territory of our lawmakers, the officials of our lawmakers are limited to the development of our lawmakers, the leaders of the Pacific Economic Cooperation (PRC) and barangays in the development of our lawmakers.
CJ Corona.
Renato Corona, former chief Justice, is the thickness of their face, you are also a thief who does not pay taxes to the country.
Pork remove from 2014.
Before the lawmakers insisted that PNoy will show up to the 2014 budget, remove the pork barrel scheme from the pork barrel fund, which is still a new name which is still a big name for the lawmakers.
The REAOIL.
Good at night, sir, I was able to give an online "and even for the online" when there was no obstacle to us, there was no hindrance in our column, along with my column / sister Thanks and IGAB, Gerard 3469 years.
Awooooooo with PDAF.
Even if remove the PDAF, the fund of Mawooooooo by lawmakers (AAY-878.
Lacson for the BI.
It is a thing for Sen. Ping Lacson to put corruption in the Bureau of Immigration, that corruption is also widespread and to stop the drug and human trafficking case that is why many will stop here or 09085th.
The call of the victims.
Good day to you, I hope that through your column, I can ask for help from DSWD and Red Cross in order for us to give a priority to the agencies of the government and ABS-CBN, Zambales and we hope that we'll wait for our request for our request, we will wait for 09280,42.
The chief of Staff and pork.
If the lawmakers do not know the pork barrel scam, their "Chief of Staff" does not know any "09087,000).
I admire you!
Good night, sir.
Napoles drama.
It is certain that there are times that, like the television series, the surrender of Janet Lim-Napoles with PNoy is the antagonist, as the antagonist, and the stars are the antagonist, and other mixture of drama with corruption, and others.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.
