
Traditional politicians and officials of the government.

Inheritance of inheritance.
That is what is happening in the regime of Benigno Aquino III (Bira 3) and it would be good if what we inherited from the goodness is not what they inherited from the money of the people, all of evil are being done now by all officials of the government!
Bo'clock in different kinds of funds of the country are having a feast and is supposedly the president because of all the money in different faces.
Presidential Social Weather Stations, Presidential Intelligence Assistance Fund, Presidential Intelligence Fund, calamity Assistance Fund), he.
That's why, like the saying, what the leader is seeing and what the leader is doing is, he is also the real funds that he did against the former President and Pampanga Congresswoman Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, the late funds that he did against the former President and Pampanga Congresswoman Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, the latter who was caught up to his administration now of 130 billion pesos.
The government troops are not going to be outdone and will continue to be vigilant, while the officials of the Social Security System is not only the officials of the Social Security System which gave multimillion pesos to their self.
There are Special bonuses for officials of the government of Social Security System, MWisconsin, Development Authority of the Philippines, Landbank of the Philippines and others still don't know if the Commission on audit of Miss Grace Pulido-Tan will have a teeth.
The Department of Agriculture is becoming hek like the Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
He is saying now, let's just eat a corn in exchange of rice cakes to DENR, some of the officials on their collection to the illegal Mines.
The DOTC also attempted to extort the US $30 million in Ieateries of Czech Republic, before the LTO was able to earn under the casino lady Virginia Torres, that since he took office, they took a slow-hek in the agency's operation.
Until now, there is no plate number that can be given to those who buy their vehicles?
Covetous, face and ditures during the point, it seems that they are not stopping the cruelty because they know, they will not be ignored even if they will not be able to endure their boils in Malacañang!
