
Assigned to school.

(This work was published in the issue of the Philippine Cologne last October of 2012.
UP did not learn.
This June 18, the people formally stated the recent agreement entered by the university and to Ayala Land Incorporated (Ali), one of the biggest private companies in the country.
In this agreement, it was given by the university that the "UP Diliman Center was given to the university which was built by UP Integrated School (Ubers) in the stretch of Katipunan Avenue, in exchange for the construction of the New People's building in the space of the burned state of Narra and Calapan City Hall.
This is not the first time that UP will coordinate with the said company, under the speed of a Science and Technology), UP signed the P25-million contract with Ali in 2006 so the UP will build the Ayala Land Convention Center (MCMC) in Commonwealth Avenue.
The illusion of being acad in the illusion of being academic, along with the appearance of different businesses in the said land, from the call centers until the dining area and visit places.
The category.
But instead of insisted by a higher fund from the government, the UP continue to save the orders of the government, and for the new agreement they entered from the university, there is no match for you to be academic, or even to acons of a project.
In the entry of UP in the agreement of Ali, the implementation of the use of land in the university is getting worse, even if in a vacant lot, now he will be used for a vacant lot, now it is ready to be used in the name of the strengthening of the university.
It is as if UP Diliman were like a signal for the continuous use of UP from its properties in order to worsen the report that has been registered in the previous meeting of UP Board of Regulations, which can be used for an estimated more agreement that will be used for business in the future.
If it will be examined carefully, the original reason for the preservation of the university is to always be given benefits, but in the end, the real goal of the private companies that they get along with UP will not be stolen.
That's why it is so sensitive to review the progress and big steps in building a mall in the land of university which is the spirit of having facilities and structures that cannot be given to us by the government.
These kinds of arguments in the country cannot be examined by the price of a public university in the country - the height of its land is that they should not be sold in the market which seems like an ordinary products in exchange.
In the end, the real solution to the lack of funds of UP will not be compared to private institutions for the lack of arguments with the needs of a higher subsidy from the government to meet the university which is being faced by the university.
If the current trend is going to continue, there is no other reason why the government let the government resign from his responsibility to fund the public from danger of becoming a big hope on what the market of the market to continue.
Even more, the fact that the fact that the fact that the real model of the Philippines, UP should be implemented in other public schools in the country, and it is not impossible to happen that in the next year, it is not impossible to happen that in the next year, their rights are not far away from a lot of citizens.
A warning was presented by the building of UP Diliman Center on Katipunan, and if they will return to history, it is only right to face this warning of opposition and fighting.
