
TV Patrol, May 1, 2012.

A flyer from May Uno.

The poor people are also workers!

Loneliness once again!

Siblings, unemployed and workers in the community.

We celebrated the international Independence Day every year, we are asking for a job, that we are asking for a job, that is why we are going to give in our country's request, that is why there is no certainty in their work, that is why there is no certainty in work and for our laborers to be regular.

Many of our fellowmen, those who do not have jobs and one by one, our family is very poor and we continue to fix every day to live.

As poor, we are also workers and we do not have any of the factories, we are still alive in selling our confidence.

It is true that the price of goods will increase, and so that we can count on this, we should increase the price of goods, but what is more important, should not be done by the government which has been part of the capitalists have to live.

We need to ease our poverty experienced, that's why we salute our problems because they are the leaders of our country.

But it is not enough for us to just ask for our livelihood to fix our livelihood because we should not wait for him like the beggar, but we should also change the government of the real serving society.

What we should do is to cut these kinds of machinery.

We continue to study the society! We need to know our self as a type, because this is the first field of battle, for all of all, we should be aware of the purpose of our enemy, the type of capitalists have, the type of capitalists have.

So the nutrients that we always say are "type of Mangguray, Hambi," if we are aware of our kind of style, we are aware of our kind of consciousness in our area to release our kind of style against the rotten system.

As aware of this kind of type, what we should prepare for is the construction of a Filipino workers, the success of the workers and education that we make sure that there is a project for the people, the civic works, which is certain for all of our current difficulty.

End the plague of capitalists have in every step towards dizziness!
