A slave to the land.

"I felt a mixture of fear and anger before, I got angry because they threatened me that even my family will kill me."
This is how Cezar Garabat, 28 years old, was felt inside almost six hours for the military who is assigned to the province of Quezon. Tricycle driver Garay, Macabog, Quezon, and they were walking along with 20 elements of 85th Infantry Battalion (IB) of the Philippine Army.
His two companions ran away, and was reported hurt by the soldiers who blocked them, while two of his fellow farmers were arrested and were not injured in the shooting of the soldiers.
"I just went home to Macabog, to hope that we will be together with my relatives.
Gardolia said, after he was pulled by the soldiers, fried and tied on a tree after 15 minutes, he was transferred to a vacant house because of firing his alleged companions including the two farmers who ran.

I was said to have been hit by the bamboo, and other things, on her body and head, "when I was forced to fall short because of the pain in his back, my head and chest will be cut off.
Habana pulled out his nose, including his flawless, also being forced to let him know that he knows a person who is in a picture that will come in his face.
"They also threatened me that if it would not happen to them, even my family will make it through a document that he will not complain and he was not hurt by the soldiers just to free him.
There is only one case of Garay of the increase of the abuses of the military in the southern Quezon City in the record of Karina-southern end, two cases of illegal properties; two cases of illegal drugs; two cases of illegal drugs; two cases of illegal drugs, cases of alleged illegal drugs and being verified, three cases of illegal drugs, cases of abuse of human rights; and are continually being affected by the destruction of human rights.
Very derogatory.
"We are alarmed with the real intention of the widespread brownout in spite of the statements of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) that this is part of their hard work to disband the NPA," said Glen Malabanan, general secretary of Karylle.
The group said that at present, eight hostages of the AFP were included including the members of the Armed Forces Geosciences Bureau (NFL) who are now deployed in the third and fourth district called the southern part of Quezon and Bondoc Peninsula.
The camp and the military are taking advantage of 50 barangays in the 22 towns of southern Quezon.
"In the law, it did not reach this kind of deployment the military and it is only now that the southern Quezon City will only experience eight hundred soldiers," Orly Marlboro St., spokesperson of Salas Quezon Movement.
Marketing also said that the effect of the privatization of the lives of farmers has a big effect on the lives of farmers.
"Before, the farmer can go to the farm at dawn to find a carabao, as well as the rebels who attended the farm, he said that the farmers are forced to attend to order to prevent the farmers who are going to attend to order to avoid the victims of the farmers, including the members of piranha.
The group insisted that they should not stay in the community, especially to the houses of farmers, the military, but they are hardheaded.
Last June 11, Marketing who went into a conversation with the officials of the Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) regarding the severe destruction of the military in their community, there is nothing wrong with the attack of the military in their community.
According to Karylle, part of Oplan Tokhang, program versus insurgency and insurgency of the Philippine administration, the previous administration of Girlie Padilla, spokesperson of Calanoga) in the province of Quezon, there is also no difference in the privatization of the region of Mindanao and Bicol.
According to him, the Oplan LS is more effective because the use of local government units, non-government units was legitimate, and even the attempt to give peace and progress is the program against insurgency and prosperity.
"It is also a priority that they are using the combat operations, which they are hiding as peace and development in order, that's why they call the government officials who are in peace and the development of team," said Padilla.
Padilla also added that the farmers supported the farmers to raise them from poverty through their projects, because they did not need to push them, because they have not allowed the military operations of the AFP and the increase of cases of human rights to them.
Even the members of the United Nations Human Rights Council, which were held by their second Universities (Persist back then were worried about the incessant extrajudicial killings, while Boboy is still not arrested, they also recommended the government to separate them.
As a response, it was announced by the AFP on May that they will just separate the Cafgu Acting but in 2016, just like the many promises of the AFP who did not come true, the groups of human rights to fulfill their promise will be fulfilled.
Land is the reason.
Different groups believe that the cause of the widespread violation of the rights of farmers, indigenous people and other sectors are widespread in the rights of foreign businessmen and foreign contacts, not only in Mindanao, there are big numbers of gold and other infrastructures in Tagbamboo, Buenavista and San Andres.
Aside from this, in the southern part of the government with the private companies, along with the private companies, the projects, which are possible to undergo 100 hectares of coconut plantation and affect the 30 barangays in the three towns of Macabog, General Luna and Pitogo of the 30 barangays of the 44 company and local corporation.
It also added by Sumang Bondoc HQ on the thousands of hectares of oil companies that will be owned by the Lord who owns the land where the land is owned by the land.
One of the owners of the vast land in Bondoc Peninsula is the uncle of President Aquino - the giant businessman Eduardo "Danding" Cojuangco.
"The widespread brownout in the southern Quezon is the root of the protection of the soldiers about the broken land in Bondoc Jr.
The exchange of crops is also spreading; Cojuangco is being implemented by Cojuangco the project of planting caskets and coconut wine for the bidi and coconut wine, which is widespread in the coconut plantation in order to give way to change.
Aside from the attack and projects that are allegedly used for the progress of farmers, it is said that 70-30-40 or 50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50-50 in favor of the Lord.
Marketing also said that even if the sale of the copra is very low, around 15 percent of per kilo of businessmen, even the low wages of the Filipino workers will only reach 150 to 200 pesos.
That's why it's not surprising that the movement of the farmers in the southern Quezon and Bondoc Sea is not surprising because they want to get free from the extreme abuse of the Lord of the earth and this is also the reason for the severe damage to their community.
"Instead of supporting the government to address our call to share the high land of copra, remove the price of copra, remove the price of copra, remove from the farmers, eight hundred soldiers," said Maroons.
The farmers of the southern Quezon and Bondoc Sea are worried that if the number of cases of abuse of the military will increase, especially and in Quezon, Colonel Eduardo Año will increase in the kidnapping and disappearance of Jonas Burgos.
"We will not be surprised if the violation of human rights will increase but we will face a terrifying truth," Malabanan said.
According to Marketing, this is a proof that Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo and President Aquino are no difference.
