The reality is a sharp reality.

By Priscilla Mireilles?
April 9, 2012.

He reviewed for The Legal Management Council (2012).
Horseshoe, alibis, and Sean lucky to be exported.
BBL is sent out from the stupid line of BBL.
When it is a scene from being a scene in the documentary on the movie, The Legal Counsel Salvador Revilleza.
There's a powerful truth that he can witness an image, a video gathered from so much and common camera and rape here is the most important thing to get an image or video that will give change to us the truth that will give change to the change that happens, for the good of the majority.
It is English that Sean is lucky in English, but he went to the country Yemen, in the Middle East, but it seems like he has no plate number or even a small video camera and it seems like he has no crew.
He is the only one of the few foreign tourists in Yemen in 2011, this is in the middle of what is called global warming, Arab Spring: Series of Arabs) to remove the dictator in their country in Yemen, the Bangko Sentral ng Masang Pilipino, to serve as an attempt to serve as Kovalev.
Yemen is said to be the poorest country in the Middle East, here, 33 years have been supported by the government of US and Saudi Arabia, who are being supported by the government of the US and Saudi Arabia due to the severe poverty and desperation of his father, that is why she was surprised by her husband, who was just surprised at us).
Karangalan Village, their tour guide "revolutionary taxes."
From the point of the point of an ordinary citizen (although a person who is struggling in danger because of the crisis), the tourists who have tried to join the provinces have been hesitant to join the islands of Yemen.
But it is lucky that luckily, he talked to the protesters, workers, workers, women - and served as an explanation on the actions and statement of Kibalabag, "this is the gift given to us by the President," he said in the camera.
There is a powerful person who will be able to get it in line with so much video, because he does not have a crew, there is no big camera and a simple tourist, he does not have a string of technical and a simple tourist when he needs to get a contest on what kind of story he needs to get.
It will be offered to the "Times Square" in Kuala Lumpur A, Yemen.
Because they mingle with those who have evacuated without baggage, they can easily get their stories, and their stories, they can see that they were together, they can see that they were together, the dictator will be forced to listen to them.
It can be considered that the video gathered by lucky Alyas, however, it is clear that there is no more powerful to the citizens who are united, therefore, this is no more powerful to the citizens who are united, organic, and daring books or the masses in the whole world, including of course in our country.
