United Nations or NDFP) who is serious with the peace talks?

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
March 4, 2012.

A year has passed since the government of the Philippines (GPhilippine) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) are important to solve the peace talks to solve the problems of society which is the root of the drug addicts in the country.
Just thought that the negotiation has become better under the Aquino government, which are delayed for six-years under the past government of Arroyo, but it seems that obstacles will be increased.
"There is no word of honor.
It is clear on the first round of formal conversation at Okinawa or Joint Task Force (February 2011, GEGARAOCITY, almost all of 17 in the imprisoned Philippine Amusement and NDFP), an agreement that the contestants will assure the security of all the contestants in the peace talks.
If the promise made will be fulfilled, last June, the proposition to investigate the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Socio-Pacific Ocean is started to be discussed, the second on the four-page agreement.
But months passed, Duterte requested to postpone the dialogue to postpone the dialogue in order to give time to GUnited States last June and August, the four NDFP members were released.
In spite of this, Duterte has proposed to continue the negotiation last September, it is also important that the chief of two Canadians namely Luis Apples Jalandoni and Alexander Padilla of Golovkin, together with the third floor of the Supreme Court, hence, the second round of formal conversation is set on November.
It would have been agreed if he will be held accountable even the majority or nine of the first 17 Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office, according to Rafael Bayombong, Philippine Amusement and member of NDFP Recana-Pacific Ocean, in the interview of Filipino Weeker) at that point, the Philippine government should be set free to push through.
This is not what happened to the government's reason, it was not verified if the identity of the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office is not verified if the list of names and pictures of the individuals who are protected from the third party are protected from the discretion, which contains it.
Reason of NDFP, the fourth discretion, and it was lost only by the authorities of the authorities in their office in Ubihan, t, The Netherlands last 2007, and one more before, the Philippine government should not ask for verification.
However, Duterte has also offered to constipated or make the list be given again but the United States does not have a response to it.

Proposal to stop.
Meanwhile, to hasten the peace talks, there is a special conversation between the two sides that was called "Special Action Force," which was called by the highest agreement which led the four-page agreement with "regular."
Last January 2011, NDFP members offered to President Aquino the 10-point Conversattribute that will be filed in the land; but also the alliance between the Aquino government and without work; who should be able to support the following days; government agencies, who can support the national mining; and free policies.
But the response of Aquino is a five habit of declaration (Bayambang), instead of answering the request of NDFP or to identify the legitimate request, "there was no concrete proposal, aside from holding an" Pambansang Kamao "without comment on one of the proposals of the NDFP members.
However the NDFP members are not shaken and still tried to improve their proposals that last December 2011, the negotiators of the NDFP members of Malacanang will collect the role of one "General Decongestion Program of Alliance."
The National Disaster Risk Reduction Management Council needs to make a declaration that there will be no basis of the NDFP members, Golovkin, and other sectors which are made to be deceived by the reforms that will be deceived by the reforms that will be deceived by the reforms and economists like the reform.
Bayodo admitted that the proposal of NDFP is contrary to the white neo-lualto organization, which is why he is not interested in the peace talks which is still part of the military forces, which is still part of the military operations, and they are being crushed by the violent force, "he said.
