There are even those who go here, but we are here that I brought students in the first day of life, that is why it's still good that we are going to wait a few days from the victims of the child, so we are going to have something to go through with my mother, Vangie Cosain, Kuya Adel, and my youngest child.
I let us monitor the two thousands of these, whose legs are low; and a lot of problems have entered now.
It is a bit okay here in Manila elementary but we are just going to see what we are saying.
Very short; we were able to go to school; not all of the children came inside.
Because Regis offering children to school.
It is a big deal to Two people who have grown up to ten years old because of what happened.
Maybe he really likes wooden pincers which can't be done in public schools so that we can't be able to do with the public so that we can only be able to go there for the things that we have to do, that's why it's not the fever of Standard Lunch Program; that's why it should be five in a grades.
Then, we are only five years old, of course, we are only following them for their education, what you are saying, those who are talking to them are the ones who are talking to them, ones who are talking to each other; they are going to monitor their fruits.
That you really need a lot of things like that, to our fellow countrymen who are stupid;
We were able to look at each other; we have two daughters who have five point in relation to our classmate in front of us.
The people.
In searching for what's important is that those in the bathroom are in the bathroom that you really need to progress and that is the same room that the people are saying.
These are said to have become the or Contact Policy "how?
Ping.
We are stupid; we really need to be a political; it should really be a political way for the education of the budget for education because many have been to fight for the house of Education because we are here in order to fix all of these.
The number is going to continue in order to fix the clothes that we are being given, we hope that the political party of DepEd will continue.
Because I am just here I have been here for a long time for a long time.
Classes are always like that, whatever you think is Francis is the signal that we are.
That is why there is a mother who is a mother, right?
The child already entered.
Very short; he / she can't take care; however, he / she hasn't been able to look at anyone; he / she's the one who cares for you in the entry of you.
Now it is okay because, because I am not in my room, he wants to fight with his friends' things, "we, as well as your child, are all given to us to go to school, are you paid, right, right public school.
Until now, I have not paid anything.
And I do not know if someone will pay anything to me and you are just waiting for me that you are still waiting for my child.
What kind of time we are four o'clock.
Why do you do the laundry in front of the children?
I am really worried later I took my nephew's nephews in order to watch over him.
So that you will be able to return home.
He became a pensioner Soriano and I know about her mother here.
To us, I will just end up with your child here in school first.
