
Why not simply the class of Marikina?

Every heavy rainfall, there are those who are asking if there is classes or nothing.
The media is leading, students and parents.
Most of the time, even if we are pointing at the radio, "why do we not have an announcement on Marikina?" It seems that the mayor is sleeping? "Or, they are still studying if they are suspended or not."
We have also received a lot of praises from the netizens, because, we are just starting to announcement or respect if they win in school, etcetera.
Do you not notice that the students are very busy with just a little rain, no matter how long?
During our time, classes are rarely seen in flood in order to reach school even if we believe that these kinds of hardship experienced will help in the killing of our personality.
But how about the youth now, what are we pointing at them if he often gets the suspension of classes because of the threats of the southwest monsoon?
Maybe we are doing wrong in raising them?
We decided before in Marikina, in a meeting with the department head, the elected officials, residents of agencies, etcetera, that we will not tolerate their students to verify the classes without reason.
The standard that we agreed about the cancellation of classes is:
1 - if the rain is strong and it will continue to avoid, we should avoid that the children get sick and get sick.
2, when water in the river is high, there is a threat that you pity flooding and will be needed in schools as evacuation centers, and;
3 - if there are ways to spend on the streets, the entry of students will have a difficult time.
That's why we rarely celebrate 1: 1 because it is very rare that the river in Marikina is very rare in the middle of its level, 2, and there are just a few more than 10,000 pesos, and 3, because they will also take it back to him on Saturday.
It is often said by the media and the public to have been tainted by the cancellation of the cancellation of their classes.
This is not just because majority of the cities of Metro Manila have cancelled for no classes in Marikina.
The local government is different, therefore, the decision of the cancellation is the decision of the cancellation because they know the situation in their area.
Hopefully, just like other LGU or blood pressure from the media will be the basis of the cancellation of the cancellation.
