
The people will depend on the court.
By Rico as June 8, 2016.
Now that the public is filled with worry about the method of President-elect Rodrigo Duterte to fulfill his promise, "at the 3-6 months, I will suppress criminality, especially the illegal drug lords in the entire Philippines," they will depend on the biggest pillars of justice: The court.
Although there are some who are happy with the wild boar, wild West, which is part of the President's President - based on its statement, the senior citizen's arrest and encouragement on the head of the drug lords in life or dead, but many are still worried.
There are some lawmakers advising the public to just ignore the statements of President-elect Duterte because there is still a need to be in line with the law and in the Constitution's statement that it might just be toppled down because of the words of the new President.
It is said that everyone needs to understand that one should pass through the process, just like what Senator Lacson has went through, there is no deep and more information from the people behind the illegal drug user and usually supported by "aswang" which is possible regarding the people involved in illegal drugs.
Only the authorities have this kind of information that is why it is not possible for civilians to arrest or kill the drug lords.
There is no idea that they should use iron in suppressing illegal drugs and criminality in the country, all of their support in the program of President-elect Duterte.
It will only be knocked on and out of how to do it because it is true that a civilian community will help a huge help in this campaign, but it is important now that President-elect Duterte is not yet in the position, especially now that the court has not yet entered the Malacañang as the primary help of human rights.
They are the only ones who run away by the people against invented evidence, but most of all suspicion and extrajudicial killings that we should respect all that will not happen, like what the coming administration is saying.
It is very important now that the entire judiciary is going to resign, as Midzfar Yuno Nuño, executive branch of Duterte and his pet dog that resulted to the control of the allies of the President.
