Even if you are just joking; we are the water in the minds of the youth at home, because most of the farmers who are drinking in Mindanao Command, most of those who are drinking in Mindanao Command, most of those who are drinking in the farm, most of the farmers, do not talk about something, which is why we can't do something.
The movie on the agricultural sector that I was four of our positions there is no sectors only and there are no farmers in the morning, this is a good gift for them to improve each other.
It was four decades that he will work for four years for a few days, he is going to work for a few days only for a week, but his father does not say anything for what he is hiding from.
To the family.
We earn here in defending the freedom that we lack in order to look for.
When I have bruises on a job so he will use it in the office.
I cannot text me in Palawan which is used to the rays of the sun.
There will be something you will do not to experience the one who is going to study hard.
Sometimes, we eat at night.
Everyday, there are children.
Traffic laws.
Night.
I text.
Yes, to his children who are not like him.
He does not like that.
My godchild.
I am telling them that the couple is difficult.
Just when you want it.
What job is that the captain of the ship will not go home anymore.
Therefore, the children of Mama, many of the youth, have no internet with words because there are only those who are working in school, which is really good who is being bought from poverty.
I am my sister Dante five of the department, it is said that change is the change as well as the appearance of Corporation, that is why the appearance of Corporation, which is happening there, we have passed by the land, we only have two problems.
Are we calling the workers who might get his household help in another country.
Most of our things in Agriculture are proud that you are using other countries now.
It will be exported in Japan that they will take care of their approach, because they are going to take care of me right now, the administrator did not have an honor for the administrator of the uniform of the country to break off and be working in the center of chemotherapy.
The workers are going to be seen for eight years now.
Long live for four months but only four months of this is only one month here.
It can be said that the farmers' education can be the only negative time of Filipinos.
Of course, you are the highest Agriculture and it's because that's also what they want, they want their huge earnings.
We are going to live-to our neighbors who are not studying in the '70s to cover-up so you are just busy speaking with other positions.
Maybe it is possible that the school is fast and it is possible that there will be a lot of opportunities for the youth that I am not studying Agriculture.
University of the Philippines - you will be happy because Department of Agriculture is going to be a Zero and Two who will be able to go to a Catholic Church, but this can be at Mother.
Already water.
Keep on taking her pictures.
And others.
I do not believe that Raymond B. is the only thing that Raymond B. is the only sibling of the heart and dancing while we saw each other on a little school where you have already came from a high school who is not in front of us.
Agriculture Sec.
Two people are from each other.
The eye of the young man fell down and there is a big possibility that he will reach one kilo.
Dowon't be a visitor from DoE, Agriculture Sec. Dilawan, as long as if you will take the change in the economy of the country, it is possible that the economy of the country should have a limit to the economy of the country, which is why the one who is being given to the food will still be a few weeks only.
To those who will cause that night in our farmers, we don't want to not want other countries anymore because it is good for them to be beautiful or not good to me, why are the farmers going to me?
I always say that he will be going to do what he / she is going to do with his brows so that's why there will be no one who will tell anyone for a long time to say that there are people who are living here for a long time.
There is still a need to see that we are going to be seen just by the crooked path, which is why when we are not sure of the farmers to feed to the Philippines, they should not be able to share the stomach; we themselves have not taken the stomach.
