ABS-Vice President Leni Robredo is out of Order (Vice President Leni Robredo.
Bulang Burgos July 1, 2016 was released yesterday as the 116th President, Vice President Maria Leonor ona, Robredo in a simple ceremony conducted in Quezon City Recana House which is better known in the call "Boracay Mansion.
"The speech of VP Leni is very short, but the pain in my mind is her words," what is impossible, is possible. "
Who would have thought that the First, congresswoman in Naga City and the widow of the deceased DILG Secretary Jesse Robredo will become a famous candidate for vice president, even if the campaign of Leni is not good because it is obvious in his answer on radio, which is obvious in his answers to the radio, which is obvious in his answers to the issues.
The ratings of Leni started to increase when he started with the presidential candidate Grace Poe particularly on the issue of the burial of his Filipino citizenship after becoming a American citizen.
Leni is also the one to be set up with his strict opponent Senator Bongbong Marcos, particularly on the issue of ill-mannered and human rights that was buried during the time of the Marcos dictatorship.
For a few moments, Leni was ordered by President Rodrigo Duterte on the issue of extrajudicial killings of suspected drug pushers and other criminals.
Even if supreme court has proposed to be filed in the Supreme Court, survey will show a few days before the May 9 elections, at the height of his number while Bongbong was stable or not.
It can be said that Leni has been the vice president of the country, like what happened to Makati Mayor Jojo Binay last 2010, that Binay has long been a single Filipino in the survey, but he slowly tried to defeat the former President Mar Roxas and Loren Legarda.
But I would like to think that the victory of Leni as vice president especially since extreme challenges is passed by their family since they were appointed by Jesse as DILG secretary under the Aquino administration.

It is not a secret that President Aquino wants to replace Secretary Jesse to the DILG and if he did not die in a plane, the secretary might be removed from his position.
In the middle of the campaign, there was a sign that the news that occurred between Leni is possible because his number in the survey is not increasing and he will be transferred to the survey and will be transferred to Roxas, Poe, who was in the time, PNoy talked to as vice president.
And because the Roxas-Poe tandem did not happen to run for vice president, and also because of his efforts and improvement of his supporters, he got the position of the second President of the country.
If Leni cannot be given by President Rody Duterte, he will still fulfill his duty as vice President through going around the different parts of the country to give attention to our poor countrymen who are calling him "in the bottom of the society."
Vice President Leni Robredo is going to succeed in his goal to raise the livelihood of the masses - the farmers, fishermen, fishermen and workers.
