Aquino won.

The Aquino administration made a success well as well as the rating of the government in the field of its campaign against corruption in the country.
Because from the initial results of the survey released by the Social Weather Station (SWS), the biggest improvement of the sincerity in corruption in the Office of the President, which hit Exodus last year 2009.
As proof, in the leadership of President Noynoy Aquino, the trust of the public continues to return, even the private sector in the government, that only means that we are taking the straight path.
The said survey was gathered from Pahiram ng 826 companies in the country interviewed last July 16 to SSeptember 24, 2012, the said survey started last year 2000, which is the most common result if there was a huge area compared to ten series of survey they conducted.
According to the survey, the Department of Health is following the improvement of the Department of Health which came up to Very 37, last 2009 when the Department of Trade and Industry expressed that the ratings of + 59 this 2012 from + 38 last 2009.
Meanwhile, the Department of Education, Senate and the Office of the Ombudsman is included in the agencies that goes home from good in the field of fighting against corruption.
The leaders of the company in the country also said that if compared to the previous administration, 71 percent of them said that the level of corruption in the current administration is low.
It is a good sign that almost all agencies of the government can see the sincerity in corruption according to the total report of SWS, if examined, the PNoy administration is really a record.
It is really difficult to resolve a crooked ability such as corruption, but as long as there is an official firm and it won't be firm that the government is confident that the government can support us.
The survey used as a basis of this case was called for the The 2012 survey of en-bust operation which is affected by the Australian Agency (International Development Assistance Fund), and with the cooperation of the Makati Business Club (Inc.), and the cooperation of the Makati Business Club's Inco-Laban) and of the Philippine National Press Club (PCCO).
