
Thank President Aquino in supporting Mindanao and Bangsamoro Basic Law!

David D, Angelo.
Peace - Mamasapano, Mindanao, President of the Philippines (President of the Philippines), President Noynoy Aquino, SONA 2013, peace talks.

I strongly feel that at last, I read the State of the Nation Address or SONA of President Benigno Simeon "Noynoy" Aquino III in the SONA 2013, he called for support to everyone for the Bangsamoro Basic Law.

What did President Aquino said in his SONA 2013 regarding this, his call is here?

Peace is also within the hands of the long-time problem of the rift that happened last October of the past year has passed since the second-page agreement was signed, we will be able to follow this more good news as soon as possible.

I am sure that everything is aware: The process of the form of conservation will not be a joke, and we are ready to listen, and we are ready to listen to each other, so we are saying that it should be taken away by our siblings, that is why we are saying that the national government will be carried away by history.

Your trust is needed in the discussion of peace but also because of the long time that we have gone through and now, we really feel that we really want to get an affair with the both sides, and we can really feel that we have a concern for fellow Filipinos?

I am hoping that every Filipino is dependent on our goal for the Bangsamoro Basic Law, let us show that we are not wrong in choosing the whole country, we should have enough time to improve the proposed Bangsamoro Basic Law.

The truth is, there is still no president of the Philippines within 40 years of Mindanao who became a real leader of the right service, but many are criticizing her, I believe that it is true that his heart is not helping.

And my friends, I also admits that I am one of those who pass judgement for him during the start but until now I believe that it is wrong because if it is not enough for his ability to unite all towards the same goal.

Thank you President Aquino!
