
They should keep pace and use it on the peace talks.

A reply to the temporary ceasefire.

Liberal Party of the Philippines.

January 4, 2013.

The series of events and the statements of the people will be avoided.
The negotiators had added to Aquino's peace talks.
Past few days about the temporary ceasefire, there was a temporary ceasefire.
It seems like the true truth came and has not formally declared.
The number of gunshots lasted for the Christmas season.
January 2 is the government budget of the Republic of the Philippines (GPhilippine).
Until dinner last January 2, fifteen days.
The special representative of the National Democratic Front of the National Democratic Front.
The Philippines (NDFP) and Gymnasium in a ceasefire from December 20 to January 15.

When a resident of Manila tourist asked for a formal order, is it already released a formal order.
For the passport extension of the pending operation conducted.
And the police, the answer of Aquino's speaker was not clear.
Edwin Lacierda and instead of avoiding them, "said it."
The country is together with the representative of Secretary Ronald Liwag.
It shows that we want to respect the ceasefire.
The AFP about the ceasefire, that's why there's nothing.
They are the reason for remembering that we do not respect.
Ceasefire, despite the lack of order from the president. "

It came out after similar to the direct statement.
In the Office of the Presidential Adviser on the Peace Process 4 "
Press will go back to four months after the meeting on December 17 and 18.
In The Hague, between the representatives of both sides and the people.
A Norwegian organization, even the next statement that was released.
Sec. Teresita Deles and December 20 will prove that it is presented.
The government budget is set for a clear ceasefire from December.
Until January 15.

What is clear, that during the time that said statements were released, it has not yet been released by the formal survey.
For the princes of ceasefire, until January 15.
It is clear that they failed to fulfill the agreement last December 17-18.
He was terrified by this statement that the Gumba has intention.
To release a formal order, that can be said.
Press Commission on December 18, last December 18, has not signed by Liwag.
By the chief negotiator, Alex Padilla, it is enough to show the approval of the Philippine Army from a temporary ceasefire.

The process of releasing the mandate was clearly seen for the formal examination of the ceasefire.
It started only then at noon on January 2.
Letter of recommendation of the Department of National Defense (DND)
It shows that he sent Malacañang last 11: 30.
More or less one hour were publicized and brought out to the internet.
The mandate of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas announced that ten times of the temporarily ceasefire were sent by the panel during the peace talks by GSU-5.

It will be acceptable to as the formal order given by Aquino, the chairman of the Neediting of the panel of NDFP), Luis Jalandoni, chief superintendent.
And recommended to release a statement for the increase of the tension.
On the ceasefire, January 15 was quick to express the Committee.
The PKP has released last January 3 for when he was caught again.

The PKP is insisting that the moment his ceasefire will be avoided, the Philippine Army did not make it anymore in front of the ambassador of RL), the PKP has released two statements (December 25 and 27), the PKP has released two statements (December 25, 27), which made the mandate of the PKP-KS last December.
To make sure of the implementation of a temporary agreement.
After the ceasefire, the representatives of NDFP members also sent to Secretary Linaw and Atty. Padilla as a direct way and through RL, the third party helping the peace talks.

Is the PKP has a reason that they are insisting the release of formal order of the Supreme Court.
That is the narrow perspective of Aquino's speaker.
Attempt to cover up the disapproval of Aquino.
In the agreement of December 18, the allegation was revealed.
You are narrow-minded which may be done with a serious negotiation.
There is no formal fulfilment of all of each other.

G. Aquino and his representatives should understand and his representative, which is for the peace talks by the NDFP-Gumba.
We should show the same side of those who are opposing it.
Combine each other on the use of politicians and voters.
They will carry the formal agreement.

The Supreme Court should not expect the uncontrollable fit of the MILF to enter the legislative chamber that the MILF did to enter and have no exact agreement with the ceasefire, while they allowed the AFP to cover their forces in the places of Bangsamoro to destroy them.

The Philippine government should not expect what the MILF will do with what the MILF did.
To be signing on the cauldron containing politicians under politicians.
It was said that it was supposedly for defense of the government budget of Manila on the case of MILF, and this is even worse than the authorities of Gotoc.
In Aquino's attempt to retreat, one of those who took the point came out.
Framework Agreement should insist on the terms of.
The transition Commission on top.

The stranglers came out from the crooked force.
Just and long-lasting peace.
Filipino people and of a democratic country, he talks.
The constricted forces of the peace talks in Gotoc.
To make the Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan which will be facing and will rent on the constitution.
This is the topic of economists and political issues that are on the root of the insults.
Armed arguments.

The interest of the PKP is said to be great, and the Detroit Pistons tasted the Black organization.
In the peace talks, to protect the Saligang Batas.
Reform in the land, national freedom is reform.
Improvement of society is our important issues like this.
It is a human right and is the national law and will reveal himself.
Pay for the request of the Filipino people for work.
Increase in salary and widening of public service and fight.
Its price increase, in the entry of companies in mining and others.

However, you will coordinate with the bush.
Force of the government agencies who do not understand and implement corruption.
Principle of those who are proud of it and they are pointing at each other.
Unfortunately, Gotoc was already last thought of.
It is not possible that this will not release a formal agreement.
For a temporarily ceasefire, and take action.
After failing to show that he is determined to reconcile with the peace talks which is equal.
