He was replaced by money from Brgy. Wheelchair and barangay councilor.

Money flooded last Thursday at Quezon City Hall when QC Mayor Herbert Bautista released money from 142, Barangay Chairman and his members.
According to the source of lily's payment, Bistek was allegedly called out by the Brgy. Captain who owns his birthday and there he gave money as a gift to their birthday.
With the number of barangays chairman and members who are in 14 th floor of the Quezon City Hall, do you believe that these will be together together?
It was said that the Brgy. Barangay captain who was able to have service was given up to 10,000 pesos; "the two-year-old lady, who have received 20,000 pesos and" after all the third time, he received P30,000 and all of Brgy. Barangay councilor, who was also given a number of P5,000.
Wow, it is really like Quezon City and the barangay officials are very lucky because Mayor Herbert "Bistek" Bautista is very lucky.
It was discovered that in 14 th floor, the gathering of barangay officials was done and after that, they went down at 11th floor, where he gave Mayor Bistek and his money.
Meanwhile, it seems that Christmas is for Christmas and campaigning, Mayor Bistek.
"Isn't it that you have no enemy, why do you need to give money to the officials of the barangay?
"Oh, maybe Mayor Bistek was made to do this because he was nervous about the said" prepaid candidate "who possibly surfaced and revealed now this month of December.
What if the said candidate who is said to be known is famous, famous, and he can count on it, Mayor Bistek was supposed to take pictures at the decrease of the barangays.
I will become a lot of things from the residents of Quezon City, who are likely to have suitors again in the neighboring areas and will become a friend who cannot be delivered to.
Oh no, let us not be carried away by these promises that were not fulfilled before we hope to vote, think about it carefully if your return to the ballot is really worthy.
According to the source of lily's payment, from the P3,000 every month of barangay wardens were made by Mayor Bistek was made by Mayor Bistek was made by Mayor Bistek.
