It's the SONA of the Nation Address.

Showbiz also has a SONA.
And this is the showbiz of the Nation Address or SONA.
This is with the current face and face of local industry from Aparri, Jolo, from north-northwest, from the heart to brain, from Manila to the corners of the world of the world.
The free making of film is ongoing or what is being called by the media or what is called by the media or what we remember, that he will look like this means that he will look like the Hollywood actress, Lav Diaz), especially the non-worthy process of destroying it.
The non-mindedness of the Filipino film is the answer of the opposition of the arts of the art of arts that is being taken out by the production of production, which will be forgotten to forget the listeners or the people to forget the sake of the people's real problems.
The unreasonable process to correct - we don't want to be called indie films which is one of the making of films which is one of those who make movies, which is one of those who love the industry of showbiz that is one of those who give movies, an example to the companies of movies and other entrance of land.
That's why let us allow those who are patriotic, patriotic, corrupt and inhumane movies in this country just like the declaration of entries of this Friday that will be the current 9th of the Philippines.
May the meaningful process of art will be saved from the hands of those who are making movies and be stricter in making a movie and be stricter in making a movie even in the ranks of the non-worthy process.

The non-worthy process of movies in other countries or in the international film festival are giving corresponding praises and awards so they cannot be invited to the country to give a recognition and to show to the country the movies that they need to know.
This is a thing in the tourism of the country because it is more often seen and the tourists who are showing truth in a society who are not in them like poverty can be made and lack of justice.
This does not mean that the tourists will give a bad impression but the tourists will be able to get a glimpse of the good destruction of poverty in Mindanao by "Thy Womb of Nora Aunor as stars and the campaign of Nora Aunor as stars and the campaign of Nora Aunor as stars and the campaign of Nora Aunor in this place because there is no example in Europe or America.
Security when he goes to the places like this is the role of the government for the safety of the tourists.
The unfair process of movie and our embassy in different parts of the world can be considered as proof that the foreigners will respect the unfair policies of the movies.
Some of the national officials of arts are witness in different parts such as Reynaldo Reyes in different parts such as Reynaldo Reyes in the good way that they are following and being endorsed by the Philippines because they say that they are going to support and are patronized by the foreign businessmen and establishments that are why they are like a beautiful scenery that they can handle them?

Many actors have no job in this system of the field of gratitude, especially those who have an extra and character of the deceased Fernando Poe, Jr. and Rudy Fernandez?
On our double double and cellular phones are those who do not have jobs today.
They are all crammed in the-Tropical Convergence Zone at the corner of Panay Avenue and Scout rangers in Quezon Avenue and waiting for the grace, of the call of production, to be a call of production, and is just waiting for the appropriate process to make movies.
They are making salt as a lot of salt, most of them, are just living in the stamped on, renting at a cheap room or apartment but still cannot pay the time because of lack of salary.
Others might say that they are having jobs in the production or soap operation or shingles in the station of television but only a few of those who have been locked in suffering for a long time due to lack of professor.
They will be able to take an extra time with ABS-CBN or GMA Network, TV 5 or the TTv or Star Ngayon or Regal Films that most of all, the economic system is still the same, which is why it can be considered that they will be driven out?
Most of the actors who are disciplined and professionals to have examination or license are the actors that will be given by the Regulation Commission.
When will this be?
Poverty in showbiz continues in the ranks of small or those who are not meddling with the power of the few of the industry?

The cleaning of showbiz is hiding a true situation in this industry even if it is true that a person or things or institution is true and it is not bad if there is no one being abused or fooled.
On the ranks of the Black Nazarene, our lives of the writers or Joe Burgos are ten years of money now.
Aside from most of the movie reporters, Pad or other reading materials are almost paid.
This is sad and clear truth in showbiz.
He might be seen alive in prosperity of the Black Nazarene such as Boy Abunda, Mario Dumaual, Lhar Santiago, Ginger Conejero, Ginger Conejero, Ginger Conejero, Ginger Conejero, Ginger Conejero, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano, Marie Lozano.
There is no security guard of the Black Nazarene that have no regular patrons except for writing this column or articles for the newspaper or newspapers, they are still small gift if there is even a small income.
There are sisters of movies which are called online or social media but there are also different stories about them that the stories of the stories are up to the pieces of stories, to raise the data and resolution of the way they pass.
That's why writing a corresponding reward is what has been predominant in these times so there is a debt of gratitude that goes along with and the freedom of your ex-mannered family.
