I know: AiAi was in a difficulty in making a collision!
By Jun Nardo, June 22, 2016 AiAi delas Alas is tortured in his trials on his first shooting of indie film Area "Monday.
"What's difficult in the scene but I have given justice to the scene, which is why it would be recalled that it is surprising that I did not have done in my whole life,... that I did not do it to my whole life,... that I was tortured, okay!

Okay, "AiAi delas Alas will be together with the whole cast in her pictures that he will post on her Instagram account.
One place in Pampanga was called in Area.

This is the call of those who are from there and some foreigners to find a short joy in living the story of a woman there so that the family is being used by a woman, who are being used by the customer, money or furniture to the house.
AiAi delas Alas will be included in the indie film that it is his son who is supposed to be his son, Allen Dizon and others.
Aside from this, AiAi was still in the shooting of Regal movie Our Lady Mighty) and two GMA 7 who is Sunday to be imprisoned and Hay Bahay Sunday.
Rocco, Conejeceving of the fight!
Rocco was asked for advice by Rocco Nacino to Game, Thcunning one actor Conejeceving when he visited Encantadia.

Because the Hollywood actress was also part of the Holy Week that's why he arrived in the country.
"We-ray of Talk n a hidden talent in set on the set," Rocco said.
Because the action that they are going to make will be measured.
"We that's why he / she was able to share to his / her shock to share to his / she was to share.

It is already all about the highest implementation of the television this August that is one of the gift of GMA Network in the 66th SONA this year.
Neri Naig, married with the pregnant woman!
Neri Naig, wife of the boasts of the parish priest of Edgar Miranda, Jr., was able to have a picture taken by Edgar Miranda, Jr., when she was able to take her pictures with Chito because she was captured by her first pregnancy.
"Yey!!
But, like some of the evangelists, who is already pregnant, the footage of Chito to Neri and their own picture, the name of Chito to get his picture, was the name of Chito to get the editing.
Some of our actress who ran pregnant and revealed their social media accounts are Marian Rivera and beauty Gonzales.
