Do you want to study in UP?

Admit it.
University is a university that we really love, what is really the meaning of the words, love or high price?
In my entry as a student of UP Diliman in 1986, I was able to think about the university that I chose, but for my first three years of UP, I was able to find a scholarship for the third year in college, but I was able to find a scholarship for every third year in college, but I was able to find a scholarship for every third year in college, but I was able to find a scholarship for every third year in college.
There is no difference with the arguments of the administration of UP before and now about the STS (that's why according to the government, he will no longer pay and get a financial help, according to the poor, the principle that will be used in English which is said to be used in English which is said to be used in English which is said to be used in English which is said to be used in English which is said to be used in English which is said to be used in English.
In addition to the power, being a member of the town "of a student will not be gone because of the highest amount of education in UP.
It would have been good for the arguments, but it seems that we forget a prosperous position - a higher tuition fee is a public university which is poor or poor, they should not be a punishment if they are rich, however, he should not neglect if he is poor.
In a program such as Social Weather P, the truth that the administration of UP will talk about will have a lot of students, many of the officials of UP before and now, the statement that they are conducting a corresponding change in the system of UP will increase in order to increase the poor students.
At this point, let us remember that one of the low pressure issues - in 1989, after 24 years in 1989, those who are in the most low tuition (in Brachen-1) and financial help were able to be able to get free tuition (in the case of Brachen-1) and financial help in Bracademy (1) and financial help.
Even if it can be said that the term of the administration of UP (three years for the officials of the UP System (six-years for the officials of the UP System), it does not mean that there is no serious investigation by the administration of the administration.
During the last part of the '80s, the reasons of our opposition against the STS is also the argument of the current administration of UP and did not depend on its proper tuition in case they cannot take the high tuition fee in case they cannot get the high tuition fee in case they cannot get the low tuition fee in case they cannot get the low tuition fee.
Of course, there is also an argument about the implementation of Social Weather P where not all of the poor students are going to spend for the higher position because of this, it is clear that if you do not have a financial support, it is clear that even before, a student would not prove that he cannot prove her being poor.
If you are interested to know, I am one of those who are identified as rich "or" Bracademic, "during our time, I also need to add to my education that they have to raise my education for the implementation of the suspension of our school, the STS.
Protest here, protests there are different beliefs, there are some students of UP Diliman, education, and those who were not activists for the third floor of the Quezon Hall in UP Diliman, education, and the residents of UP Diliman, who were forced to enter the board exam, "some of the officials of UP arrived in front of the protesters.
It can be said that the protest did not become successful before because it has been implemented by a few leaders of students in the national condition and movement of students, it is noticeable that the call of their position in STS.
I will not mention the name of some of the students, but it is clear that they turned your back on what they have been working in the stock market while one of them became a government official in the stock market, while one of them became a government official in the stock market, while one of them had been criticized by the government.
It's good that there are other leaders of students who gave a deep research on the Saligang Batas and gave a deep research on the national situation and the role of the movement of students, and it is hard to mention the names of some of them, who are hard to mention their real name?
If examined by the call of some of the current leaders of UP, the attack is clear and one of those who are calling the reforms are clear and in spite of those who are calling the reforms to protect the budget of UP and other presidentiable.
Twenty-four years have passed since the STS is implemented but it is still not yet implemented yet, even though the plea is still needed, it is better for some to imitate the weakness of their program, especially in situations there is a need to imitate the STS.
It is true that there is a need to imitate other countries in UP, but the STS is not one of these, the problems being mentioned in the present are clearly clear in the arguments of the past.
Do you want to study in UP? Hopefully you continue to make a way to pay a high tuition fee but most of all, your help is more needed so that you will not be the victim but many more.
