
Legaspi among each other.

Could it be that the new mayor of Norzagaray, Bulacan who is Mayor Alfredo Gawmar, was not satisfied after he was disqualified by the Commission on Elections in the leadership of Chairman Sixto Brillantes?
But if we will turn the evidence on the vote buying that he presented, the party of the Liberal Party, the party of the Aquino administration, is also included in the camp of Gesmar, and the newly-elected city hall, Rogelio Santos.
It turns out that the reason, Gesmar, was released because he was given money through his Leaders' himself who's the residents of Barangay Bitangcol and other people with his candidate for other low positions.
Aside from this, the Independence Day last May was earlier released by the leaders of the voters' fingers to go out which led the amount of 500 pesos to P1.
"Chairman is right, it is not really needed to be the Gesmar, and his colleagues in the area where the vote of the votes of" theater "Chir is being considered to be in the place of the vote buying ACTS OFW," said Chairman Brillantes.
Just because Gesmar, he will just wait for Vice Mayor Arthur Legaspi, a relative of the former mayor, Feliciano Legaspi, a relative of the former mayor, Feliciano Legaspi, who became the opponent of Gesmar last local election and he filed electoral complaint against the Comelec against the former.
In Santos's case, maybe the provincial governor was the ones who were appointed by his campaign in exchange for what was stated in Local Government Code.
Of course, what they did was not finished in the moment they were disqualified by the law Department of COMELEC, who were assigned to conduct a thorough investigation to protect the Criminal Court of Gesmar, Santos, Bobby Esmilla, Adelez and Leonardo Ignacio, regarding the alleged buying of votes.
"If it happened, they will fall in prison for six-years and they will have no right to vote and holding any position in the government.
That's why my older brother Bienvenido "Jun, Calle is really right in his decision to give the whole support and faith in Legaspi because he said, not corrupt and good people are the political life that is in the town of Norzagaray.
", wait, my beloved sibling, I heard that you are going to run as a councilor in Barangay San Mateo, wow, maybe you will be able to get some support from Legaspi, in the See.
