A few of the people who died came out from the severe investigation of the C-R and we were at the house of the faucet, and with his birthday, they look for a story first in Quezon City.
He is because there is a number of people who are going to be angry to get mad at HJ R about the class who looked for them in Tuguegarao because it's really around eleven o'clock when it came to your place in your area, right?
Investigation.
In his duty, it would be recalled that it has five percent, but it's only last seven o'clock when the members of the 20 pesos will be taken away by a million pesos.
Mother in an intensive conversation but peace.
Tita Carla said I was restless, I felt bad about what happened to him, when I went out of what was given to him, which is why it was called out that what's important is that this is already important.
Two.
Thousands are made of this.
What?
Called!
Here.
The story will be finished where four-four-four-four-four-four-four-old children are over; he cooked food that you want to undergo an operation which is not a year contract in a place of changing the heart.
We are anxious; the favorite award will be considered as a teacher and we are very lucky that the lives of the authorities are not complete with the only ones being received by the authorities.
Ask about the demon that when I arrive in there, we have not yet thought that we don't know the voices of our victims who are annoying and not the party of the Philippines, who is annoying and not the party of the Philippines, and this is a good way to send the C-R) to send it to the international airport.
She bought the international airport but Ate Mariana, who was eight o'clock in the entrance in the room of January Two.
Five-four-four-four-four-four-four-old teenage boy who should have helped me come with what has the shirt to be under the t-tempered; and one from San Juan.
He is personally afraid of the billiards.
Ah, four teenagers are coming back to billiards.
I am hesitant to court the four thousand Benson for the victims of Dick where you want to help those who are not only in a noodle house, just like what you want to help Buddy and Leila also not to get it quickly because you will not be able to get it quickly.
Covetous, very well-tempered; she thought that a few hours on March, a few hours in March.
Investigation.
At Anes, it is not that I might have clothes in the heat like this and your aunt is very good about this Tuesday that twenty-year-old house is really in Tuesday.
He / she didn't know himself from what he heard from their own.
I said.
He knows.
It will be recalled that someone recommended the paper our paper from the sea that he will get the evidence, because I will say that I am going to say, we have no kind of evidence that you will get along with.
On Monday, ten are looking for his / her Ate Mercado.
He said to answer.
And then.
International Airport is not proven to be responsible for the death.
Thank you very much to you.
