
Human rights ch and poverty.

We are following the status of human rights violations against the human rights to the Philippines.
The report of Humalig) is sad and even made a standard for the media for a measurement of human rights to what is happening to human rights.
26 are dead!
Meanwhile, RNC said, the victim who was killed in the Aquino administration reached 26 pesos under the Aquino administration.
In the 24 cases here, only six can be said that there is a successful arrest.
There are also those who were arrested but they were not able to go far away and about the case of Doctor Gerry Ortega.
Those who are talking about are ex-Palawan Governor Joel T. Reyes, his brother Donnie, Palawan Mayor Mario Reyes.
Exist.
Because of the lack of lack of arrest and those who violate the human rights, if the people who will die are still, according to Humalig).
And it is true that there are not only non-uppers who are driving but also the critics of the government and its officials.
Lined up are the corpses of journalists, said by Hala, and this is also happening to activists.
He made a sample of the case of Jonas Burgos to be kidnapped and believed to have been killed by the military.
There are a assigned officials here but the high officials believed to be behind the kidnapping and murder have not been found.
We are not the government.
HE is also criticized the violation of other groups for human rights and he released an example of the war in Zamboanga City before Christmas.
The government and the Muslim rebels are both the same with human rights violations.
While the civilians were allegedly taking advantage of the attack of the rebels from the attacks of the government, the troops of the government were allegedly conducting a checkpoint, including the youth.
It was all.
Oh, meow, it appears that the Aquino government will only go up to words.
Or, all that he is doing is only a promise and has no equivalent action.
It is said that nothing happened to the "Midnight body" which was made by the government because it was able to sleep in the whole year 2013.
Question, Bro, what can you say?
Survey in poverty.
We are not wrong, Bro, when you bet on what is happening in our country, especially the issue of poverty.
Alarming if you think about it.
Look at it, the survey that 55 percent said that their lives went with or fell down compared last year and 41 percent said nothing has changed.
Because, this is the actual counting, Bro.
"Isn't it that Juan's race was at 100 million?
It means that 55 percent are 55 million people and the 41 percent are 41 million people.
Here is it, about 45 percent or 45 million have said that there will be no change even in the next year.
If the survey is true, who will not cover their hairs, duh!
Slips through the shower.
What the government is saying for the past more than three years, the Philippines got rich while rich.
This is in expressing the policies, if there are no corrupt, there is no poor. "
And it is said that those in the tower in the government are saying that the Philippines is the only ones who experience quick riches or progress.
And there are already many who want to collect their capital in the country.
And at last, we can expect that we continue to become wealthy.
All of PNoy's departure will be fixed.
Free?
But what happened and what the citizens are saying is different from what the people from the government say?
Ah, maybe, they are the only ones in the government.
And all the companies that they were given by a favorable law like Oil Deregal Law, Electric Power Plant or others.
There is also a law that makes a lot of money that gives a lot of money to step down, a bonus, bonus and other benefits - Governor's Commission for government OPLAN).
The law (General Appropriations Act) is still different for the annual budget that determines billions of income from the government.
They are the only ones who say that they get rich and progress.
But the citizens are looking for you.
Yolanda!
The reaction of those in Malacanang and Congress, they are making a way to answer the complaint of the citizens of poverty.
Together with the excuse is that of super typhoon Yolanda which is the primary reason.
Maybe the inhumane drivers will have an excuse that because of more than a week of calamity in the wide part of Mindanao and Visayas, even the parts of Yolanda.
But why is it that all corners of a calamity are saying it's really bad and a life goes with?
Answer!
