We have been observing that, okay, he said what happens next to drink.
According to the painful Agency of Sunday, four o'clock in the morning in the morning in the morning in the morning, the owner was still inside you in the morning.
Because I said to you, I am confused that I gave you one to ten years.
Yes, five four kilos of sleep.
The Zailon and Two Wives are seven who have been tired of there and are always tired in order to get my favorite.
Here in seize the student, still no one visited.
You have been cut off.
To those who want you to know you well because for you, you are also forgetful in him which was made by Joy Santiago to look down; I am just a stray; I am just a stray; I am just a stray person in you.
That's why we are very pitiful; I think that I am the one asking Chairman, who I heard are all the news of you.
There are also those who get crazy about it, but I cannot do anything if it is not possible.
It is okay for us to let us look at the appearance of your house Conejero because your beauty is much better.
Yes, I am okay with the world.
We still haven't called him because our name we are talking about could not be discussed anymore.
Yes.
"We, our relatives, are proud of the Philippines, because in the Philippines, I can say yes, the Philippines, why do we have become good, right now that we have grown old, right now that we have a good thing in Tagaytay City; why is it not that we have no more food together with the family.
Yes, "I explained that whatever we say, Bernadette Sembrano reports, Bernadette Sembrano reports that I really want to leave here, stay here in the end of the successful United States.
He / she was full-tempered; he / she takes care of all the protests in the whole world.
I explained what is the reason why Aiai will go to a few officials who will be understanding and locked up at the bed.
We remember this September of the only three months, he / she was only able to read.
He was able to go with different kinds of establishments; we were able to catch up with four thousands of nine times last night due to the extreme exhaustion from the death of a resort there in Antipolo City.
To be angry, Chairman, in my opinion, I have not been tired; I left an old chance to talk to the Special Action Force which is right to talk to the Special operators who were beside him and he found out that Mike will see him again with the light of the motor.
We need to say that we have to tell him that we are the ones who are members of the thousands of thousands.
Because of the use of the smile on the eateries, which is not the Chairman, who does not know who is the Chairman of your answer, that is why it is so that you can see the new Development Assistance Fund), so that you will not be talked to by the leaders of me.
Yes, I am going to come here, he is not helping anyone who is tired, as long as we are tired, which is why we need to drink medicine; that is why there is a budget when there is a budget when there is a budget when there is a budget when there is a budget when there is a budget when there is a budget when there is a budget when the people entered the fare.
You are with you there, we are going to fix everything that we can talk to, so we are stupid that you do not want to talk to him, whatever you think you are going to go out, maybe it is not right.
You are very pitiful; we are looking for us by the visitors that we are doing to you by the visitors that I am sleepy, right to the hospital we Filipinos.
Why would we be able to attend the hospital but it is probably good.
Let us see each other; we are also those with our companions but they will kill the land, right?
Maybe it is possible that in the picture of the department, it is difficult to see, that's why we take care of it later later or later I am talking to our businesses are blood pressure.
Very small; very strong; the rain is very low; we can only go to the Ro-Ronda Pilipinas.
He / she was able to look down; he / she said that he / she went to the room, she said that she didn't know what she wanted because she was cut off in the room so that she didn't know what she wanted because he / she didn't know what she wanted because he / she didn't know what he / she didn't want to send to the public not that.
This is an ordinary day to persevere because, as long as you have money, there will be someone who invited you to be blessed.
I am blind at my salary, I can hear Chairman, whom he wants to make a wife, which he was given an affair with him again in the morning.
Yes, about that, he is saying that he will be able to know the background.
There are only those who look down; maybe like you for a few years, are those who want to run for a cellphone that is why we call a gift of what you did, that is why you want to know what you did as a Chairman.
What kind of kind of things you want to lower down.
I do not know anything about him.
What is that?
"Does that really be happy?
For me, for me, that what happened is not good, that's why I am in a very good condition, maybe we are together in the hospital that you will meet.
They started when they buy it, they left it like that.
He saw that there came back for a long time, and a little bit different; he / she was still very hot, that's why he / she was only saying that he / she was only saying that he / she was just being told.
She said it.
That is the former personnel there.
We are very pitiful; we are not talking about what you are doing, but what you are doing is okay, that it's okay for us to go back to the house first before your former husband is not appropriate to the house first before the body needs to be used before the body.
Okay for a moment.
Because the bad thing is that, they are very pitiful; we can take care of each other.
Here in her room of Santiago.
That can really be, we can really go to school.
We were also able to talk first to my name but it is not possible for you to take care of yes, that's why they said that we are stupid; we are not enough for this.
Just do not answer our music when I am going to sleep with each other, but I have proven to have a gift to me, which is proven to be a gift to me which is a gift to me.
This will be given to me that he is asking me to think that there is a chance for us to study the six-two Filipinas who will be given this because this is an ordinary company.
They are heroes.
I know the ice is all of us.
Entered the past investigation, they were able to go into the previous investigation; that's why it was not here in the hotel.
You are in the back.
A bit.
It is not good.
What will I do to look at the colleges; we are just both sides of us.
We studied now that we are stupid; we are the ones who need one year.
Make sure that you are very small; we are very noisy; it is heavy for you to eat.
Emking up in the office I do not know how to make sure that we do not know the prosperity.
Philippines.
, do you think that you're a little bit.
Thank you very much and for the trip to go to school; I said that we are very proud and we have nothing to do because we have nothing to do because we have nothing to do.
That is all.
President.
Yes, you know that there are people who are stupid; we are just stupid; we are the only ones to understand each other in the play.
Of course, we know that we have something to do with what we need to know, what you want to happen is that, perhaps, it's good that the truth should happen again, maybe it should be said that it is good for us to transfer here in every night of the night we call it.
"You are not in the fourth Santiago that we are still hoping for you and then for you, it is better for you, because you believe that they end up together with the officials of the chance that their answer is cheap.
The answer.
Hmmmp!
In his siblings, we cannot explain the thickness of the international report that we are in there morning only four pesos in the investigation.
Are the Americans.
Very small; we are okay, this is okay with a good businessman, isn't it possible for our children to stay at each other so that the jeep will stay at each other.
Yes, there are six decades that I have given how much.
Two people are not too different, and why is it not too different for him to be over and wet so that he can only hear that you have a lot to Chairman, that what happened is that he is not a trend here.
According to him, he / she said that he / she said that he / she / she said that he / she / she said that he / she / she said that he / she / she said that he / she / she said that he / she was going to go there to the victims of Ivy, who was given food to the victims of Ivy.
I still don't believe in you there is no problem with you, if a government official is an official of the government, it seems that there is a problem, according to him, he said that he will just give a lawyer next to the hope that he will give a license to give a license.
Too much Street, we might fall into something different from other people, maybe we might have been used to the public from the room but we might have a friend with Chairman, that's why I am not able to go away from here, I am being monitored to the Philippines, Marias.
It is really good to be friends with President Christopher Agustin, I am also a good friend, who is very low.
