Are the protagonist right!: Quick process in the government?
By Bam Aquino, 2016.
As added by Bill, more than 10,000 laws were suspended by their Reagan al Day.
Martial law also mentioned that, if we are studying, many of the laws and regulations on the present, there are no benefit, it creates a conflict and cause of corruption in the past two years ago, we promised to support the execution of the Pambansang Kamao in the Philippines.
Recently, NCC and different agencies of the government were launched, led by the Department of Finance, the Project Retiro Street.
In the said gathering, we were conducting an ceralibis, which can be held up by red tape which is a copy of the incessant rules and order that should be guarded.
In the last record of NCC, around 518 department orders and other policies of different agencies of the government should be exported because this is in chaos and is being used to the public.
Now that the new government is going to enter, I believe that the system is needed to change through the minds of agencies and other offices to make the public suffer.
It is time to have a system that will speed up the course of the process of government for the benefit of the people.

If these policies will remain in the offices of the government, the laws done by the Congress are going to be wasted, especially in the aspect of business in the country.
There are times when we have passed a law that gives appropriate support to the businessmen and their children, like Financing, training and help to enter the market.
But, the commerce cannot start over because of the volume of requested increase in different offices of the government.
Instead of supporting the government to support the small and medium built, they are the ones becoming an obstacle in the improvement of these.
As a result, the dresses were losing interest in a business.

They will just stay for their plan to progress and give a good life to their family.
In spite of the different agencies of the government in the said gathering, our hope in Bill 4144 that will be launched will remain alive.
Along with this, I plan to present to the opening of the 17th Congress which is called by the Philippine Eve Office Bill which will create a office that will make a challenge for the existing law.
The said office will be watched if the old laws are beneficial or slow in the course of the government.
Aside from this, it is also the work of the Philippine Eyebank Office to guide the lawmakers and stop them in putting regulations and so that they think the people will feel weight.
Because there are many new laws coming out in the Senate and legislative chamber that sometimes are against old laws which have passed since a few years have passed.
It is the duty of the said office to peek at all rules in different industry and coordinate with Congress to create a better situation that the public will not have difficulty.
This proposal is a good support for the goal of former President Rodrigo Duterte to express the process of government.
