To give us details about what you have done on the operation on reconciling with nothing.
"We are still looking for you right now, of the telephone, when there is only one police getting along with this Friday, your whole mother is beautiful there in those who are listening to you and what I have written to you earlier about your operation with you.
We are happy that it is clear that we are still early so that we are very early so that we can catch up, along if he is surrounded by basketball, Kalupaan.
But I will go straight to you, he said to you, he / she said to you, he / she said that you are going to go abroad, because what we say is that, it's true that you have known each other, that is why we also know that what we are calling for is true.
In line, he / she was distressed; I am going back to a Commander.
Very short; we were able to sleep; as if security cannot sleep, we don't want to sleep on the interview 'interview so that we would not let it happen to many people to answer to the operation of six months that's why it's far for me to answer to many people.
We are chasing the people here who have a high act, who are the only ones who are being made to be the only ones who are being given, right, we know that we are calling us for a long time here, that's why they are not sleeping.
"That's why the result of this is that, as long as they say it's just right now, it is just right now because it is not important for him to buy-four o'clock in the area, but I don't know that we have an Constitution, that is why we did not have the Constitution, which is why we did not have a Constitution, which is why they have already committed the country.
He / she looked at the barracks.
Maybe if we will be able to get out of the truth, we will look at the truth.
I can't even say if we have a problem about this in Manila.
It is scary that it might be more effective in the care of the Intelligence Agency in the people.
Isn't it difficult yes, but we are just patience for our director but the result is, four forty-four of you are four of your personnel.
"We can understand that at the same age, he / she was able to look down; and that is when we saw a person like April that is not an unit (April 19), an animal unit.
Ah, the cellphone Bulacan yes to Contact Policy "!
Now, we are stupid; we are four years old; and we are four to four years.
It was cut off.
The people there have been for a long time there.
Ah, this is again what we have discussed, maybe we have a load for this high school, this is really what we are studying, but it seems like in the country because of the number of those who are answering everyday, that's why it's just a month in Mindanao.
It is very hard to accept the survey that is lying down, which is lying down what he wants, ah, something.
A police in Zamboanga said, what you say is that, he / she said that he / she said that you are at the same age, you have been saying that, at a few days that you are going to do, that is where I am going to do that, and then my wife might be the only one.
I went here to this yes, what is annoying or what kind of things our siblings named Stand enched.
You should think earlier that we go home here, like what happened, will it not be done again, especially that the people will do it again.
Hopefully it will not go slowly because it is better that the fruit you are doing is good.
We are aware of what I am going to do to you and to look straight; we don't see the way yes, but I don't have to see what's right, but we still do not have money to go with what in Mindanao, we still don't have to go to each other in Mindanao, but we are not really the PR).
"It's good that they do not just go to people even at our evening, we are also opposing our enemy.
Whatever happens, there is still something that we can remember, they really remember them there.
Nothing will happen to each other; we have five children to go there to help our conversation with dark things.
Covetous, fur.
Both of us are pitiful.
I am sorry but I told others what I am earlier than him.
And his illness is his clothes, whose legs are fur; he's just flat-nosed; and for the same time that he needs to be observed.
Telomere shortens of the Philippines.
You mentioned it earlier that we are calling the security guard.
They are monitoring that in the competition.
I do not want to lose, maybe we don't want to enter our country, right?
I hope that we are paying that we can only pay that I am the only wife of my mother.
Director
Let's be.
Directly, why did she not know that Tina and her Secretary have heard that I have heard that this is the third operation of the truth that I really came out like an allergy attack, that's why there was already an allergy attack that was happening to you, which is why there was no problem being taken by Arlus said.
Yes, you will answer it earlier if that is what they are saying.
You are missing.
Answer.
What else would we be for now that's why they were fired?
Ah, I called out to the position that I am going to in his position, very high; very black, in the office of the Philippines with help in the office of the Philippines.
Director
Yes, what is my reaction to you and now in the market there in position, what would be obedient to each other when we ordered that we are about to end up in the principle that might have been done, that's why it's still possible that we can end up.
You one four Indonesians, four Indonesians, four years old.
Not missing from the principle of chest.
What is it that she was able to make sure that he / she didn't make sure that he / she wasn't able to look straight; he went straight at the other side, he / she went straight at the other side, he / she went straight.
By his cousin's cousin, it was seven o'clock in the early morning, I thought that he / she was not looking at the computer, that is why he / she didn't know that he / she didn't know that he / she didn't know that he / she didn't say that he / she didn't say that he / she didn't say that he / she didn't say that he / she didn't want to speak, he / she didn't say that he / she didn't want to talk about it, he / she didn't want to talk about it, he / she didn't want to talk about it, when he gave him / her mind, he / she didn't want to speak about it, when he gave his mind, he gave him / her mind.
No matter how long she is about the operation to pass it to the director, yes, she has been in a job for a long time so that I could not be able to tell you the first operator of four months.
I am the only one of January two years to ten years.
Nobody was mentioned by the President earlier that was why I ordered me to go down.
Nobody is going to transfer to what you are going to walk or operation.
Let's see that it is only four months more than the school that I have said three months more than a long time.
He transferred to other places in Marawi to be clearly stopped.
The heat in Mindanao is going to transfer to the center in Mindanao.
What is here, there was a rumor that there was a rumor that there was a few more than a month that we talk about it, in front of the new couple that started.
November.
She grew up.
They made it pitiful, and he / she grew up; he / she was very pitiful, "my voice.
Who might be threatened that he will be threatened, even if it's the end of the network that has been working in every network that there is management, it turns out there are a lot of any enemy, who really happened.
I do not carry out anything that kind of operation is the companies of the criminals.
They are good.
Yes, you might have been brought to two thousand, it will have been taken back by the troops of Areza, then, when they are going to format, you will be able to pick up; we are not a big B; I am very big; we are a big B; we are very big; what happened this Friday.
That's why what is happening here is that those people stay there in the area, that's why they are at the same age, "
It's clear that a blessing is clear.
They meet a lot of arguments with the end.
"There was a lot of things that might have been difficult because it's because we usually have children often at Eve-Eve.
L HQ on what happened to other places, is it going to be a relative.
What am I going to look; that's why he / she is dearse, in number 1?
Okay.
His siblings.
In Mindanao this morning.
Okay.
If they will go to Marlon, is it true here in what they are saying.
"What is that, maybe we are not going on that kind of place there is not yet confirmed that there is really no action, which is really not right in the house of the President earlier that he did not do that," Atong "said that" Atong "was the one who said that" Atong "said," what I am saying is right. "
That we will give a long time to live because of the number of those who will be taught, Bombay, one of the many people who wrote to him in Manila for the fruits to be done by those.
I told you that I am positive that we are very positive; we are very angry; we are already dead, very low; I said that what happened to the operation of our director, that's why I am the one who happens in the operation of our director.
Okay, if in case we push through, we have talked to the people who survived the people who were able to save the people whose stories are because of this kind of operation.
The parents are not telling the fact that Jessica does not think about it, no matter what is planned to be given to the people.
Along with them.
Perhaps, it might be their father who is in the fork so that he is in the trip of office with the administration.
It has been a long process to make people who look like that vice that we really do next.
It's this!
Even if this is what he is with, I cannot forget him / her not to answer you there yet.
Body but I do not want to give inspiration.
Hopefully we meet each other.
Yes, this is one four who is too much as to why we are going to be the father, as long as we have to go there as a number of people, who are said to be cut off from M: L.
It might be better if you, Jessica, asked.
Because I do not have money, we still have a lot of money, we are not holding my patience, how can you reach the celebration because I know he has an illness that this is a single one that you have a lot of people when you have a lot of people.
You!
Four of PNoy do not have the training to get along with what is so long as the faces of your people, what can we say?
Covetous, fur.
I said earlier.
Our troops were so-million in the afternoon.
What's like that, sister in the situation is the beauty David in Zamboanga del Norte, Two years old men who are sure that there is always an exchange of Aunt May probably.
"Our Director, maybe I still want to tell you to you from what I am inside, so that I have not even asked.
Thank you very much for me to give me a chance, but if the rain did not say that you are very beautiful, my older sister does not want to.
"I hope that all sorts of people are full; we can look down; we can see that we do not pay attention to the two municipalities in the province for my debts.
Because he also got a call.
Yes, eating more than two roads in the Philippines will eat more than two ways here in the Philippines.
To have justice also died.
I do not have money to buy.
What can he do and then the month of the bus can be taught.
I sympathize with our innocent people, I might leave the sweetness of the things done by the people.
I hope that we do not need to give attention to our fellow countrymen who have also been doing that, that's why they say that this is what I've been saying earlier.
"We, Zamboanga City, is it scary that you have five relatives, and she knows that Bonifacio goes up and here in this kind of things, ah, we were quiet about what I've mentioned earlier than two decades that I have been doing five minutes up to a point.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was very angry; he / she was very noisy; that's why he / she was not at fault; he was not his fault.
Thank you very much, that there is our conversation with us and we are in a house helper, we are in a house helper; we are our household help; we are capable of giving peace and later.
Thank you.
