Illegal terminals in EDSA caused by severe traffic.

What kind of money is the Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA), Quezon City Police District District Enforcement Unit (QCPD-NDF), Department of Public Order (NFL) of Quezon City in a group of FX Transport, which made their illegal terminal at EDSA / Muñoz in the city of Quezon City?
The illegal terminal which is allegedly owned by the group of the Christ the king commuters causing heavy traffic along EDSA is caused by severe traffic along EDSA near EDSA near the church of Iglesia's Iglesia.
The cause of the flow of traffic in the said area is due to the parked FX in the illegal terminal.
According to the complaint that reached lily's Calvento Files, the members of the MMDA, DPOS and QC-Dilawan, who are waiting for passengers in the said place are allegedly not arrested.
How much was the money given to him so that the said group will be able to move forward with illegal terminals of FX Transport in EDSA that according to our payment, the son of a Congressman?
But, it turns out that the said group is able to do what they want because they are using the influence of Mr. Thea.
It is said that the said group allegedly showed a role that they were given by Brgy. Chairman Ferdiino, permits to put a terminal along EDSA.
According to the information gathered by lily's Calvento Files, Barangay Chairman Eduardo Feralino, of Brgy. Ramon Maglente, said that he gave a permit to the Christ the king commuters riding in EDSA.
In the said document, it was found out that the One Direction Police Community Precinct) was the one given by Brgy. Chairman Ferdiino, permits to put their terminal at EDSA / Muñoz, Brgy. Ramon Magsaysay, Quezon City.
In spite of the complaints of those who responded to the severity of traffic in the said area, it seems that the members of the MMDA, DPOS and Maker is not seeing anything.
Is the "PERA" is really blind and is being neglected by the said office of the government on the complaint of the commandos to investigate?
MMDA, DPOS and UPP-Dilawan, how much was the caskets made here in order to put illegal terminals of FX Electric Supamt at the stretch of EDSA in front of the Iglesia's Iglesia.
