
A little grudge with Piolo!

Marian Rivera denied it when we looked like a conversation with a little bit of taking care of Tell, My Mama, who she is pregnant.
But how can he bring him if she suddenly gets pregnant?
"How can I be my daughter, maybe I am not going to come when I have learned that I am not going to a thing that I cannot endure that, if that happened to me, it depends on me," he said.
Why did he also get a baby?
"Yes, who is the woman who does not want to have a child, right?" I want to have a child.
One day, I am the Dr grandmother, very young, right? "I am okay with that kind of thing."
When did she want to get pregnant?
"I want to have a baby?, I do not know that something is tomorrow?" She does not know that, perhaps, there are things that are being talked about, perhaps, there are things that are being talked about, which is why when they have no plans to come. "
But they still do not have their plan to get married with Dingdong.
Aside from this, she was also asked if she and Katrina Halili are okay?
"Everything is gone.
"Yesterday, there was Chance that resulted in the end, we had the Chance in the scene and we have not yet talked anymore by Salisi Gang.
"So, we came closer, we got closer to each other and we got closer to us.
"" Hi, "that's how we do not have a problem," we are just happy, we are just happy, we are just happy, "he said.
In the week, pets in My Net of GMA 7 will start around 6.
Um!
We asked for the situation of KC Concepcion in Sharon Cuneta.
"KC's, thank you, I know that I am being cheated on to thank you, I was left alone because I loved him / her," I was able to move on, but I was able to move on KC with my daughter, but I was able to go back with KC, but I was able to go back with KC, but I was left with KC, "I was left with KC," I was able to leave her.
"My only thing is, I hope that he was texting or she showed that since he became an official girlfriend, until now, we were talking, that's why we talked to me.
"It's as if we are not used to that, isn't it right," it should not be done, "it should be said that you should show up in the house.
"I am also sorry if I have said something to me, but of course, I am still a father of another person, because when I talk about it, I am not necessary if I respect all people who are working, right?"
You are being linked to KC with a foreign singer?
"Oh no, I am deeply saddened with KC, after a long distance with Piolo, it seems that he just came home with Piolo Pascual, it seems that she just came from here with Piolo... that she just came from here with Piolo... that she just came from her in case," said Nanay Cion.
It is said that KC is not yet ready to love again.
Does he be happy with KC's sexy image to those who are hiding in a magazine?
"The truth is, isn't it!
