Agham at Hala Bira Masinloc.
By Dennis Garcia is June 24, 2016, just sleep and back to becoming an ordinary citizen is President Benigno Aquino III.
He has been waiting for a long time.
The truth is, he doesn't really want to be a president, but you know the "fate," when she intervened in the course of life, he is the one being followed, and maybe PNoy is the one being followed.
Alum or Vitug for Megamall, his favorite snack "is looking for a new video game or DVD.
It was just a bit of this form now that he is not for president: He needs to be lined up and it will not be avoided that it will not be avoided that it will be avoided by a banana-Q.
He needs to be put under the parking space in the mall.
It is probably okay, "because we know that PNoy does not want to pull the car.
PNoy is now free to go out at night and listen to the band that is only a problem, "when he placed the new song, because his favorite" student Bandes "is being endorsed by Ka Freddie Aguilar, which is now a pro-1090451.
"There is a song, especially now that there are many members of the Liberal Party when they are lined up and goes to the haunting of P51.30.

And he needs to study the song who has no choice or cherness, "for those who have been proud of her in singing - Ogie and Noel - is very difficult to keep on it now.
You need to stop smoking at the prohibition of many places by President-elect Duterte - especially inside the airplane where the bad smoke is prohibited.
Just a little point, PNoy, since there is a little more time, you release an executive order: "Do not allow the use of the two teenagers.
You will be the one who will find it hard, which is stuck in traffic, it is certain that there is a friendship that General Purisima is left in the PNP that you will be allowed to become an escort for you.
And last night, you look for someone who will love you, you will love you not because you are the former President, you will love you not because you have a little wealth.
But you will love anyone... you are your sibling Kris.
We was last asked by the actor Sunshine Dizon.

It is said that her husband had a secret and returned to another. But the extreme pain that he felt at his infidelity was not a secret, that Sunshine went out of his grudge on social media and was with a promise to her husband, "No."
