
Correct to respond to a 26 public hospital, resisted by Gabriela.

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
There is 30, 2012.

Those orphaned by Gabriela Women's Liberal, which was led by (Commission, L-R) Representative Luz Ilagan, Representative Emni de Jesus, and Lucy Francisco of Gabriela-Panay (establishments, Quijano, were nominated.
Gabriela Women's Liberal Party (GWP) strongly registered to the approval of the privatization of a 26 public hospital, one step of the Aquino administration who will allegedly even deprive the health services of women.
On the 19th of Gabriela, a national campaign for the health of the women is for the health of the women, who were sent to "Fight of Women's Access Road, Heanjoe).
According to Gabriela Rep. Luz Ilagan, "our call is for free, enough, and affordable health services for women and children, the mother usually gets sick and neglected the health, but he is also the ones who cannot be taken to the hospital."
The House Committee on Health passed the House Bill 3269, which aims to make private hospitals in the regions, including Cagayan Valley Medical Center, San Lazaro Hospital, Eastern Visayas Medical Center, Northern Visayas Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center
The signatures of women from different parts of the country are against the privatization of public hospitals (establishments, Quijano).
Ilagan, "we also criticized," we know that if the number, business and pipe is a business and pipe, our women are pitiful, "he said.
Gabriela Representative Edcel Lagman added that it is responsibility for the government to give the women to pay attention to the health, especially the most powerful, but it was abandoned by the Aquino government by the public service that he will be charged by the government in responsibility. "
More than 500 members and leaders of Gabriela Women's party are going to attend the appropriate charges held in the College of music, university of the Philippines-Diliman.
It was declared that 10% of the said party-list was declared to be nominated in the election 2013, Rep. de Jesus, meanwhile, the third alarm and Lucy Francisco, regional wilator of Gabriela-Panay and 23 years old leader of women.
"We are expecting that we are going to be able to get a three months in the Congress, especially since we were able to get more than 300 percent, and if in the past, we have received 300 percent, and if in the past, we got a more chance to sit in Congress," said Ilagan in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
Gabriela is proud of 300 percent more members, and they are hoping that the 3 cases in congress will be able to get the Congress in the coming election (months; Quijano).
According to Ilagan, the group of Gabriela because of "pro-poor" projects which has launched this, and on the continuous control of skills and being a leader of women in the community.
The leaders of GWP promised to fight for women who are victims of violence and abuse, and build, the ability of the women and children in violence, in the middle of the extreme poverty and anomalous military in the US.
Former Representative Cynthia Villar, actor, Bibeth Montza, and stabbing the actors Angel Locsin, Jennylyn Mercado, Mayor Koko Pimentel, Davao mayor Sarah Belmonte, Davao mayor Sarah Duterte, and Valenzuela Crib.
