This is the good thing to be blessed.
Next news in the Philippines is to be named eighty.
Is positive and went home to the Philippines in Australia.
It cannot be said.
It's because I call on the situation that a stone in Saudi has been taken from Saudi for a friend, they can rise from when Philippines if Eve.
Don't you.
Saturday.
When?
Ah,
So what?
He / she also went home to the Philippines in Olongapo.
Reporting for August.
Four o'clock.
Tel.
Two people are innocent.
Ah, before he went home, they had a check-up but before I went out of the Philippines around six o'clock in the morning, he went home to the hospital in the hospital in the hospital.
It was granted immediately to PNoy that you are in the Philippines Medical Center for the end of the patient to avoid traffic.
Under the computer, it is certain that the love of the patient will be considered a few days with the patient who are involved in the bar of a few days together with two patients who are involved in a road and forty-four passengers along with Mikey and his work of Mikey.
!
Especially with his companions.
Bong.
What's now, there are a lot of people who are hungry; we are already able to go out of the mystery that I will defend, I said that he doesn't have any shortcomings as a game in the next time.
Sister Maasin in the height of race, how much are two men who are only one of the symptoms.
How can we hear those who pass here?
Fuck, deacious; the incident.
You are going to tell the fact that father has mentioned.
Covetous, fur; we are the ones who make mistakes.
It is also said that they are also selling a check-up.
The result was not yet recovered, that's why they didn't want that, "isn't it right?
Is it a good thing that he took the truth because this is where he will bring his personal plan to buy the new characters of the two hundred-four days.
So what kind of money you have, you don't show yourself yet that's why it's easy to talk with my birthday in the first time.
Covetous, fittest; and even the same.
Alright.
"Who will be the only ones to look at, who are our studies, who are going to go with whatever we have said that it is prohibited to pass this to the person or Contact Policy" you will not drink milk.
Yes, we eat at each other but as time passes by.
A little later, I still have class in a person who is Ivy, Sampaguita Pictures.
Just leave the body just recently in studying.
The Pope in Germany is going to be on the end of the okay "Contact Policy".
Within me, many still resigned from his post.
It appears that exactly exactly in the hospital, the symptoms of high fever and cough went up to there.
With this, you can.
This is why it is said that this is why two of them were asked to send their barism in two o'clock in the early morning.
The Philippine of what seems to be under the research that will be used in our country.
Dickinson in August 22 had one trip to the patients in Manila there.
I was not saying yes, he arrived here with the difference of August, but after early morning there in Bulacan, what I have happened is there, I said.
I also got it now in Davao City.
We are proud; as long as we look at the paper; we remember that we remember those who go abroad with cabbage in America, which they did like a trace of a tsunami doctor.
She brought her happiness for two in America.
Airplane.
Inside the airplane, it is as if I have been cut off as if I am really waiting for their clothes.
They are.
Until he / she was able to point out that's why he / she was able to look down; he / she cannot be cut off, and what's that, we can be amputated.
Later, I was able to talk to the Doctor who is not here in the '70s but he / she didn't have anything to go to.
Easy.
What?
I just sent her income from that father.
There are things that have been used there in the exam of March wherein he was not brought there to the ordinary course, the ability to take place in the middle of the illness, we are still in Metro Manila, but also what kind of words, as well as the wife of Solo which is also an expert of the trash.
Do not think about it, because, how much of course, of course, I should remember that he can remember more especially the result in Saudi that you are saying.
To make sure that there are people who experience the Contact Policy "member of prominent families that should be included in this, that's why I have said that this kind of passengers of the house is like this, which is why we need to undergo investigation, that is why they need to undergo research.
He survived here.
Alcohol is going to come here in the Philippines, because, while in our experience, we should see that we should be seen here at the table, Bracadic; we really want to watch over for the Spanish colonizers because they really want to watch for other things in the world, which is better to understand.
I thought earlier that I was talking to Dondon by my fault, isn't it that the Philippine 'coming passengers can't be removed when I have nothing to feel because there was only one piece of only here for free.
I hope that those things that I have been holding are just like that.
"It's the paper yes, that the passengers are there at dawn and it is only based on this point that you have written this on top number 1.
Because I put a cellphone number abroad in the Philippines.
On Saturday, the number of those that they are calling for is okay, but it is okay for me to be called for a tricycle example in Quezon City, and you should go to the barangay so that they need to stay here in the house so that they need to stay here in the house so that they need to stay here in the house.
The government found out that they are rich, Marialyn and good might be rich and it might be good if you will discover that you will just discover the passenger of me yesterday when I passed by his Two people.
"That's why, it was really good that she was really a good person in the room that's why I said, what kind of things we know is that we already know a lot of people on the game, and they were a lot of people.
Michael saw a positive result here in Manila.
He / she came from Saudi but I know it's good that I can say it's because I have been able to tell you that this is not only for you to say that this is not right for you to say that this is not right for you to have a source of income source by their relationship.
Yes, you know that we are very pitiful; we are in rushing; that is why sometimes we stay in a contract, we will be put in a contract, we are in our own sake also so that we are in our own sake also so that we can go to our own sake.
That is why your grandfather is here, June four o'clock and only half of those mentioned to have money to buy passengers, Teolo which is now important to be done here is always important to it.
I am saying a receipt.
This place are the actions of those who will teach them where they will be there until these hours.
We will still repeat it, whatever you are going to Manila, so that we will be one, ah, the trip of Saudi when Susan called here in Manila August.
They arrived, what they are here in Manila this November.
Positive.
I know it was the payment coming from summer.
