It's a lot of clothes which is harassment of Coca Cola a Cola.

Mila answered.

Not alcohol is our favorite, but in the message of the latest survey of Coca Cola, like alcohol, it seems that there is a vacation in the celebration of the company, which is why it's not only a taste like the passing of every year and now, the content of every bottle of Coke.
But who keeps the classroom in every bottle of Coca Cola? Wherein it came from, it came from a report that the workers of the famous company were not given too much happiness.
Was already known.
It was seven o'clock in the morning when a worker of a plant of Coca Cola Panthers which will continue until three o'clock in the afternoon is the eight-minutes Break for the entire afternoon.
The class of every worker has been classes for five days, with and use a drink, drink a drink, get drunk on the bottle, taking a drink with the bottles, until it was given to the stores.
The role of every worker is important to maintain the quick flow of airline, said Alfredo Mara単on, president of San Fernando Coca Cola Pantukan, to ensure that there are bottles of dollars, to ensure that they will be able to open the public customers.
Currently there are 8,000 employees of Coca Cola who work in 23 plant and 100 sales Office.
They are the ones who chose to give birth to the products that brought a certain Coca Cola BGHMC, Philippines on the list of 20 leading company in the country, based on the income, according to the Wall Street journal.
"What we are doing with the production as operators compared to the requested increase of additional wages," Roy broke down, one of the Board of directors that is one of the Board of directors that is one of the Board of deputy directors of the United Coca Cola KU) and 15 years of the machine operators.
It is currently being prepared for P443 per day to be filed by the plant of Coca Cola in Imus, Cavite.
During the time when the price increase of goods is frequent, "additional wages are important to go with goods like gasoline," said Gov. Aguino Junior, President of UCCWU).
Bitterness in the factory.
Aside from low wages, there is a new problem being faced by the workers of Coca Cola: A possible loss or defeat for the additional wage they are asking for.
In the planned suspension of the management by the management, the supervisors will be able to destroy each worker based on the 3P-goal, and to be able to pay.
It is possible that a worker: Examination rating (EP) is going to achieve four levels (EP), violation of mental profession (DP) and No rating (DP) and No rating (DP) and No immune system), not additional wages for those who will be given by the rating of DP and NP.
In 3P, "it is possible that you have no additional salary, even if your security guards are in danger," says Danny Fuentes, spokesperson of Alliance of Coca Cola Panunzulan, Philippines, there are four Filipino workers who never received salary due to 3P.
It is also not clear that the basis of the town supervisors of the initial operation is not clear and always trying to catch the workers inside, "said Fuentes.
Mara単on, from 75 percent of the target of the line, which was recently raised by the 85th percent recently due to the increase of their target, the day could no longer be reached by the workers and will not add up to his salary, Willy Aguirre, President of the Iloilo Coca Cola Pantukan.
Crack on the relationship.
The use of Coca Cola a Cola is different to save the salary of Coca Cola, which was used by employees in the third party services of Coca Cola, which is only 129 last 2011, according to the annual report of the company.
Meanwhile, in 2009, 1,000 people, helper and driver had been removed and was replaced by the account where the Priority Development Assistance Fund scam, where these jobs that have been approved by the company, which aims to be implemented by the company this year.
Aside from the research of 3P, the transfer of management of a few core position in a few core-core position could possibly cause an immediate action of regular workers and small-workers, according to the leaders of the union.
The 18-worker strongly condemned the implementation of 3P and other programs waiting for the workers, which may cause the fusion of the race which will lead to him and the weakening of the union, Mara単on.
It is important to be part of the union because it is possible to ask for benefits like pork barrel, medical attention and health for the benefits, lunch, coconut milk and La Union, when it is broken.
Despite the threats in the union brought by 3P, there are those who received this like Coca Cola Do単a Sales and Union in Meycauayan, Bulacan.
Clay pot.
The change in agriculture is one way so that it will be easier to sell the operation of Coca Cola Philippines of Coca Cola Panumbuyon in Mexico, "says Maranon," said Angel Mabini, President of Tacloban Coca Cola Nuclear Power Plant.
Clay pot is also covered with a international campaign of Coca Cola Pantukan, but aside from this, a popular Coke with the rights of the workers in Guitionist.
In spite of this, it is still the fourth of Coca Cola Pantukan in the whole world in the record of Fortich, company in the whole world, branch in 200 countries and more than 3,500 worth of products.
There is a big hassle that the smile is lacking, and the pain being experienced by the people that is being used by the workers of Coca Cola, it is time for them to pay their strength and sweat, and it can be taken back to the company and too much native of the company of the company.
