Sunday, April 22, 2012.

Have a Independence Day?

How can you call a person free?

And if he wants something, can he get it or can be bought, it appears that it is not enough money, but according to the experts, he has no ability to help what is happening to you, and to the poor people who want to help, especially those who get rich, and more than those who get rich.

There is free and plentiful and get broken, and there are prisoners who are always left short and have no ability in need.

We should think that there is a young girl, Ana, who was not able to study and tried to stroll.

A hole was picked up and repeatedly hit by the bosses he wants to do, and being forced to burn the forest up until he wanted him to ring the head of his parents, and even neighbors.

The question: Is it free to do this, or does he have the ability to make a good manners or tune from the forest?

To be smart in the forest, it needs many days and sometimes, he does not know the rules of the forest so he could have no longer know the rules when it comes to our rights, especially in our rights according to our Constitution.

Each of our countrymen have the desired to choose where we will become good and experts.

Each level of freedom is your partner, if you are hard and you want to be freed from this, you need to be able to finish your needs, education, respect of others, you are in a group of sleep, you're already in a group of sleep, sleeping, and trying to sleep on.

To our religions, according to what he is pointing out, and our goal is to discover, and love the Lord, what is the primary destination of the people, "what if we do it, and if we do not follow it, and if we do not follow him, he should be forced to love him," if we do not follow him, in boiling oil.

The question: Is it perfect and reasonable?

What's true is that you can see your "religion" in your own life and if you do not meddle with him, the person who cares for him / her has no idea, which is why he doesn't commit a mistake, that is why he doesn't commit a mistake, that is why he / she won't be mistaken, the person who does not meddle with him / her.

The truth is, God wants to clear up our very glory.

Let us get to know who we are.

We can't learn how to pray our surroundings, the environment and all living here.

It was spoken by Jesus that the most great order is to love the Lord, and the second is, love your fellowmen just like the love of others, that the people who have different religion, which are disconcerted by the others who have different religion, are directly charged.

So that the orders of Jesus Christ will finish first, we need to free!

The truth will set you free.

- Juan 8: 32.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
