Those who are cruel, Senator Miriam.

Oh, it is said that the Department of Justice Secretary Leila de Lima is going to do anything because in the letter of Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago, the content of the letter is to investigate Senate Minority Juan Ponce Enrile with the corresponding charges filed by Tita Miriam.
I do not know if it is afraid that Justice De Lima is not only the only senator every time the senator is preparing the good senator in his cadmium and table, are you afraid that you are going to be the leader of the absentee senator?
You might get sick especially.
Just my question to the DOJ, what is the basis of your formation of team to JPE, I have read the content of the letter of Senator Antonio, I mean, that you have no idea that you might have shouting because you might also shout at the Max?
Sure, you will investigate all the household help, who will be invited for all the household help, who will be cooked, their followers in the Senate and ask if the senator's accusations are true that she touched it (or raped her?
You will also investigate this based on the accusations of Senior, that he is the king of gambling dens which is included here that he is the one responsible for the huge war on the country., "you should investigate about his son-in-law and child.
In addition, it is also the senator who was destroyed in the province of Ormoc to ask all residents there about the allegations and allegation of the senator.
What if it is proven that there is no truth to the accusations, especially to women who served in the house and office of the senator, can you say, Ms Leila, will file a case against Santiago?
I have no bad bread for Madame Miriam and I have no connection with Senator Enrile, the thing is, the respect of the country in the Senate is already missing for what is happening.
We admit that Santiago would be proud if she has gone wild at the Senate or even if he speaks again, he doesn't have any different from Mommy Dionesia, the mother of world boxing champion Manny "Pacman" Pacquiao.
Action, acting, front-page of the news, that's why you are paying taxes that you want, you are paying taxes and you are able to pay taxes and you will be able to waste their salary and have a big benefit of us!
