Caught in a fluster.

Jobelts.
It will still pass through February when I have not noticed it.
Why is it that every February each day, almost all the professor was accompanied by non-cover-control over the election of the next student Council of university, and for their weekly income, it might be one of the best time in the university.
Even the week of UP Diliman, just passed by when I was able to go to the three nights of UP Diliman, but like before, friends were friends with my companions, "happy Easter Day," according to those who are single.
"They are still happy, but during those times, I cannot help to think and bring back to myself," I hope I am the one who is a loved one in the air, "that is probably the wish of almost all of a single person on Valentine's Day.
I tried to invite you on a date, but the person I want to be with the All Soul's Day is still early, but in the end, he still needs to study that night and I still need to study that night.
If you think about it, I have been like this for a long time, there is something that I have been going to, there might be more far from others when they are in a distant zone, but I am in a good friend zone, right? "
We are already close friends since I have received myself that I have received myself for me, if I have a person who knows me too much, maybe that is already her.
I was shy when I was shy but I still didn't tell him that my friendship might be destroyed when I admitted to her that my relationship is still far from my priority.
As of now, I consider him as an avid reader of inspiration to be more than who I am going to say if we will be more or not; as long as now, I am happy with a close friend.
Sometimes, it reached to a point that I wanted to tell her that I want to know what would happen to her and if that is the same time that I have been thinking of admiration or I am just thinking about it, "that was the only thing I admire him.
In this kind of opportunity, I just say to myself, "hey, you'll just wait for it, we will come here."
