Forgive us, or God.
By Zaytono.
Too much volume of people on that day in Caperum that is very famous, that is why one of those who experienced stomachache along the front of the Lord said that he was removed from the roof part of Jesus.
The son of God is playing with his faith and persistence to come closer to Him, what Jesus first said to him is that she has no ability to forgive those who are waiting to forgive him, only Yo'clock, only has the power to forgive him.

They cannot get the truth that Jesus is in front of them, who is in front of them in front of them.
That is why it is challenged by Jesus. Which is really easier to forgive those who want to forgive or walk in one moment, but it is easy for the Lord that he has done, that is why they were amazed.
A friend, I have a happy news for you, Jesus who made a miracle for him to make a miracle for him to ask for forgiveness from the people and asking for forgiveness from our sins and asking for forgiveness from our broken relationship with God.
This is the key to our peace, the key to our freedom, this is the key to the power to visit the right and clean in front of God.
But what is the problem, but it seems that not all people can come near Jesus, let us look at the four men who had a hole on the roof and released a letter in front of Jesus.
First of all, they are not desperate so they are not desperate, they already give up to each other so that they do not know that others are the key, the solution is for the problem they are facing.
They played with their faith and hope for them to overcome the obstacles from the son of God.

You know, the Lord is very kind even if there is a number of faith that he noticed, you just go near you, read the story of his life.

Start with the book of Juan in New Year with the Bible because you ask Him for him to talk to you.
You know that what you are doing to God is right when your heart is filled with regret in your sins, so I hope you will forgive you, and he will open your eyes to the beauty of a true blessed day with the Lord Jesus.
