The theater of rebellion, theater.

That's where he is approaching.
9: 00, 2013.

Two of the leaders of the university of the Philippines became part of the celebration of the 80th birthday of Andres Bonifacio, Macario, and Aurelio'clock in the 25th of December 8, which was led by Ambulong, Andres Bonifacio: 07 at the Smart Araneta Coliseum, Asibars, Asumba compound, Asumba compound, Aaahhagat.
Theater Porta.
A unique angle of them is being monitored by Dilawan, and that is the very part of its theater, "according to Dacanay,", "Talakar" and "Talakar" and "Talakar" and "Talakag, the new face of Pasong Tamo," which led to the current viewers of the theater.
On the first set, it was shown on how the group of Andres (Up Legaspi), Karlo or Macario, 39, who was called by the group of Andres Hir is also part of the group, who was called by the theater she intentionally called "theater she smelled" which is not yet ready for the quick changes during that time.
"It was said that the viewers were able to tell him that he was the one who supported the theater she was also good in multimillion pesos in the university of Santo Tomas," Ang, "Daang Matuwid", "Ang," Daang Matuwid "," Ang in the final farewell "of Dr. Jose Rizal," Ang "final farewell" by Doctor Jose Rizal, "Ang" final farewell "by Doctor Jose Rizal," Ang "last word" by Doctor Jose Rizal, "
And that is what happened, Andres was founded on Katipunan and became part of him as Ilao, Karlo, and even the student of Emilio Jacinto (Paul Jake Paulate), after she was married to Andres, who became the Lalaurie of Katipunan.
The peak of Domeng and the Orient was the search for Andres, who took the letter of Orient in the letter of Emilio Jacinto, Negros Oriental showed the hardship she experienced in searching for the one she experienced in searching for the loved one.
Domeng and the people graduated from worried and riding in the start of the theater Porta, however, the goals for the future, which was started by the theater she could have been ready to fight for the country, and until the arts which is always pushing for change will continue.
The result of Dr and Bonifacio became colorful and colorful, became a person and more hero because it became a person for the audience.
The drama of rebellion.
This is also the class of the theater which is believed by the director of "Maganto!" Against Bonifacio Ilagan, "against him, El Niño that's being considered to be amnesty!
"In" Maganto!, "part of different parts of the art - songs, dancing, music, drama and film is so good for the country, and now that the same time is the future, the same time that Tolentino will become the future, similar to the butcher of Tolentino.
The insults of the country has been done by the start of the revolution of Bonifacio, in the start of the struggle in different times, and in the start of the struggle of the workers and dancing, it will show their call to reflect the fight and dancing.
One of the most prominent part of the release of the video was we alternately left behind by the Bishops again, but also a partner of armed men who will serve at present, but also a partner of the armed men who helped them (physical ailments, and remember the mother of Pinagbuhatan, and remember the mother of Pinagbuhatan and consciousness of the rain. "
A different kind of Filipino culture of "Maganto!" Because it became part of the rating of the workers from Kilusang Mayo Uno, Pentagon (Special Action Force, Salaziristan, Salazza, Talakag, Talakag, Talakag, Talakag, Talakag, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining, Barangay Sining.
