Umali, Dolor while serving the new term in Oryang.

There is 25, 2016.

Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, May 25 (Pia) - in the coming November 1 of July, serving as the governor and vice governor was serving as the governor and vice governor.

Umali, Jr. and Vice-Glamang, Serba, Dolor in the province of Oriental Mindoro.

It can be recalled that on the fourth night of May 10 in the Provincial Council (Comelec), the Commission on Elections (COMELEC) will send the elected candidates for different positions in the provincial level.

Provincial Canlubang, Chairperson Grace Pulido) led the information that most of the elected candidates who were from the Liberal Party (LP) will be in service for the first district, Atty. Antonio C. Perez, who was reported to be the highest number of votes, which was recorded to be the highest number of votes, which was recorded to be the highest number of votes, which was reported to be the highest number of votes, which was recorded by the highest number of votes, which was recorded to be the highest number of votes, which was recorded by the highest number of votes, which was recorded to be the highest number of votes, which was recorded by the highest number of votes, which was recorded to be the highest number of votes, which was recorded by the highest number of votes, which was recorded to be the highest number of votes, which was recorded by the highest number of votes, which was recorded to be the highest number of votes, which was recorded by the highest number of votes, which was recorded to be the highest number of votes, which was recorded by the highest number of votes, which was recorded to be the highest number of votes, which was recorded by the highest number of votes.

Rafael L. Infante, former Calapan City Councilor Edilberto Dinaano, Jr., and re-term board member Juan Paolo G. Luna, to the second district, Atienza, who was immediately brought by the Liberal Party (VCM), and some of the names of the voters on the list became peaceful, and some of the disappearance of names of the voters on the list.

(CPRD / LTO), Pia-Mimaropa, Calapan).
