TV Patrol, April 30, 2012.

This is the power of this.

There are no obstacles in the minds of the people, there are no walls and even those with human rights; however, there is no obstacle to our prosperity, aside from the prison that we ourselves creates and finish our self.

An effective treatment to the victory of 11 is the guidance of our Great Britain.

There is a big difference between whoever is him and what is one of us, every one of us has a bad character (Iya, soul), who has natural rights to be free.

It will not be put under all the events in the world, each of us has a body that seems to be used in the journey of each other, that if you do not want to be used, it should be used in a game for each other, that this should be used in a game for each other, and this life is being received by a communication or a message from the station (network), that this will be receiving communication or message.

You will not be a person with faith as long as you do not have any ability to ask, you will not believe in our religion, even if you do not follow our religion, even if you do not follow the orders of the church, even if you do not just accept anything, you will not just accept whatever it depends on you.

If you do not follow this, you are following him and really busy with your life: You are not free with a bird who is in the cage that has been waiting for a miracle, and a promise that is waiting for a miracle, and a promise that is just waiting for a miracle.

Mirror of the personality is not healthy and happy if you do not have power to use your own integrity, and even if you will be listened to, it is not true that there is no unity and cooperation, that is always what a few wants to use, that is always what a few wants.

If you want to be freed from understanding, you should cover your confusion and start to look for your real personality.

Do not live your followers, a slave, and hoping that he is always in a rotten system, a human sect, or a person who led to your character that you always follow, you are waiting, and expected to rise from your situation.

It is good to ride along with them until you have a breath.

There is no victim, if there is no permission, it will not happen if the cooperation of each person is the person who can make her reality.

If you will not want your situation, this will not continue, if you are truly free, you can make you eat, but if a slave, you are blamed, there are many reasons that you are fond of.

Look for our Great god as long as you have the belief that others insist on, you can't be able to fully know yourself.

This will only happen if you will look at the kingdom of God in the depths of you and you have your own bangs which can be used in exchange of hectares, accept it, feel it!

This is the reason for the cleaning of the world.

Do you notice, that when you are holding a hold-control and just in a noodle house, it is certain that if you are far from the television and radio, it is certain that if you are far from your awareness, to know, to be happy, to be happy, to be happy, to be happy, and be seen in your glory.

Do not be surprised if you are always short of getting angry or getting angry to the people connected to you, and keeps your greed for yourself, not for others if you want the changes in the world to start yourself.

Why?

Because while you do not have love to yourself, you will not be able to love others.

If there is something lacking in you, do not blame others to blame yourself, because you have long been sleeping on this matter.

You need to look for your identity, whatever it is, not only to God, but to other people, you will never find yourself if you are selfish and you will be the one to become a different creature.

Our Great God is about Iyo, in God, people are made up by God, and we have chosen to be imposed on him by our fellow; and we chose to accept His love, instead of our happiness, instead of our happiness, instead of our happiness, instead of our happiness, it will be a punishment and improvement of our happiness.

If we feel and love the will of God; we can find yourself in His happiness in all things, but if we are against God, and this is our most beloved from Him, and this is what we can see and this will be your enemy.

Let's just remember that we are not the ones who are going to wake up our self, but God who is really choosing us to wake up us.

The glory of a person is used to study by Jesus, but until now, the person comes from God's spirit from God, and ask for help and guidance from God, and the person is here in the lower part and the person is here in the lower part. "

The belief of this Lord continues to be wearing white clothes and sitting on the throne, holding a list and all of your mistakes are made up for the coming hammering.

Jesus now knows what will be sent by the Aanthem when he said, "Maglente, and know that I am in the river of God, the wealth of God is in our hearts, and all of our events are in our hearts, and all of our events will start.

There is no other way to heart to heart but the faith, the key to the whole capabilities to take shelter in the whole world, the real meaning of your vandalism on the world, especially the answers to the questions, where the joy depends on and will not be reached to other showcase.

), you are going to be the one who is going to be an acquaintance Mo, 24 / 12) your scheduled events in your glory.

Do not hesitate to look at and discover what you are and what you'll take.
Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
