There is no personal problem with PNoy.

President Noynoy Aquino proved that in his current administration, nothing will happen in his current administration or no matter how much of the people who first testified in his family.
During the book of Manong Johnny last Thursday, many politicians who supported him, including PNoy, knows that we know a member of a family who became a victim of martial law by Marcos.
"It is not unknown to our knowledge that Enrile is one of the brains of the law that made it hard for the many Filipinos who were accused and punished with the accusation of rebellion against the Marcos regime.
According to the President, this book will open the opportunity for the public to know the other side of the story of martial law and what is what pushed the people behind this to declare and implement this law.
It can be clearly seen from PNoy that he has no bad feelings even if Manong Johnny is still one of the attempted execution of a few series of horny "in the administration of his mother.
Although according to the President, his past relationship with Enrile was not good, he still believes that there are things that they can do as officials who are now in the highest position in the country.
PNoy is really a good example of the official who has low pressure and has no other interest but to fix the Filipino people.
There is really nothing else to take revenge on those who have a stone but the good thing that they can show to the good that they will show how they are wrong.
PNoy also added that the Filipinos should learn from his lesson the planned story in the book of Manong Johnny, who was only seventeen or in real life.
In all the hardship brought by the Aquino family to the Marcos regime, we cannot be ashamed to ask how the President and his family have forgiven the people behind this.
But with the current administration of PNoy, it seems that the wound of the past suffering of his family is to heal the scar on him and the entire Aquino family.
