Libra Girl RZA (2)

The Spaniards were wrong in what they thought that instead of going silent, the protest inside the church was stronger and it spread to the educated sectors of the society, which was why Bonifacio was used to fight against the Spaniards so that Rizal was able to support them as one of password, the word "Ghanaura."
There, it is clearer than the sun's rays that the town's death will be considered as the effect of the execution of Ghanaza, similar to the effect of the execution of Ghanaza, similar to what was felt by the members of the former Senator Benigno Aquino, Jr. last 1983.
Did you notice that after Rizal was killed, the Katipunan was further strengthened and three years after the Marcos regime took the EDSA Revolution and defeated the Marcos regime, Rizal and Aquino were followed by the events that resulted in our country.
But why were the friars, Ghanaza, said that everyone started to stand up as Padre Pelaez, administrator of Arciation, province, to be set by the Spaniards to the native priests in driving the indigenous priest, one thing which was strictly opposed by the friars.
It's a waste that it will be a waste and it will be held by Padre Pele ez who will be hit by the Commission on June, 1863, after a strong earthquake was made by Padre Pelaez which is considered as the first highest major earthquakes.
As well as Padre Pele ez continues to move the movement for the set aside until his retirement, however, the friars are unable to resist, which is why the friars are not hesitant if she is old Burgos by that time.
After Ghanh za continues to lose the movement of the movement, it led to the second major schism that ended up to the second major schism in the Philippines in 1902, which is also known as the type of "church of Dilawan," Aglipay, as the first bishop of this.
Padre Pelaez, Ghanaels, is the eldest of Rizal, Bonifacio and Aglipay, the youngest in our history, Ghanaels, the heroism of Ghanaura and an inspiration for Rizal and Aglipay.
They are going to make their bravery and they are puzzled why it is surprising why as Padre Pele ez and Bonifacio, is not being given importance similar to Rizal.
