
The officials and there are no funds for the calamity.

There is still no President, vice president, senator, congressman, governor and mayor, who died because of the earthquake, typhoon, flood, war, war, war, war and other widespread form of nature and violence.
These are always safe because aside from their own palace, they are in safe places, they are still full of astronauts to be saved by the people.
And the people who violate the country's officials are safe and they are going to have the source of building their safe palace to be placed under said disaster or calamity.
Is the lack of danger of the highest officials of the country that is why they almost do not care about the events happening in the ranks of the people?
None of them.
In the past months, the government is proud that the pocket of the government for money is too much.
Because the corruption in the Tuwid na Daan is quick without being smashed.
One of the former causes of corruption is the Bureau of Internal Revenue and Bureau of Customs which are primary agencies to bring money to the public funds.
If before, my love for the Philippines is full of tax evasion and coler, now it is true.
Included in those who were able to correct the liquid of tax evasion and coler who are from the BIR and BOC.
If in the past, only half and the taxes that the BIR and BOC use for only half will be implemented now.
So the government will do it.
There is no fund for the calamity.
That's why the people are surprised when the Palace says that the remaining funds of the government against calamity will only be few.
To our knowledge, the funds for the palace grew up from former P2 billion every year during the time of Miss Gloria for 6 billion pesos in the time of PNoy.
It is possible that the calamity fund was already consumed even if the amount is that big with the number of calamities that have been used for by the government.
"That is if it is true he is really taking advantage and no corruption here.
There are really billions that are needed so that the sale of the typhoon, southwest monsoon, earthquake, flood and war has happened during this year.
Will make a way.
To ensure the help of the government for the sale of the responsibility, the Palace now says that it will make a way to destroy the government or the government which he can take.
It would be good if this will be done, and it is just right that the government needs to act if it will be broken against the calamity.
The poor citizens should support the government even in whatever way, even if the government is too much.
A mystery.
The government should erase the widespread impression now that their officials are only about to worry about and not the citizens.
How can the citizens not support for the consecutive news and hope of the officials of the country about the huge funds of the government for their own and own projects.
There is something to admit that their self is overflowing in their self as a reward for the money that they will do to former Chief Justice Renato Corona.
It is not only the annual P24 billion Priority Development Assistance Fund led to them but the Disbursement Acceleration Program which costs 113 million pesos in the past three years ago when the Palace gave the lawmakers.
It is a mystery.
The funds of the country are really a mystery especially if compared to the 6B fund fund (P24B PDAF and P13B DAP.
The price of calamity fund is being given, "to millions of victims of calamity, the citizens, while the annual 34B PDAF and P13B DAP were given to the lack of 300 senators and congressmen.
Really a mystery.
Mystery is still there, there is no doubt, the date is still there and it is still being done or happening under the Tuwid na Daan.
Nothing with the map.
If all this is about to think about it, it is not surprising why Senator Miriam is saying that he will not see the Tuwid na Daan in all of the roads in my loved Philippines.
With the volume of skin mixed in the contents of the mystery that is being experienced under the Tuwid na Daan, where do you find the Tuwid na Daan "?
In other words, there is no Tuwid na Daan where the government is taking advantage of the corrupt and fighting against their corrupt.
There is a straight path.
If the government will find a way to give assistance to the sale of the people or the whole country to get up again and have a normal life, that is where we can say that there is "Tuwid na Daan.
The only consolation for this only means that the people will show that they would show the people's officials to the people and say they do not have a fund against the calamity.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.
