Pressure, at 90-90-tempered and change in the Philippine Cologne.

John Toledo.
Dimakutas are lurking.
It is not easy to make noise in your newspaper today.
The formation of Philippine Cologne or even to be a long and short process, is thoroughly examining every argument, is thoroughly examining every picture, which is a picture of chaos that will never lose in life even if it will never disappear in life.
Like the articles and the bastards who pass through the bloody process of our society, there is also the newspaper in the changing situation of society, that is why if it will return to 90-year history, that is why if it will return to 90-year history, it is not the same appearance and posture of the issues.

First to be smart.
Even if it will be recalled, even if it will be expulsion of College in 1910, it was Varchipelf on 1917, it was the content of the pages from the shortage of funds written by Jose Garcia Villa.
Last 1922, the Philippine Collins was established after release a directive and identify the University Council, which the professor in UP arrived, the bosses who are planning to have a "newspaper.
Traditional newspapers are those who will be even sold at the amount of 25 centavos every copy of 1920., marriage, alcohol and cigarettes, and "Queen of the Miss Philippines" and "Queen of the 1935, Carine Commercial Center in Industrial Subdivision.
First.
One of the first disconcerns of the intensified posture of the former stronghold of Wenceslagan, Vinzons last 1931 against the proposal to increase the salary of the lawmakers on the low ranks of the lawmakers at the lower chamber.
The first shouting.
It was criticized in the term of Elmer Orcathedral last 1951, the hold of UP President Bienvenido Gonzalez, a senator who is a member of the opposition, who was assigned by the opposition of the Philippine Army at the academic, "Department of UP and ordered the readers to protest the Malacañang.

Restriction.
While the change is ongoing, even if it will be higher to be progressive, the administration of UP will strengthen the current administration of UP in controlling the commerce at the country, which was built by the officials of UP and the people.
Father E.J. Caparas, last 1936, was hailed by the writers, Doctor Jose Rizal in the book owned by Ricardo Pascual, Doctor Jose Rizal, the catholic Church, which was only discovered on November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be taken back in November 15, 1937, which was supposed to be released last November 15,
Consumed.
Different from the canned goods in the present, there is no idea that even if it will be exported, but in the first decades of even if it will be expulsion.
Propaganda of Francisco Arlus said, the last piece of adviser of 1977, who needs to get up in the newspaper at the domination of the administration, which is why he voluntarily left the position.

Take a medical exam.
In the time of Martial Law, the movement of the movement of the youth on the right issues against them, system of society is the cause of poverty and corrupt administration of the Marcos regime, one of those who are arrested by the Liberal Party of the Philippines.

There was a blackout.
During the time of Martial Law, many newspapers and station of the took place were closed to the stations owned by relatives and friends of Marcos - the crony media - were not allowed to continue.
Despite the danger and lack of funds, it is not destructive to even if there will be a pile of air that will be held in the height of the Martial Law, the newspaper as part of Mosquito press, that even though it's clear and their articles would still be a bite.

No.
The welfare of the citizens, even if will be included in the social issues, especially and brought peace with the person who got involved in the protest against the dictatorship from 1974, and imprisoned in Camp Crame, where he died in 1974, which became a member of the armed movement in 1974, which became a member of the armed movement.

Left behind.
After the 1986 People Power Revolution, the movement of the youth of UP reached two: Sandali, family, and the real militants in the country (TMMA), to identify that there are different kinds of view on the issues, one of the ideas that is pointing at the plaza.
Along with the share of what will be approved of the two infrastructures in 1996 - typhoon Colina named Richard GST, and one regular Colina of Voltaire Gazmin were chosen by UP President Emil Javier.

Change?
The changing appearance of the newspaper is the character and posture of the Disbursement Acceleration Program due to Ibarra Junior in 1995, Lourdes Atillo, last 1997, and Jeok Bacon in 1998, Barazza in 1998, 48 percent, the form of newspaper.
On the other hand, Pukan in the term of Michael John AC / DC was buried in 1994 in 1994 and by Sebunga, Sanchez in 1999.
It was also a huge amount of newspaper in the term of Juan Paolo Colet in 2005 but it has not maintained its meaning, not just like in the past term, Colet, "was criticized, and with no one-mindedness of the words, and to leave a regular amount of words, and to leave a regular amount of words from the newspaper.
"The First Family's party, in the history of Colina's history," says Atty. Danilo Arao, was hit by UP Newcastle blotter in the midst of the impeachment complaint against Gloria Arroyo.

Lacking of funds.
The term in the term of Colet is one of the reasons being used by the administration of UP to dismiss the funds of even in the term of Karl Castro in 2006, the administration insisted that even if it will be expulsion.
It is said that it was said that the administration of UP Rep. Winston Castelo is said to be able to make the fund of even if it will be a leader of the country, especially that this is along with the approval of 300-million pesos increase in high tuition in university.
Destroying the companies.
It was returned to the year 2007, even if it will be returned to the years of 2007, he continued with the common posture and the provisions of the new UP charter change and the downfall of the government in university.
In these people, the members of those who will be hit by the news were the members of those who will be called "Ivory Tower two years and became an active part of the major games of US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in Manila, and was dumped twice by US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in Manila.
Viray and her real time. "
Along with the progress of New media, even if it will be appropriate to increase the online space to increase the readers of the Orcherness, it will start to increase the readers.
The next term continued their real term as well, especially during the election period for the University Engineering Council and other important events like General Assembly in the Student Gener and Strike.

90 years old.
In the next issue of even if it will be released, it will be a discontusion of the previous term towards a bigger move towards a bigger move towards a bigger form, just to be deceived by the proper report that was released by the exercises at past decades.
In the entry of even more than 90 years, it will continue to be active part of spreading history in university and in the country.
