
Who is the protector of them in the country?

What is the difference between PNP Director General Alan Purisima and it seems that this is very quiet on the continuing prevalence of jueteng operation in different corners of the country?
I proved this because I myself have witnessed the almost three times of jueteng in the province of Ilocos Norte and according to the other people we are talking to, it is widespread in every corner of Luzon.
Isn't it that this is one of the alleged root of the incident that happened in Atimonan, where 13 people died and this is said that there is a new jueteng survey which was held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the combined forces of the military and police that were held by the
What is puzzling, it seems that the angle of the jueteng angle in the incident that happened in Atimonan, and those who are trying to come out are involved in the incident.
Gun-for-hire. If I will be asked, there is a continuation of jueteng's intestines, and this is the task of a gun-for-hire because it is often the only group that they will patrol.
In Ilocos, one named "alias B" who is the one responsible in the operation of jueteng is being pointed out because his family is in control of politics in a big part of Inocencio Street, no one has no snake who hit his operation.
Even the Marcos family believes in Ilocos Norte to be included in Ilocos Norte to be brought to "alias B" because of the large amount of money he provided to politicians and officials of the PNP in the province.
With the huge amount of money coming out so that the operation of jueteng continues to continue, Purisima just turned a blind eye to say that he does not have any idea about the widespread jueteng in the country.
Even President Aquino seems to be neglect of the widespread operation of jueteng because it seems that he is going to be led by his fuck, Executive Secretary Paquito Ochoa, the name of Ochoa who is one of the buddies of alias B and other jueteng operators in the country.
"That is the problem if the leader of the country is Boy Abunda, it is easy to wait for a lot to stay silent for his belongings.
He / she was very weak.
For your suggestions and comment, you just send a email to gum.
