
Why does the people from BOC do not want to be transferred?

I am puzzled by the members of the Bureau of Customs who are directly affected by the mandate of Commissioner Ruffy Biazon, who ordered the employees of the said agency who are currently assigned to other positions.
Most of them do not want to follow the order of their boss and they are trying hard to find the reasons for them to remain and take care of their current positions.
I heard that others are still spending just to report to the media to convey to the public and, especially to Biazon, their opposition and concern for why they need to remain in their present positions.
Others even released the press release that Biazon is being threatened that the primary target of the agency should be affected in case the order should be implemented.
Tsk, tsk-tsk, the people of BOC are really funny because I am really taking advantage of their position.
The strength of forcing them to scare them is that the agency will not get the target if there will be disexpected while people know that their personal target will be affected if they will be suspended.
Ha ha ha ha ha ha!
"In the way, why did they not want to go back to Mother unit?
Why do they not want to go back now?
The stubborn people might forget that they do not want to leave this place, which is why Biazon released that kind of revelation to clean their ranks.
The BOC is one of the most corrupt agencies in the government and Biazon wants to clean it and one of his thought is the release of Customs personnel of Number. B-134 years 2013.
The first affected by the order is the supervisor Father and Customs Intelligence Coordinating Council and Customs Operations Task Force III, who have already returned to the original position since September 13.
It seems that Biazon is decided to start the hope that is why he can't get back to the press of the fight against him.
And because you are confused on the BOC, surely many will go against him and for sure others are going to go to court to protest about his order.
