That is why it was not just one hundred twenty four foreigners that they noticed in the hands of the residents who evacuated.
There are a lot of gifts to the victims of their relatives in Zamboanga City.
You are proud of how there are some families who can help that not this night, because they are taking advantage of it every night, I do not want to pass the self, "that might have been starting last night.
Just after more than a week in Zamboanga.
It is more than a way for us to buy the diaper since we are a longer good news here and he immediately went to the death of a resident at the corner where the mother was looking for me and she was left alone in the other house in the corner that night.
When we saw the motorcycle, we saw that under the threat of rain here, then they are walking to the decades that we are walking going to the decades that we have been doing for a long time because we have a heart disease.
I told them.
How?
They say what they are saying, that is one of the names of those known to not sweat the worry of some in college.
Now.
What?
After the water, he drank the water.
Her daughter was really in a condo then, with my child, which is why the authorities are going to rain in it, which is why when he was hit by relatives, they were brought out by relatives while they were on top of land.
Beware!
Sleeping.
We already have a head and nothing else.
The sound of health.
According to them, they will go home to American news about the students brought by students to their two years.
You said that you are very pitiful; we have increased.
I was able to look at each other; that's why we met each other, we will meet in front of us.
Isn't it?
This is possible.
Brave.
That is why the authorities ordered her son to run over the couple he said to them.
It became a good change for these children.
They are so grateful for the leaves of his sibling without hindrance.
You are working for someone else to be with earlier.
And the family.
Work.
He / she was able to look down; he / she went to the same place, there was something that was with the child of Tuesday.
It was intensified.
"We tried hard to tell the hospital that their names are calling me as my sister-in-law, that's why I am in the hospital.
He is always calling a signal here in Makati his companion, hide your child.
She told her lips not only after her daughter might have no signal from her illness.
Will not be given.
Ah, isn't it?
Under that!
You said yes to me.
They are now here in his experiences to have a doctor.
"There are a lot of stories about us that are very different; we usually say that there are people who are saying that there are people who are saying that there are many things that you have talked to, that is why they still don't know what to happen, that is why they still don't know what to say, that they would not hear what they say, that you might not hear what you're talking about.
The people are seated on what we really say, we can't allow their place to be granted to their students first so that you have mentioned that she has mentioned a woman for many stories about the many stories that they are planning just to give importance.
Covetous, deacious; and unciation; and covetousness.
"I will not hear that you have not heard about your questions, but I have thought that it is just for you."
Those who are fervent ers a while ago, which is why I am going to undergo in the Crossing Ringayin, ah, I am still in front of our relatives, which is why I still do not have an identification; that's why I still do not have an identification; that's why they still have not found each other than ten o'clock in the same age, but he did not know that we are not lacking.
It might be good that we are still working; we still work hard but we still need to hide what situation outside, but I think you are just watching their own woman, who are just watching their tribe; so that I can escape; he / she didn't say that he / she was really watching.
Our fellow countrymen really love them.
Because how much?
"He was taking his own child who is really being able to see the strength of our fellow countrymen so that he / she wasn't able to see the strength of our fellow countrymen so that he / she didn't understand that he / she wasn't able to escape; he / she didn't understand that he / she wasn't able to escape; he / she didn't understand each other, that's why he / she didn't get to escape; he / she didn't want to escape; he was strong in the need of what happened that much.
