I am just called by the two Filipinas who will be able to make a decision but it is time of clothes in him, you have to eat.
To open the public on who is the three, I am over even if I am in the other side.
The former President is just able to pay, but there is no problem with the news, George Sevidal; he / she grew up; she said, and then I suddenly approached her.
He says the champion will just take his illness, but it is also not me.
Reported.
Let us stay here in any point; we are the ones who will die; as long as the Philippines is on Thursday at the Philippines, because I know he is beautiful with you.
Are you a lot of people?
They are really going to continue that you are not there or all of you have no or bad feelings towards me, who are very pitiful.
I do not know what is it, those who do not have any kind of class in a span of twenty pesos, are the ones who want to be a Batanglement; what you want to be the Batanglement; we are still far.
They were not able to look down; he / she wasn't able to look down; he / she wasn't able to catch each other.
An unidentified man.
Ah, is it a business?
He / she grew up; he / she had a job; and then in your house, he had a job and was not studying.
Fuck, fur; we are okay to help you.
You say that you are approaching the walking that we want to show up to those who know that a thousand of the government should really be their ones.
Your noise is fine there.
Okay.
Lawmakers of those who are from Monarchambers (Department of Department of Calanoga; I don't want to go home; I do not want to go home.
Libel, in the next year, the hole of the box to us was just easy, that's why they wills tart again.
Ah, there is a cable here in the center that can be seen here in the center that can be seen in the center on the center and help to the team.
What we are talking about are children who do not agree with him, this is a waste of history that the former is coming out, we are coming out by the Magsaysay that we are going out of.
I will be able to finish the game next day, but now, he is no longer able to say when it means that he really wants to say.
We are already doing this afternoon to show an example, we can show an example, our fellow citizens, who are together with our government, are going to go home so that we would get closer to the attention of your gay people.
Yes.
No matter how long the fight is that caused it.
Because the problem we saw was the reason of Ronald because of what was said to be the identity of the identity, whose identity is hiding, because he is hiding something.
Details in the work of co-workers; we are proud.
And there is a possibility that there is no signal that there is no signal from "Kin that you will not know that we will not be able to know, especially on what the argument is, which is why, it is important that even if of course, the authorities should be the key to the long time.
Ah, it is not the agreement that peace is not just about peace; as well as one of the complete Church, most of the complete Church who does not need to raise us, no matter what you do not need to raise us without any new school year.
Rody there.
You have the right way because we are really assigned to watch by our officials.
Covetous, deport; isn't it right?
I also said that they are living on Thursday at Thursday; we were able to go ahead, right?
We are not yet in our fellow countrymen who are stupid; rather, Manoy, "Manoy.
In the point, it seems that our people will not be able to immediately give an opportunity for two hundred twenty years that they will do for two hundred twenty-years and they will be able to see each other.
"That's the only thing that can be seen; we can say that you are not saying that you are not hiding but of course.
We know the trend in life.
Really.
There is something.
It is probably a problem for me to be able to get along with four two armed men who are five years old when we have done something like that, we have a resort and a resort to live with siblings.
Okay, before he was recognized.
For the six-year-old Two who are okay to go to school; he / she grew up; yes, suman and watermelon seeds; we were caught, we were caught.
University Tower, good at all afternoon, the economy will improve.
There is a snow ball 'call to stay on Thursday by the officials of the fare, which are no congressmen; however, whose names were Lawrence yes, Ipit Gang; and Calanoga.
You yes, I call for the government not to sign anything.
Of course, do you have a lot to endure that, or whatever you are, you will say that you have not bought a person or a person or okay, because it is not possible that she does not want to pay for them for the next time.
"It's okay to have a welder, who is said to be a welder.
"Do not allow a one to be transferred to one hundred million pesos, but we are saying that you will get rich and whatever you are rich and what you are rich, you will go home to our house that you are going to go home there, sir?
I do not want to end the University of the Philippines.
Ah, there is an old shirt as an employee of what we agree here, we are really full of us here.
Ended here.
Go to Thursday.
Later, that is already big.
But I thought that, I thought that the proposal to be an official of the government before you go, I also doesn't want to stop, I also does not want to stop me, which is why it's also said that he / she also does not want to be named Vicky yes because it's also said that he has not been scolded.
"I directly went to us, we know that it is really a meeting, you really have a meeting, but we really say that, we really say that he / she really likes me," we say that he / she himself / she said that he / she himself / she said that he / she himself / she wants to tell you, "he himself / she told you what I want.
You said that he did not know where it came from where it came from.
It can be read in different kinds of movie.
Because of that, of course.
It's simple, that's okay, that we are okay, very pitiful.
Thank you very much for you and you have arrived there to you.
We do not know what you did to the group.
Those.
My conclusion, is maybe it really needs to be used if there is no problem on Thursday that we should have no problem on Thursday; we should not have a problem with all of our agency that will end up with the law that will end up in the law that you have said that it will have no classes.
We have signed a liter, that's why we should have signed, that we should be united; we will be together here and this is a simple thing that I should be.
And the company of reason why there are a lot of questions that will be held today, right?
We are very pitiful; we are very clear; it's very clear.
"You are all other people with you, we have no other companion, we don't know, that I don't know, I don't know that we are very stupid; and how summer we are waiting for.
It is important to discuss now that I have a clean hand but not yet an opportunity.
It's because if we have a store, it is an argument that you did not pass through there, I have no longer being judgemental, but you have no longer been busy with what we have to drink, that is why all of them cannot be put in danger; we, all of them, cannot be put in danger.
You are applying like that, even before we are still new, show us more and thank you very much to you.
He will go there that the congressmen are hiding something that you might be too short in number 1 billion pesos; so that you are too late, both sides that have been hiding for two years; but they don't hide anything, that is why they hide nothing.
Maybe I might cry if I have the impeachment case that is why I am calling him by the impeachment, that is why we're not going to be the right time, but we might not be close to each other, that is why we say that this is not true that we will not accept what we are saying.
Do you say to them that you are being treated like that in the '"ten pesos.
He said that they might be affected by Industries.
You said that it is just a gimmick that should not be done.
You were even possessed by other people.
We do not need to be a high level with him and Bonifacio, I thought we should always be the one we need to be.
We are seated now that I am the only ones who are stupid; we might not have signed, but there are those who are hiding.
Seems to be in.
It is not surprising maybe even if you hide a lot from an outing, maybe we will not talk to Manila from public funds that we have not seen each other for the people who are only able to see each other, and generous to the people who have been cut off by the government from the head.
