
Violation of human rights under PNoy, put in Congress.

Macky Macasaverted!
March 18, 2012.

A relative of the victims could not help but cry, while his family was taking the difficulty in searching for the murdered sibling Cerolleriz de Antonio Trillanes (Izzy Canillo).
"When my brother went to the funeral, the police went to the barangay and called us to talk to him and asked for forgiveness, we were not able to accept what happened to my sibling, we were not able to accept what happened to my sibling, but we were not able to accept what happened to my sibling, we were not able to accept what happened to my sibling, we were not able to accept what happened to my sibling, we were not able to accept what happened to my sibling.
Jovento de Antonio did not finish his statement because the murder of the suspected police identified by the suspected policemen from his sibling Cerolleriz de Antonio Trillanes IV, a young member of the group Anakbayan, who was found dead after being caught in the plunder case of Navotas last April 21, 2011.
Jovelle was one of the relatives and victims of human rights to face the Congress last March 13, in the start of the House Committee on Civil, political and the human rights in the investigation of human rights under the Aquino administration.
Individuals from the regions of court have faced, Ilocos, Cagayan Valley, Middle Luzon and National Capital Region to testify on the continuous decrease of incidents of harassment and violence of the government for its critics.
The story of the victims.
The natives told them that the effect on them has a direct effect on them of the political construction or recommendation of the military under the approved group and institutions for the rebel New People's Army (NPA).
According to Jude Baggo, spokesperson of the Cordillera Human Rights Council, the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) is in different parts of the state of the Philippines (AFP), and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund) and Development Assistance Fund).
The Filipino workers of Chadcore is experiencing the harassment of harassment from far places and secluded places.
In the narration of the close range of Chambers of Chambers of Chadao, from December 2010 up to July 2011, I was receiving any threat that was accused by the NPA, so I found out that the threats of the NPA was true, so I found out that the threats was true and not directly to me, "he said in the committee.
In line with the hearing inside the Congress, Karylle has a lot of ways outside, the group is calling for garbage in the program against insurgency International Space Station (Izzy Canillo).
It led to a filing of cases that was presented by the military to the students of Ifugao State University, Milk Salang was filed with a frustrated murder case because there was no sufficient evidence, "according to my family," said goodbye to my family.
The former leader of women, Gloria Macapagal-Santiago, tried to be one of the wanted Criminal Court of Ilocos and was arrested by the police in Cape Veran, La Union last July 21, 2010, after he was still detained in the community, that's why he was still detained by a former council member in the community, that is why he denied that he is a rebels.
Meanwhile, another leader of the farmers in Cagayan is one of those who testified for the violation of human rights in the said province, Isabelo Adamiable and the threats of the elements of the 17th Infantry Batallion of her and his colleagues who were going to their respective houses, he was allegedly accused of. "
Adora also stated that the military was firing the military to the houses of civilians in San Mariano, Isabela after the encounter between the soldiers and NPA last December 15, 2011, which resulted to the hidden root of a young seven year-old and a farmer as Dominador Martinez.
The House Committee on Civil Defense, political will start the investigation on the violation of human rights under the Aquino government (Izzy Canillo).
In the hearing in the Congress, the orphaned of Pascual Guimod and Antonio Collantes, who were victims of the murder case was shot, 74, inside his house in San Isidro, Laur, Nueva Ecija.
Oplan LS.
The gathering of the victims will prove that President Aquino continues to continue the bloody fight of former President Arroyo, according to Marie Hao-Enriquez, the chairman of the group of Iglesia.
"In spite of the use of the Aquino administration with human rights such as" respect for human rights "and what they called" peace and progress, "the Oplan Galugad conducted in Oplan Bantay," says Enriquez.
He added that the hand of President Aquino has a trace of blood "from 67 fellow victims of French fries from his government, and thousands of victims of different kinds of human rights.
Representative Rene Relaura, chairman of the committee, said that the investigation is just initial and they will have launched a corresponding case against the law which was proven to file a corresponding case against the case that was proven to be filed against the law, "if the warrant of arrest has been proven," he promised.
This was happy by Karylle, but the committee is reminded that until now, the Aquino government will not be punished with violation of human rights under the former administration of Arroyo.
