
Challenge to the victims of crime and NBI on "Universe Club"

For the grandchild of "Yolanda" in the Visayas Region, particularly in the province of Samar and Leyte, many things have been tried and proven by the Filipinos.
This is a severe challenge, its physical and emotional with the ability of our countrymen who, especially the mercy of God, they will be exported.
This is also a challenge to the government's preparedness and how they can remember that kind of disaster and how much are the ones who are determined to do with responsibilities without politicking.
With the mercy of Barabas, there is a cold!
"Yolanda also challenged" Yolanda "the love for us by other countries, and the whole world saw that until now they did not leave us.
They were still there taking care of the poor victims.
In fact, PNoy was first able to leave Tacloban!

The reason is the declaration of the Supreme Court to illegal PDAF, which was allegedly used by many officials of the government.
You are about to lie down while you are really the root of all evil!
But most of the mentioned challenges of fate, some of our officials have also done their own challenges.
He tried to collect it, a few officials of PAF in how much they are.
What is painful is that when it is proven that they are not the one who accepted the pain, instead, it added to the poor victims!
That is this.
To escape the severe poverty and trauma she experienced, thousands of our countrymen were able to ride in C-130 pesos to Manila, and while majority of them were taking care of the "set up in Villamor Air Base in Pasay City, they were not able to transfer to Camp Aguinaldo in Quezon City.
Anyway, when the management of the Family force clarified that this is an additional burden to the former's difficult time, they were immediately brought back to Villamor Air Base, and immediately clarified by PAF Spokesman Colonel Miguel, that what they did was just a challenge and challenge!
Nat-time, Colonel Miguel Potol, any idea that you have not even tried it for a long time, just let him be-in-discipline.
Do not go to the victims who cannot move anymore from poverty!
Another thing, Colonel, do not also reading the reading materials that your real name Ohmmmp!
