The welfare of others before politics.

Even if the chief of the Bureau of Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon will now smells good to the citizens and to amen because of what he did to his agency that was known for the most corrupt agency, the cleaning of his jurisdiction is still ongoing.
Another thing that Biazon and his personnel have been able to commit suicide when P14 million worth of onions rose from China which has a big effect and reason for the financial loss of the local industry of onions in the country.
Biazon is important to Biazon as the welfare of the farmers, which is why he did not agree to get the 40-year-old van, conservation in RSG Marketing who were able to pass the Manila International Conejer Port (COP).
Aside from the economy of the country, Biazon will be fixed with his good governance in the BoC and the farmers are also lucky because it is not negligent of his service to the people who are making their sweat so that Filipinos will eat a lot.
We know that the primary livelihood of the farmers are rice, onions, and other kinds of vegetables, that is why it should not be importation from other countries.
It will be more harder to just let it pass without the tax that they pay for in the government.
Because before, the said products are very widespread and this is the cry of the farmers by the farmers who seem to have not been serious attention by the leaders of Customs.
But there is a big difference between BOC today under the administration of Biazon.
He will not succeed in his grip to the products especially if what will be affected is our own economy, particularly the income of our countrymen who are living a livelihood.
That's why it's not surprising if the public's trust in our government went larger because it has a partner in the Bureau of Customs which is serious about his work to protect the local business and industry in the country.
Aside from the survey, Biazon and his agency are pointing at the survey, it is also a big effect of President Noynoy Aquino's leadership for President Noynoy Aquino to maintain cleanliness in the improvement of the economy of the country.
That is why Concepcion is very confident because instead of being pushed by the former lawmakers, he chose Customs chief to support the country by fighting against corruption and crime which is the goal of "Tuwid na Daan" program of PNoy.
