
Problem in fantangan.

By Rolando B.
January 15, 2012.

Led by Enteng's mother (Tony VizReyes, director, 2011) and Pandian 2 (Mac Alejandapon, director, 2011.
The indie film, which is being referred to by the mystery and phenomenon, is why it can be considered that the current administration, especially those who are coming in the world, and idolized at Star Ngayon "in the nearest world, and applauded for the capture of their morale.
In the arrival of the successful implementation of Enteng Kabisote 10, you already faxed the freezing end (2004) that has been unfaithful or in the successful sitcom of television, that is why it is not allowed to support the family member that's why it cannot be denied that the drama actress is an enemy.
It has been a long time that the drama Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has been the biggest actor here: 00-5) and the young film of Nora Aunor and Vilma Santos.
This is the film that has already have a budget that has took it (which is also part of the actor here), using expensive Special Action Force (MMFF), which is currently being considered as a successful leader, and aside from the poverty of the Metro Manila Film Festival (MMFF), which is often received by the Metro Manila Film Festival (MMFF), which is often experienced in the Metro Manila Film Festival (MMFF), which is often experienced in the Metro Manila Film Festival (MMFF), which is often experienced in the "Filipino culture."
The Pandesal Boy, who is not named by Fernando Poe, Jr.: Angst., is based on other belief that is being done by Ramon Revilla, Jr. or a community who has not done anything but to just like a virgin woman, who has already learned from a "Ipit Gang" that would have already learned from the "Ipit Gang" that would have already learned from "horny" and others.
The media's media is one of the three level of first, similar to those who are very well-hearted products, and the flawless, that is not an ordinary citizen, and the division of the Christmas and MMFF), they are not thinking of making it just to be able to pay for the time watching the family in the mall.
And the third is the day-day suspension for watching, no one will argue that Enteng has no discontenturous who needs to be saved by his wife (WHO), which is why she will be able to understand her husband, which is why she will be able to think about it because she will be able to think about it because of the film that she will be able to understand.
That's why it is like a double-mindedness of Enteng Kabisote 10-for-one) from the Value-Ina Reformina because Enteng at the combined forces of the most successful fight in the MMFF, Enteng and Ang Ina Reformina of the movie that will be fixed by the problems and mudslinging between the two countries.
The movie Chadversary, "Production" of the state which is said to be the obligation of the majority of their hands is the obligation of the viewers, for example, he is not controlled by the majority of their hands because he is not controlled by the majority of their hands because this is not controlled by the leaders of the movie.
And because this is the Value-for money (big stars, expensive Special Action Force, and one of the whole family member, this is still ready to pay and be distracted from the next MMFF, and to ensure that in the next MMFF, they are still there for supporting.
The problem with his adversary, female boss, is the problem of supporting: What they are trying to support is a different social media member who is member of a state of state, but it will not change and can change the planned game of the state.
Which is why Shake, Rattle, and Roll are up to the 18th of this, Enteng and Ina Reformina, which is the holiest part of the biggest festival in the country, that the audience will build a cold rice and leftover rice cakes in the country.
