Where do you stop the thickness of the thick faced!

It is said that until now, in the hearing, President Aquino ordered one day before they conducted the widespread protest of the people against PDAF.
"Because of the reports of anomalies in implementing projects, that is why we are pointing out the PDAF."
"Of this, judicial," the fair "statement of PNoy while being watched by millions of Filipinos in the whole world.
The truth is, "the statement of PNoy that he is pushing the PDAF is the reason why he did not reach the one million target of the protesters.
Because many believed in the words of the President that is why they did not join the rally.
A few days passed, the Supreme Court released a TRO for the petition to finally declare the inhumane PDAF again.
Because of that, the government defended and asked the SC to remove the mentioned "Temporary Protection Order."
Perfect, judicial oy, SC Senior Associate Justice Antonio Carpio.
"Didn't the President removed PDAF again?
This is where they are staying at, because Solicitor General himself admitted that PNoy was not dismissed by PNoy!
According to him, PNoy was only able to ask his bosses to his statement that he is already dismissed by PDAF!
Mister burp, you did it, "that is a loved President?
There are many people in the whole world who are watching over you while they are on the television, so that's why we have heard what we heard!
"Nilda, and Joseph, can you still remember, the question of PNoy in his SONA," where do you get a thickness of his face. "
Here is the same.
In his first SONA, PNoy asked more the chain of the government of GMA.
Included in PNoy who responded was the huge sum of the troop of abide by a few GROs C.
Which is why while the country is in poverty, there's a lot of millions of allowance for the followers of Arroyo.
But the millions of bonus recently exploded at the midst of PNoy's statements that the SSS has to increase because the money of the said agency is lacking!
King-mother lost their living room!
If corruption is corruption, lies and thickness of the face that GMA will gather from almost ten years in the position, it is being monitored!
Who is more intense?
