I will return it.
He knows that our position said we have a conversation.
Bulacan on a way to a married chair, 39 years old.
"We are anxious; we are still lined up; I am still lined up by my parents, that's why they didn't see that my parents are living together, right, why did we just see the noise that our father and father, we really do not want to leave.
"What is the money that we have, we have money, because in this example, we feel like a shack in our house and father, and I am going to live-in our house in the province, that is why I still want to take care of the parents for an example, which is why he also wants to take care of his parents for example.
Long live with them because you will get a case with our problem, Ariel Nepomuceno, who is okay with your own family, that's okay, you should just leave your own family, that's okay because I am just okay the day when I am still young.
"With the children of my children, C-C, they say that they are already married.
I want me to get married so I applied a part.
Computer.
That is why we can't look down; he / she might get tired; maybe the man you want is still not there.
To the parents who are gambling, therefore, I can't see that I don't want to go to an accident that you don't want to go here, so you know that you do not really love you, I do not really love him, right?
The problem yes, for a few days that you have been pregnant for a long time with your wife, Manny gave birth that you have given money to buy milk that you are going to buy my feet with a vehicle so that you will get married, because it is hard to get along with the people.
I said, perhaps a call.
"It is too bad for your family to know if you really love him, if you really love him, you didn't know that you were not married, so I really know that you are still being said," I said.
Just like that, I am the only ones who takes care of you.
Last night, he / she was able to look at the same age as well.
Covetous, deport; isn't it right? "
I do not want to face the children because if you do not have money first, you will release my patience first that I will suddenly go out of the call here.
One at first.
We are not against your life but I was able to finish a job in buying a job so we can still find a job for our mother.
So he will experience this kind of family.
So he can understand me when there is a shark which is not confusing your parents.
He / she grew up; he / she wasn't able to look down; that's why he / she was gone.
Don't take a lot of medicine on where your parents are proud of, that's why he has a wife, which is why he has a wife, no matter how many years is with his family.
They do not need to work hard to work; as long as you will get carried away, you will not be able to pay, you will not get married because they do not have any ability to support the whole family all of living together everyday.
If I am involved, I am confused.
Your husband.
To be helped.
The experts, it is good that the tear for them not to earn depends on their relationship that is not what happened.
Yes, to the family, there will be a head depending on what happened.
Where?
Arguing will not be avoided.
First.
Just a moment when your children fight, you cannot avoid what you pity for.
It depends on the computer that I am not good to be fat right now with my children and you still do not have anything to do with no money.
Okay.
I know if we can't do anything, let us look for you.
For example, you can't see that you answer the electricity yes, say that it's only right for you to say that you're already able to answer.
You are not looking for you to look for money in order to look for you.
"Because you want to come near you, isn't you already married?
Covetous, fur.
"My mother said, the woman can't have a husband until he does not know how to make your own life, that is why you make sure that what you want to say is for your own life, it depends on your parents in the right time to sleep for a child to sleep.
Why are you?
At night, we are able to hear a hat on our parents even if my parents should see what she has a husband who said yes to what you should say.
He / she was an expert.
"What he said, to the job of some congressmen in our Facebook, Justin said that it is Santa Ana, NCC).
The six-year-old we don't know that what I am saying is that they are sick and have a huge amount of payment, which is why the Philippines is going to progress because the Philippines is progress.
Bacolod and Belle is going to buy at all the things they are living with.
They are together with their hard work because of course it is your obligation not to help.
