
Black Nazarene, should be a boss.

Or you are in the government, you will surely talk about Jesus Black Nazarene, especially you, a boss or leader of the country.
The Palace up to the Congress and Judiciary as the local government of the local government.
When you talk about it, why are the people, especially the devotees of the Nazarene, even if the people's lives are in danger, they just take care of the Nazarene just to kiss, and whatever you show too much love, concern, care and others.
If you talk about it, why many of you will shoulder it, feared and want to remove them from position.
Answer for the wish.
According to devotees who are going to share their experiences, if they are sick, how bad is, they are easier when they call the Nazarene.
If their livelihood fell, Nazareno also gives a way for them to get up again for them to recover again.
He is the refuge of those who want to be saved from calamities or if they are victims, he will give hope that they will make hope that they will make the hope and rise in life.
The Nazarene is strong with God who is truly giving treatment to the diseases, giving bread and fish against hunger, giving hope to the quality of livelihood and souls, giving hope and change for the future and many others.
Ignore the government.
In the feeling of many devotees, there is no hope from the government or to its officials, instead of responding to the wishes of the hardship and hungry citizens, just ignore them.
Do you think that this is the answer of these from the sale of petroleum, electricity, water, toll fee, food, medicine, education and others, we can't do anything! "
It is because there is a law or contract with them like Oil Derentious Law in the petroleum, Electric Power Plant (price of electricity and toll fee in the highway, power of the National Food Authority in raising the price of rice and various other things.
NFA increased the price of rice-NFA in order to fight the price and quality of beautiful rice that are goods for products.
Silent and the action of the government and officials is very entertained.
He was an accomplice.
But not only the government and the officials are going to decide for the greater majority of citizens.
Just imagine how it is, it is the government who asked the Supreme Court to remove a Temporary Protection Order against the excessive increase of electricity.
Through the office of Solicitor General, the government asked to remove the TRO and allow Meralco to continue the cost of more than 1,000 pesos per kilowatt hour.
That's the reason for Meralco to leave Meralco and the planting of electricity to collect price increase in the former more than P5 per kilowatt hour.
This is in spite of the complaint that a lot of plant breaks down to cut the electricity and love completely.
And it has been more than P4 billion that they want to be charged by Meralco and the plant in order to make 8 pesos per kilowatt hour to raise it in the end.
Taking advantage of legal people.
Another future attacks by devotees and the citizens in the government is the distress of them from the funds and money of the people.
It is just that in the Social Security System and government Service Commission on Election Code, millions is the salary, allowance, and bonus of the boss.
Then, they will say that the reason why they are raising the contribution is that the funds of the SSS and GSIS eCard will come out.
Legal is legal, Malacanang said.
Corruption is here, Kotong.
Not contented with the size of their income, corruption and corruption in big agencies of the government from the department and Congress are still there.
Can you remember, Bro, the billion pesos of bribery in the impeachment of ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona?
The Housing and Yolanda who were not able to do now are going to be victimized now.
Of course, KCOP and traffic enforcers are also affected by the local government.
Nunber 12M devotees.
It is estimated that 12 million devotees also showed up to the Lord Nazarene in Metro Manila.
It is certain that those who want to go to Quiapo are surely different but they cannot do it because they are from Northern Luzon or Visayas or Mindanao.
PO 1 million devotees have only been a bit of 15million votes of PNoy this past election and over 9million votes were taken by Erap.
And it is impossible that its votes are bigger with the combined votes of Villar and Teodoro which is only at 9million votes.
If the Nazarene is just a candidate, it will use it to use all his opponents, hehehe!
Because he knows how to respond to the wishes of the people, of devotees.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an instant, please call 092163333 years.
