Taking advantage!

Toni Gonzaga-hearted.

At the end of the overpass at the Philcoa, her eyes are glaring at you, eyes of someone who seems to be wearing a red-red ring, seems to be gone from the germs.
Although the walls of other people whose names were filled with different names were covered with different names, this was the first appearance of a new group Anakbayan, and this was the first appearance of the modern devices in the area, and this was the first appearance of the new rangers in the area, and this was the first taste of the Spanish colonizers.
A strategic way.
November last year, along with the celebration of Andres Bonifacio, when it was seen at the Philcoa overpass, the image of the three mask on their faces is noticeable, including the cloth wrapped in their faces, including the cloth wrapped in their faces.
The Pinoy rangers in the initial decision of the group Geralde, a group of hornets, which is composed of students of UP Diliman Fine Arts and the former escorts who are taking advantage and face the world of Street.
The Pinoy rangers started in Street, and served as the end of their series of projects which started on the walls of the Philcoa and Katipunan, despite the end, it can be considered as a new beginning for the Filipino rangers in the middle of a new color in then and wood.
To be considered, it is also considered as a market in the poster billing, it is also considered a process of drilling the wall using the tear for the tear of the paper using a safe space, because there is a desired space in making the art of arts.
It is also greater that the process of distress is more quick compared to painting the walls, however, this process is certain that this process is not sure of the safety of the Intertropical Convergence Zone that is why it cannot be certain that the escape and colorful demeanor is being thrown at the end of the week.
Perhaps this is also the truth who served as the reason of Gervacio in the narrow wall and paper from the streets and walls of the streets and walls of the streets and walls of the streets and walls of the streets, which serves as the impending space and direction of the streets, which is allocated to the impending space.
Filipino rangers.
Gervacio are using the different flag of the Philippines, from the time of Katipunan, until now, according to them, the workers and activists are doing their faces and identity, their eyes glared up with their eyes.
"We got people who will go there to the provinces of the Philippines that we have started on Katipunan until now that we have something to go back to what is happening now," says Ralph Less, one of the members of Gervacio.
And as the youth who grew up in the decade of 90, it served as an inspiration for them to have an inspiration for them even with his posture and a very well-like FX he rode in the coast.
One of the hardest part in their corresponding decision is the "Fahs of Magdalo and Magalang, his masterpieces from the group Magdalo and Magalang, this is one of those who can change in history if the Katipunan was united and became strong.
They combined the image of the revolution, aware of the use of the flag of Katipunan, and his posture in the fight of the Japanese superheroes to stop our heroism and bravery, there is still a way for the uncontrollable fit of the indigenous people?
Fullido.
The Supreme Court received criticism on the corner of Buug, from other parts of Hacing for a Street, according to them, it can't be considered as a Street, because it has been implemented on the space of a person in front of it.
The right space is said to be a space for what is called on, the streets and its walls are greater, where there are more danger and competition for their employers, not only from the people, and even cleaning by the authorities.
But even if there are different reasons in making a Street with a different version, territory?
In this way of view, the arguments of the Filipino rangers in the middle of its transfer to a lower space is low, this is just a part, for the evangelists of their arts, a new location and with their liquid.
"That's why we are not in a Street, because we want to pull the audience favorite, and we need to see a space in order to put our community project," says Nico, you, one more member of Gervacio.
It can be said that the space has an effect on the use of fake arts of the public walls, there is an element of a surprise and surprise that gives a deep meaning because there is an unusual meaning of the foolishness of arts which are found in an unexpected space.
But there is also a connection between the Filipino rangers in the quiet space of the city hall in the quiet space of the city hall which is far from the noise and conflict of the city of the city hall in the city hall which is far from the noise of the cities.
In this case, it is as if we continue to continue to change the change of our Filipino rangers in our roads going to the modern condition of becoming a hero in our tribe-alleries.
If you think about it, it is a new territory that can be seen in a new territory such as Gervacio, and instead of putting it under the walls, but instead of putting up to an act of kidnapping, it is possible that the search of other guards will not stop, but it is under a sign that it is within a act or will be able to enter into a gathering of mine.
