Canne (s / V).

The Filipino film is not able to pay attention to the foreign vendors, which is being made by the Filipino director, which was made by the Filipino director, which is just recently in Cannes Film Festival, which is said to be the strongest international film festival.
Communications Sec. Regard stressed out that part of the program is the "Norte, a limit to the history of Lav Diaz and" Death Squad "which is based on Director General Fortich, based on the rays of the light" by the deceased Lino Bandapon in the movie Canayugan in the film fest season.
Three Filipinos included in the short movie Film Festival, which was held at the festival: "Traslacion" Laboratory "of Carlo Manatad," Carlo Manatad, "Carlo Manatad," Carlo Manatad in a long dancers "of Roderick Cabidray.

There is no successful trophy for the Filipinos such as Caneda, it can be considered a success for the filipino movie for the filipino film (Canayugan last 2009, which was declared as the best chief of the festival in Cannes last 2009, the "Manila" Anino, Or, said that the "Anino, Or, said that the" Anino "Anino" by Raymond B.
If we will look at the international stage, it seems that he was able to remove it from the crisis which was held by the industry of the country in the last part of the decades, 90 and first part of the decades, 2000.
But if the cinemas in the country will be visited in the Hollywood film (or the movies from America), it is still far from the peak of the Filipino cinema, that is why the Filipinos viewers, "one of the Filipino audience as" one of the filipino masses, were not able to deny.
In the three new Filipino film that was released this year in Canayugan, only the "on the cinemas and watched by ordinary Filipinos, in spite of the healthy production of indie films in the country, there is still no more than ten percent of the indie films which can be bought by indie films.

After all, it can really be hard for the opportunity to pass by the Filipino people in the '80s or "80 pesos, aside from the change in the world market in the last decades, the Filipino audience would not be blamed if they can be blamed by other products they are doing in the country but are being sold in foreign markets.
Every honor that is going home to the courageous Filipino films which can be brought to the country is the hope, someday, the ordinary citizens who will become the most sweet success that they can achieve.
