They are dead, "Deli tops and Cadeza?

Sometimes it is not easy to accept the perception of many that delicadeza is already dead in politics.
Because I myself am in the world of politics, I cannot avoid getting hurt, especially me, and many of my acquaintance who are a politician, were amazed in the situation where delicadeza said.
It is true that there are also a lot of situations that I also made a grin for once in front of a few days, but for me, it is more important that I can prove that "Susanjoe) is not yet dead."
I still have a lot of amount that means by this word because I can do it is an example of Grex Lagman, Jr. When I became a councilor of Quezon City, Grex - "I can say how he can work.
The prominent Supreme Court was impressed by the history of the local government, for the last year of his last term, Grex as Councilor of Quezon City was resigned due to his intention to run as congressman in the First District of Albay, the town where the Lagman is from.
In the other hand, delicadeza has already proven guilty, but there is something silent, because it was replaced by the left position of the Grex, Ivy.
And it can be recalled that Cerge will file for congressman's candidacy for Congressman Edcel Lagman, Jr. but his wife is not his wife as councilor, why, delicadeza.
That's why life is, "deleza said life is already alive!
There are many who were surprised that Ivy is not running.
Others said, the reason why he is taking a way there is to protect the position left by Grex but it turns out that it is true that someone will continue in service.
There are some who tried hard to comment on the arrival of Grex in Albay to become a congressman there.
The question is, if a person from Albay was charged and has succeeded in another country, like an example in the QC, he is not an expert in Albay?
Isn't it that your heart was left in the town of your ancestors, those from Albay are the ones who have the right to decide if delicadeza has gone on this issue.
And in the election, the final decision is, but as a resident of QC, and not from Albay, I can only say one thing.
Those from the First District of Albay are lucky because of the number of cases of Grex Lagman, because of the volume of connection with the politics, he decided to serve you to serve as if they will allow it in 2013.
