
Who came from the chaos in BSV-Toda?

As time goes by, the trouble between the two groups of tricycle drivers of Brgy. Siony first, Tramo, operators, which is also included in the meddling of Brgy. Chairman of Brgy. Siay, Village, which is Anabelle and cho.
It was said that the quarrel started after BSV-Toda election last year when the elected President, Neslagan, Taganak, is the wife of Barangay chairwoman in Curatier.
Since then, the course of the said organization became complicated because Brgy. Chairwoman and the elected mayor did not get along.
The conflict of the conflict became hotter with the approved of BSV-Toda, the allies of Barangay chairwoman, wherein the allies of Barangay chairwoman because this body has a problem.
If it is true that the body has become a problem with the number of 120, hopefully the Barangay Clearance or cho Family was also not an issue that he had an issue of responsibility in arresting Barangay Clearance.
The process happened between Barangay Cutud, they need to see the tricycle and the national Clearance before it can be given Clearance.
If there was only a place in Curaticho's problem, hopefully he did not give it to Barangay Clearance so that the said ship with more than 300 tricycle will not reach this kind of problem.
The situation became more worried when there was a sudden election of libel which the past administrations of election are allies of chairwoman's allies.
Suddenly Francisco Salva, a pastor, who is really a delegate person, and even the other Toda wanted to be used in order to run away.
This is an extraordinary chairwoman in-cho, who can also get the fake president of the said ship, is extraordinary, "the chaotic."
"You should be a bit sensible so it is more believable.
As of now, the group of BSV-Toda said that the group of Bira Hcho and his allies of Brgy. Chairwoman in QCPD) was confused because in fact, even Quezon City Police District (QCPD) was confused because they went back to the office of QCPD Director General Richard Albano and Station 9 Commander Col. Marcelino.
Quezon City-Toda-FED and agreed to get in the said chaos and agreed to get the drivers until they have not decided on who is decided on.
The president of the said ship is really, but a pastor ignored it and they are continuing to collect the daily activities of the drivers.
