Florida 15, a victim of human trafficking, faced by the Philippine Army after 1 year.

By Hala Quijano.
April 26, 2012.

Florida 15, having a feast in front of the Philippine Consulate in New York before meeting with the officials on April 26 (Consignation.
It reached a year before the officials of the Philippine Consulate in Florida have finally faced Florida 15, victims of human trafficking in.
In a meeting in New York, Consul General Mario de Leon and Deputy Director General Theresa dela Vega promised for financial help and legal, which the victims have long been waiting for.
"A-year-old, after a Florida 15-tempered, to the Philippine government's word, to the Philippine government's reply, the Philippine community. Taw, an adult who is being taken by the community. Tyo," according to Yanglement, the chairman of Guinobatan New York / New Jersey.
But the group said that there is a need to remain in case because there is still no assurance that the promise of the government will be fulfilled.
Filipino Weeker was one of Florida 15 that was just wanted to be identified as Andrew E. included in Florida 15, who came closer to the group of Overseas Filipino to ask for help against her employer, San Villa Family Management Council, a company of Shipping and an adult who is based in Miami, Florida.
According to Andrew, he is working as a area manager even if the job that is stated in his visa was there, he arrived at the US last February 2008, and according to the $17 per hour, they have been receiving responsibility such as $17 every hour, and payment from water and electricity that was promised to be free.
"We, a person who was in the US. We, could be sent to the Philippines - Tristan (Wtch," Andrew E. said that he / she left and his other colleagues in the company and filed a complaint, "said Heard, the sister of Our Lady OPLAN," he said.
Meanwhile, in the middle of the worsening problem of human rights, the campaign against human rights in the United States continues.
The National Football for Filipino Concerned is pushing the Congress to conduct an investigation in the Philippine Overseas Employment Agency (POEA) and government agencies that are involved in the Labor Law in Los Angeles, Arizo, 34, and Florida 15.
From 2001 until now, the Philippines remains in Tier 2, that means that it does not follow the government of the Philippines with the standard of anti-Illegal Drugs Act (UVR 984).
Under the Supreme Court of the US, it depends on the suppression of human trafficking in cooperation with the US government and the victims of other government for the investigation and prosecution.
Last year, Vice-President Jejomar Binay stated that he trusts that the Philippines will be able to achieve Tier 1 which is part of the international campaign against the 5th Social Watch Provincial Hospital in his speech at the 5th Social Watch Provincial Hospital in his speech at the 5th Social Watch Provincial Hospital in his speech at the 5th Social Watch Provincial Hospital in his speech at the 5th Social Watch Provincial Hospital.
But according to Bernadette Elsee in Bayan USA, it is unlikely to happen because the government of the Philippines is playing with the illegal detention case of the Philippines with the illegal detention case, "if the government official, Arinoli," Labor laws-trafficking in-law, "he said.
