Maybe in his post.
For me, after being able to pay the it with P / R: The four of November Saturday, they went with how it would be last Sunday during the peak of the mountain when he took the operation.
On the telephone of the Bible, I do not know, Morong and thousands.
For those who have no assurance, the number of people who are cooking are the ones who cook the operation.
It is a big watch now if they will agree that the distance is still alive but the ugly operation of conscience.
According to PNoy, it was the six-six-year-old S / P) that he saw food possible.
He / she did not know how to know money that later, he is still not dangerous but I do not want to renew the photo of the barangay they showed in.
From Cotabato City.
I am referring to lemon juice because it is good to tell what you want to tell about the members of the members.
Well, there are two men who are with him and he will be left behind by the poor Indonesian as well but what your heart is saying is not to avoid trouble but also one Indonesian for them who will be named Zero.
This is where it is prohibited to give Secretary to prove everything.
News.
None.
Korea turned it!
He called.
Enough last Sunday.
It is important that the four of them are not yet killed.
It is fine to be like fruits in.
A man outside the two Indonesian vendor to defend.
It took sometime before.
It's because it's marble in San Agustin.
Smart Araneta.
The C OD has been rescued from the operation.
They do not have a sound.
It's because it's not easy to be.
Authorities.
February. The R is very proud of because it is only here they are going to leave that would be left behind.
But it's like I am like me.
It was replaced by Maria that was in front of him.
Apparently, Marlon.
I am the highest leader.
!
To be exported while on the back of the challenge, he should be given a challenge.
Where only two roads have died.
What happened to afar is that there is a big success involving our 10 pesos and the operation is missing for the signal number M-M.
He / she grew up; he / she was distressed; how did she go to the 'hacienda.
According to him, he approached a way.
Meralco by Meralco.
Sampaguita.
It should always be expected that this Friday will be expected in the room of the people who are in the entire body of the citizens who will be exported and Gloria two like rain after the case.
!
It burns.
Yes.
There is someone near that I should answer to those who are supposed to be if there is nothing.
You have happened with birthdates.
Already.
It's because the Philippines has nothing to do with who was used.
Who did he say that his older brother is a signal.
Different number.
Four o'clock.
A hunchback here in Oka, close to four o'clock.
Two.
Four Indonesians, two Palestinians armed with Two Wives were said to be one of those who were wounded by the government without losing weight.
You have seen that the reason why I am quiet is for the residents.
Then.
Most of the residents here in Barangay.
Every night, they are saying that they do not have any time in case a child will have something to do, which is why when it happens, they are going to go home; we are just going to go home; we are just going to go home; we are going to go home to the point, which is why they are going to go home; we are the only ones who are here in the same time, that's why they are going to go home to the same time.
Here in the International Airport, I got up to ten o'clock.
Instead of the relatives who are call to serve as Commander who have a little name of milk, not writing the investigation on the incident, but it turns out that this is a little bit; we are very little.
Also advised by his colleagues, he is included in the operation of other things in Mindanao which may have been hit by a few policemen but, because they are in front of the problem in the operation, we are calling that we are hiding for a high school.
They here, what they talk about is that, some of the members of the Friday are talking about it, that it's the first time that we talk about it, because it seems that this is the only one who live-in-bust operation, which is why it's just like a year who work here at the eighty-four pesos, which is the only one who works at the eighty four pesos.
Do you lose?
You are going to meet the air in Bicutan.
Because, like that, in the Special Action Force we were able to pick up; we are together; we are together; we are together in the early morning until the whole day, that's why there were no reinforcements that will be sent by other military unit there might be no reinforcements that will be sent by other military units that is probably a little bit of military.
What happened is that, in a point of color, we have a low color; we have not been talking about that kind of operation, which is why they were fighting after each other, but they were fighting after each other and what the leaders do, that would have been fighting over by the leaders of the administration.
Let us first put it first in front of our house; we were the one who is a member of the barangay, and we went to their area, we were surprised when they were saying that they were not talking to their place, because we were shocked to enter their area, because we were surprised at their barangay yes, because we were in our barangay right age.
It was said that it was three o'clock in the highway, which was the start of the Crossing Ringayin, 46, and three kilos of pesos.
Yes, when they park in the area, they can clearly see them from his post.
It means that the number of students who are going to call on the highway, they can clearly see that, in the area, they have seen that at dawn only until four o'clock in the evening the day before yesterday at six o'clock in the evening.
"What are the members of the ship that park in the highway so that's why it's a problem like that in their house.
It is there on the other side of the highway that is why they are fighting for their companions as a king that can be avoided despite the egg and being called for the election so they are calling the actual condo of their children.
It is also not true that you are working properly because it is normal for you to hear the residents what you're talking about to me here, or that's why we have asked forgiveness to the military and not anymore.
Maybe the situation that is happening between your good name is worse because it's just a long time, that's why it's too long for me, that's why it's too long for me, that is why we have been looking for a long time for me, that's why there's more than me, that's why there's a long time for me, that's why there's more than me, that's why there's more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why there's still more than me, that's why we had a
I wonder why it's not enough for you to say that we have a teacher for a teacher for us to look for a teacher, so we have an idea why it is an excuse that there is no help in other people before they had a conversation with other people before they have no ego in that.
You're talking about the Tagalog words in the barangay.
It can be said that because of the extreme heat in the fight, many are dying, both sides have died.
All of them, are really not in barangay.
They were able to go out that at the same age, they were able to go down; we can be able to look down; she might be near a while ago while we were talking to a child, which is asthmatic and removed from their teacher.
Very small; we are looking at the two members of the M Riyals, I look at his job as two puppies so that they can see each other.
We will not be able to return.
The number of people who got sick; but they were not going to get sick, they were really busy near the place where the residents did not go near to the place where they walked in and went out to evacuate they have evacuated now.
What I can see is that we have been seeing each other at stake, which is only happening when they felt proper that there is still no show that there is still no need for them to stop, but they have already stopped going to their enemies.
Yesterday, he was able to talk to the police at the top of the police because he saw that it was really fear that there was really fear that the operation was really afraid, which is why he did not say that he did not tell anyone who was going to die in the box which is going to die or not to be the box which is going to die.
That is true that, because of a lot of people like this, he was able to let him see each other, he was not allowed to ask him until now that they were asked to ask him until now, they were asked to ask him until now, he was not allowed to ask him until now, he was not able to ask him until now, he was not able to take a cellphone; he / she was not able to take it until now, he was not able to take it to the Philippines.
In the stories of a friend, she is surprised at me.
All houses are like that in the area.
That is how the parents want to say that if this is what he is saying, they are really not able to find out that they are not able to find out that they have not recovered from me, we were surprised that our enemies are in a video, we think that we are in a video of our enemies here in a video.
