They think about it, it's okay what you gave to one thousand to avoid Facebook that you are going to avoid Facebook.
"What he said is that, I still haven't been the one who opens up; he / she was not yet allowed to go home; she said goodbye to his / her rest tree, and what was sure that he / she was sure that he / she has an assurance that it would be given importance to me.
I am confused.
"What has been applied at April 'isn't it right, I know that I have a text message to Tita Len Bakal, whom I will be.
I said that I will be held up; we know that, yes, I know that in our resort he was wearing, it was like that in the house in Bataan.
Do that, for something I do not know, it is two o'clock in the way as good in the country.
I was not able to pay attention to each other; he / she was not able to pay attention; that's why he / she went to the house, he / she was stupid, in the town, I am stupid in the town.
"We are anxious; he / she said, why did everything be, why are we going to be a grandfather, why are we going to a different country, who are in other countries, so what kind of parties are?
Why did she cry anymore that's why she said in Facebook that I saw in Facebook, who did you think of me in another country?
Yes, is it not bad to ask?
I might go to his older brother-in-law; but I said earlier that I am in a vacation; he / she was with your companion, who is your companion in Sunday now, all are going to here.
Yes, I know the text message of Aunt Mariel yes.
Here on Saturday, in Baclaran, he / she didn't go to school; he / she wasn't able to go to school; I have no money, / she has no money from Baclaran to Baclaran.
According to them, they are stupid; we have no bad to go to Baclaran and nothing wrong going to Baclaran.
"I, and I said that we are free; I really do not know what I said because if I have an answer to my fare, he said that you did not say yes.
That is the reason why we are not able to give more than ten-five-year-Tropas.
Yes, what I said is that I am not stupid; we are not stupid.
