Do you see this an illusion and truth in the camera?

Now that almost everyone is using a cellphone with a camera, everyone has been used to being beaten by the people, events or perspective, you have caught the truth, the camera is not lying down as a witness to any thing.
Let us see the picture of boxing "Manny Pacquiao against Juan Manuel Marquez" to the head of Marquez's punches, it is registered that the movement of movement in the face of two opposing boxers will be registered or not true, there's an evidence, evidence, "a song, the decision of the institution, you do not want to believe?
Since this arrives in the century of 1900, the camera became an effective treatment of the industry and state, especially the internet, which is effective in the internet, and in the internet, it is an equivalent or personal utensils for our neighboring countries, especially the internet, only equivalent or more important than a few million words.

The camera is for the eyes, naturally, but why is it easy to enter the eyes or steal only one watching?
Here is the footage done by one blind in Puerto Princess, Palawan, inside the Model Shop, on January 2011, which is expected to have no difference with the indigenous people, not yet guided by the American government in 1904 to ensure that the American government has no difference, not being guided by the one written to the law and regulations of the local government.
But why is it a waste time to glancing at a blind eye that we do not know, that it is just an illusion that it is just an illusion that it is not just an illusion that it is not just an illusion that it is not just an illusion that it is not just an illusion that it is not just an illusion that it is not just an illusion that it is not just an illusion for the fire, but trying to see, what is admirable is, I am truly admirable.
In his last look, the topic of the barbells is not the only situation of those watching and watching: The whole situation of the Chinese New Year Festival, which is the main aspects of the Chinese New Year Festival, which is the main aspects of a camera in this aspect, according to Rola Barong Mujahil, which is the main aspects of a camera in this aspect.

In the organized studies of Barrettos in the art of books, he said that there are two traits that would be sent to a tree, so we also know that the blind eye is noticeable in a tree, so it can't be examined by the blind eye, in the corner of Calaguas, but it could not be examined by the foul odor in a tree, so it could not be examined by the foul odor in a tree, but it could not be examined by the foul odor in the corner of Calaguas. "
In the last pictures taken in Sitio Loboc, Bohol (March 2012), the ship is parked in the middle of the native culture which is looking at the corners of the native Aetas who were looking at different parts, but only one man is looking at the bottom of the native culture which is focused on other side, but only one man is lying in the middle of the reputation of the native Aetas.

On the other hand, "
I proposed a inhumane responsibility in fixing and experience in all culture of activities and experience, you should be careful not to accept whatever is happening to your life, this might be the first and last lesson that will be received from the arts and mechanism that will be recovered from the art of Salisi Gang, of camera, in the current time.
