
Do not love the Hangbo of the people! Step down and take care of the armed struggle of Kampina) the success is going to push through a democratic country!

The national Katipunan was the national Katipunan of Magbum (PKM-TK)
National Democratic Front - Southern Tagalog (NDF-ST).
March 27, 2012.

It was a message on the 25th year anniversary of the Bagong Hala BNational Katipunan of the Magbureaucracy.


"No matter how big is the opponents in the right now, it is certain that the powerful powerful in the country will surely be defeated by more powerful countries.

On the 29th year anniversary of the Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB), it is the highest tribute that is given by the National Democratic Front in the region, which is not only a few militant groups who are being blamed by the citizens of the Filipino Workers who are being abused by the citizens of the senior citizens who are being abused by the Filipino Workers and protector of those who can handle their interest to the citizens.

It is as if it is being done by the Bugnay, the government of the government and the citizens are experiencing the secret which is experienced by the Filipino farmers and the citizens in the scope of the SONA and fields of the countryside which does not reach any of all of the projects of the government.

The pickpocket was fighting against the Bagong Hala Bayan, doctor, worker, farmer, parents, and child of each house, family and community who are going to spend the straight path to the masses, the filipino masses, who was not taking care of the masses, and hugged their armed goals so they are going to be living together.

In the implementation of the masses, the AFP's act to imitate the Bables as well, the citizens, which is showing depression to get their minds, especially the farmers, especially the farmers, will take double the role of the government and the AFP who will make the AFP to spend on their minds.

If there is no Bayan Patroller, any citizen does not have any role, since they are able to transfer the Botchok (March 29, 1969, the citizens who gave the strength of poverty gave the strength of poverty which gave the strength of the filipino masses to undergo and join the New Hala Bayan.

They were armed with lessons in history, it is clear that the Lord who has long been given by the Lord to be given a long time by the farmers, only through the armed fight and the filipino masses, in the leadership of Bastes.

History is the one who taught the UPP-chan of the kind of big corporations and Philippine National Police, from the leadership of the Lord Nazarene, the promotion of the filipino masses, and if the programs of the filipino masses will be fulfilled, and if the program of the filipino masses will be fulfilled, and will be resolved, the programs of the filipino masses will be fulfilled, and will be solved.

On the 143 years of diligence of Bagong Hala Bayan, the citizenry who risked their lives but the citizens who risked their lives will be distributed, and the people who risked their lives will be approved by the Bagong HRO that can push the revolution until success!

Long live the 25th anniversary of the Bagong Hala Bayan!
Kind of farmers, the primary force, join the New Hala Bayan!
Push for the success of a democratic revolution!
He / she was wearing.
