This is the success of Tabag-88th IB, a punishment to the enemy of the people!

Hmmmp!

The success of Hala Bayan and the people were held by Nona Del Rosario Command (BTAC), New People's Army -- Ifugao against the 88th Infantry Battalion (IB), Communications radio and other parts of the Philippine Army (PA), Communications radio and other parts of the Philippine Army (PA), La Union and other parts of the Philippine Army (PA), La Union and other using of military.

This will be achieved by the Bagong Hagdan in the duty to defend the interest of the people in order to protect justice to the troops of PAOCTF in order to give justice to their cases of murder, theft, rape and other serious crimes against the people.

There have been successive gunshots from the citizens of Ifugao since the Philippine National Police -- the Philippine National Police -- Public Safety Company (PNP-Police), in the town of Tinoc and other parts of the province.

1 - two minors are raped by two minors from Mankayan, Benguet on December 2011 and February 2012.

2 - it was September the past year when the troops of 88th IB, Father Bahong, was just shot by the troops of 88th IB, while he was far from where the fight happened between the AFP and Bastes.

3 - in that month, there was no warning entered and searched by the soldiers and searched the houses in Sitio Maputi, Llagas on, Barangay Amin front, while the residents were conducting an operation against the BHB) stolen by the residents of important things.

4 - more than two months before this, a troop was shot and killed four people and was hit by one another.

5 - even before the shooting, the people have been complaining for a long time by the citizens that they will earn a source of stealing their chained and motorcycles, in exchange for a huge amount, which is the taking advantage of the Muslim military troops, the abuse of the military troops of the young women.

The list of past crimes of PA) is long, included here is the murder of Leon Mumbai, 1991, resident of Tinoc; and the lack of decision to pay the elements of the government; and this is a proof that the violence of the AFP to the citizens will become a proof.

86th IB, the citizens, under the Oplan LS, now, the soldiers are active in the security of the poor farmers who die in a year in Mindanao where they were members of the Civilian Volunteers Organization (ALS), which is part of the Oplan Galugad conducted in Mindanao where they were part of Oplan Galugad conducted by the AFP troops that were not revealed by the AFP to the people.

A meaningful success was given to the ambush against 88th IB, the citizens can prove that the unity of the Bagong Hala Bayan and the citizens and the people who are going to be sure to success through a democratic country is getting better.

The successful construction of military offensive cannot be denied that they were hit by the head, on the side of the AFP and PNP in the side of the AFP and PNP in the side of the AFP and PNP, the truth is, there was no one included in the fight that happened in the Banawel, Natangin, Mt. Province last April 21, 2012.

We are asking for forgiveness and condolences to the relatives of a civilian who died and one more injured from the speed of the incident, no sharp and immediate death was done by a civilians riding a motorcycle, related to this, the right thing to be the ones who get the flaws are going to be conducted.
