To whom we are talking about, isn't it that, but he will be able to make sure that he will be in full force; he pretended as the favor of the cruelty.
The officials of the tired Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation of the other yes.
It was Friday Japanese expenses that he would have a license to get a license for defending Entertainment Television, Parañaque, a lot of white vinegar and a lot of white vinegar which is a big percentage which has a big contribution; a resort that happened there.
According to them, they are just a Japanese who, if there are parents who are close to the house of the morning, is it right that there are parents who are close to the house in the morning, is it right that she received no meaning, that he will give a license to look at a shopping; he / she will go to a shopping center, Japanese, Japanese or okay, to tell his practice area.
We are still not aware; we will look at Chairman eight officials, yes to the customer who gave it to us in the Philippines, you will forget that you have a business brought here to us in the Philippines, which is why you are saying that you are saying.
Yes, yes right now.
It is also important for me to be here, why is there a strong Chairman on the table, so we have been observing for a strong; we are not really in the investigation of the investigation on that man but you are not a single one.
Nothing is clear.
We are anxious; we can't hear that I have not heard from the other parties, that's why it's not good for them, that is not good for them, that is why they do not have a strong strength to always have a picture to the president or what you are doing immediately and what you are doing to immediately.
Ah, it's just that, but we are taking a lot of vacation in a long vacation, which is the chairman of Chairman, who is the president of the President.
I cannot see what.
Yes, something like that.
Where are you in Caloocan every one honor is mentioned by the one given by our love.
Well.
Where is it?
Very small; so many rooms, many rooms, two rooms, both are being watched over by a government official, so many of them are being monitored by an official of the government here, which is why most of them have already been seen by one officials of the government here, which is why they say they can be passed by those who have no job.
That has a wide forehead, what is in our past with the past.
The previous government is the government officials who are living in an honor, not just mentioned, "do you have mentioned that you are going to make sure that you are our fellowmen, which is why you need to have a six-six months.
Yes on March.
It turns out.
Oh my!
In the past.
But we are not the Chairman, you might understand, that you can understand the payment, but he / she doesn't know that he has two thousand a person who has a grudge against him but he said that he might think twice.
You'll stay here in Divisoria.
What are you?
