
The Varice of the Philippines and the victory of Daragang Magistrado.

By Danilo Arana, Arao, September 14, 2013.

Let us start it from a surprising hope that I am not a fan of Darna Daan ".

Yes, Puri is very commendable because in The Vangice of the Philippines (ABS-CBN) through the Hollywood song, the "Ipit Gang" (BSP) which is the favorite of many activists for the decades of 80. "

I am sorry for my initial observation, but I looked at it as a tactic to get the attention of one of the judges - Bamboo gang who made a cover of the song in 2007.

Just like what is expected, Bamboo is smiled at the beginning, Bamboo gang, "Bamboo gang, said that there are only two who chose what happened in Baguio, and Brockman does not want to choose what happened in Baguio, and BPAT.

In my sometimes watching the program every Sunday night, I did not notice him too much in fact, I admit that I have forgotten about joining The Vangice of the Philippines and what is the standard for my singing, and of course, music and northwest.

In the middle of the economic growth of music, aside from the fact that The Varice is from the truth, I am expecting that almost all those who are calling the colonizers.

It can be said that Darica is different because he is not a virgin. "And if he is singing, his voice is usually in one position, and when he / she is singing while putting up the message of his voice and when he showed up, he sits with a mixture of text message and when he keeps on to understand his message.

Yes, he was different but I did not pay attention to him before, it can be said that he moved my attention outside the program The Vangice of the Philippines, and it has something to do with a protest in the middle of August.

In the middle of the campaign against the LRT and MRT, a "selfies" is called by a "selfies" which is clearly used to have a message to the Filipinos who want to take part of the social media so that he used his "celebrity," so that the campaign against a candidate and government plans will become stronger.

After all, he does not need to do this, even if you can say it will be said that there will be a negative effect on him to involve himself in politics, especially that it is related to criticisms against those in power.

Since then, I noticed his sincerity as artists and activists.

When I went back to his blind eye, that is where I noticed that his ability to give clarity on the message of the song, "in the corner of the Philippines, is noticeable from those who want to listen to the competition, it seems that the decision of what he wants to listen to the competition, is noticeable, not for them but for the public.

Last August 25, Darryl and "Danny's"

But Daragang Magayon because of the arrival of activists to Mendiola, he immediately showed up and exalter the two songs, "Build"

In his defeat at The Vangice of the Philippines last September 8, he fought one of the strongest contestants in the competition in order to be able to get the highest combined votes from the public and from his coach Lea.

Daria chose to go into Pogi "which I first heard from Mendiola.

But I was surprised by the result of the vote of the public (based on the text and online voting), Daragang Maglente went out of a 60 percent of Lea, Daridez was removed from the competition in simpler terms, Daridez was removed from the competition.

Just like the other things that has been focused on, I am saddened by what happened.

But I am happy in this situation that there are many followers of the show that they chose to be timely and meaningful.

Artists who are ready to use their fame in a meaningful task, especially that it has something to do to condemn the trend of our society, hopefully there are still a lot of ways to know the truth and not to stay away from it.

Even if Darryl and the ice of the Philippines disappeared, I expected that he will continue to become a voice of many of the poor people through his supporters to join the consecutive protests against the pork barrel system last September 11 and 13.

Because of Darryl, an additional motivation to ordinary citizens to go to protests before this is the payment for the competition in television.
