No.

Even if the eyes of Milk V-Abaca was sad, when they were talking about the love, Rene Boy "RB" Abaca, she was just smiling while she was just a couple, "
Even if she smiles, it is hard to show the weight and sadness of the voice and weakness of Milk V, but even if I am not the first time he faced the story of her husband who is currently detained for a sin he did not commit.
Since it was rarely seen in the television and television about the incidents of human rights (HRL), especially in the provinces - the names of human rights in Cagayan Valley (CV) is not familiar with a teacher in Cagayan Valley (CV) to inform the people about the story of his wife human rights worker.
Initial investigation.
Milk was not able to believe that the time will come that his wife himself will be victims of the cases of HRL.
Both members of the different human rights groups are Milk V and RB; they met each other in the year 2008 when they had a meeting with UP Diliman, which included RB (CV, who were freed because of the fight conducted by their group.
RB in Polytechnic University of the Philippines was studying before, while CV was based on CV, "We), who is in Manila, then I am in Manila, then they will be seen under the trees, in front of their dorm," he said.
Aside from being human rights worker, there are also a lot of dreams that Milk p and RB, who are also members of Alliance of good, a group who are pushing the rights of the teacher in CV), both are working in a university in CV, Development (DSWD) in Baggao, Tuguegarao.
It has been three years since they met the New Year, but they immediately met the New Year and their plans for the media was destroyed when they were caught by RB of the police last December 28, 2012, and forcefully rushed to Ifugao Provincial Jail.
It was an sworn statement.
RB is walking back to their house from the market when a group of police strictly held him with his left arm, and then he was declared by a police in killing his left arm, and then the copy of the warrant of arrest refers to a person living in Meycauayan, Bulacan.
"We do not have a relative there," Tuwid na Daan "said that in that day, RB is not able to talk to the police as long as she is not able to talk to the police, until he is not able to talk to the cases of the forcefully arrest, and he knows the possible meaning of his arrest.
When the authorities already talked to the authorities, he was not able to stop himself from imprisoned RB, until they said that RB is allegedly involved in the members of the New People's Army (NPA) who attacked the soldiers on April 25, 2012.
The employer of RB who is DSWD Chief of Human Rights was immediately proven by DSWD Chief of Human Trafficking Operation when RB from November 2011, based on the daily time he record at work, RB was in the office when the incident happened.
Despite the clear evidence, RB is currently jailed, but RB is currently imprisoned in spite of the lack of strong evidence against them.
The security guard named Roland Pantukan is one of those assigned by the police in Quezon City as he looks like Benjamin Mendoza, a high-ranking official of the NPA-Southern Tagalog, which contains more than P5 million in the hours after he was arrested, Roland Benjamin has no other evidence.
After all, RB and Rolland are still lucky because they remain alive in prison, while there are 12 cases of forced disappearance and 72 cases of the abandoned disappearance and 72 cases of a tortured victim under the term of President Noynoy Aquino.
This is contrary to the declaration of Malacanang that they give importance to human rights to Filipinos, while they are pointing their attention on human rights to the human rights under the Oplan LS, the people like RB and Rolland are still remain like RB and Rolland.
Open the sentence.
"To Our Stars, we was impressed by the political program. We Benetalal," said Presidential Spokesman Edwin Lacierda on the anniversary of Martial Law last year.
"When the Malacanang is when the Malacanang is a liar and can be able to be a joke," says Milk ed last year, it reached 166, the number of political prisoners, and hit 158, the number of political prisoners, according to Karylle.
Even the employees of the government like RB are not saved from the said violation of human rights, which is extremely saddened and angered the events of our plans in life, he said.
Milk was forced to stop in studying so that she will get the time in freeing RB; "we will not have anything to get to support our needs and hearing a small savings," he said.
It looks like it has long been going to wait for a long time before the plan of the married couple to have a child in the first year of their union, that's why they did not have a child before this year of their relationship but I would not allow them to succeed. "
As proof, Milk V and RB believes that there is no truth to the statement of the government about the situation of human rights in the country, even the human rights, like RB, and there is no space in order to let the families be destroyed because of these violations.
