Statement by that.

Two things will not be lost in the celebration of one anniversary: The return of the sweetness and bitterness of the past, and the declaration of commitment to support a tradition started.
In the opening of the 90-year of the Philippine Cologne, carrying the promise, even more than a year in the past nine decades, the statement of Coll's history can't be denied to achieve some of the most important changes in the society.
However, he / she entrusted his / her idol in this person who is not just a responsibility - this is a heavy responsibility, a heavy responsibility, a corresponding responsibility, a proper responsibility to continue the tradition of the sanctity of the students and the whole of the people.
At present, the name of Cologne, or even if will be treated as one of the most skillful in the school of the country, is being searched as one of the most skillful techniques in the country.
But not all the chance is to choose as his demeanor, which is also decided on the spirit of the Joe Burgos and "open to all sides," this is the part of the history of Cologne that may have become stronger, as well as well as the stronger chapter in the newspaper. "
Which is why more than the ratification of the prestigious contest of Cologne, the captives and employees were implicated in a stand in the 19th of the newspaper, the readers continued to report to the real situation of the society.
What is needed is more needed in this principle of courage to the present, when it is expected that the candidates who are pretending to be distributed, new kinds of healing, it is more dangerous because there will be a decent characteristics.
Here in the university, the economic Assistance Fund (STS) is more effective in implementing the financial Assistance Program (STS), a program that is supposed to give birth to everyone who is worthy of the tuition in 2006, and the downhill mission of the government for the sector of education.
And as a answer to the deep problem of education, the government of Benigno Aquino III implemented the program K-12 that will add to the programs of education in the country, especially that it will be implemented in the classrooms, teachers and other aspect of the will be cooked in school.
In the coming days, it is expected that the pages of Cologne will also be witnessed the process of the new leader of the country, after former Chief Justice Renato Corona is considered as a success in order to take care of the progress caused by the historical event.
Though it was outside the university, the flow of the university is still the effect of these issues that is why it continues to witness the pages of Collins.
Colina continues to arrest the voices that we cannot hear from the usual newspapers, the voices of the citizens who are given peace and are not listened to by government units, but this will also be a heavy implication especially when it celebrated his 190 years.
In the cemented speed of Coll's campaign to increase the price of pork barrel, and other expenses in order to increase the budget allocated by the students of UP.
This year, in spite of the threats he continues, expect from the rights of the students and the citizens, expect that they will participate in the rights of the students and the citizens.
