A brutal murder was brutally killed in civilians in Guinobatan, Albay.

GraceOka.
Santos Binalera Command, it is BHB) Albay.
It was November 13, 2012 when the two consecutive killings were brutally killed by the innocent civilians who were responsible for the drug troops of the 2nd Infantry Battalion, Philippine Army who are pretending to be peace and improvement team "or PDU).
The government troops were brutally murdered by Brgy. Khandsome, Ely Oton, of Brgy. Cabatingan, Albay last November 11 at around 11: 00 in the evening, while the victim was on his way home from a condominium that collapsed when he heard a few gunshots.
Guns were the residents of Cabidray.

Karin, OPLAN) was confronted by the PDC in their barangay since August 2011 because he was also threatened by his "NPA supporters," he was also accused of the PDU) which was launched by 2nd IB, where he became a victim of the threat of 2nd Infantry Batallion.

Another victim was killed in the murder of the troops of 2nd Liberation Front, Batan, Albay who was shot by the troops of the military last November 6: 00 in the evening, Osmundo in front of their house, who was just a distance of 300 meters from the barracks of Barangay Sining.

Before this, the Tropang Texters caught and was allegedly being attacked by the Bables as Sitti and he was confronted by the PDT in their barangay, Dante Osmundo in an early part of the '80s, and three decades that he / she was living as a civilian.

Santos Binalera Command said the accusation of the military against the brutal crime of the military was confiscated from the kidnapping and murder of AOIL, 2010, in Brgy. Tapuac, Albay yesterday when the victim was hit in the kidnapping and murder of Adik-asa, Albay.


The operation conducted by the Development Authority (PDT) of 2nd Infantry Battalion in Guinobatan, Albay for a long time to be taken away by the indigenous people, after the PDT-2nd Suzuki raider (Guinobatan, Albay yesterday, the PDT-2nd Infantry Battalion will continue to show up to the area the human rights of the citizens in 2nd Infantry Batallion in Guinobatan, Albay.

The indigenous people should be united to be held accountable for their brutal crime and expose any disrespect of their human rights.
