TV Patrol, March 2, 2012.

Happiness is within 24 Oras.

It seems that you are going to be together with others even though they are going to be together with perfumes, loving and happiness is like perfumes; you will not be able to beat others so that you will not slow down.

Joy (joy) everybody wants to go to school and for every day we can be happy, and if it is good, we are happy, and since it is true, we are happy, and since it is the result, it is also an equivalent result.

This is not just so long as the "gifts, power, material things, awareness, and uncharming, most of us are making peace, it is easy to choose and make sure that their consciousness will be affected, it is easy to choose and make yourself be happy.

"Are you happy or happy?

I am happy.
I only have one minute.
And sixty wagons for a long time.
They insisted on me and I could not resist it.

I am not looking for it and I also do not like it; I am thankful to lock myself.
But this is at me if I will use it.

I thought it was a report when it turned out to be abused and abused.
Even if drunk, it is just a small minute.
Here, my whole life depends on this.

Open your eyes to the beauty of the surrounding.
And unconscious in his mysterious life.
Also open your heart to those who are loving.

To be a model and remain with integrity.
Promise to yourself to be true.
Because this is where my happiness depends on this.

17 what is the meaning of happiness, this is the feeling that there is peace in your will and happy in front of any events, but when we get it, we won't come from our real feelings, instead, we are always happy, and we are always happy, this is what we are saying.

Long live in each moment, and make a good and happy life for important memories.

Happiness is your awareness and power to live.
Happiness is not a conservation in life, rather to improve your natural ability to improve your traits.
Happiness is on your thorough investigation to be happy every time the happiness is always about now; not focused on the past or even in the future.
Happiness is being done on the initiative; and not waiting for others, for the opportunity, or what will happen.
Happiness is a small kindness, small goodness, small words of love, small care for those who have difficulty, who are always helping to be happy.
Happiness is what can be made in a difference with anybody, ever, never, and cheat on 18, Diwa and the happiness.
Make the things that will make you happy and if you can maintain it, you will wake up with your feelings, instead, you will leave your feelings, instead, you will leave you, but when you lose happiness, you will leave you, but instead of making happiness, you will leave.

Success is to get what you want, the happiness will be given to whatever you get.

19 happiness and happiness is the difference between them if happiness is a feeling of consciousness and happiness, it appears that it is a physical response to a particular imagination, but instead of a good relationship, it appears that it is free or not.

The point here is the things that we are thinking that we will be happy in the end, and what we want is to maintain happiness, and what we want is to maintain happiness, and if you continue to find someone who will make us happy, and you have maintained it all the time, and you have maintained it all the time.

Things that will make you happy?
Your happy moments will be exhausted.
- avoid sadness and miserable people.
Take care of yourself and wear a favorite clothes.
Traditional politicians are confusing, and not the problems.
Exercise and have fun with your loved ones.
You are just going to be moving and dance, like no one can see you.
Wait for it, it is also being eaten, a delicious food will be held on top.
Manolo of the show that has a joke and can learn.
You will be coordinating with your loved friends if they are not there.
The difference is to find a difference in each day without waiting for something in return.
Giving and concern to those in need for all times.
Be honest and will be given to all of your partner whatever their age is.
20 is the fulfilment of choosing.
If you feel happiness, continue the meaningful direction; there is intelligence, prosperity, and service.

It is not right to sit and go through a party.

The person at fault will never be happy.

Even awake in the beauty of each few moments, there is a lot of children who are always angry at the world, the happiness that is currently angry at the world is growing because the happiness that you have experienced will continue to be seen with others so that the true happiness will be found again.

There is only one happiness in life, this is to love and love.

Avoid worry and attention to those without any speculation, the problems that are taking care of you are always confused and there is no happiness in spite of those who are rich and taking care of anyone else, who is really happy in spite of those who are rich, and no one else, you yourself, and no one else, your happiness.

This is not looking for and cannot be found; whatever you are doing, you will still do you, you will just be able to pay attention to you, you will just do this for you.

Steps to make you happy.
Have a new perspective, and make yourself be a habit to be happy.
2 to replace and correct the words that was being ignored, that is the only one making it happy.
3-years to always be happy at present, not in the past and in the future.
Be thankful when there is joy in all things, situation, and events.
Learn to express all the happiness that you feel.
Maintain the happiness in your great purpose.
Take care of your health for your happiness.
8, love and make all your partner happy.
Be careful of yourself and give importance to your traits and potential.
10 to pray and ask for guidance for you to make you happy.

If you're talking with each other on what you are thinking about, what you are thinking, and what you are doing is equal, and what you are doing is equal and you will be happy.

Do you choose what you see, if you are the one who can see violence, or maybe you are sleeping well with your fellowmen, and you will just think that it is your hard time; and you should just think that it is your fault and meaningful thing that it will be good and meaningful, that it would be easy to expect that it will cause happiness and meaningful.

The quality of my relationship and strength of my service is measured by the happiness that I am playing with.

We are becoming happy if we have given that meaning to the goal of life and to know that all of our hearts are deep and made a good thing, when we have given birth, that we have given birth to this great purpose, and they could have given birth to this great purpose, and they could not fulfill it.

The path in happiness is not a destination that you still have a destination, owns, putting on, putting on, being used, being sold, are being sold, are being used.

Happiness is a spiritual experience in life for each minute you love, caring, and what you are doing is a need to maintain happiness in order to cause a peaceful benefit in life.

I salute you to be happy when I decided to be happy; and I know that no matter how much I have been happy, and this is truly a good and happiness for all.

My desire to see in the world is a joke.

Travel to your own path, along with faith of joy, I believe that happiness is my natural right, and it will be more than my responsibility; and I can fulfill it.

I believe that happiness is in the depths of my heart; and I can make it clear to open it.

I believe that the happiness is here and introduce themselves as them; and I can fulfill it completely.

I believe that happiness is in choosing; and I can make it be patient to choose this.

I believe that happiness is an attitude; and I directly implement it.

I believe that happiness is free, like a colorful king, bisexual, a bisexual, and direction of the wind; and I can fulfill it as a lively celebrate.

I believe that the happiness he is doing is wrong with me, even if the others are doing something; and I can make sure that I have made a mistake.

I believe that happiness is a personal task, it is not hope for money, fame, actors or properties; and I can make it a model that will be given away.

I believe that happiness is an attitude of giving thanks; and I can do that you are always affectionate.

I believe that happiness is a move; it will be better to do this.

I believe that my happiness has a pity; and I can make it be affectionate to share this.

I believe that the happiness is a prayer,,,,,,,, sent the movement of readiness to take shelter; and make it happen that there is no coercion to give it.

I believe that happiness is what I am putting on my role, -- the one who needs the happiness of my desire to see in the world.
