TIDs, 64-72, of Blue Eve, 64-72.

Of Ka Christian Marty.

UP Fist Maroons still failed to win after being electrocuted, 64-72, of the current champion, Ateneo De Manila University Blue Eve, in the encounter that was held in Mall of Asia Arena in the 25th of July.
It turns out that the collision of two teams in the first period of the leadership of Maroons.
Maroons has started through their 7-0 run in the second period after the guard of the guard Jason Tolad and two consecutive shots were taken by the guard Chris Ball and two consecutive shots at Ateneo, 28-27.
The Blue Etau was even more aggressive while two consecutive points and two-free dollars were filed by the Blue Edles, Ryan Buenafe, to take the second period of UP, 38 years 30.
They only had a broad-ray of their third period, 57-40, after Ravena who posted 9 points by a post of 9 points, which are stranded due to the Linmei.
Again!
Maroons was like a hero when it was released by eight consecutive points, there was only two minutes left in the fourth period, but it was not enough to exterminate the success when it seemed to fly into the alley, which was seemed to fly into the alley, which was seemed to fly into the alley, which was seemed to fly into the middle of the final seconds of game.
Even though the wins of UP arrived at 0-5, the strength of Marata in 2-4 was raised, 4 points, 4 rebounds and 10 rebounds and 10 rebounds as 10 points and 10 rebounds.
"We-sangandila by Veronica R.
Ball also added that there is only a need to do better in the team not to lose the determination to win the desired win.
This is also the first game of Koponang Tavena of Blue Eid, since he is resting because of a broken damage on the New year-old days before the opening of the 25th anniversary of the University Athola in the midst of the 25th anniversary of the Philippines Athola.
"There is no time for us to refuse, we need to win," said Ryan Buenafe for the EeCard.
It will be next that UP will be going to work hard tomorrow, 25th of July, at the Araneta Coliseum, and on Sunday, 25th of July, in the same age.
