I am easily pissed.

The National Fist Manny Pacquiao will be easily pissed at the victory of American Floyd Mayweather Junior.
Pacman has challenged the proud boxer Negro, who will fight Mayweather, anywhere, no matter how free.
It means that there is nothing that they will get, before and after their fight, if ever it can be implemented.
The profit of their fight will be considered as the biggest in the history of boxing is the revival of the Charity Sweepstakes Office.
And that is from the mouth of Pacman who got annoyed with what Mayweather said that he is already desperate to fight the Americans because his earnings are getting shorter.
A lot of boxing fans are also mad at Mayweather when he has a lot of people.
In his fear with Manny, he is saying that Manny is the one who can make his clean record.
So all the excuse that he is saying is that to avoid Pacman the first is the issue of blood pressure until it becomes an issue to share money.
Floyd had a lot of payment to fight Pacman.
In the end, after another fight, Mayweather took the plan to retire without fighting against Pacquiao.
We admit that Mayweather is good in boxing and even if I am an avid fans of Manny, we believe that his chance to win the American is small.
If there is a talent, Floyd is more beautiful as they say it's just a chance for Pacman's mind to get along with the brain, on the strategy, for the speed and speed, the Negro, win.
But why is Floyd avoid Manny?
I think there is a high level of Floyd that's why he has intense jealousy against Manny that his popularity is almost visible in the whole world.
Second, he is afraid to be abused by Manny. Third, he is also afraid to fall down when he defeated Pacquiao.
Floyd is very crazy in his clean record that is 45-0.
Floyd also wants to be Alum and gay) instead of fighting Pacman and will be fooled.
But we do not know, it might still happen with a booing.
Mayweather might get irritated and accept the challenge of Manny.
If free and for the Charity Sweepstakes? "That is impossible.
