
Abusive policemen have no right for the service.

Quezon City Police District Director, Chief Supt. Richard A. Albano has a reason not to wait for the public to wait for the service of an abusive police like Senior Police Officer 3 Enrique Galarse, assigned in Production. 4 Police Station 8 of QCPD.
Galapt was involved in a shooting incident last October 8, Production. 4 where the 75-year-old grandmother was hit by a bullet on the right bra and chest.
Because of this, General Albano immediately ordered CIDU chief, Major Rodel Ramacula, to investigate the said incident.
And in the said investigation, it appears that Galarse, asked for help from two minors who are working as a canvas, 15 and Rolan Julius, 17, to fix the tire of his vehicle.
After the wheel of the vehicle of the police was seen with canvas and instead of the pay, Galapist got angry and brought out his gun.
And because of fear, the two teenagers quickly ran away, causing the gunshot of his gun and the grandmother was hit by a gunshot and hit the grandmother, Necrated, which was the owner of the billiards in the said place.
General Albano is very angry when he found out the true incident that he ordered an attempt to file charges against his police, Galarse.
Two hundred pesos was given to the barangay in QC.
How are the rumors true that Quezon City government will allegedly send millions of pesos to the incumbent barangay chairman who will join this October 28 election?
If the gossip is true, it will surely cause money to the barangay election in Quezon City and the vote buying.
Tsk, tsk - it is a big money for you to think, 142 barangays are Quezon City, if it is true that Mayor Herbert Bautista gave birth with two thousand pesos in every barangay which will be lost from the treasury of the city.
Umm, it's as if I feel that it is not good about it, hopefully the voters will think about it, if they think they do not have anything to do, many are deserving to replace them.
Um!
Lily's Calvento File are open for your complaints, suggestions and comments, just text 09165571946, or 090872336 or 090872336 or 0907232,936 or 0907232,936.
