
Politicking is what you prioritize, Philippines.

Where is the government's attention more focused on public service or politicking?
This is the simple but very important question from the mouth of the people in relation to the events happening in the government and the country at present.
Politics for the meantime.
If you are going to barangay, talk about what the government is doing.
2016 and the improvement of the controversial terrorism was quickly coming.
That is why the opposing candidates are anxious on how they can take the votes of the people for the people who have mentioned.
They take advantage.
To be noticed by the people, it is the primary actions of the national politicians to take advantage of the power of government agencies that are connected to the start of votes.
"Is it that the vote of the masses is at around 80-90 because of the entirety of the votes from the masses and only a few are from the rich, especially about 40 families who owns or control over the biggest part of the economy of the Philippines, the Philippines.
That's why even if the law sets, there are agencies that are serving the interest of the masses, it is allowed by the national politicians to build all the leadership of the agency.
In other words, if you are in Malacanang, everything will not be the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court and Congress in the jurisdiction of you.
Beware of us.
Not only the colonization of the job of others is what the "epal" does not only do.
They are going along with anyone who can be able to get along with but this is where they need to gather all the power of the Palace, Congress and the Supreme Court.
Pork barrel.
Look, for example, what is happening in the pork barrel scam, this is not just an issue of theft from the country's money and to answer to the thieves but is focused on this day to look like a real criminal case.
In the release of the warrant of arrest against the rival politicians, they realized that it will have an effect in the votes because it is as if he is guilty even if in the end the arrested will be acquitted.
It is said that it will take a huge number of politicians to be released by snatchers or arrest, "those who will be able to know are the ones who will be able to read and cleaning up.
Old times.
There is another way for the rival politicians to be able to get through and its opposing politician is a member of those who are expected to have tons of votes to be sure of votes.
This is where the controversy on the pork barrel or the Priority Development Assistance Fund) is being linked to the PDAF which will be removed from the hands of whoever who will not agree with the "road going to 2016.
The needle of the needle "will be disobeyed and clear path in 2016 which will be long until in the year 2022, the PDAF or pork barrel will be raised to the people, because they are just moving to the people's funds and projects in PDAF because they are just moving to the people.
Meow, reporting.
There are so many problems that should be faced first by the minds of politics and suffering for power of the leaders of the country.
Last was the broken peace in Mindanao that was supposed to be peace and full of doubts in the lives of many from Mindanao after the forces of Moro National Liberation Front in Zamboanga City has passed, with 24 wounded, and thousands were wounded.
The said group just seemed to just ignored the said group and now they are going to be pending.
201 dead!
Meanwhile, in the ranks of Hamen, it is sad to think that the government does not care about the murder of the Pamen because this is not doing any action to some of our wishes for how to stop the incessant killing in our ranks.
It is as if the government is not serious with what we want to focus on a special group that will focus on the media, to hasten the recognition of the media so that they can face the court and be punished.
Thousands of OFWs in Syria are thousands of OFWs in Syria.
It seems that the leadership of America is getting angry with his plan of attack in Syria to bomb the leadership there even if the United Nations has no blessing.
That's why we are expecting the bloody war, especially the incessant bombing, especially the incessant rain and shooting of the Americans in Syria and that is where thousands of our Overseas Filipino Workers who are in Syria may be involved.
It is true that the Commission on 4 or EEO in the evacuation of the government in all Overseas Filipino Workers but it appears that this is not with the appropriate action and now they are caught up in the possible fight in a poisonous chemical in the area.
Different souvenirs.
The oil price increase is also included in the destruction of oil price, rice price, and other ingredients in medicine, education and other basic needs.
Change.
If the leaders of the country will only prioritize the public and not their personal interests, it would have been far from the peace talks but to progress and good tomorrow.
