The payment: Piolo, Regal baby!
By Jojo Cabinet June 17, 2016.
Regal Entertainment Television, Inc. is made a movie for Piolo Pascual and Ronillo, the shooting will start on August 2016.
The second film of Piolo should be project is the second movie of Piolo in Regal because of 2002, she and Joyce Jimenez was able to catch up at the Tyo-I, Dr. Love, who came from the direction of Maryo J. delos Reyes.
His movie in the film that Mother Ignacia were able to face is what Piolo will face after his vacation in another country.
De Leon is bitter, the film director Mike de Leon seemed like a bitter agreement because of her pregnancy, "I became an expert of the anti-Marcos film, a sign of anti-Marcos propaganda to be held up with in extreme acting.
"Sister Salvacion L.
If he / she really has an acting acting of the mentioned actors, de Leon has a big responsibility because he did not make an agreement with the actor that was all an award.
And if only one of the indie films were Sister Salvacion L., why did de Leon wants to be blamed by the Asian Film Festival (Asukal) to be blamed because of his taste, he made a bad movie.
De Leon said that she is already old, "you are already old, right now, you are still old, but it is clear in her request that Sister Salvacion L.
After he read his criticisms against Mother lily, we had a point that it is not far away from the Liberal Party which is owned by de Leon, the Black Nazarene, the Black Nazarene, the Black and if you wake up.

Janella, she is also having a hard time with me!
Elmo Magalona from Janella Salvador.
Those who were able to watch the Special Action Force has proven that there are chemotherapy and Janella Salvador, the two stars in the same time of ABS-CBN that will start on Monday, June 20.
The co-in-tandem of Janella and Janella, who was given a Standard Lunch Program but was contradicted by those who were given a chance to see the Pilamepisode.
Ten days has been taping for Japan and Elmo, which is why they met each other for ten days.
Elmo narrated that it was hard for her scenes with Janella because she is having a point when she was stared at the eyes of the lady man.
It is proven by Janella, Elmo, said that she is also having a difficulty in their eye cream-eye Scene of the born calf.
