
Thousands of teachers, rushed to the Chamber for additional wages, budget for education.

By P2,500.
September 14, 2012.

The thousands of teachers are lined up for additional wages and additional budget for education, going to Batasan Pambansa.
Carrying their disagreements, more than 1,000 teachers marched towards Batasan Pambansa in the legislative chamber to suspend the House Bill 2124 which aims to raise the current salary received by the teachers from Salary grade 11.
The teachers also have also brought the additional budget for the sectors of education next year.
ACT said that not only their sector should be involved in the issue of additional wages for the teachers, but the different sectors of the citizens.
The Alliance of a concerned speaker (ACT-list was led by the said protest that aims to resolve the teachers and employees of the education sector from Metro Manila and also in nearby provinces.
Together with the teachers, who joined the country, Rizal and Bulacan.
"It is very important to make sure that our teachers will be given a decent salary, if we are serious about the good education of our youth (with this), the salary of the government that does not change," according to ACT, representative Antonio Tinio.
They were given salaries.
"It is very low, not only alive and the salary given by the teachers now is not good, even if there is an additional salary in the past four years, it is still not enough," France Castro, general secretary of ACT party.
They can't encourage the amount of salary for fast and continuous increase of basic goods and services.
According to Castro, Salazza, grade 11 was received by the wage increase of a teacher for P185.49.
But he even said that he has a lawyer who is just receiving 500,000 pesos to 6,000 pesos.
"We are also a priority of carrying the electoral race first, but it is against Magat Carta for Public High School, because you should not be able to treat each other, instead of Licensure-tempered, you should be given malice," Castro explained.
But it is saddening that the government does not pay attention to the teachers because they want to be fooled and will be saved.
"Why will the government have something to go against each other, while the government could have given their own-paid attention or regular teachers)?" Added Castro.
According to the leader of the teacher, a very important needs of the teachers will increase the salary of teachers and additional budget for education.
This is a reflection of how much the government give importance to the rights of the citizens.
"Salt-15, this is what we think is that the teacher in the corner of a small cart, this means that the next positions just like Teacher 1, Teacher 2, Teachers 3, Master Ka Freddie 1," Gordon even explained.
They have vast support.
The party-list could also be centered on the said protest under the nation's decision under the country's decision (Kamara) against the teachers of their call.
"Aside from the Reproductive health bill, it is HB 2142 who have the highest Co in Humalig), so we do not wonder why many of the lawmakers were able to deny it to HB 2142," said inauguration Representative Raymond Palino.
But Palerino said that there is a need to file a pusher from the public to wake up and hear the lawmakers' message that it is not enough to be able to make the said proposed law.
"What should be discussed in the committee level of this should be brought to the committee level.
But it is clearer that although the support that it is received by HB 2142 in the legislative chamber, it still hasn't been released yet because according to the Palace, Tinio explained.
"The primary obstacle here is Malacanang, Office of the President and DBM (Department of Budget and Management), just like the Aquino administration has no plans for the immediate action of the Aquino administration in 2013 or in the next year," Tinio explained, in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
Town Muna Rep. Teddy Casino, joined the fight of teachers.
Tinio also said that it is clear that an obstacle here is an obstacle.
"The government has not considered a priority to give a priority, although the defense of the committee cannot stop the increase," Tinio even explained.
According to Palerino, the teachers are part of the youth in this fight, according to him, the fight of teachers is also against the youth, because there are many young teachers also.
It is also the right of the youth with enough salary and benefits to their teachers, according to Palapal ino.
"This is what we are fighting for because it is being pushed for the future of our youth, he said.
APD and Rafael Mariano also called "the priority of the government, for the not passing of HB 2142 in spite of his wide support in the legislative chamber.
"The government (government) is still not able to give the highest priority in the budget, education, even in the proposed budget of DepEd (Department of Education) for 2013, which is about Php292 billion, second, if they are compared to the interest of the national government," according to Mariano.
He also said that this year, the budget is Php333-B (budget for interest in debt) for 2013, it has been added to Php800 million pesos worth of Php33339 billion pesos in order to pay for the interest in debt.
"There is no effect for the people to be blamed for now that there is also no non-Teaching personnel who are clear that there is no Zig," Tinio asserted, about the proposed budget in 2013.
Continuing to fight.
According to ACT, the teachers continue to focus on the Aquino administration to listen to their call for additional wages, not to listen to the corresponding punishment and additional budget for education.
The big action of the teachers is expected at the upcoming Miss International Day on October 5.
"They said, they cannot do anything but because we have proven that, when we have proven that, when the congressmen have already seen them, they can come into their call," according to Bayan Muna Rep. Teddy Casino.
"As long as the government is not moving forward, until it is not becoming a law, expect that they continue to fight not only the teachers and students, together with the youth and students, along with their teachers," said Palapal ino.
Tinio said that they did not want to repeat what happened in the past, after Salazole, 6 years old, just like what happened during the time of Gloria Arroyo, before the price of goods increase, the price of goods increase.
Gabriela Representative Edcel Lagman said that the fight of the teachers will be successful if they continue to be disqualified by each other and continue to show their strength.
"We can't reach our situation now if the teachers are not able to show up the strength of the teacher in order to show that the government should not just leave the rights of teachers for a decent salary," according to De Jesus.
