
Robbery in PAGCOR, the security guards.

Maybe it would be better if the Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation of the Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation will only be a source of payment.
"That is the call of our Usahay, after he saw the severe number of the basic security of PAGCOR.
Robbery is a number of times that happened inside PAGCOR but it seems that only natural event would be the victim inside the casino.
Why?
Because, when you have robbed, it is up to your life even if it has happened inside the casino in the government.
The answer of Agency.
So, if the security you are against PAGCOR came from PAGCOR, it came from the security guards, it is certain that it is a dischallenge to them those who are missing from the robbery.
Is that correct?
So, "surely, that will surely be strict and the widespread theft will stop.
Political ACCOPLAN).
We know where the majority of Moro security officer of PAGCOR came from.
Where else?
So, "political dyation, most of them are relatives or children of politicians who are in position.
That's why there!
Most of them are left!
We are personal victims.
Just like ultimatum at the time that he once went to Paving.
Let us enter, Bro, in Nueva Ecija to use the bathroom here, we confronted a security of PAGCOR, who was known to the name of Cuba.
When Madi went out of the CR, we are just enough to beat up the security guard and eat it from head to foot.
That is because of that, they are strict and there they are good because they want to show to the customers inside the casino that they are taking a bonfire of PAGCOR.
When we complained to the management of PAGCOR to Pavors, the incident became stronger, Cuba became brave and asked to report the ultimatum.
Tsk, tsk, tsk!
The CCTV is useless.
When the robbery of the cellphone happened last September. 14, 2013, 2: 15 in the early morning inside Pavors casino, there was a need to complain several times before the foolishness.
It took 4: 30 at dawn before the complainant saw the result of the CCTV.
Reason of bad officials at the Surveillance Response "2: 15 that happened, it was around 3: 00 in the morning, that's why we were able to take it to us!"
Tsk, tsk, tsk!
"What should you do?
Maybe you are sleeping in a noodle house?
The slave was tortured.
When the CCTV camera was brought to the security guard the video, it was immediately watched by the security guard in the leadership of duty officer Alcala.
And when the complainant met with the witness, they wanted to watch the video in order to determine whether they are in doubt that the security officer answered that he is prohibited to watch.
It is said that PAGCOR can only peeked through it.
The complainant needs to force her right before he was allowed by the security.
Eggplants for a long time.
In short, after all the process that reached out when it was dawn, they did not even make the security guards to ease the resentment inside the knife.
Even though this is not even discussed by the police or give other evidence to be used in filing a case.
They also said that they can only give a picture or any evidence if they will write and make a formal doctor.
Oh, that is really time!
Isn't it that you have to pay the missing cellphone because you have not been paid by the government to guard the casino and then, they will just get away from you?
Hala 2 in HE.
It seems that the robbery in Pavors was only natural.
You do not see any action or any worry about the security.
There, two days passed, the thieves, who, according to the investigation of ultimatum, was the thief who was known in the casino at the alias Bazza or Bruce Rivera.
"That's it, that is how the local security of PAGCOR is useless.
Why?
It's because they are thinking that they are thinking for 15-30 but of course, you are not sure that you get rid of you, that is your problem!
Ask for a bad wheelchair.
Chairman Junifer Edrada, the victims were calling for multiple times.
PAGCOR had used all their money, even the cellphone was taken away?
One of the wish is to pay attention to the security force there.
It seems that they do not know how to support the victims until the authorities let the crimes happening in their jurisdiction to achieve justice.
If the security force is like that, it is scary to think that one day the client will become victims of more serious crime and it comes to PAGCOR).
