Kabarteries of "Calata" in UP.

Just last February were the students, employees and teachers from the university of the Philippines (UP) because of the sudden change in the month of school for the next year of school for the next year.
In the achen-year-2015, August, this will be the start of the school that will end on the month of May of UP System due to the opposition of the professor which ended up in the issue or not here, but in other countries, this will be implemented.
According to him, he said, to be the one to be sent to the company of UP: He is able to encourage the foreign students and professor to rise up, based on the reports of the ASEAN University Network or AUN.
This step is approved by the Board of Regulations of UP from the votes of the majority of February 6 which were said to be supported by the administrator last February 6.
But for the Congress of September / Eve for National Capital Region and Democrats in UP (Conro or UP), the students and professor in UP are not able to benefit more, and not the students and professor in UP will benefit more.
"He guarantees our calendar in the calendar in the calendar, especially for the poor, but for the poor but it is not able to rush the implementation of our calendar, which is why the administration (UP Diliman," said the administration (UP Diliman, "stated in English.
Calamudi, no basis.
According to Emmanuel De God, economists and professor in UP High School in economics, he is not against the initiative of its total meaning because it is allegedly a result of a university which is a result of a university which he is going to his conscience, "he was visited by the professor and students from another country.
But in the readiness and process of its hope for now, it will not be effective for those who want to achieve, according to the professor.
Evangeline Amor's University Regular ar said that the 81 provinces which are worth 43 percent of global warming, Philippines have not started last August or September.
The six university in Australia (February and the start), a 38 university in Japan (April), and a 37 university in Korea (March).
"Fight IT led to the academic, the bureaucracy.
According to Marivic Sy iza Espiritu, professor from the National Center for Public Administration, the representative of UP Diliman, was not able to have a meaningful debate for the burial, no one can be found in a critical condition for the possible implementation of its implementation.
"We, in the other hand, he / she was seen to be in a place in front of Calanoga and a major competition in Major-IBIG," according to Flordeliza Espiritu.

Ramon Guillermo, the professor in the College of Arts UP Diliman, and the president of the all UP Diliman, La Union, had different level of consultation that happened in UP Diliman, which is why they were able to follow the positive and negative effects of the country.
With the five pages which is the policy of the UP administration for the burial, the argument or basis of the country was not enough, according to Guillermo, according to Guillermo.
"In many camayes, there was an intensive search for the voting in our opinion that no one hundred pesos was visible during the colleges," according to Guillermo.
According to Gerry Lanuza, the professor in the town of UP, UP seemed to have an experiment on the burial; if it will be successful, he will follow other university in the entire Philippines.
"Icherness, the will to go to the students, WILLIE," according to Lanuza, "according to Lanuza," according to Lanuza, "according to Lanuza.
In the study of The Acting or Calamian Group of Doctor Maria Bernadette Sembrano, of Department of history, it is more important to know when classes will end to vacation instead of when the classes will open.
It is allegedly included in the consideration for the months of vacation for the months of vacation, tomatoes, and being comfortable of the students inside the school.
"It was we we were able to look at the good location of Taba? Tantos, no good thing to think of who will benefit from this?
Meanwhile, according to Victor Paz, professor in Pahiram ng Mangguray, UP Diliman, the prior to the calendar, there was an effect in their research as a short trip.
It is time for the rainy season that it would be the best time to study and may not be able to do it if the calendar will change.
"We need a good time during summer, dry up when there are classes in summer, we will be forced to buy or to school, we can still do the calendar, we can't be able to change the calendar," according to Paz.
According to Krista Melaxing, a student of UP, there is no one to tell that the current academia or human rights are not working.
Different effects.
It is not only the change in the month of the year of school, but they were included in choosing the manger and course of the students, and it is easy to sell the students, and together with "an assurance," said the UN.
Guillermo also said that the professor was struggling in UP Los Banos (Laguna) to have a "Tulay na Daan" by their subjects that they have to choose to be sold or competing at the UN.
In UP Manila Development Authority, there is a program review that they will give way to a tribe-mannered and disapprove of them a limited budget for the anomalous subjects, according to Guillermo.
"Calamudi," we, "Can," according to Guillermo, "according to Guillermo.

According to Melaxing, as a couple of month in the Philippines, the months of March, April, and May, there is a need of a good governance for the classes and this can't be done if they are too hot.
"We should also show that the price of electricity will increase, that is why it is not far to have additional bills when there is a rainy season because the government and their families are not going to pass it to the students and their families who are to be passed on to the students and their families.
According to Lanuza, the temperature in 2020, the temperature will increase in 2020, according to the researchers, it is expected that the rainy season will increase in the following days so it will be harder for class.
Most of those who are allegedly in facilities like electric fan are not working or not in the classroom, Lanuza, added.
Melgboro is added, the Philippines still remains high, which is why many parents still remain in the time of rainy season to send their children to school.
"This has an effect especially that there are a lot of students who are not able to study because parents cannot do their small earnings in harvest and wait for the August," according to Melgareth.
More than more.
But even before the initiative to be released, it is better that we need to focus and improve the UP not only for the foreigners but for the Filipinos themselves.
"Written IGAPAMORE by the International Space Station for the address which was going to be sent to the funeral parlor, which was supposed to be transferred to his / her biased.
De God added that it does not mean that his immediate action to the character of the university is the reason why we have changed every month of entering, foreign students and teachers will pour here.
"There are a lot of things that we need to make," a dormitory of students, if you do not have a way to your own students, thank you for your own students, thank you for your own students? "Thank you for your own students?" Thank you, "according to De God.
According to De God, it is the best way to cover-up the foreign students, through good treatment of your own students, do not expect that foreign students are going to be able to get a lot.
Improving the condition of your own person is the foundation of the interest to be given, according to De God.
"We Are-A University, which was a serious case, was said to be the declaration of the t-worth of Our Teaching Hospital of We-12 units, 9 units, 9 units, and Humalig), according to De God.
It is said that this should be lessened and allocate enough time for the country to increase this way as well as if it will increase in a university which will increase and the reputation will increase and that is where foreign students will increase.
Meanwhile, according to Mella Cruz, no one in the calendar were the problem of UP but the needs for a higher budget, even if there is no sufficient budget for the university, it is not assurance that the standing of UP will improve the international community.
"It is not the entry of foreign students what the administration should think of, they should also think of how many Filipinos will join the UP," according to Melaquiña.
The administration of UP wants the university to worsen in this kind of change, Lanuza, in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
"If the administration of (President Alfredo) Pascual said that it was a miscarriage of UP, it should just dismiss the Social Weather Program (Soccorridor the salary of Noni) for a higher budget for a higher budget for the university, the end of Lanuza.
