
Why does not believe PNoy?

PNoy is very happy if he thought that the feelings for him by our citizens will change and we will lose their dismay after his nationwide television address because it turns out that he is full of pity but has no action.
This is just here in the case of Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala and National Food Authority (NFA) directly to change the reason why PNoy has no plans to change the cases of the pork barrel scam, Janet Lim-Napoles, and still cannot be moved from his position.
They are the reason why PNoy will explain even if he is doing everything for the country, nothing will believe in him.
Our countrymen is not yet removed from the minds of our countrymen who will be protected from the corrupt government.
It appears that although PNoy is hard against corruption, if his opponents in politics are being discussed, it will be a heart of respect if those who get involved are his allies.
"Oh, isn't it that even before the names of who are related to Napoles, their names have already started to be forgotten, and not even if they have not yet been buried in the plunder case filed against Napoles and some lawmakers who are in the opposition.
Is that "Tuwid na Daan"?
To my knowledge, this justifiable government should not be recognized as an ally if the interest of the country is being discussed.
How can we believe that the President's intention is clean with the right cases of corruption that was filed against some personalities in politics, if this includes his allies?
If you think about it, PNoy's solution is simple in order to show off the damaged post of his administration, it is only needed to show to our citizens that he doesn't take sides when it comes to his campaign against corruption.
If he is diligent in the alleged corruption that is allegedly involved with the opposition, well, his perseverance should be investigated to investigate the corruption of his colleagues.
Maybe it is not bad, Mister President, if you will be proud of the increase in the increase of Tyo and black spirits which are under the Department of Justice Secretary Ramon Paje, or dresses, so they will scrutinize the transactions of Napoles at the Department of Agriculture after he sat in his position.
It is also not bad if he will look at it as a role of Ochoa who has been involved with Napoles, aside from the numerous controversies that he involved in the administration, is it not enough for him to be kicked out?
But all of these cannot be done by PNoy because he still does not have a difference with people who have been criticized.
