Judy Taguiwalo.

(1) he met Maita Gomez on the examination of an agreement, in an early part of 2006, he did not want to understand what he was talking to.
Production. Jose Maria Sison said that the last conversation of Maita was happened at around 8: 00 in the evening until around 4: 00 in the evening until it was also a good visit to the politics and economy of the country, he is also good to hide his beauty in politics and economy of the country.
(2-year-old, Maita, generous in the house of the youth who have been moving near his former house in Malate, Manila, he was fed and helped by the masses, he is always talking to a job, without an assurance that he is hoping for a job, without an assurance that he is hoping for a job or are hardworking.
Maita is also generous in my views and stories, "she said, she is very careful with her allies, she said, she should not wake up with an assurance that she will be able to wake up to the second wife of her husband and she said that he / she wasn't able to wake up to the second wife of her husband," she said, "she was not telling myself to him!
What's good with Maita, he is generous in the story and commentary on his story, she is not able to feel the entirety of John Berlin, 2001, he was happy that he gave the entirety of John Berlin, 2001. "He was happy that he gave the most-year-old person in the country, to the people.
(3) for sure, he is ready to give and sacrifice, he is ready to give and sacrifice, he is also included in the New People's Army who died from his house at Women of Marcos because he is still sleeping for his colleagues in Womb of Marcos because he is beautiful but not true, he said.
In the past, he was with a male farmer in the NPA, whom he thinks is that, because he came from the police's route, he agreed to die, "he walked away," he walked away, "he walked away," he walked away, "he went away."
(4), Maita, like friends, does not have a serious talk about what she was not able to explain.
He is also ready to be the center of humor, when he once asked for an advice about the life of my husband, "first of all, the white cloth she bought," a joke, "the white woman whom I bought now!"
(5) the friends of Maita will be surprised at her sudden loss because they know he has diabetes, but they thought that he will go to the wake of Maita, they did not even thank you for all of his help to them.
It is true, Maita does not want to talk to the public his life, but his death, that is why she wants to help him in the middle of the concrete lives that we are helping, most of his statement is the best that we can help in our country, progressive, activists.
