The law and the ordinance should be implemented and implemented.
June 4, 2016 - the Philippines is under the right path to support the women and the ordinances that will be filed against bad and unetiquette.
The local government who get along with their hard work to change the culture of "Ipit Gang" in the Philippines is very commendable.

Included in the local government officials are Quezon City and Davao City.

It is possible that there are other cities and municipality that have this kind of ordinance, and you are among those that will be carried away by them.
In Quezon City, the brooks are still scattered in order to inform everyone, residents of the city or not, that those who are rude in the city are everywhere, especially those who are rude in the city, especially the pirates of their mayor, now only the only ones of their mayor, now, President-elect Rodrigo Duterte.
In the ordinance by Quezon City, the kinds of rudeness in the woman with a heavy punishment in jail and fine, even said by the scattered clouds in the city, "it is expensive to be rude in QC."
It is true that the four who will face a serious case will be the one who will face a complaint of harassment from women.

According to him, it has not been proven that the accusation against him is true, they are spending on it.
Touching.
"If you are protected by Quezon City, their women are protected by the camp of President-elect Duterte, also as well as Davao City.
It is just a mystery that the former mayor is being made by the former mayor and it seems that there are violations against the said ordinance which he signed, but he insisted, he did not have any malice to the lady senator Mariz Umali but this is "writ of Hala". "
The Women's group, Gabriela, has already spoke about a kind of unique part of "Ipit Gang" of the Philippines, which they have been fighting with and being questioned.

The first PNP Chief, Chief Superintendent Ronald "Bato" dela Rosa, has an agreement with the police, with an ordinance or not, will not be given to the women.
It means that, the recognition of everyone (to dialing the majority), which is not good deeds, is clear.
Let us continue the good steps that will support good manners and respect for women.

Whatever can be seen and heard from the own leaders of the country that should serve as a good example of being a gentleman and decent Filipino.
