Selling of drugs in BuCor is still an expert.

Even though the director of the Bureau of Correctional Reforms, Ret. General Gailagutan Pangilinan, is an expert and the sale of drugs in the prison especially in the Pacific Ocean.
In some text messages also received and some information gathered by the UV Expresses, this is because of all sorts of colony on the said jail from different types of drug lords and drug lords.
Even before Pangilinan was not lost in BuCor, the plague of the community who was spreading drugs in jail in exchange of a huge amount was gone.
The price for almost half to two apples are price when they return to Muntinlupa.
That is why according to the information, there is no reason for Pangilinan to return.
It was found out that Justice Secretary Leila de Lima attempted to stop the return of a few colony assigned by Pangilinan but he still escaped from a good secretary.
Now, according to text messages, Pangilinan was strong in prison that Pangilinan will return to President Benigno Aquino III and it seems that he is super strong with President Benigno Aquino III and it seems that his lack of lack and mistakes made in the national prison.
Pangilinan filed a leave of death after the news that was kidnapped inside the prison, Rolthis Go and his nephew he / she took care of.
But the reports came out who is really going out of the prison to gamble.
The prisoners do not want to return to General Pangilinan because they do not want to be in power by his classmate in the Philippine Military Academy (PMA), who is a police and his companions due to the mistreatment of the prisoners.
These were really happy recently when the police took the dungeon exchange for being stubborn.
It is said that the former police is still trying to increase in power and some people in the cage that is why the punishment was sentenced.
The prisoners and relatives of them are call for President Noynoy to just choose another person who will inherit the prison and should not force what he wants Pangilinan.
Not only the prisoners were demote to the management of Pangilinan but also his employees.
Because he was still left by some personnel, the sale of drugs continues and the victim was all prisoners.
It is also the call for Secretary De Lima to investigate the return of foreign businessmen who are scattered on drugs in the society in Muntinlupa from different places.
Colony.
According to him, de Lima will favor the complaints of the people in a different colony in order to return to Muntinlupa because he got infected with illness.
