War TECAYETANO in politics and GIDs.

Many war will be faced by my beloved Philippines at present.
One of the war launched by the Filipinization of the Sultanate of Sulu in Sabah to recover the said territory of the Philippines from Malaysia.
There is a different war on the forces of the government against the New People's Army.
And do not forget, there is a war in politics in relation to the election this May 2013.
The Sultanate of Sulu.
The government has been charged against Sulu Sultan Jamalul Kiram III with a person in the royal family fighting Sabah.
Because of his send to the armed forces in Sabah, the cause of the conflict between the Philippines and Malaysia, the National Bureau of Investigation is going to investigate this.
The charge against Kiram is going to push through and others if it is proven that he violated the law of our country which aims to create any action which is the start of war.
The streets are everywhere, currently everywhere.
But until all of these can reach up?
Even if the authorities are still small with the group Kiram, maybe they will just think about it, it is not easy to think that they are not able to go back to the small but also blind.
If the government was able to go home and went blind, he will get to find a person walking on the edge of the cliff who might fall, get hurt, and whatever else.
What do we think of thinking, not just some parts of Mindanao but other parts of Mindanao but also other parts of the Philippines, like Metro Manila because of this controversy?
Peaceful.
Even if we are nervous because of the suspension of the Kiram to pass, our hearts will be lightened with what we witness to many muslims and christians to make the problem instead of building it.
And our request to our government is to give more attention to the happening in Sabah because of the death of the members of the royal family and thousands have been harassed there for now.
Thousands of people were forced to evacuate from the chaos and among the Malaysia place in Sabah.
Thousands have been forced to go home to the Philippines and went to Sulu, Tawi-Tawi, Basilan and other places in Mindanao.
Mix the NPA.
A part of the movement of the New Peoples Army is part of the implementation of the military forces against the forces of the government and other people believed by their allies or allies of them against them.
No matter what time they are doing the attack.
March 29.
But their attack is special during the harvest that they bought last March 29.
They do this as part of their desire to change the system of our society for those who are believed to be the system.
One thing that the government is going to understand is why he is not crushed by the movement.
The NPA does not cringe at the sea that creates and livelihood for millions of their supporters.
The government should do something aside from being proud of this "straight path."
There is a deeper problem that should be faced and given solution by the government for the NPA to do their weapons, "arse" and "traslacion" for the benefit of the entire citizens.
War!
It appears in two fields that politicians are involved in the election 2013.
This is the campaign according to the law of Mang Sixto Brillantes.
One is front of the survey.
The hands of Mang Sixto did not make it hard for the politicians who violate the law in the election.
There are those who vote buying in different ways.
They are claiming big tarpaulins.
To discredit.
But it is the worst to discredit one another.
To those who are in one side, the corrupt are followers of the other group.
Meanwhile, despite this, the followers of those who have violated the products are negligent and negligent of Juan.
Whoever is and whatever team wants in the next leaders of the Senate, Congress and local government, then they will know after the election.
In a survey.
"Others say that the observation of whoever among them is the one with the survey.
The accusations here are on each other, especially when saying that there is "money" in the surveys.
It is up to you, Bro, what is the meaning of this.
Hehehe!
When the surveys are released, there are people who are brimming.
There are those committing the path to the candidates and on these events, there are people in favor.
What team-team there?
Everyone can be removed from the Team dead, Team Buhay, Team Albayalde, and whatever team has thought of form the politicians.
In other words, there are additional wage increase in the team and they have their own secret to talk to their opponents just to win even if the survey is contrary to the survey.
