Cooperation with love.

By Priscilla Mireilles?
TV September 9, 2013.

Jane Guda in North Vietnam, 1972 (from "Letups, Jane" of DZiga Tv Group).
The hair is confused, in front of a Bakag, that is the popular actor, Jane Fonbuena, in 1972.
In the middle of the implementation of the military by the US to the country Vietnam, in North Vietnam, part of the country who is free from the direct control of the US and against the local government of South Vietnam, the American troops who want to know the situation of the Philippine government of the US is often hit by the bandits of the US.
In that year, 1972, it was reported that the government's plan is reported to bomb the dike and dams opened in North Vietnam through the said plan of Nixon) in the said plan, he went to North Vietnam to express the cooperation of North Korea.
Fonbuena is in a picture of the anti-aircraft gun in North Vietnam, 1972.
North Vietnam were able to talk to the officials, soldiers, soldiers, leaders of the American soldiers, including the American soldiers who were very popular with the anti-UV Expresses who took advantage of the airplane of America and kill his fellow Americans.
Since he went home to America until now, Fonbuena is asking for an apology to the said photo of America, and he did not think of hurting his fellow American, even his soldiers, but he was not asking for an apology to the North Vietnam, or especially in his fight in Vietnam.
In the ranks of the progressive and Lefur, Fonda were also criticized in the top of the top, a 50-year-minute documentary by DZiga Tantos, which is why they still spoke as an American, not yet to be progressive or revolutionary taxes that the public hopes to release from the abuse of the few.
Two Pransis has a point, but they can also use this arguments against them: Do they have a limitation on the armed fight against the Spanish colonizers?
The DZiga Tv Group is the picture on top of Fonbuena, but what they say is the limitation of their participation, and even the form of their movies, only a few would be happy and be happy.
Here, perhaps, you will find the lesson in the present one: It is clear that there is a limit in their sympathy, even if you will be able to forget his knowledge on the reality of those who are being able to explain, he will be able to forget his knowledge about the reality of those who are being talked to, those who are going to talk to each other, it is also the responsibility of the progressive people who are going to be recognized in Fonbuena, along with the progressive people.
In the picture on top of the top, you can see the possibility of unity and relationships that is possible for a part of Elite, for an actor, she is still an actress, her skin is white, her skin is white, it is clear from the Elite.
The case will change if he goes to Vietnam to be black, so that the transformation will be ruined and the transformation will be complete from the Intertropical Convergence Zone.

Watch "

A video was on YouTube that was an interview with Jane Fonbuena in 1972 about the Vietnam War and fighting against the Americans.

Priscilla Mireilles?
Priscilla Pamintuan confirmed a part-time to save the political writer who has a short-time film.
