
The proposed fare increase in MRT was approved.

(This news was published on the issue of 11-12 of the Philippine Cologne last 1970, 2012.
Rocco Patricia HBorbe.
Different sectors are taking advantage of the increase in fare increase in the public Rail Transit for the year 2013.
In the budget hearing by the Department of Transportation and Communications (DOTC) in the legislative chamber last August 23, DOTC Secretary Manuel Roxas III stated that the proposed increase in fare for the Metro Rail Transit 3 (MRT 3) next year will continue.
The government is now everywhere with more than ten-year operation of the MRT 3.
Meanwhile, the Light Rail Transit (LRT) may have undergone the cancellation to be able to provide for its operation, according to the railway of the citizens (railway) Network, the Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan again against the additional fare increase in MRT.
January 2011 when the LRT operation was approved by the LRT Authority (LRTA) to increase the fare of Metro Rail Transit, but the proposal did not push through after it gathered criticisms against the information gathered in February 2011.
In the initial proposal, the fare of MRT 3 from the current 15-3 from the current 15 pesos will increase more than 30 pesos in LRT 1 and 2 from the current 20 pesos.
However, there is still no new list of fares for the year 2013, according to LRTA, according to LRTMC, according to LRTMC, according to the people that will be held last 2011, based on the people that will be faced by the DOTC, the agency explained.
Added.
It is estimated that there have been half a million people riding the MRT 3 every day, and a 76 million pesos to those with monthly income that are more than 10,000 pesos, according to the Mega Manila Public Transport Terminal of DOTC last 2007.
In the separate study of the DOTC last 2010, it was stated that there was no doubt in the agency that there will be a number of bus or jeep with the said 76-peso increase if fares increase in train will increase.
"Fight IT led to the US of the LRT-MRT), which was held up by the Islamic Liberation Front in the Libingan ng mga Bayani," according to the New Nationalist Alliance (Bayan), according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), led by the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), alliance with the anomalous organization.
The government is currently answering the P40 gap between the MRT from the real total amount of its total amount of P55.65 for the year 2010, according to DOTC.
Last 2010, about 1.9 billion worth of profit from the fare and P12 million from the non-Metro Rail Transit and P12 million worth of selling MRT 3 in one year, according to LRTMC.
However, the income of LRTMC is not enough because of more than 2,000 pesos of debt of the government for the construction of MRT 3.
"In terms, commuters as well-to pay for the country, which is being given to the construction of the construction in the construction of the MRT," said bakeshop, the poorest group of the youth.
"Payment for debt.
Year 2000 was the 13 station of MRT 3 that was running over 17 kilometers from North Avenue in Quezon City until Taft Avenue in Pasay City.
In the agreement held by the government, the government has a promise that the company is signed, aside from the payment for debt that was used for the construction of the MRT 3, it appears that the money to be paid for the debt of the government is coming out, the people's money to be given to the government's debt.
Based on the agreement, 60 pesos is set for the MRT 3, however, because it is only 10 billion pesos only in the first month of the start of the operation, the fare and the government are increasing the payment for the lack of operation, Sammy Malhes, one of those connected to the rails.
Aside from MRTC, the government also borrowed money from other private companies, even in the institutions that were given by the government like the Land Transportation Office when the MRT 3 was complete, the debt of the companies were complete, based on data from LRTMC.
"There is a need to dismiss the contract on the private companies that the Filipinos should only do to milk the public transportation in this way, the entire country, and not only Manila will benefit," said Malis.
Despite the additional fare, the proposed budget of DOTC on the year 2013 for the mass could be great, which is higher than the price of MRT the use of additional bills and not for the proper improvement of service to the railway, according to the Bayan.
The entry of the government on the agreement in the private companies, this only means of putting his Abaya in response to the primary needs of his citizens and the result of the continuous increase in price of goods, according to Solmayor.
