
"Glenda M." by the people?

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
July 24, 2012.

It's the SONA of the country's SONA: There is a goal to expose and shun the administration because he will contradict his citizens. (Macky Macasac).
The citizens did not be deceived during the alleged illusion that Benigno Aquino III has been deceived by the State of the Nation Address (SONA), in fact, on the second year of the administration of Aquino, "according to the President, he is full of burden to them.
Up to more than 10,000 are workers, youth and teachers, poor people, employees of the government, family of Overseas Filipino Workers (OFW), and others protested at the stretch of Commonwealth Avenue, after hundreds of policemen arrived at Commonwealth Avenue.
The militants denied the content of the SONA of PNoy (several years Quijano.
"The citizens already known that this government is just for a few of the few of Inclumsy, but it seems that the lack of work, poverty and hunger and hunger.
This is the tone of this kind of protest that led to Aquino's policies, which is said to be a burden to the citizens, including the Public-Private Conejero, oil, and other goods, mining, and other commodities; the American troops in the country, and others.
"When the workers who announced by Elmer" Bong "
Opening it.
The people's anger is what pushed them to attack the bark of the police at around 3: 30 in the afternoon, which resulted in the violent hit by the police for those who arrived, using cellphones, and rocks.
Up to 95 are wounded in their ranks, the reason why he needed to be rushed to the hospital is one of those who was embarrassed to be rushed to the hospital, included here is Vicdy Sabino, general secretary of Promotion for Church People's veillance Response or PCPR, a group of people in the church.
While it is happening to the violent damage left behind by Aquino's SONA, the SONA of Aquino started inside Batasan Pambansa, including one of the first things that he allegedly mentioned about "harassment of the powerful," that was why he was deprived of their rights, he said, he was the one who spent the right, "he said.
Tinte believes, spokesperson of Karylle, "while he mentioned it, the citizens are violent," in the protest, he first called Aquino as a thief of the right and peace of the citizens. "
The group of 99 victims have recorded an extra murder under the Aquino administration, and there are still a lot of victims of attempted murder, kidnapping, and illegal arrest, he was blamed in the implementation of the program against insurgency and Oplan Galugad conducted by the President in his SONA.
"It is clear that Aquino doesn't take sides, but also the Lord Almighty and businessmen who are still waiting for the AFP (Armed Forces of the Philippines) to be slow down by the farmers," according to Marie Hao-Enriquez, the chairman of Karylle.
On Facebook, the leader of the youth, Vencer Crisostomo, is about the speech of Aquino: A SONA 2012 in a point, she dreamed of awake, and was woken up to FRIENDS.
It is real condition.
The bandit group emphatically refuted that there are still many of the words uttered by the President in his SONA.
Part of this is the continuous decrease of the crash site of 6.9 percent in April this year, compared to Lito Ustadz ez, executive vice-President of Alunan, "it seems that the government has been telling the jobs that they consider as a job."
On the daily studies of Ibon Foundation, the amount of employment under Aquino has increased at 9.3 percent, the Aquino administration has created their jobs, most of this is a part of regular workers.
"Malacanang is already an expert in hiding lack of work, it can be said that four workers are also a part-time and may lose their jobs any time," according to Adik-sweat, Rafael Mariano, one of the priorities focused on the "SONA of the country on the road.
Canatoy said, ACT, Representative Antonio Tinio said that it is not mentioned by Aquino that most of the teachers and nurses who are opposing against the government have been against each other.
"The President also did not mention that there is no increase in the salary of government employees in 2013," Tinio added.
Fraud in this issue.
Aquino also boasted about the said increase of the number of Filipinos which is part of PhilHealth, that up to 85 percent, it is possible that it is possible for the common Filipinos in health services, he has promised to give advice.
But it was denied by Doctor Gene Nawo, chairman of Health Organization (ALS), from PGH (Philippine General Hospital), 30 percent of the patients have grown up with PhilHealth, "said Nesor, she said that it has not been a country who has been able to attend the ballot.
Aquino plans to implement the 26 public hospitals, that the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office is planning to increase in hospitals, which is usually running away by the poor, that's why it is strongly opposed by women.
"It is clear that foreign banks and donned are clear in this program who are able to make sure that this corporation is earning our hospitals," said Joms Salvador, Deputy Secretary General of Gabriela.
Salvador further clarified that what the women need is free and centered on his SONA, it is not the one responsible for the RH bill to pass the proposed law of Gabriela Women's Liberal, but it is not only about the sake of the filipino masses, and not to control the population.
Gabriela believes that Aquino's version is not being pushed through the true needs for the health services of women, but in controlling the population as the answer to poverty.
Failed in the youth.
From the uncontrollable fit of what he was able to do for education, Aquino visited the youth, who are planning to take shelter in order to hammer nails in Mendiola. "
Aquino said that the budget is added to the State Universities (Colleges, which is why if there is something to tell the budget of education, we convince you to convince your schools that will give to your schools that will give to your schools that will give you to your school, according to you, he said.
"This is even an insult to the youth, according to Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Anakbayan," that's what he said last year, that the budget for education has increased, "that is for the salary of the teachers under the SSL 3 (Salompa Street."
What is worse, says, is the giving of condition for the "increase in the budget of SUCs from the budget of SUCs from what the Aquino administration wants to say, for defense and entry of a private capital to earn money.
In a statement, the Sangguniang Party-list of "
"The K + 12 is not doing anything, but also a text message, because they are detained for a job that is cemented and has a low salary in other countries," according to UN Representative Raymond Palino.
Quiet in Hacienda Luisita, "brain" of charter change.
"Brigada Eskwela will also be criticized by groups that will ruin PNoy because of the continuous movement and widespread mining, while those who have been able to go to environment will have been filled with nature.
Aquino also promised that in his term, the distribution of land to the farmers under Carper (Comprehensive Tax Reform Program with extension of Tax) will be finished.
But the hundreds of farmers from Hacienda Luisita, protested because of the failure of Cojuangco-Aquino, until now, the land of the farmers, in spite of the order of the Supreme Court.
"The statement of Aquino is an insult to the farmers," according to Atty. Jobert Rapisora, who believes that the distribution of land is not complete until it has not yet been declared as "Careder," he said it was not a joke.
According to Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines (KMP), they said that the President will mention Carper "to show the pro-Land reform, but he will not mention the Hacienda Luisita."
Meanwhile, even though Aquino did not mention a charter change, the Kiblawan PNP believes the "brain" of the new pushers for the change in the Constitution, "as a true owner of the land," said Antonio Flores, spokesperson of Kibalabag.
The call of the poor.
It was initially reported that the poor cities of Kalapati, Damayang Lagi, asked for the call to oust Aquino, that they are carrying a big black towel.
"This call is right because of the cruelty to our lives and houses of the Marcos regime, many of us are poor workers because in the downhill amount of salary and lack of work, according to Carlito Pagion, second chairman of Castilla.
The demolition of poor community will go back to the consecutive days after Aquino took office for sure, a President being understanding to the poor should not remain in power.
