
Drugs "can't go through BOC, boils?

Congratulations!

Some members of the international drug syndicates do not work out of the surge of the members of the Bureau of Customs (BOC) under the leadership of Commissioner Ruffy Biazon as well as it is not only painful to them but their wings are increasing.
This is also what happened to the Fil-Tropas that Campt O.
Pardo not declared his gunshot wounds in the part of the gun, which was why when he passed through the x-ray, and he saw illegal drugs immediately confiscated and arrested for a Fil-Tropas.
It was proven that they have no documents and the Philippine National Police-Firearms and Explosive Office (PNP-Flintshire) did not push through.
Almost every day, Biazon and his personnel have been doing all sorts of things.
It was made up by the government for ugly news that come out due to corruption in other offices and branches of the government.
The people should not give themselves to Biazon and his loyal personnel but also added to him.
And just like Biazon, the chief of PNP-Flaris, Chief Supt. Raul Petrasanta, should also be given an intense competition since it is not tired of going around the agencies of the government to ensure that the guns of those who are watching are licensed.
There are also a few pillars of the government who visited General Aglipay, with his officials and personnel to ensure that the private security guards are following the rules of the government for having a gun.
The command of the general who is a member of the Philippine Military Academy (84) is part of his support in the campaign of President Benigno Aquino III and PNP against the legislative chamber.
The goal of General Petrasanta is needed to be implemented in the Oplan Galugad conducted by Bowie, to ensure that the guns used by the guards are licensed and even a few private individuals.
It is also the purpose of this to avoid twins who have a gun of guns by the security.
The public hopes that the officials of the government like Biazon will increase and prove that the Palace will really be proud of.
