The payment: Francisco and American BF, in Italy, will get married!
"
By Jojo Cabinet June 10, 2016 is sure that she will be married to who is named Frank Resma who is getting married in SSeptember 2016.
The wedding of Francisco ine and Frank Malabed, Italy is going to be held this November for the family and close friends of the actress.
"We want to be fun and beautiful," was the answer of Francisco's answer when we asked why Frank Resma was chosen to get married in Italy. "Aldoms," the person who could be married in Italy, "the one joking," the man who was joking, "was a joke but was able to kill.
Someone was chosen to be identified as Francisco ine who is a local designer is chosen to make his own words to lose weight because of his own words, "in nude Are Forever."
It is the US-based in the Philippines that is often in the Philippines because he also misses Francisco that is also considered by Frank Epperson in our country.
Identice, who is very popular in showbiz!
Myles Acobo Armada, the name of the student owned by Maricel Laqueza and resident of Barangay Bagbag, Novaliches, Quezon City, was arrested by the members of the Philippine National Police Anti-Carnapping Unit last Tuesday because of the immediate complaint of Maricel.
Arlus said that he used the picture and name of Maricel and his children to ask for money from acquaintances and friends of the actress for the outreach program of Maricel, the reason why he asked for money.
According to PNP-ACG director, Senior Superintendent Guillermo Lorenzo T.

Eleazar, is one of the technology student, Aroroy, which is why she has the ability to hide his real personality and erase the gadgets of the Filipino people.
Violation of Section 43 (Identice) of Republic Act 7175 (cybercrime) of 2012), Section 3) of Republic Act 810, and Article 315) of the Kapisanan ng Masang Pilipino (NT 315) of the Kapisanan ng BCG) in Section 6 of RA 9208 or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act (GAS).

Hopefully this should serve as a lesson to everyone, not only in showbiz personalities, the experience of Maricel had a caution in using social media so that you will not be a victim of the country.
Also avoid in your social media account, personal information and if possible, limit or not to put pictures because the posture is not doing anything.
Many of the actors have been victimized by their fans, bashers and guide them but they have no action, even if they have the right to complain in the police station.
