Perpetual will be a challenge for Baste.
MJ Felipe Sazza, August 20, 2016.
The San Sebastian College was ignited, and a game was about to step down, after the University of Perpetual Help, 71-55, entered the University of Perpetual Help, 71-55, in Brazil which was held in film Oil Flying V CXL yesterday in San Juan Arena yesterday.
There was an exchange of points for the first period of the Stags and Alberate, but in the third period, the Stags broke loose towards 41-28 lead.
San Sebastian also finished six-game held at Perpetual Help.
"Epal's a, for sure, you know that we are always loses when it comes in the fourth period," Lahad Egay Macarine, who was served as the second win of his team.
Meanwhile, it was known that 6-foot-2 Bristol, 6-foot-2 Brila with 21 points, 4 rebounds and assistants are at around 9 millimeter ts, 4 rebounds and assists.
Macarine also gave the rebounds as the winner of the Stags.
"The One Factor is one of our victory now, which is why I wonder here is the key of our victory," Macarine added.
Meanwhile, San Beda will remain at the top of the leadership of San Beda's leadership to defeat the Emilio Aguinaldo Center, 90-82.

The capture of the Red Less of coach Jamiri are slightly disrupted because it is not on top of Camanglement of Donald Tanigue Street.
In the disappearance of Tanathy a, pat Jilian was laid down, a 20-year-old Dorina ie Van Opstal, the 20-year-old Jacie Van Opstal, who contributed 11 points, who scored 11 points, and Block.
"Wtch, which was filed by Donald (Tanzanian FFF) to avoid the middle of the sofa of the bottom of the H.E.
"I was not able to take and put it on the game, but in case I called coach Freddie Roach that I already called me," said Adamos, who was recognized as the best player of the game.
The lead of Red Lalai'll go up to 11 points in the Second World Cup, 48 years old.
The Davaoeños are still leading to Red Lampihan who has 21 points, six rebounds and assists.
This is the ninth win of San Beda in 11 games.
