
The masses is the true hero.

By Judy Taguiwalo, September 21, 2012.

The workers of La Libertad.

The masses is the real heroes.

This was proven in the history of the struggle in the time of the military, thousands of farmers in Cordillera and Mindanao, the Moro and poor people who live in the region and insisted that their rights were filed against Ninoy Aquino, thousands of workers who were fighting against Ninoy Aquino, thousands of workers who were fighting against Ninoy Aquino, thousands of people who were fighting against Ninoy Aquino, thousands of people who were fighting against Ninoy Aquino, thousands of people who were fighting against Ninoy Aquino, thousands of people who were fighting against Ninoy Aquino, thousands of people who were fighting against Ninoy Aquino, thousands of people who were fighting against Ninoy Aquino.

The workers of La Union are known in the prohibition of the protest that was set by Marcos on September 22, 2012.

Within 2 pesos, the soldiers and police will just let yourself look at the first night of protest, and they were arrested by the workers in the nearby factories, schools in the community, people, churches and students.

It is not only the workers of La Loma, Marcos who made a bravery fight against General Order of Marcos in the early part of 1973, the workers of the Lalaurie, Quezon City.

The indigenous people (who are the farmers) of Cordillera are brave and fought back in the project Chico River Dam in Kalinga and Bontoc, Homonhon Island in 1973, 1980 to the members of the military by the military by the soldiers of the military against Chico Dam.

The workers who ran off the workers ran off, farmers, fishermen, students of the church in Escasante, Negros Occidental last September 20, 1985) in Mariveles, Bataan, those who were burned down by the Philippine Army and Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of Mariveles, Bataan.

One of the first to run over the law is the Moro brothers in Mindanao that they launched an armed fight against the Marcos dictatorship due to the severity of the military operations of the Marcos dictatorship in Mindanao, more than 100,000 are estimated to be killed during martial law.

Just a few of the filipino masses have a name in the books or brought it to the list of heroes during the time of martial law, but we are sure that their great contribution in the passing of the law of domination and abuse even during the time that there is no declaration of martial law, like the present.

Violence was one of the militants fighting for the workers of Armina Resurreccion Villarin in Malabon last 1984, it was still the time of the Marcos dictatorship (Boy anjoe).
