
Eve, S" PNoy and the Lord.

Only Mayor Joseph Estrada is only a mayor of the city of Manila but his brain and actions were still strong.
This is about his request to his city council to give a resolution to ask for an official apology to the family of the victims of the known "Luneta hostage the massacre," three years ago.
If not even Benigno Aquino III (Bira 3), it should have been done before by former Manila Mayor Alfredo Lim, to ask for forgiveness from the family of those who were killed and wounded tourists from Hong Kong.
Instead, the official of the police, which held this taxi, is still being blamed by Bira 3.
Since the Luneta siege may happen, we have a lot of fellow workers (OFWs) in Hong Kong, who were punished in different aspect, was tortured and they were removed from work.
Hopefully, Ewill succeed in his mission, it is easy to ask for forgiveness, especially if it's wrapped with humility and loyalty.
It is not acceptable to a leader to ask for forgiveness especially if this is the solution to a problem that makes a chance.
PNoy is really wrong with his head, which is why he went wild because of the belief that her character was involved, as an official of the police in the case that he was involved, and then he should have been buried and no one died.
Just like her mother, former President Cory Aquino, almost no different is what he experienced now and then, there are all bad luck in the lives of filipinos, there are people who are able to help but is not enough and covered by corruption in the Legislative Chamber.
With the number of typhoons, trouble and case of abuse from the people's money is focused on, all the attention of the public is focused on the slow changes in Manila, and now it is the slow change in the streets which is almost the owners of the vendors, especially Divisoria.
The truth is, I am one of those calling for him to be removed from as a president because of your extreme cooperation with his friends who are abusive.
He became more kind to his friends who are proud of being abusive and abusive.
The Bayan is still waiting but are impatient because PNoy can still do something in his remaining three years as President of the country?
I have doubt that there is no doubt that he can still do anything but the lives of Filipinos and our country are still there.
Eve, continue to work hard in order to fix Manila, continue the negligence and blame others in his shortcomings, the town is preparing to remove the negligent!
