
Calm in bad weather.

By Danilo Arana, Arao October 12, 2013.

It is hard to be calm in times like this.

First, the weather was very popular last Thursday, for example, heavy rains were suddenly poured in Metro Manila which caused flooding in some places.

Are you together with many stranded in the road because there is no one riding a bus, FX or jeep, and even if you are lucky, you got irritated with heavy traffic?

Second, this is just this time not only to be ill-tempered but when we look at the statement of Presidential spokesperson Edwin Lacierda, we should understand the high bonuses that were taken by the officials of the Social Security System (SSS).

Juan Santos (AFP) - about 1.96 million Emilio De Quiros).

Aside from the big amount of this, they have able to get P40,000 as a board meeting with pesos every committee meeting with them twice in a month.

On the part of the organization Commission for government-OPLAN), the Enhanced Defense Cooperation (GCG) is said to be legal, this kind of trend is said to have been mentioned by Gwernafiled, Paulo Salva while it is stated in Republic Act Number 10149 (GROs) of 2011).

And just like what is expected, De Quiros, president and CEO of the SSS, their bonus, "Tantos," GST), the employees of SSS, is also given by the employees of SSS which costs 2.76 million pesos.

If you think that this is also a big amount, think that there are 5,044 employees of SSS (P.00.1,942 in the main Office and 7102 in a branch of the SSS, which is why they have not received a bonus.

Here, De Quiros has a big mistake, the primary complaints are the members of the SSS who are planning to fall for their contribution but how much are the data from SSS from SSS?

Employers: 8594011 that doesn't have 642,884) self-employed: 00-855271) 8527590.

Thank you to their contribution, the income of SSS grew up, according to the data of the company, the total contribution reached 25.577 billion for the first three months of 2013 when it has been 71 percent of the total worth 35.70 billion pesos.

If the statements of some officials in the government will believe, the contribution of the bonuses are not the contribution but the remaining 29 percent of P10.492 billion pesos.

But the question at this point: If there are no monthly contribution of the 30 million members of the SSS, why is there a need to give the investments and other income from the company, why is there a need to give a bonus to their posts?

If it is true that the performance of the bonus is true, isn't there a need to examine the income but the whole system, the simple visit to the provincial office of the SSS is to prove the length of the length of the SEA Games that wants to be transactions in the company.

It cannot be denied that the complaint of the complaint is not only in low benefits but to the wrong disposal of contribution to the contribution of the contribution.

And what is more irritating is that the big bonuses for the time will be increased to the time that their monthly contribution will be increased on January 2014, the question of many citizens: Why is there a need to raise the charge if income increase?

Even if you do not have a habit to curse, you have to use the words that you don't want to say, but we need to be calm to study the situation, we can only do something in the middle of the bad weather.

If there is a typhoon, bring an umbrella and other protection of wind, rain and flooding, and if the bad weather is caused by the wrong governance of those in power, there is a basis for the fight in the government.
