
A free commission is going to investigate in the said pork barrel scam.

It appears in the reports that President Benigno Simeon Aquino III is really known by President Benigno Simeon Aquino III, who is said to be one of the responsible for the multimillion peso pork barrel scam, even if he is just a new leader.
Aside from this, there are also reports of reports that there are parts of the Presidential spokesperson of B. Aquino) that went to the fake non-government units that were also held by Aling Janet.
Because of this, the call from some sector that B. S. Aquino should be impeached, as soon as possible or not, should not be blamed if there are events that may lead to the actions of B. Aquino in relation to the issue of pork barrel.
First, by B. S. Aquino denied that he knew Aling Janet but some of the photo showed that he was with him, there was also a picture that his companion came out.
Second, Aling Janet said that he was asking for help from the President about four months before he was involved in the controversy, based on this letter, it appears that he had another relationship with?
Third, according to the former Senator Khanaad in his column, Aling Janet and the President were together in Malacanang before he was presented to the media to surrender him, an indication that they did not go out of the newspaper aside from the column of the dictator Ferdinand Marcos.
According to the four, all of Aling Janet were shocked to surrender to the president.
You and my co-readers are going to decide if B. S. Aquino really does not know Aling Janet, if there is no Vizcaya and if the case will not be cooked in relation to the pork barrel scam.
He / she was wearing.
Maybe so that the boss of B. S. Aquino will lose a trace of doubt to investigate the said scam, it should also lead to the commission of the people who will not make it enough to break the integrity, and protection to do the appropriate investigation.
If ever the commission is true that the scam is true and know what is behind this, it can be made the basis for the case to file a case in the Tantangan of the Ombudsman.
We should watch out until the end of the investigation is the end of the investigation, we should not be complacent about the future and will again be complacent about the "pul-politikos".
