He wiped the noise.

The conflict in Immaculate Conception Parish in Bgy. Barretto, Olongapo City has already been published.
This is the truth: It is causing embarrassment to the Catholic Church, not only in Brgy. Barretto but also in the Diocese of Zambales which is headed by Bishop Florentino, which is headed by Bishop Florentino.
The competition of Father Rodel San Juan is the center of the conflict between father, Rodel San Juan from the secretary of Philippine National Police, Swift, Lerio Bompat because of the alleged robbery of the "interruptible load" of computers that contains important record at the time from 1986 until 2013, along with the P12 million fund.
Alcantara has already received a complaint about the National Historical Commission (NLRC) and there was a "Ipit Gang" which was also filed against him, aside from the administrative case.
The case can leave the court and the National Historical Commission on Human Rights can leave the court, but Bishop Lavarez who is forced to bring Alcantara himself to his post and if it will not happen next, he will follow the priest.
But even the Parish council Council and those who are going to go to the said church are against the return of Alcantara until he has not followed the case yet, so Father San Juan did not follow the order of Bishop Lavarez who said that it is against the right process.
This Saturday, are parishioners of local officials who were witnessed by the priests, who were witnessed by the priests, and of the christian faith going to Subic Film Festival, to the big mass celebration of the "Christ the King."
Bishop Lavarez was said to have been embarrassed that father, Father San Juan was ashamed because his position was declared dead, that the priest did not recognize because he was not receiving any official advisory from the suspension.
This is the truth: What is being made by Bishop Lavador, because there are ways to face the situation when the church has not yet been held in embarrassment, and the faith of the people cannot be seen in shame.
The catholic bishops conference of the Philippines (CBCP) is said to have no investigation to the members of the Bishop, which is why he / she was full-off, and according to Vanglement, father. San Juan.
It is saddening that the lessons of the catholic Church is not seen in the situation, especially to Bishop, who should be a good example to the followers.
