"Criminals are the neglect of the government of typhoon Yolanda.

They were saved, and suffered from now, they have marched towards Mendiola, to collect payment.
A few who survived the typhoon Yolanda (Feb. 19) went to the foot of Malacanang to send the complaint to the slow response of the government during the time of calamity, they also wish to give justice to the victims according to them due to the negligence of the government.
Included in those who marched were the siblings Dedee, and Mark Tapay, from Sagala, Tacloban City, riding an airplane, together with five members of the family last November 15 and temporarily staying with their relatives in Caloocan.
Mark added to the Filipino Weeker how they survived from the lashing of Yolanda, he said, before the storm arrived they already evacuated the two-floor house of their aunt.
"" It is strong "the wind was cut off, outside the house," said Mark.
In the thinking that the typhoon brought a strong wind, they went down but the water suddenly increased, so they were forced to climb and stay inside a room in the second floor of the house.
"The water quickly increased, we were caught up in the height," the statement of Mark was saved when she was stabbed by one of his older brother who went out of the house and was irked by her relatives together with his three siblings.
"It is difficult," the only word that Mark was able to deny.

Within six days after the storm, they have not received any relief goods or any help to the family.
"If we do not go here in Manila, we still haven't received relief goods only here, but we have already felt a help," said Dedee.
According to him, they reached for two days at the line at the airport to carry it for free to C130 pesos and they are still pleading to just allow the patients to carry it but even his two siblings were wounded, they are still not allowed to carry it.
"They want to get along with the patients and not his companions, only a patient, how about my siblings who are wounded, no one will board him?" He complained.
Deguavas said, it is a miracle that they are saved from the siblings, but aside from his worried livelihood, they are also a problem on how they will continue to save aside from our life, "he said.
"We are in college, 2nd Avenue College whom I am in the Eastern Visayas State University in Tacloban," he said, nothing was saved from any document that the Marcos family was saved, including the record of their studies.
He supposedly tried to ask for help from the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) of Caloocan to continue his studies but he said that he can study again as proof that he is in college.
"How can we make the holiness or any document that we are students, and what we are going out is out," he said.
The siblings were just thankful that they were saved, because their father, Ralph Cervantes, is among those who are missing.
"We are just hoping that even if he is already dead, we can still see the tattoo placed by a woman on her right leg," sad, but the strong statement of Dee that is strong.
Criminals!
In the record of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) on the written report of this article, it reached Php209 people were killed, 25404 were wounded and more than 1,000 were missing.
Up to more than 2 million families were affected or more than ten million individuals in the 44 provinces have been destroyed and billions of worth of private and public properties were destroyed.
Along with this, President Aquino ordered the high number of deaths in some towns of Leyte, particularly the city of Tacloban, town of Palo, Duljo, Tanauan, Libacao and Tolosa.
"It's because in the review of the review and same time, what really happened is that the very high fever in that area was taken out," Communications Sec. Sonny Coloma said that she took a nap.
But for Kilusang May Uno (PAR), the government did not make a corresponding step to avoid big damage before the devastation of typhoon Yolanda.
"After Aquino gave a warning that the storm Yolanda has a strong action, the government has no steps, he did not make a strong evacuation center even before the storm has entered and refused to give the relief goods after the typhoon left," upon reaching out.
The group also said that President Aquino did not respond to expressing the strength of the storm and to boast that the government is ready in facing the super-typhoon and left the local government in facing the super typhoon and left the local government, "said Elmer" Bong "Liscano, chairman of us.
Longon was also said to condemn President Aquino due to his negligence that resulted to the death of thousands of people.

"How can you identify the chief executive when they left each other and rescue operation in the middle of Signal number 4 typhoon? For us, criminals," said Liwag.
Together with the siblings, Dedee, and Mark in Mendiola.
In the statement of the group, the goal of the organization is to gather votes, like food, financial help for the recovery of livelihood of those affected and legal service, as well as their request for justice for the victims.
"The number of victims should not be increased but in every day they had enough food, clothes and medical services, saving and decent burial, a task of the Aquino government to Filipino people," the group stated.
The group also plans to launch the national network of Tindog in the following days.
