
To the orders of Pres. Aquino, do we have to change?

We believe, becoming a good president of the country can no longer be seen by the effects of skill, intelligence or being patriotic.
As they say, the president is a boss of fame in two ways, if not effective, may have been hidden!
Since the president Ferdinand Marcos was elected and was followed by Cory Aquino, Fidel Ramos, Joseph Estrada, Gloria Arroyo and the current administration, it was unique because we have not heard the words: "If there is no corruption, there is no poor" and "Tuwid na Daan". "
"Or, isn't it, the voyeurism he did was unusual!" Ehek!
I am just asking, what is the change or difference in the administration of PNoy compared to the past President?
Livelihood - Langbay, "isn't it that the" survey, "said, that those who are struggling at this time of PNoy?
Price - it is said that the price of electricity will be allowed to judge what is the primary issues in relation to the price of electricity, not to talk about the price of bread, water, price, oil, and even the SSS.
Sorry - in the report yesterday, the COA (equivalent to 31 billion pesos worth of P2.3 billion pesos, which they collected from the treasury of the country, did not mean anything that comes from the treasury of the country.
Are you going to ask for what I just want, to collect it, since PNoy was elected, there are already caught who are believed to be considered as a big sister and Mayor Reyes of Palawan?
Corruption - is it not here with PNoy that Janet Lim-Napoles became famous, and this is only here when I saw the secretary and / her official who appointed the secretary and / her official who have filed against DENR Secretary Proceso Alcala, Comelec Commissioner Grace Pulido-R and LLinaw, Acosta!
Case on where you get the thickness of the face?, isn't it that the words of PNoy came from the mouth of PNoy came from the mouth of PNoy, in fact, there are some who continue to stop the BOC on fact, there is someone who will be assigned now to get a horler, haunting, haunting and haunting!
