Biazon will always go to BOC.

The Bureau of Customs is really improvement of the decision "by Commissioner Ruffy Biazon in the coming 2013 election because it is obvious that under its leadership the agency, there is a big change in its leadership.
From different operations of Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon, who will be stopped from the back of the bandits who are trying to stop the cargo trucks, the agency continues to donate the confiscated illegal activities by those who may benefit from it.
Aside from this, the public trust of the public is increased to BOC and according to the just like the survey of the Social Weather Stations, therefore, it came from 69 percent going to 45 percent up to 45 percent, even though it is still under its rating, he climbed up "
This is just a proof that the current leadership of Customs is effective under the Customs which is responsible for all the operations of Customs, even in some hearing regarding some issues regarding some of the agencies to fight for the principle and integrity of the BOC.
Not to stop the life of Customs, who are from the leaders of this, will be able to make it hard, "not only the coler, but also the next to sit in his position to equal the determination that they will make it.
At present, a bidding is planning to be done by Biazon as the confiscated from the confiscated from the confiscated from India who were confiscated in Subic Gateway Park.
It is really right that instead of going through this rice, it is better that the Customs will win in the case against the company that is owned by the national government will go to the funds of the national government.
If ever the two modern equipment which will be conducted by the Customs have not succeed, according to Biazon, he might be able to donate rice to the National Food Authority (NFA) but if the NFA would want to join the bidding, he can also take part of it.
It is deliberately not easy to change the bad impression of the number of Customs due to the past "good issues here from the past leaders.
But for Biazon and concern for the interest of Filipinos in the local industry of agriculture in the country, Customs will also get the clean name that is worthy for this.
