After the said six-month-six months in Luneta, the news that the news got high on you can get the person disliked by the military so they can just laugh at the military, which is why they are not in a disadvantage.
The former here is that we are holding a picture of their close friends, this is when May had a chance to look like her child, but this is for them to go fast and narrow-minded people, but this is where the military started to see, that is why the military started to go down and narrow-minded.
In the corner of the corner, he also said that the recognition given by the coffee is only between the small bottle that will be ran over by a small bottle and they will be ran over by the Americans, who are the only ones who use what they can use, which are not in their operation.
An airplane is too used for airplanes that are still effective to wait for one eight people.
It was the five-laws that he placed.
Meanwhile, four-year-old people, but when it comes to the troops that are here in the country, the Philippines was given to the Philippines as a long time, he is helping to give nine of the government troops in the part of your contract but going to the operation with the U Vs.
But it is not just using things like that, even your friends.
There are many watching the picture who are assigned to come near the 25th anniversary of the shore when it was still in Manila hotel where it would be a lot of technology, a lot of technology, and a lot of technology, that it would be difficult for you to go to the motorcycles because it will be better for them to go to the streets at dawn.
In the fourth period, because it is the same for us to play the L HQ on the two, we are getting good here in front of this.
I need to control it.
But the operation was released here and it was only one corner of me and ordered him to transfer.
I can only do.
That is it.
Because he already has a uniform.
It can be seen that a friend of whom he got, is the one who took it away.
It can be seen that the Pad can be seen here, but it can be recorded that it is recorded by him.
You can just bring the news on me.
Even if the wind is strong.
Let us be.
Because there are still cellphone inside, we are still small.
So I will tell something that the wind is strong especially in the height.
So what happened to the high blood.
To him.
Those who are pleading, there are still many who can be surprised because the door was closed because the door she looked at was closed.
Let's just let it be, "we can't say that we can see that we are going to be our fellow countryman?
The golden type of linoleum is also going to enter, which is why they are pointing at each other.
And then he can speak, especially when he called this like this.
He is the only one for example the past Thursday, which is very simple, very simple, very simple, very simple, very simple, whose legs are very simple, but they are really stubborn, even if they are really like that.
In that.
But here in the Philippines, many of their friends are worried because of the constitution to get a chance to get this, which is why there's a new cellphone from the protest that was being used to him so that he will only go back to the back in the afternoon, which is why he / she went to the back in the afternoon.
He can control.
Just my cellphone.
Then our teacher did not stop the checks; so that you can see that you can see here in my cellphone.
Choose to take a card just after to see us.
There is now, of course.
It is okay that we post.
Difficult to control.
Taking advantage of it.
But it is like that.
It is easy to control between one night that you can control.
That is just a mystery.
Two people were hurt.
Because, on Thursday, it is just Thursday and I use a lot of number in number.
Here in the streets, it is hard for him to pay hard to pay the big companies that are still hard to pay; we have to pay attention; we still have a lot of things that we continue.
There are many office that you can go here and look at least Pia Pia is being used to me, Pia Pia is used to me, it is amazing that this kind of technology in the cellphone is amazing.
"How much is the beauty of what I said to you.
It's a gift to me, to go to me, to look respectable.
Ah, isn't it?
But I said it was a while ago when we were able to go to school; we can see that I am going to give me food that is why I want me to go to wi-fi, you have an example, that is why I want me to go to wi-fi; that's why I have an example, that is not alone for those who are using it.
Not here in the '70s, it's just one of those who are like that, whose use of people, but it's difficult to use, but it is hard for the security in the places that are also the same space.
It can be said that you can put it with them but it's just being called for each other, there are only two children who are still living here, but because they are just going to take a fire, they only have to take a fire, but because it can only be done by those who have been talking to each other, it is possible that there are people who are going to talk to each other, but because it can only be done by those who have been talking to each other, it is possible that the use of the revolutionaries are only right, but it can only be done by those who are going to talk to each other.
I am just the party of Kathy, thank you very much.
