
In spite of the price of oil and goods: "Meaningful wage increase, it is more needed.

Macky Macasaverted!
February 28, 2012.

In front of those who were riding a motorcycle, members of them were also marched towards front of the legislative chamber to request for the immediate increase of additional wage increase.
Waiting for a passenger of the passengers at the Philcoa, Quezon City, Orocay (not real name), a delivery of a famous Toyota Innova, when he saw on the road that the workers who were taking a bicycle were preparing, they were calling the million pesos increase in the wage increase of the workers in the private sector.
The laborers immediately agreed with the call of the workers, OMI, in an interview with Filipino Weeker.
It's because, he sees P426 every day together with the Cpost of Liang Allowance (COLA), his salary is lacking for the monthly expenses of his family.
"There are many expenses in the house, the salary of my salary is not enough, even for the salary of my salary to go to food, so I cannot help him if the budget is lacking," he said.
Onald have also admitted that he often put his ATM card (autasan in the teller) card on the reconciliation of "5-6."
"It is just right to increase the salary," he added.
Oxford is also in the danger of her condition because she is already inside a house and has a set time for her to be delivered.
"There is a need for the orders of food, when it comes to the customer, he said, but what's worse, is that if the traffic enforcers would be caught because of the expected violation of traffic rules, they answer the traffic that was paid.
"It is Charge with us" that, in our own pocket a fine, "he said.
Aside from this, Oniot was also not safe from the non-increase in price increase in the price of gasoline to be delivered, they said that even during the time that their gasoline is lacking, they said, for every day, the price of gasoline should increase in every day.
"We have a fcard in a gasoline station in a month, 46 liter of allocations while one month, there is still a remaining six liter of card," said Orena.
He also added that in the time that no one will remain in the allocations while the salary is lacking in their salary.
But because of the difficulty in searching for a job, OPLAN should have been cut off his condition, even if the company was tainted by the company his entry of two days.
"It is difficult, that I can just make do with it," he said.
According to Representative Rafael Mariano of AOIL-list, the proposed law on the legislative chamber is currently sweeping the proposed law regarding additional wages because there are allegedly 20 lawmakers who signed as Co who passed in HB375, but many are still needed.
Bicycle for additional wages.
What Okawa, Commonwealth is a boy with a motorcycle and was ambushed by the workers towards Batasan Pambansa, to express the call to the legislative chamber to express the proposed additional wage increase in the workers in the private sector.
They announced this again, they said, in spite of the increase of goods and petroleum products.
"We are calling on the lawmakers to pass the legislative chamber to pass the proposed price of oil, we wish for the immediate price of oil and services," Elmer Liscano, chairman of us.
Longon was also said that the small increase in COLA last year has been said, especially in other regions, which was said to have been in the needs of the families of the workers.
Last year, the proposed law has been filed in the House Bill 375 percent of the House Bill 375, led by the representative of ARafael Mariano, but up to the present, the proposed additional wage increase is not being implemented.
It was first proposed by Congress to undergo an additional wage increase or HB 435 in 1999, by the late leader of a worker, Representative Ansaruddin Adiong, who was formerly in Bayan Muna before the proposed law was founded.
"In more than nine years of administration of former President Arroyo, he opposed to give a meaningful salary for the workers, now, in every half-year of Aquino, he is just asking what Arroyo did about the salary of the workers," said Liwag.
According to Mariano, they were not included in the wage increase of the law in Congress last 2011 and just like the past years, the capitalists have started in the proposed law.
"Though it was not a sample of the priority bill from HB 375, we are trying to pass the third to pass the third, before the Congress was held this March, he said.
The lawmaker added that something happened and the House Committee on Labor in regions to study the actual condition of the workers, and if there is a need to pass the proposed law.
Mariano also added, they are expecting that the Committee on Higher Education are going to show on the committee investigation after the public hearing in Mindanao.
The call of the public is to continue to serve the Congress in order to pass the proposed law of HB 375.
For the leader of the workers, Lahi, Congress should face the passing of additional wage increase such as the implementation of the Chamber and Senate in the impeachment trial of Chief Justice Renato Corona.
"The impeachment trial of Corona will not be relieved of the severe hunger and poverty experienced by the workers and the citizens, instead of using the Congress in the impeachment trial, they should pour their time in passing the law for the workers," said Liwag.
It is also said that they will conduct protests in the following days so the passing will be suspended for the passing of the proposed additional wage increase.
Meanwhile, they continue to encourage the people like Osaka to support the campaign for a meaningful salary, and join protests to achieve their wish.
