"

By P2,500.
April 5, 2012.

When the poor groups will be able to gather them, that is why the Holy Week is going to attract the holy Week this week.
Under the cross that is a symbol of poverty in the shoulders of Juan dela Cruz of lightning, like a lightning striking of the high oil companies, using the personnel of Pres. Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino III, using his version of his head in commemoration of the Holy Week.
This is the picture of the suffering of the poor, this year with the leadership of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (National Capital Region, Sining, Magsingal and Kalawaan in order to show the Aquino administration for the poor.
"The everyday story of every Filipino in order to face the high price of oil and electricity, as well as the lack of decent houses (and) demolition, will be likened to the suffering of Christ until his death in the suffering," Paolo Quilicol, spokesperson of Bayan-NCR.
The airing of the suffering of the poor in one office of the National Power Corporation, which is expected to increase in electricity in the next month (P2,500.
The group blame the Aquino administration in giving a severe "calvary" and make sure that the situation of the poor Filipinos are miserable.
The group also stated in their protest the three cross that has long been done!
"Aside from the series of demolition and increase in the price of oil from January, the Aquino administration is impending!
The group of Barangay North Triangle, Quezon City, who will be facing the demolition in the end of the Holy Week, also passed by the group to condemn the new threat of additional wage increase in electricity.
"The response and hope of the palace is that they cannot do anything to resolve the high price of human services and goods like oil and electricity that's why Noynoy Aquino did not do anything but wash your hands for the sake of our citizens," Quicho said.
According to the group, they cannot take the Aquino administration take the cross on the shoulder of the Filipino people instead, instead, they continue to increase the suffering of the citizens.
They added that this kind of action of Aquino is to increase the miserable condition of the citizens, that means that there will be a bigger protest by the citizens to ease the dangers for them.
