The masses are watching over us, in the living room.

It is considered as the biggest barangay in Norzagaray, Bulacan, Barangay San Mateo, because of its size and many lives here, that is why they should only be sensible, and will serve the country in this place.
And if we are talking about the quality of service to the citizens, it is the first time that he will go to our minds, it is the first time in our minds that it is "Khor" Boy" SM "Calamudi, Rene Cornes, ABistansos and Insong Pilgrimage Site.
In my acquaintance with them, it will be revealed that in Barangay San Mateo, if this group will be fortunate to win in the coming election on October 28 because of Pili, they are going to make up and carry the team with Pang-Masa.
We can also say that the local government of the local government, Vice Mayor Arthur Legaspi, who is the child of a good and respected former mayor, Feliciano Legaspi, was lucky, after the Commission on Elections (Commission on Elections) said that the Commission on Elections (Commission on Elections) said that the Commission on Elections (Commission on Elections) said that the Commission on Elections (Commission on Elections (Commission on Elections) is hoping that the commission of the election this past May.
"How will they not be lucky with this group, then, it has been good to be" Kallano "Abaxed, ten of his accomplices in the service of their barangay.
Of course, the older sibling of your servant, Jun Calima, will not be defeated because even if they are not in office, they have been active in helping and supporting all programs in their barangay.
That is why, most people in San Mateo, who endorse the team of Pang-Masa, they know that through this group, the clear morning in their barangay is coming that it is not given real attention and care of the current leaders here.
So we are saying that the government of the country is lucky because if this kind of candidates will win in the coming election, of course, all of the entire town of Norzagaray, of course the municipal hall will win in the barangay, of course, the municipal hall and the people will win.
On the other hand, it is good that the COMELEC can see the evidence and even if the Liberal Party is under the Liberal Party and even if they have proven the last as one of those who have proven money (COMELEC), he gives money to buy the votes and win in a crooked strategy.
Of course, whatever case will be done by the camp of Germar, to prevent Vice Mayor Legaspi on his position as the new mayor of the country, but it should be said that this kind of mandate did not release because it is not enough proof or evidence.
