
Erap-Isko Bira!

Congratulations!

Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada has a big belief that discipline is needed by the Filipinos, especially the Manileños, so that poverty can be successful and be allowed to fight the poverty.
That is why Estrada is one by one, together with Vice Mayor Francisco "Isko Moreno" Dooley, to solve the problems left by the former administration and fix the situation of the former administration and fix the situation of the former administration and fix the condition of the former administration and order to fix the situation of the former administration and fix the situation because they are affected and their benefits will be affected.
Erap and Isko are right now that they continue to fix the city even if anyone can be hit because no one should prevail against the law.
Poor or rich should be equal.
That is why, there is another benefits that Estrada and Moreno formally requested for the side of the University of Sto. Tomas in España, Manila last Friday, one tablet, which was opened to the public and this can be at the same time.
The passenger buses are the goal of the project to start saving money, wherein it can wait a bus while on the internet, even for the emergency.
The happy news on this project of Erap and Isko are not coming from the treasury of the city because it almost bankrupt when left by the previous administration of the private sector and the friends of Erap and Isko.
It is said that the PRESungala.
Under the management of Mayor Estrada, the taking of birth, marriage and death penalty in the said city of course, this is due to the implementation of the new Manila City Hallero and Civil Defense Cooperation Agreement between Joey Cabotahe, which will be quick in paying papers for the birth, wedding and death.
What if, in the previous administration, there is a need to cross the other building, lined up and wait for it.
Treasury Division, now, they are just going to take their own form, pay and pay documents.
That is why, Caballhal is thankful to the City Tristan (MTPB) because he brought his office to the office of the former because he knows that many are getting old and working people who are in a hurry.
Cabenza's step is also a way to avoid Kotong policemen because the client of civil engineering and told the employees who needs to be in support for the needs of the people.
Happy Easter to Chief Inspector Bernabe, IrTancinco, chief of Manila Special Action Force (Special Action Force (masses) center, WHO), that is very high-PARK.
