
We are becoming greedy (2).

I believe that this is the type of stray people, although a bit more than those who can be taught by Vad; it is proof that we will not fully be defeated by the Spaniards.
Our ancestors are now successful against this daring books brought to our town of their religion.
This fight is the reason why the quality and kind of our Christian faith is different.
Aside from the successful fight against influential people, our ancestors also proved the strength of their grew up culture that are still alive today.
This is the reason why the catholic bishops conference of the Philippines is continuously reminding us to get rid of our continuous faith in Agimat, or just in the land, not enious, or in our country.
However, I believe that this belief will also strengthen our belief in God.
This will remain in us despite the spread of crystal meth.
We should not be ashamed of our beliefs that we should be proud of in the world.
He / she was wearing.
The strengthening of our armed forces should be continued, especially our military forces and is asking for a good relationship with the country China.
We should not expect that we will go through the United States if the Chinese will enter us.
We should not forget the Major-workers and China and the US.
The Americans are submerged in debt from the Chinese.
China is now in China's huge multimillion pesos in the US and billions of dollars.
It is clearer than the sun's rays that they will not exchange their relationship with China in our country.
The Americans might be fed up by the sale of our second-year-old weapons and other planet which can be filed against us but it is unlikely to take part of the armed rebels in case the firefight continues in the West Philippine Sea.
We are pushing and facing Chinese people.
We are unlikely to win but we can make it difficult for the Chinese to do what they want to do in this part of the world.
Because of this, they may think twice and this is the reason why we should focus on strengthening the armed forces.
I repeat, we have a source of income from the Americans but for sure they will not commit suicide.
Only the barism that we will believe will go slowly if ever.
