Millions against the Tropang Texters.

Up to 15 were ordered by the Supreme Court against cybercrime in the cybercrime law of 2012 or Republic Act (RA) 10175 or anti-cybercrime law.
Though it is small to look, this is a big number.
Because millions of people, Bro, are carrying the things.
This will file charges.
Millions are the youth in Facebook and Twitter, as well as those with cellphone that are included in the victims of the said law.
They also have million pesos and their families who are directly criticized by the urge of the law.
The partylist who will file a petition should not be ignored because they are carrying millions.
Together with supporters in their fight.
Do not ignore the number of people carrying other classmates.
An example is the millions to vote for Senator TJ Guingona that he is taking care of his only flight back to the former.
What do you believe in other senators who want to change through the amendment to implement the law on their resolution on this day?
Listen to them.
In the deliberation of the Supreme Court this day regarding the law, they should be considered the number of people interested for change in the said law.
For the change he wants to request, there are those who are pushing for the dissolution of the law because it is against the Constitution.
Someone is walking for the amendment to the law, as to as a part of the law that has changed, just like the content of the law called cylinder tube.
Some are asking that it will be declared against the Constitution so the SC should just dismiss the change just like lessening number of years in imprisonment, and worth of bail, damage and fine.
If the judges in the Supreme Court would not be deaf and limping, they believe that the all kinds of citizens, who are asking the amount of the citizens who are asking the dissolution or amendment to the said law.
TRO and!
If not, they will also give guidance to the citizens in putting actions to stop the implementation of the law.
The release of the SC for a Temporary Protection Order (equivalent is only a few days only.
Same is the implementation of a temporary restraining order.
In this action, all those who implement the law, like the Department of Justice, should stop the implementation of the law.
And also included here is what the cases filed against the fiscal and other court has jurisdiction over the cases under the said law.
One of those who should fix the final decision of the SC or if not, is the final new law or dissolution of the Congress in the said law.
Law.
Against the anti-cybercrime law.
Let us repeat that we are against us, Bro, this law, especially the provisions of libel.
It is up to the lawyers how they will prove that this law is against the 1987 Constitution, to other laws implemented in the country and the laws of the United Nations.
What's important to us is the application of the law to us while we show our opinions against them.
Officials and personnel of the government related to tasks.
It is their transaction that is against their sworn duty, law and Constitution.
A case of libel, the clings against us is normal for us to keep quiet in front of their stealing from the public funds and abuse of duty and power.
Freedom of speech.
The freedom of speech and speech, Bro, is the one who wants to destroy the cylinder tube.
In the hour of expressing and talk about the computer, laptop, internet, cellphone and others.
Like a way of communication, called libel which can make peace with us.
What, we will surely be afraid to continue the statement and speech for those who are fearless, the court is the rape to the order to stop.
We gave all the meaning and it was used.
Do you know how long?
Chief Justice Ma. Lourdes was already dead and dead at old age and all of his non-senior citizens in the SC), our place, and speech.
Jailed for crime.
Aside from our fear and making peace with us by the court, we would also want to be imprisoned just like that.
A fellow.
Those in the government are usually using their influence to the fiscal, judge and judge in the cases they are taking on the marble, and others that show the truth and comment on the people you have stolen.
And abuse of those in the government.
Because of this, when you were charged, it's likely that I can't get thin.
How about those who joined and share to our children and other members of the family to agree with our expose or just a simple place of corruption and abuse of those in the government?
