It was the first step to answer the Marcos regime.

By P2,500.
January 17, 2012.

The judge who is a senator, on the first day of the trial to Chief Justice Renato Corona.
The progress of the trial to Chief Justice Renato Corona can be considered as a big success, and first step to answer the previous Marcos regime.
This is the opinion of Bayan Muna Rep. Teodoro Casi単o, one of the suspension of the impeachment trial against Corona, including the party of Casi単o, Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares, of the abuse of the power of the Supreme Court, which is exposed to be the movement of the power of the Supreme Court, which is exposed to be favored by the former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, and others.
"We are worried that the trial and Commission on Our Lady OPLAN should move forward to his violation of the Constitution, violation of the trust of the citizens," Casi単o said, in a video report that he posted on social interaction on Facebook, after more than a half-hour session in the impeachment court.
Casi単o said that the prosecution did not make the prosecution to push through, including the motion to question the supporters of the congressmen on the impeachment complaint against Chief Justice, and even the prosecution of the prosecution's early evidence of the alleged corruption of Corona.
Along with the first day of the historical trial trial, hundreds of people marched towards the Senate.
The Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan (Izzy Canillo) and the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), together with the other anomalous group under this, said movement is also included in the program at the entrance of the Senate where the police blocked the rally.
The group clarified that along with the plea to be given to Corona who is currently facing the former President Arroyo, the former President should be held accountable for serious cases like violation of human rights and corruption.
"We also need to push the Aquino administration to show the determination and political will to be held accountable for the sake of crime such as corruption, corruption and violation of human rights that happened under his administration," Alum and Rafael Mariano.
Mariano said that the appointment of Corona is clear as the Chief magistrates of the Supreme Court to protect himself against investigating his cases against the citizens.
"While we observe the first day of the Senate hearing in the impeachment trial of Corona, we should not forget our more dream which is one of the biggest responsibility and should be responsible for all his sins and he should be responsible for all his sins.," said Gabriela Representative Edcel Lagman.
Along with this, groups revealed the other motive of the removal of Corona from his position, one of these is in controlling the Aquino administration in the Supreme Court to maintain the Aquino family of Hacienda Luisita in Tarlac.
"Corona is a big obstacle in giving answer to Arroyo, but the citizens should be worried about the bad plan of Aquino to control the Supreme Court," Danilo Ramos, general-secretary of Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines (KMP).
The Samahang Basketbol ng Masang Pilipino (Kashagat (Kash@-@ TK) said, "Aquino's decision," to get the control of the Supreme Court "to get the control of the judiciary, especially his decision to share the property of Hacienda Luisita, especially the decision that he is owned by Hacienda Luisita.
Along with this, the youth launched the leadership of Liberal Party-list was launched "number of non-monitor" to suspend the burial of former President Arroyo and his alleged accomplices in his scope in position, including the Barangay magistrates.
According to Amnesty Representative Raymond Palerino, the youth and the citizens should be vigilant in order to hold the former President and his accomplices in.
This includes students in Law, National Union of People's lawyers (NUPL) and the Department of Social Work and University of the Philippines-Manila.
"The revelation of the World Bank about the decision of the Supreme Court to the funds of the World Bank for the project is showing that one of the Supreme Court is showing one of the Supreme Court as an institution," according to Renato Reyes, general and secretary of the Bayan.
Reyes also said, if we were charged with the president and lawmakers on corruption, it should also be for all the magistrates and not only the Chief Justice.
There was a report of Emilyn..
Some of the pictures of the first day of the impeachment trial of Corona?
Senator Edgardo Angara (the ground) led the prayer for the opening of the first hearing of the impeachment trial to Chief Justice Renato Corona. (PPETion.
The being talkative: Chief Justice Renato Corona, who attended the first day, together with his wife (Boy anjoe).
The medical team from the Legislative Chamber, together with the National Prosecutor's (PPETion.
The defense team of CJ Corona is (Boy anjoe).
"Civil" gave him the greeting by the members of the prosecution and defense before the first hearing of the impeachment trial to start the first hearing of the Supreme Court and leader of the Supreme Court and leader of the Supreme Court and leader of the Supreme Court, Iloilo representative Niel Tupas, (Senate PRIB).
Outside the hearing of the Senate, the police blocked the protests of the Gloria Anti-Organized and Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, against former President Arroyo and Chief Justice Renato Corona) and Chief Justice Renato Corona).
The rating of the protest of Juana Change (Mae Paner), as the poor cities that is feasts in the house -- while Corona is alleged to be 45 real properties, according to the prosecution's (PPETion.
Kilusang Mayo Uno (HB) is warned for the possibility that the new magistrate can put it on PNoy "(President Aquino).
The sentence of the corrupt citizens is clear in their plaza in the covered of Barangay magistrate, Renato Corona. (Macky Macasac).
