We are not lined up and when we call on the debate on the phone, we need to get it on us again to make a taxi driver here in our night, that's why he will watch over to the network network that is why her husband, who is a backpack.
I really have a taxi that is in public service.
While they are walking while watching the public, they are both bystanders here in the public.
Us.
What is the name of the driver of January.
You!
Hit by.
What happened to us will happen to us.
For the passengers she wants to be more important there, especially if.
The man's legs cannot be avoided and a piece of laughter would not be avoided.
But there are many computer.
The bus was at dawn as if I called a taxi using the fingers of the fingers.
I can see this.
A program at the first time you are applying for a taxi, who is still holding a taxi driver, for the same so that they need it so that they need it.
In front, the network of the taxi driver will be able to give you the network of a taxi driver, who had a March partner, which is being sold in spite of passengers who are in need of service.
In S.
You don't attend around without any cellphone that you are in Social Work and without password because of this.
We have five-year-old and they are only a single-year-old and here we are only here, we are the L-B!
It was even though it was only one of the guests in the use of someone who taught him that there are two taxi drivers of the company that all have their own Smart.
It is said that around ten o'clock in the morning.
I said we do not know who really is the real driver because I am just waiting for money here and there is no one who's going to go to Addie.
He complained; he / she was distressed; she is not wrong.
What is that?
Apparently, when you went to each other, we already tried to go to the street when we have tried a joy here, so I said to Quezon City a few thousand and our plan to go to school to Germany here in Quezon City.
Here in me, I will put my sister-in-law where he will go to him where he will go to Germany, who just send a signal that is just near us in our area to wait for who she would be.
After the contract of the taxi, they showed what happened to us and they are preparing the payment for the driver of the driver and always have the cellphone to cook later at a three times in front of the store.
They showed the name of the driver.
It is not a driver of fulfilling dreams in the program.
What will be given is done.
I am the closest to anyone who can go home.
Because you are the closest to you.
I should have the worst award as a teacher who has no content but is it not a system that is very lucky.
The driver has recorded the cellphone number 1 to make the result well.
Now, it is said that only now in a debate in the mountain is the use of a taxi driver here, there's just a small chance that there will be no opportunity to give.
I am not for the passengers who can help with passengers.
You should also deny the relatives of us.
!
He / she was able to look down; he / she was a wife, who was a wife, so that it was Soho.
So we are proud; as long as our names are low; we will be able to pay attention to your taxi driver because we will be able to pay attention to the taxi drivers because it will be a big amount that will lead to us, which will be a huge amount that will go to our small company.
This kind of system is like that in the old radio, and for the first change you write to the people, you will go to those who are annoying here in this system.
And you will just look, you can even get the test immediately.
Yes, that is why there is just a start of this system; we are mistaken, we are mistaken, we started to wait for it to wait for us to wait for it.
Other taxi drivers.
I said here in Metro Manila, what you are doing now here in Metro Manila is what you are doing now, but we also know that it has been mistaken for five thousand pesos only to change clothes in Manila even if they have been mistaken for five hundred pesos.
You are going to be charged, deceived or that, unknown to the passenger, that's why they will call the taxi drivers who are going to call each other again in your house which are going to be cut off, instead, they will call each other at the payment.
