City Sports Division, preparing for the Brigada Eskwela.

There are 18, 2016.

Quezon City, on May 18 (Pia) - Cotabato City Schools Division Office (RESDO) are going to cooperate in the six-day of Brigada Eskwela or National Bureau of Brigada Eskwela.
This is done by the Department of Education (DepEd) to prepare for the public schools and tourists in the country in the opening of the school year.
According to CCSDO-Brigada Eskwela, Atty. Rasul Ali, we want to be ready for all schools in any kind of disaster, be clean and pleasing.
"Different sectors are going to be shared with this activity such as parents, local government, government agencies, non-government, soldier and police, even the private sector," said Ali.
According to him, there are closed activities in the start of the Brigada Eskwela on May 30.
Meanwhile, CCSDO is also preparing for the implementation of senior high school that will start this year 2016.
"CDO continues to prepare for senior high school although we have lack in school building because others are still fixing the DPWH," said Ali.
According to the targets of the infrastructure projects of DepEd for CCSDO, there are more than 50 percent lacking in facilities for senior high school only, by Ali.
The official added that we are looking for a way for the lack of chairs, table and other parts of school.
"Every school has an alternative solution and strategies to give service to the total number of students in senior high school and to avoid the problem in implementing new projects," according to Ali.
The facilities are enough for elementary, the statement of Ali.
The official encouraged the parents and other sectors of the community to share their time and skill on the day of Brigada Eskwela will be the help of their children who are studying.
The said activity will be held on the 25th of May until 4 of June in the 2016 year 2016 who was put under the theme, "we for the school where it is safe, orderly and ready from being derogatory ten to senior high school."
(Iaykit, PBChangco, Pia Cotabato City.
