Calamity led by the pork barrel where?

Many towns and provinces were called by the flood due to the combined curses from the typhoon Maring, southwest and High School.
In relation to this, let us check on the actions of the national government and the local government here.
Here are still submerged in there.
No matter where, the citizens were able to see too much suffering.
The western Luzon is not the only damaged houses.
Among those in western Luzon are the provinces of Zambales and Bataan and the entire Ilocos Region.
Even many houses in Laguna, Rizal and some parts of Metro Manila also experienced flooding.
The flooding that we experienced in the province of Cavite is also severe.
Many old people are saying only one: "Now it flooded like this."
No.
Let us include those who hit the damaged ship in Cebu.
Because of the arrival of typhoon Maring and southwest monsoon, they had a difficulty in implementing the search and rescue.
The hard-earned money saved up by hundreds of people were destroyed in the Lupit, southwest monsoon and High School.
There are also a lot of broken jobs in the citizens, whether big or small.
Even the infrastructure made by the government like the bridge, road, school and others were also destroyed.
The water that passed by the flood from the dams released by the water has been added to the weakness.
In addition to this is the destroyed by typhoon Linaw, it is not easy to think, Bro, the damage sustained by the citizens and the country.
Really hungry even.
Because of the severe weakness of the citizens, even in the houses that they have left just to run in evacuation centers, hunger and other suffering are experienced by "unknown citizens.
But the hunger is not just all of the people who give food to their experiences in the evacuation centers.
What is worse is when they went home to their respective houses.
Everything is already destroyed, including the pirates and thieves, there is no need for starting a lot.
Action of the government.
What is the action of the government for the very rare condition of the people?
Of course, the front part of the government is there, like the Department of Social Welfare and Development who are fighting in hunger, the Department of Health which is against the illness, the Department of Public Works and Highways, the Department of Public Works and Highways, the Department of Public Works and Highways, the Department of Public Works and Highways, the Department of Public Works and Highways which is responsible for the streets.
There are also local government units that quickly moves for safety and against hunger and suffering of the people.
The big question is is it enough for this action?
It's as if hearing aid.
All the victims are thankful that the government is reaching the action of the government.
But they said, even those who did not reach help are just like hearing aid.
Because the action of the government is not really a long time.
It is right for noodles, sardines, to drink water, just a little tablet and other things given to the people but eventually, the majority cannot feel what they are looking for.
They are just allowed to play in and without the start of the government, it is said that the government is proud of his riches through the amount of taxes that they put from the people, including the victims of calamity.
The calamity led by Hong Kong.
The citizens are asking the billions of calamity fund that the government needs to raise the lawmakers in the Legislative Chamber and the Senate to control or destroy what they want.
For a congressman, this is given a calamity fund that 70 million years, while the senator is given P200 million every year.
There is a total of more than P24 billion fund released by Hong Kong and Senator.
What is surprising and the reason for the government's help to the government is only millions of millions, even during the time of calamity, while billions of pesos is given to no 200 members of the Legislative Chamber and Senate.
It is the child of tofu, pork barrel, the calamity fund which is heartfelt given by the government to Kong and Senator.
And it seems that the citizens have no benefit in the calamity fund.
Why are you in the town?
The people said, if they are going to let the billions of calamity fund, alias pork barrel, they would be easy to get up.
Put our country in ending any calamity.
It is as if the government is not thinking until now that it is "Tuwid na Daan that the citizens will give priority more than the corruption of the government from stolen a unique" calamity fund. "Tsk, tsk!
Isn't it?
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.
