
Central Luzon, is competing at the path of Filipino people.

The town.
7-April 2012, the victory of the armed struggle in Central Luzon is still ongoing, despite the brutal onslaught of the campaign against the military and was able to file a successful country from the military and was able to punishment for the success of the region from the success of the region and was able to file a corresponding punishment for the success of the region.

It was proven by the masses and the revolutionary movement of Central Luzon, to use the state the most cruel, the Filipino people will not be defeated.

After the onslaught of Oplan Bantay, Less (OBL), the Liberal Party of the Philippines will remain on the Liberal Party of the Philippines and the National Democratic Front in the region, carrying the lessons from the fight of the citizens in OBL) and II, the region are in greater better situation for double and taking advantage.

The campaign and leaders of the citizens will get mad because of their call for their call for their rights on earth, wages, jobs and increase in low tuition fee in different parts of the continuous control of the citizens in the entire region.

In the countryside, the advancement of the Honor Code will also be lively, construction of unknown masses and the strengthening of the armed struggle while the AFP is grateful for its declaration of "NPA-free" which will be led by Central Luzon.

It is considered as well for the people to analyze the citizens to break free from the people who responded to the government for the sake of the citizens who destroyed their locations and punished the military which destroyed the projects of the New Hagdan in the Philippines, which is why the military and those who responded to the projects which have been stolen from the projects which have been stolen from the projects of the New Bilibid Prison (Bastes.

Last February, the international airport, which is being used for the construction of TPLEX (Tarlac-Pangasinan-La Union Expressway), which is the cause of the widespread demolition and abuse of land for the reasons that he has changed.

This March, soldiers and soldiers of 81st Infantry Battalion are dismayed by the consecutive explosion of a grenade and gunshots from the construction of the indigenous people in the middle of the former Hacienda Luisita, Caringal, Nueva Ecija due to the start of the private Expressway in Cagayan Valley.

It is clear that the message of the BHB) is clear in using weapons at the outline of a democratic solution to lead the people to fight their fight.
