Conflict in Zamboanga City.

Whoever will benefit is the brain in the chaos happening in Zamboanga City. "That is our answer to the questions that they have received and what is the possible cause of this incident.
In the events, one thing is certain, that it is possible for the attack of MNLF in Zamboanga City that they have not attacked, grabbed or occupied by the government, police or military installation.
Aside from this, Nur Misuari has a plan to become a Brgy. Captain of any of the barangays which is currently being faced by the MNLF who is currently in the country, he will be the he.
It cannot be denied that in the past few days the group of Misuari launched the gathering of some parts of Mindanao which they called "Decongestion Program of Bangsamoro Basic Law."
After their flag down, the MNLF left the peaceful area of the MNLF.
Nothing was reported that the said group did it before or violence done by the said group, so it is hard to believe that in the said declaration, they use violence again!
Meanwhile, the event in the palace is, before the incident in Zamboanga: PNoy, if the attention of the people will not be given to other things, it will continue to revolt against PDAF.
At the end of this, even billions of PDAF will be gone, how will I have tons of money to go to?
What's painful is that when the pork barrel of the senators and congressmen get removed, I cannot control them.
And with just a little mistake, maybe I will not be impeached, that's why the attention of the people is needed to be given to others!
We are just asked by the AFP Chief of Staff, do you want that to be the DND will be the DND Secretary you, and while Mar Roxas will stay while Mar Roxas will stay while Mar Roxas will stay while Mar Roxas will remain.
"I am talking to me: A big honor, sir.
PNoy: If Misuari is doing something again, they fired at them and arrest their companions!
I am talking to it: Okay?
PNoy: "That is what I called Mr. Scorpio Risk Reduction." That means there will be trouble again, which is why it's a big news!
But because the MNLF has not prepared for the chaos on this occasion, that's why the situation can be easily resolved and their movement is limited to just a few areas!
I am talking to you for the important things you said, the dear President is full.
Mead, fire!
My father, and Joseph, their own dream, make sure!
It seems true!
