Talks frankly so Mar Roxas will just speak than lying to his SOCE?
By Ellen Toribio, 2016 is what will happen if Mar Roxas will file a candidate for President of the Liberal Party (LP) during the past election of his Severe Actor of Conejero (SOCE)?
He won't win so he could not be removed from his position like what happened to former Laguna Governor Emilio Ramon "ER" Ejercito, who complained about the Commission on Elections (Comelec) and proven that he spent the Commission on Elections (Comelec) and proven that he spent the election on 2013.
According to DMCI which was released by the Comelec, he will be given the candidate to submit a proper SOCE of Formosa do not win in the position that he won.
There is a fine of those who will file SOCE, depending on the position.

From 10,000 pesos to P60,000. Chicken "which is only known to Mar Roxas.
Meanwhile, if he will file SOCE, he will file a mistake and will not wait for the SOCE that will file a perjury case in the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR), he might be charged with a perjury case or taking place in the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR).
Roxas also said in the campaign that Jonah Gutierrez said in his campaign that she has been scanning a lot of receipt and brought him to the submitting of the SOCE.
The COMELEC agreed on the span of 14-day extension of LP but the PDP-Laban is going to bring the case to the Supreme Court (SC).
June 14, six days after the deadline, the LP will file a case against Leni Robredo, who won as vice president but many are worried that he might be affected in the case of LP.
But his lawyer, Romulo Macalintal said that the will of the people will not be set aside because of the shortcomings of the party.

Aside from Leni, he will also join the five senators of LP who won with the former Senate President Franklin Drilon, 115, congressman and 39 senators.
"That is probably what James Jimenez is saying is the spokesperson of COMELEC when he defended the Comelec's decision to agree with the extension of the LP.
They said that they did not end the law in order to accommodate the LP, there will also be people who will benefit from the candidates who are members of the forces of the filipino masses.
They say they are thinking the "will of the country."
Alright.
