
It's only work without work.

President Benigno Aquino III will be easily pissed at the journalists so he is not able to stop it and prove that it is still ongoing for the "tanim-bala" which is crab's in the media.
What is the meaning of PNoy in the word "doesn't mean," does it mean that they're lacking in thinking or instead of going backwards?
Maybe the President just got into trouble, instead of fixing his social interaction and dealing with them, it's PNoy that the media makes his image beautiful to the people?
If all the task of Noynoy Aquino is being sent by journalists on the knowledge of the majority, it is certain that the citizens have long been working for a long time and he might not reach the third year of his first term.
The journalists follow their work and they are doing their responsibility to bring the news from the news, but it is possible that the fire will not come out if there is no smoke.
This means, it is possible that, in the news of PNoy is the source of news, an example would be an escort or bodyguard from the Presidential Security Group (PSG) that if he has done an activity, they will tell other colleagues or relatives who are friends and relatives.
If he is looking for the news, he should always face the journalists and they are not looking at each other.
He needs to treat the journalists equal and it is not those who will not be allowed to enter Malacañang press Office because of the negative news that it is approved.
Aquino brought up the journalism when the law declared and became free when his mother sat in the help of the 1986 EDSA Revolution.
What's bad is that if the media asks that he is going on a date, he is a normal person, so there are relatives who are planning to face the news that is why he understands the news.
Can he not answer properly about his attacks on this, instead, he will answer a defamation to the media?
There is a group of journalists on the cycle of the President that is why he can't ask them what is the good attack or going to the journalists who takes care of him.
These people can make a way for PNoy to understand that what the media is doing is just a job for him like people like him like his people in the palace when he has a lot of mistakes in what he has done.
