On Monday, my interest in Puerto Princesa City went to Puerto Princesa, in all parts of Palawan.
To buy a houses of Panglao Island in Barangay.
Maybe on the road going to our house, do you know that there are still many things you need to do, what you need to forget.
There are a lot of bridge that will go back then and after a little water, it will cross the electricity that is probably the only thing that the storm will give to his contribution.
The position was also lost in position but now, two teenagers and Two Wives are both of our group, both of our group, but are able to meet.
Nosy mother.
Yes, in the other hand, he is only here every ten years of thinking that he almost died.
What I am telling is that he is still small, not too bad.
Consult a kid on March 28, four o'clock at night, so ask for help from the toys for the meantime.
Just in the end.
It was really good.
I have known each other in the head that I have known in the head, at five years, but he seemed to have been observed that only every month from working, I started to burn down especially when I was able to sell it only now that they were fighting for each other for four pesos, so when they were fighting back to four pesos, it was too late for four pesos.
Then he went to the house.
You can help you in your room.
You!
The Model Shop is going to be a regular exercise.
Those that are complicated are the payment left by Tita.
Rose, I understand the objection in here when he saw the agents.
Companies.
Oil in his house is the six-year-old child, which is why my child has a big contribution to the wide Supreme Court that has a huge sum of electricity.
It was said that last month, I met each other for a month before the spoon arrived at the barangay hall.
There are many mosquitoes here in the barangay to me, what should I say until now that they do not reach each other, inside their house, aunt, you can say that you're really a robots that they have to do with the door.
In the office, when the government reached the knowledge of the government, he is supporting the gathering of a meeting, which is why the residents of the barangay also said that the barangay was going to have electricity that was supposed to have electricity.
Four kilos of Two.
His only dream is to benefit the electricity in the barangay so that the result of the residents who get a card will get a card.
Starting from the eighty of the height that has no electricity, the hardship he was jealous was that we were weak and we were just weak at what was written.
Well, it's really true.
The family of his mother does not need to be a problem.
For several years of snack time, no electricity will have no electricity so I lose something.
He said that there is really a house helper, without a signal that has a electricity that has a electricity that is why many really believe that this is the deep talent she had done to her since childhood.
I seem like I want to go to making a step to help my last name, that is hard to give.
That he will share with others what is only done here for the water on his ability to also start.
Of course, it is a good of course for all youth who are running after different kinds of challenges in order to rise from poverty, bones, to see a way to help the countrymen.
I am very busy with the things that we looked at in front of you.
With the number of students, this is really the hardest for me right now that Two people have really been aware of it before he is here.
In giving a light from the barangay, it is only right to force him to lie down.
Their life is fulfilled.
