
A report by the conflict between dizziness (August 26 - September 6, 2012.

You are kicking in.
GMA - PR - Bicol.
September 12, 2012.


September 6, 2012. 2 soldiers are dead, 4 are wounded in the encounter in Sorsogon.

The two soldiers of the 31st Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army died while three other others were severely wounded after an encounter with a rook at around ten o'clock in the morning in Sitti, Brgy. San Isidro, Bulusan, Sorsogon.

The wounded soldiers were identified as Pfc. Jaypee Rentangenos, Pfc. Ryan Rosign and Pfc. Rodel Linaw, while a soldier who died was identified as Oleta Michael Jordan.
According to Celso Mainaga Command of the Botchok (Sorsogon a few days ago, the troops of 31st Infantry Batallion in the towns of Bulusan and Barcelona were launched in the operations of Bulusan and Barcelona, which is why there was no damage on the side of the red Kjartan Sekkingstad.

September 4, 2012.

The red pickpocket was attacked by the troops of 83rd Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army who are pretending to be a peace and development team in Brgy. Janghai, San Miguel, Catanduanes around 12: 00 in the morning.

It was the encounter of the 2nd Liberation Front in Guinobatan, Albay.

A Tim Hardresses were encountered by a sharp blade in the 2nd Infantry Battalion in Bgy. Balete, Guinobatan, Albay around noon last September 4 when there was no damage on the side of the red pickpocket which was reported to have been reported to the military.

The soldiers are harassing the farmers in a former hacienda, and they are being threatened to be put under the straight path of the farmers and removing the economy of the farmers and remove them from the development of the farmers and remove them from the land of the farmers.

September 3, 2012.

The operation conducted by the Botchok in the province of Camarines Norte continued against the non-let go of attacks and exchange of the troops of Moro 2nd Brigade under the 9th Infantry Division of the Philippine Army.

September 3: 00 in the evening, the red Palestinians attacked the soldiers of 49th Infantry Batallion in Bgy. Peter, town of Capalibis.

Last September 1, around 9: 30 in the evening, a red pickpocket was attacked by the troops of 49th Infantry Batallion in Barangay Maunlad, Labo, Camarines Norte.
September 3, 2012.

At around 3: 30 in the afternoon, the red pickpocket was attacked by the soldiers who were hit in Brgy. Tabion, town of Del Monte, Camarines Sur.

August 30, 2012.

The red pickpocket was harassed by the Jose Rapid Command of the Special Action Force of PNP in Bgy. Lamitan City, Mobo, Masbate at around three o'clock in the morning.

August 29, 2012.

The red pickpocket was shot by the San Juan Command of the Botchok (Catanduanes.

Last August 22 in the afternoon, the red warriors are attacked by the troops of 89th Infantry Battalion who are conducting the attack of the citizens in Brgy. San Marcos, San Miguel, Catanduanes.

It started last August 16 to spread fear and violence of the military in the barangays of the three towns of Virac, San Miguel, and San Andres.

August 26, 2012.

One Tim was burned to the red pickpocket using the Santos Binalera Command of the Botchok (Albay on the 13-month used by the Charlie Company of 2nd Infantry Battalion in Brgy. San Ramon, Daraga, Albay around 9: 00 in the evening.

Said hut was inside an old ship that was temporarily left and transferred to Bgy. Awolves to monitor the equipment of the big company in the construction of Zaldy Co.

The citizens in the area has long been hiding for a long time because of its involvement in a lot of crimes and abuse of human rights which are involved in the massacre to the massacre to the family of Kallano of Barangay Nabas-an, Daraga, Albay on October 2010.
