It is said that even if it is painful to just a new bystanders, I want to ask for help from each other so that the price will buy more and more important are the price of these.
Do that!
It's because in the church that last month, the change of the soldiers and what the government did is not that very young, also said by the city of Davao, because our troop is severe, "the role of our troop is severe.
To the guests.
We are looking at five o'clock in line, maybe because of the old, we are not good to buy more beautiful things that I will do after the call here is a deep soldier because it is ready for there or one or one who wants it.
You will lower down what he said, he said, at four o'clock, he / she said that the one who was the youngest child was the one who left the soldiers, who was easily able to go inside and understood the signal.
Here.
Be sure.
To remove it.
What we want to know is that they are soft; he is soft but there are two players' High School and four-year-year-year-old maid, whose problem is the problem.
But high prices are higher.
Supply Corporation is being taken out because it is as if we are going to make a box to a thousand, which is like two hundred twenty seven who are going to buy five hundred seven who are going to buy four to four decades that you should have known each other.
Let us drink it: C-C for us.
The heavy case for fare is that we entered a thousand two pesos for that.
Last four pesos was the reason of Manny Pacquiao's things to be named by Manny Jesus, the Zurbano family, Two Wives and two armed men who will file a case.
Ha-carp.
It is a habit to do that, in one of those who took the store outside our house and then you are doing that the soldiers are asking for six-million pesos to the company, I am not going to live-up, the politicians, who are not in the same age, are not stupid; we are innocent.
Let us also say to PNoy we have their own knowledge about what you want, that next year, there are still no chance for two children to be angry.
It is better to witness the house shared by the secretary what he said was a soldier for Formanes.
We were together.
Do that!
