Aquino is wrong about the VFA.

By Soliman, Santos on 27, 2013.

President Aquino did not use the US Navy with the incident to the Tubbataha if he cannot see the role of the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) in the said issue, Renato Reyes, general secretary of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan or Bayan.

Reyes said there are no vehicles that are going to be a US in our ocean, if there is no VFA. "There is no vehicle of any US that does not have any establishment in our dock, if there is no VFA, he said.

The constricted action of the officials and employees of the US Guardian, to stop the local park ranger in the crashed ship, should be looked at by the VFA.

We will not be surprised if we will be surprised if the US Navy provisions in the VFA is going to be surprised, related to the "Tulay ng Pangulo" which in the end is the government of the US to decide.

"The incident in Tubbataha is the incident and the incident that resulted to the VFA since the VFA is not only about the exercises that resulted to the continuous presence of the US in our country that resulted to the destruction of nature and repeated violation of nature," said Reyes.

Reyes clarified that the issue is not just about how much is the payment of the US Navy with the issue, sovereignty and how he will force the Philippines.

Some groups are doubting if the government of the Philippines really wants to file a case against the US related to what happened to the Tubbataha.

According to Atty. Romer anares, executive director of Medical Center for International Law, it is possible to file a corresponding reward for the effects of "hara-al of the Philippines, but the government itself needs to file a case.

It is possible to file a criminal case against the US because it violated a law in the Philippines that the local government needs to be filed by the local government.

Meanwhile, according to Renmakr Martinez, it is estimated that around 12 million is the most low penalty which can be charged by the US, based on the studies of the affected areas in the said area, it is not yet included in the studies of the affected areas in the said area, it is not yet included in the studies of the affected areas in the said area, it is not yet included in the studies of the affected parts of the aforementioned place, it is not yet included in the studies of the affected parts of the aforementioned place.

Just in case, the said amount is going to be used for the sake of the suspension of the Visiting Forces Institute of conducting a coral proposition to speed up the improvement of the affected areas.

"The question is, isn't it that our government is going to file a case against the United States with what happened to the Tubbataha?" Aanjoe) has a report of Junelle Street.
