
OD by Tiangco.

The relationship of the siblings, Navotas City Mayor John Rey Tiangco and former mayor, and now the congressman Representative Toby Tiangco.
And your servant is also used to pay attention and give proper contribution to the government to be honest and truly serving the public through the newspaper such as RETE, especially those who are elected by the country, especially those who are elected by the country, especially those who are elected in poverty.
But it is different Tiangco now, because it can be seen in their actions and tasks that they do not do anything but the interest of their jurisdiction in the city, particularly those who are in the poor sector.
Just recently, Tiangco has given attention to it, along with Standard Lunch Program (Dennis Alcantar, the first public market in the city to manage the local government.
The Tumana Public Market in Brgy. North Bay Boulevard South will be found in the very first use of green architecture, or RL water system.
The said state of the public market which was implemented by the Priority Development Assistance Fund or pork barrel of Cong. Toby is expected to give livelihood to many of the poor residents.
New Sports Complex in Navotas.
Tiangco has already asked an additional sports Complex for the residents, especially the youth.
Those who are living in the said barangay are lucky because they have a new Sports Complex after Mayor John Rey and Cong. Toby together with some local officials and Arch of Naval Forces.
Just like the initial infrastructure built by Tiangco now, the sports Complex is possible because of the funds from PDAF by Cong. Toby and to Senator Juan Ponce Enrile who always support the siblings, especially when the issue is programs for the citizens of the city.
According to the siblings, they will force to have other valuable facilities in all barangays in the city.
Their appeal is that it will be more Cooperative that hopefully all the city government, especially in following or not violation of laws or ordinance.
We will also take advantage of Tiangco again who is also all out of supporting Camanava for your servant and director of National Press Club.
