Jacque Manabat will solve it.

I should resolve the bird Strike in Ninoy Aquino International Airport.
We will not allow the downfall of an airplane and will die of hundreds of people here before we act on it.
The bird Strike, Bro, is eating the engines in airplanes that are flying in the road that we pass through.
If there are many birds which have eaten a machine of airplane, the machine will stop and what will happen next?
Beside it, Crawooooooo! The airplane will fall.
And her twin is the accident in the lives and properties inside and to abduction of airplane.
Chorseshoe, of the airplane.
It can be recalled that he / she found out that he / she was seated in Parañaque City last December 10, 2011?
Around 14 people died in the fire and severe wounds when it fell to houses and school.
We did not say that Strike was able to have a bird but that is what will happen if the airplane will fall.
It seems like he went to hell with almost all of them.
We should not surpass this again.
152.
The day before yesterday, I had a bird between Philippine Airlines.
Around 152 people were in the airplane.
When the airplane went to the airplane and check the hornets, they saw the blood on the engine of the said airplane.
I had a bird.
It's a good thing that the airplane that was hit by the airplane can't be stopped.
If not, we don't know what happened to the airplane.
It might have been blocked by a few airplane in America and other countries which fell down because of the severity of Strike.
You think, hundreds of people are at stake because of the bird Strike.
And there have already been 39 wins from January to July this year.
The kitchen and the house of a bird in NAIA.
There are some who are going to drop by water in NAIA, including a water, that is where the water supply is included in the streets.
Operations were made to take the water in the area to take place and not to be muddy and its price will weaken.
The child of tofu, we did not notice that he is already doing this house and dining table.
There is a bath and captures the birds.
When they were flying around, they took upon the airplane or were ran over by the airplane.
There are food being eaten by the machine to them.
And this is dangerous because the machine will possibly stop going to the airplane.
It is here the residents are going to be involved in a airplane such as an airplane that fell in Parañaque this December.
A siren and gunshots?
The bird was a bit gay in a siren and gunshots.
But it seems that the birds are used to them and telling stories that they will earn so that the birds would not be driven out.
They are like goats on the streets which if they lay down in the middle, they do not care about the motorists who take advantage.
It was published.
The authorities should study fast on how to use floodwater or sources of water for human beings.
This is to leave the birds and do not get into place.
Where are these going to them now?
It was eleven o'clock in the town of Candaba.
Hahaha!
We understand those who love the birds who want to see that the birds are going to stop.
But I do not know that a person's life is more important than the birds which is more important than the birds and if they will be asked to choose me, I will side with people.
It is necessary to take care of the people before the birds.
That's why as soon as possible, the symptoms of birds are being applied for the safety of the people.
P45 fund, Vista!
There is a destined for P45 million fund for the projects.
This is allegedly one of a lot of use in throwing stones at the place which is being inhabited by bird.
There are also plans to buy the authorities of intense system to taste the sound of birds and go out of the place, especially if an airplane is flying and above or above.
All of these are okay.
But there is a need to rush all the projects.
And so that the said funds will be used to be used, these corrupt should not be used.
We are saying that this is because of the temptation that will always come near and walk from the funds of the government which is allocated for other projects.
Remember that at the airport their lives are being discussed there and not just an accident.
Warning for victims.
While the authorities are thinking and making a way on how the group will court the problem, it is good to remind the pilot of airplanes that will be alert with the bird Strike.
They should also make the training against bird Strike to make them clear what they will do if they encountered this incident.
