I hope, the case ends.

Ann was able to speak.
"Brother, UP Diliman," the door of the taxi went through when I have been declared.
"Diliman, maybe it is always dark there in our destination," he answered, I laughed at me.
They say there are many things that can say about things, so I want to talk with the drivers of public vehicles that is why he already wants to talk with the drivers of public vehicles that is why he already asked for a lot of patience because he knew I will catch up in the class so I can catch a taxi.
We are listening to AM for the radio and she noticed that it is only all killings that she took after the law, so most of them know their rights and they will not be fooled by others?
I am always waiting for the response of all the things you say or ask, except for one: "How much is your tuition in UP?" I want to study the young girl that I am in college. "
She showed me the picture of his child who are all removed from the lower board of the vehicle, whose white skin fell down, her white skin fell down, and her long hair fell down, and she was elusive.
In my mind, if I continue to show the physical appearance of her child, change the discussion on how much of the traffic is, or for sure I will get caught in class, or maybe the love of any actor and politician is going to be caught.
A few minutes have passed before I answered all his questions, "P1,000." It depends on the ability of the student that will not be paid, and if it is not enough to pay, you'll get rid of it.
My brother glared up on the road, she asked why he really loves, how can she just choose what she is like her, she can still study what she is going to do?
The truth is, I do not know what to answer to him, because I know how much the line goes on every time the line of the government is coming in public college.
"Why did the residents of UP allow that to happen, isn't it that UP does not know anyone in the rally when they are not pro-people and the rights of the citizens of the administration?"
It was as if I was stabbed in the heart, where is the "press in Iton for ejero, whom I often see in the chairs outside if you need it?
According to him, the truth that the fact that the "scholar of the Bayan is really not the same."
When I was not able to answer, he / she said that perhaps, it was just the PUP when he asked his child to study because it was just P12 per unit there, he might not be welcomed by UP if ever he is going to pass.
The door called as I opened the door when I opened it, I did not look back at Kuyang's driver and her taxi, I ran outside the room, but for more than half an hour.
My conversation with Kuya Germs has not gone out of my mind, so many children will say that I am going to be studying, case...?
