Hahaha! "Who among F12?
Bulang Malinao, June 26, 2016.
Today, National coach Tabag-12) will release to the Manila Olympic Games that will coordinate with the Manila Film Festival (OPAT) for the only ticket that is left in Rio Olympic Games in August.
The Ohort will start on July 5 in IGAA where the favorite France is going to face an encounter in Gilas Pilipinas.
Those in Europe are currently in Europe for a Catholic tournament which is going to be placed in Turkey and China, Canada and IOS in Turkey and their training there from 14 players, they will be removed from a billion list for July 5 to 10 tournament.
Those who are expected to be with in the final 12, aside from Andre Bira, Gabe Norway, Jason Castro, Marc Pingris, Calvin Abueva, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jony
Jeff Chan was the former partner of Baldwin 'girlfriend due to the disappearance of Marcio Tiburio.

Poison is a bit of injuries, one of the hot topic in the PBA.
The other in the National Railways are Terrence Rome, Troy Rosario, Ryan Reyes and La Tenorio.
In their four, Romeo Acop also became a big revelation of Baldwin in Jones Cup and FPulse Asia last year.
From Europe, Baldwin and Gilbert was scheduled to go back on June 28 two days before the former caretaker of Match again against Turkey on July 1.
It is expected that Gilas well in Turkey is going to make up for the massacre done to them in a text message of Match in Ianl.

Turkey is in Turkey, together with Canada and Senegal while the Philippines is a group of France and New Zealand.
The Philippines is only needed to win one to win the Comprehensive 4 of Manila OPAT.
