There is work hard for success.

How can you reach success if it seems that he does not escape the hole of the needle?
Because majority of us have experienced how much is the hole of a small needle in a small needle, patience, patience, patience, patience, strategy and extreme caution in order to do a simple thing.
This serves as the start of the first step which is needed to make a beautiful and loose clothing as well as the life of Edel, an OFW in San Francisco, California.
It was the year 1987 when Edel has left the Philippines to let them face and look for his fate in another country.
From being a GSIS eker in a bakery which has not noticed the hardship and loneliness that he cooked in order to earn and help the family that was left in the Philippines.
"IT's is that it is hard to stay-up when you do not have a hard work and is very hard to start," he said.
In the span of two months of working in the bakery, which was the chance that he came from a caies, where heavy box was taken from him, even selling bread was also entered.
Before long, he transferred to a job in an insane store.
Because he also has knowledge and experience in its bottom, his job is just easy for Edel.
"It turns out that only those who are monitoring it are only creations of pants, whose pants got cut off, which was cut off from America, which is why it was very easy," he said.
In 1994, in 1994, Edel was started in building his own shop store, this was followed by garment factories, which was also taken to the Philippines.
With the continuous work and perseverance, his businesses are slowly going to progress and their families are slowly going to progress and for not long, he brought them to America to live there.
Life is as if it is called for a contest or sewing the hole of the needle, does not mind the way back to face the challenge, to make a good and beautiful clothes, it is just right that we learn.
From the challenges of life, we will be facing.
Because like Edel, our patience may also result to sweet success.
