TV Patrol, April 19, 2012.

My mission.

You can't blame a person in anything, what you can only do is to help him see him in his depths.

Someone wrote to me and asked, what is my mission in life?

In my best awareness and full-mindedness, my mission is to serve.

Whatever I have, I can give it to the needy.

My mother said, "if you want you, ask him if you get someone else, give it when you have learned to teach."

I did not forget this, and every day of my life, I am doing it.

That's why, I asked those who want to attend, everything I need is, and what I am receiving, I have not seen a lot of tomatoes, which is why I have not seen a lot of tomatoes, which contains more bones, and due to the largest bone, many have nothing to return.

My basis, whatever I want, I need to give it a good thing, to give thanks, understanding, understanding, understanding and generous, and generous, all of us are starting to respect all of us.

One of my goal is to share the readers a person-minded people here in Metro Manila, real Filipino; and 1) for the real events in our surroundings, which causes goodness, prosperity, and happiness; and 2) are sure to be a pro-religion and as the blind followers of the hornets.

The mission in my mission is to express that only; the mind will correct.

Make sure of the awareness, Kabarse, will be kept on truth that will bring happiness that will bring you peace. And you will be in the glory better.

The aspect of spiritual knowledge is to help others; their spiritual knowledge, to express their own power and thinking that there is a strong energy that is being pointed at by Jesus Christ, not a sharp blade and make a sheep anymore and make a sheep that will be cut off and make a sheep anymore.

Go anywhere and any sector of religion and this will be experienced and it will only be avoided to bring wallet or check.

What Jesus Christ is pointing is your spiritual knowledge that is just the center of your religion, you do not know what is right in the church that was given to you, or he does not know what you do in the life that was given to you, and not from your own guidance, and not from the things that dictates you.

It is the start of changing your life to discover what you want, and where are you going to him not to escape, instead, you will fulfill what you are scheduled to do, but will experience your glory better.

Because like me, I will not discover the Lord to myself and myself in Him, as long as I have no idea to face myself, as long as I do not have anything to face, as well as with all of my followers, I do not feel any person or is being full of boiling oil.

The truth is the pure cooperation of the people for our Great God, this is his glory, meaningful and high knowledge that he will achieve.

And will be proven that there is no sidewalk or wall between the people and God, that he is not there, beside him, or in heaven, white vinegar and sitting on the throne, so that he will be able to be saved from boiling oil yet to be able to be saved from boiling oil.

"Why is it that because I believe in the highest and complicated promises to me by God, I am always at you, even until the end of eternal."

I also believe, when I have wishes.

He asked and is an ally given to you; to analyze and be able to open it; and you will be able to open it because for each one who asked you to receive, and those who ask him will be found, and she will be able to open it.

(Mateo 7: 7-8), it is said that this is not a good condition after we chose to be a Christian, or become a Christian, or a Muslim, or a Christian, but will this answer, if we are real christians?

This is the "training" of faith that I have received the kingdom of heaven and this is in the depths of the kingdom of God, and this is the only one who comes in my depths of this world without meaning, and this is just an illusion that this world has no meaning, and just an illusion.

At the end of the end.

Thank you to Iyo, or, my Lord, thank you for your guide.

And in the life that you gave me every time I will wake up.

For the amazing moments, thank you for each other.

That really happened, what is happening now, and that is what will happen.

In all of these, your blessing will bear fruit.

In the next breath, it is.
If I am I now and what will happen to me.

Thank you very much.
