The body of the DOJ is suspicious of investigating the abuse.

It is said to be investigated by the legislative body of the Department of Justice about the violation of human rights but it seems that the investigation will be investigated, because they want to include the cases against groups that are not in the government.
Different militant groups criticized the formation of said electric body that they said will only be the same with other "task force" and agency who ordered to investigate but he still defended those who violate human rights.
For the group of human rights that we have a human rights, "said" Aquino's "Midnight Cabinet" in solving cases of extrajudicial killings and violation of human rights.
"The Pambansang Kamao said that he / she was able to pay for justice for the victim who were not able to go to.
Joms Salvador, general secretary of Gabriela, said that the said burial body of Task Force prosecutor arrived at the time of President Arroyo that there was no prosecutor who violated human rights.
"What can the people believe in a assembly that has made it as a part of a program that is full of fraud and violation of the rights of the people?" Added Salvador.

Salvador clarified that it is part of the program against insurgency and Oplan Galugad conducted by the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), Philippine National Police (PNP) and other agencies of the government and also the Aquino administration.
The militants even said that with the so-called non-state prosecutor, or those who are not part of the state, like the revolutionary movement, the cruel case of the military will not be neglected.
According to the native citizens of the Philippines (Kiblawan PNP), the Anti-graft body is a low price increase in the increase of cases of human rights that the forces of the state are doing.
"This is another non-increase that the abuse of human rights are ongoing, and the killings and policies are not finished, three years after Aquino first sat down," stated the KimXi.
Field for justice.
However, the said funeral body has been averted to ask for justice for the victims and relatives, like Glenda Leonor and Mylene Tiongson.
The son of Leonor, Arnel, last April 2012, was murdered while the latter was caught against the demolition of their house in Silverio Compound, Sucat, Para単aque.
Mylene Tiongson was kidnapped on the day of the demolition of Silverio Matute which is happening, his wife Vicente went out to buy a viand.
Until now, Mylene's wife was still detained in Coastal Para単aque City Hall, and was experiencing severe pain.
"What is difficult to lie to my child, what if my son is in the hands of her father, she is just saying that her father is being referred to," Mylene said in her handcuffed husband.

On the other hand, Nihonggo are included in the Manile単o under the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) who was kidnapped by the military and jailed now in Camp Crame.
Nihonggo said that his father was kidnapped in a parking lot of Star Mall in Las Pi単as, his father was charged with murder with murder of one First First Class in Mauban, Quezon last 2007, and he was also a warrant of arrest in Labo, Camarines Norte and one also in Tinoc, Ifugao.
"He does not have any idea but to have an alternative that will be given to us, to my future child," said Nony Villon.
Even his mother Amelita Geng, was also charged by the military and involved in the military forces of the New People's Army.
"He seems to be an insult to this flawless body," by Nihonggo. "Aquino III said that he has the political opponents in our country, what he is doing, that he has been charged with activists to say that he has no political prisoners."
De Lima's move.
In his interview with the media, Department of Justice Secretary Leila de Lima said that the primary goal of the said graft body will be investigated by the cases of murder, disappearance, order and other cases of violation of human rights in state and non-state case.
De Lima also said that, from the list of the government, non-government and international airport is what they did in order to prioritize the investigation, investigation of investigation, monitoring and investigating the cases.
De Lima added, "we did not have a number of number 1 (or number of victims) as long as the review of the working group." From the year 2001 where the scope of the said working group is not yet done.
The said Arab body agreed to build three groups that will look at the cases of extrajudicial killings.
There will be a Special Action Force that is currently on alert and being investigated, a Special Action team for new cases and a group for the "Special Action Force."
De Lima said that the said graft body is serious to investigate the cases but there is a reason for the victims and relatives to be suspicious because this has been solved yet, while the violation of human rights are still ongoing.
