Oh, PDP-Ka Jerry!: The call to help Dick Israel.
By Rey Pugo on July 5, 2016.
Jilian was leading at the local government for the call to comfort the condition of the prestigious actor, Dick Israel.
After the picture of Dick, that he will post in the social media to capture the attention of netizens for the actor, Datal-Broch, one of the people who was seated on the actor, Datal-A, was released by Dick because he was a fire in Bagong Barrio Caloocan where he was living in Bagong Barrio Caloocan where he is living now.
The said photo of Jilian was said to be built on her Instagram account for his colleagues in the industry of help to the actor.
Under the picture, Dick's naked body was naked because of old age and illness.
Jilian was able to be accompanied in 2013 that makes a indie film "krrrik," Dick should keep the form of a campaign agent for a member of a politician who is running in their area.
The barism and corruption of the election in their area where one of the one running it was Dick.
The disability and health of Dick can be seen in the movie but he gave his skills in the role they are doing.
He also went out to the movie by ER Ejercito, the "Boy Golden" Entry Approach where Dick-2010 has a stroke and his walking and speech will not return to normal.

According to Jilian in her call on Instagram: "I called out to my colleagues in the industry, that is why we need help from our colleague, Tito Dick Israel.
"Some of the allies of Robin Padilla are calling on her Instagram account for Dick.
On the other hand, she said that her message to Robin, she said he saw the post regarding Dick and she felt pity for him that he was a simple rich woman and a fire that was why he could help him.
He is hoping that the colleagues of Dick are hoping that the colleagues of Dick in the industry will notice more, especially since he needs food, medicine and clothes.
It is said that this is one of the decades of 80 's of Dick because of his skill as a celebrity or the antagonist, after she got sick, the fire that he is living in is a fire.
Robin is not in the Philippines and is currently in Japan for her to be with his son, crmad Ali.
Robin has no response to the call of some of his opponents but it is sure that his allies here in the Philippines will be able to save it.
