Scene Pega: The live in show-Spanish.

Herlo City, to be sure, that you are here who is the only model of the chest pain outside, the vicinity of the University of the Pilo is here, I don't have thought of being a name for him, which is why I am, "to me!
Anyway, it is good that even for the long time that we have been together for a long time, not just like the other there, it's not similar to others that are part of the heat of the weather, including the four-year-old person in the Visayas Region.
(The sole decision to be given, Are, to be a father-in-law, will be the one to talk about, because if the discussion is just about to talk about it, "do not be together with, Pramis).
How can you not be able to make the toll fee of a live in a live show to a live in show that they have no beauty or just a good thing when once they live together in one room in Bilumm?
Put in the peak.
Even from the start of the live-show show, he showed off to his name that he has one doctor, which is also a doctor to go through the top of the Eve HRO that's why it is believed that it would be good for us to be beautiful and beautiful, "I am still beautiful," I am still beautiful!
But the super-Illegal Drug Enforcement Agency (Her) of the live-show that goes down at the P222,278.
Buder?
So, for a long time, the scene became hot, "that's just a hot topic, even before the amount was broken, there would be someone who takes care of him," of course, someone is watching.
In fact, a one of the dresses are considered to have been observed that the live-show-Failbo, let us wait for Shhmmmp, let us wait for it, "sanitary" Break. "
That is crazy, ah, "Break na Daan" and I am the one who is a member of a person or Two in Guimaras in relation with big mango tree.
"Oh, for a long time, I also went to the island that I went to the island, but because I don't want to take care of my plan to be this form of Guimaras, I am not able to care for the food that I have to eat.
It is an allergy attack.
That's why, in the story, he / she just took a story with the person who was able to take care of with the person who has been taken with him / her so that he / she is showing out of a point). Yes, Barangay Are, the initiative to go out.
Well, which is very sensitive that's why they cannot admit that they are really angry that they are fed up so that they are really fooled by the room of the room, which is said to be his live in order to show up to the country.
On patrol, Guimaras, the ones that I have been seeing with his eyes were seen with sore eyes, which is not really angry because they are really angry if they are still angry or not to get angry), but because of the cause of it.
In order to calm down and get rid of shame, they will try to fall-ers in the island of Guimaras, which is the size of the cold-mannered family, feeding the sharks!
Therefore, Fight IT for example. I will just watch my live-in partner again in the next week.
