It has been just one week that is happening in Batangas for almost eight days, and it was only eight days ago when I was able to go around 10: 00 in the morning and not all were wounded, many of them were wounded, many of them were wounded from their soldiers, not yet Zamboanga.
Reyes Medical Center, he said that their relationship with the strong military has not yet been said that their relationship is not focused on a case of Barangay Tigatings; he / she doesn't want to be focused on a case of barangay hall in town.
Villanueva.
We are colleagues.
It's now a few times.
A banana at the back of the vehicles.
But the soldiers are just on the side of them.
You are getting closer and Beau and beauty she needs to back down.
.
In his work, let us go to those who will be with the three old two children outside this five hundred pesos, but their mother-in-law came out, five days after they hit them, there are still three days that they still have a glimpse at them.
It is not in the barangay three barangays who are going to buy it to the authorities that they will buy from the authorities who have left them, that there is a group of people who left them going to the sea when they escaped, they were taken to the position when there were reinforcements that they were going to.
You will be impatient for a few days, maybe there are still no more time when rain pours.
You, up to me, Ariel believe that it is not a resident in these kinds of barangays so that's why it's just that, there is only a severe damage on the remains that is not okay.
Read it.
But their opponent is not just change.
You did this to him.
The events on the past few days were pointed at by two titles.
I am one of the barangay who is smart even if I am smart, very fond of living with them, his companion in Germany are saying that what they are with in Germany is what they are talking in Batangas City to answer to Batangas City.
What are you outside here?
There, in my aunt, we are very proud.
To be helped in the right place.
The military does not want to go home to a percentage in the evening I am going to be home there.
He catches the place where he went to.
I told what happened earlier that they were studying the lawmakers who have not criticized the big commission.
For me to leave, there was a point.
Jessica has no idea that this is needed in the operation in Batangas City but he should also take care of it, so he says he needs to take care of it especially that they are just waiting for Sarah.
I know they are saying.
What he was saying is that, he / she was talking to us; he / she said that he / she was going to go to school; he / she said that she was still part of her older brother, who was just near them, he / she was really close to each other, he / she was really close to each other, he said that he / she was really close to each other; he / she was really close to each other and frequently came out.
Four applicants have been operated on the streets level.
Buy a ten o'clock.
Who will be the one who wants me?
He said that there is nothing here in Saudi that's why we say that the power of course of the government of "I have seen what they are using in the fight here in the hope that they are used to fight here in the same age.
But ah, we can say that we can see each other; we are stupid.
You are really the ones who are stupid; we are the only ones who are innocent.
Especially with the people you are with in Germany, they are calling me to go to Germany; four o'clock early morning, but they are calling the soldiers who are ready to die if they do not have a small thing in front of the other side.
