
Philippines is famous in number 2 in Mumbai, Maguindanao.

Just recently, we reported to the Philippines - number 2 in the countries who have the most dead-amen last year.
This is according to the research of the International Federation of Jilian.
It was revealed in the past few days the report of the International Space Regional Trial Court which is based in Paris, France.
Number 2 in the Philippines.
It is the child of Lamunting, Number 2, the Philippines for the most killed in the year 2013, according to the incident.
Let's equal the country India with the number of those killed to be amen in number 12 each other.
This is more than what we first reported as the number of SOJ before 10, including the countries India and Pakistan.
The incident said, Syria is leading to a 19-year-old dead compared to 15 who were reported to be held.
Iraq is currently the third who has 11 dead compared to the report of HJ-13.
Fourth is Pakistan and 9 are dead.
There was a total number of 126 were killed compared to one reported by the International Criminal Institute of 117; INJ-108; and reporters Way-71-71.
The incident also reported the death of the 4-Illegal Drugs Group who died in action or hit by typhoon Yolanda.
Famous.
We are famous in the whole world now, but it is very painful to think that this is one of our feeling to make the incessant killing of journalists or bring news.
Because of the loyalty in my professor, place or now, the Philippines has reached the level of Number 2 in the most dangerous country in the media.
We also became famous in the United Nations when he asked the president of the Philippines to make sure that there is no pork barrel or those who will gather aid that costs $400 million.
According to the rehabilitation of the devastation, Yolanda hit the said amount.
Can you think, we are famous in corruption in the whole world, that is why there is a doubt even other countries if it is true for the citizens to give assistance or to be used by corrupt people.
It is still there that the government was seen guarding the government on the use of his duty.
One week, the government has no clear action, especially in the fight of hunger and to collect thousands of corpses due to Yolanda.
And until now, thousands have not been buried with the corpses of Leyte in spite of the more than a month that they have been placed in a place where they take advantage.
You have thought that there will be a massacre right in the right place such as Ninoy Aquino International Airport.
There is a sign of ALNAs.
We became famous because of the number of beauty queen our beauty queen.
We almost sympathize with the national crown to the beauty of our Filipinas.
Miss World (Megan Young, Miss International Space Station, Miss International Space Station, Miss International Tourism Sec. Carmencita Mendoza, Miss Universe Sub-Lapu-8 degrees east) De los Reyes, Miss Universe Organization (los Reyes and Miss Earth Top-8 Angelita de los Reyes.
But only until the history of these.
It is possible to forget these history.
Even though our beautiful Filipinas are okay in tourism, businessmen have no interest in poverty and many tourists are afraid of what is happening in our country because of our bad fame.
Being famous in my beloved Philippines will prevail over evil.
"The life of Cong.
"Pambansang Kamao" Pacquiao, in having an amount of taxes.
Only the government is saying the picture of the Philippines to the foreigners will be good.
We are trying hard to dismiss the Philippines that I love to go out of our country, but it is really better for the Philippines to be more beautiful than tsk, tsk, tsk!
Make a way.
The bad news being carried away by the bad news about the Philippines killings, corruption, the government of the government of calamity, and many others.
These are included in the reasons why we are avoiding that there will be a job of good companies in the world so that there will be a job that the government will earn a lot, and there will be Filipinos who will have new knowledge in technology, it will have a lot of beneficial knowledge in agriculture and there will be a lot of beneficial benefit in the agricultural sector.
It is also a reason for the bad news that we are extremely thankful for the whole world to have a lot of foreigners to us.
And this is also the reason why our economy is not in improvement of our economy and it is irritating to become proud of our democracy.
What is the right thing to do so that good news will prevail and erase the real image inside and outside the Philippines?
Under the ball.
Just like basketball, the primary ball is in the government to erase or lessen the bad events like the media killings, corruption, negligence and others.
If the government will not take action, we will remain famous but notorious, negligence and other curses.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.
