
A meaningful explosion of the 1896 Revolution.

The protest that happened last Monday in Luneta against the foul pork barrel of President Benigno Simeon Aquino III and the "pul-politicians in congress are the best to give tribute to the true President of the republic, Gat Andres Bonifacio.
Notice that last Monday, it was the 117th year anniversary of the start of the 1896 Revolution headed by Bonifacio Drive and just like the start of his release from the Independence Day, the August 26, 2013 that may be the start of our release from the nails of the shameless "pul-politician.
The stars of B. S. Aquino are forcing the protest to be released on Monday, but they will not reveal yet to the public that they made the straight path such as the way given by the President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
In spite of the protest of the country, there is still a thick face of "pul-politicians who say that it should not be removed from the pork barrel, that only needs to be controlled by B. S. Aquino, isn't it?
There is also one "pul-politicians who said that if the pork barrel should be removed, the people who will ask for help because they do not have anything to give to their personal money, should not be given away.
Well, why is it that if you are giving up pork barrel, if you act like that, you seem like you have money that is why you just have a good help if your help will help you from you.

This pork barrel scam is the former president of former President Cory Aquino) and the Priority Development Assistance Fund or PDAF last 2000, now it seems that his name will change because it is already bad for the people.
B. S. Aquino said it is said to just separate PDAF but what really happens is that he will change his name.
A promise that is just like that, every election is all "pul-Added Tax he promised to clean the government.
B. S. Aquino, even if you will look at PDAF, even if you don't call it as pork barrel, even if you don't call it as pork barrel, even if you don't call it as pork barrel, what you should implement is for the distribution of money from the congress to follow what you want.

If you want to take a bath in a private Starex van, you went to the Infines Subdivision, Barangay Bagong Kalsada, City of Calamba, just near Metro Manila and from here, you are looking forward to the holy mountain.
