Gabbi, Ruru is already waiting for a long time, Ruru is already waiting for a long time on July 20, 2016.
Ruru is in Encantadia in Encantadia, he will play with Gabbi Garcia, who will act on one of those who agree with Alena.
It's too much, the name of Gabbi is too much, she is extremely chosen as one of the four who agree with him even if there are people who say that he is too young.
This is the greatest and biggest character given by Gabbi, which is why Karylle needs to prepare for Alena, Dingdong and Karylle in real life, that's why the two have already been separated.
Ruru laughed at what we said, she said that she and Gabbi did not separate from us, Ruru is not yet a girlfriend of Gabbi, but she said they understand each other as a 17-year-old Gabbi.
According to the young lady, Ruru is almost gone together, but they are not yet together.
Gabbi's reason is that there are a lot of people coming in them that they are still not priority of the form of Bubby one even if they are still young.
At the age of Gabbi. Maybe during Christmas, they are going to be together, but not for the meantime, Gabbi Garcia said to us.
Is it okay with him if Ruru is going to be his First Class?
"Yes, that's okay, if coming," will not be happy, "Gabbi.
Ruru is asked, "an indication of sulking, if there are others, right?" Then laughed.
Will Ruru is going to go with this boy if he will not be the boils of Gabbi Girl?
"Of course, we are the one who is always together, and what he will choose," gay men.
The question of Gabbi, Ruru, is it okay for him to be his girlfriend?
"What I have been waiting for is for a long time," Ruru is quickly answered, which is where he's in front of the press.
Isn't Ruru is useless?
According to Gabbi, "I do not know if what he is saying is wrong, that's why he / she is telling him / her.
"This is the sixth place for Gaby because they are not the ones who are going to win in Encantadia.
But because there is no 18, Gabbi Garcia is still not able to coordinate, the Team Encantadia is very happy for the positive outlook in Pilamepisode.
This trending in 3D and being talked about in social media.
They can be watched every night in GMA Telegant after 24 Oras.
YUMMR - the 18-year-old Ruru is currently detained in the grand reception of Encantadia.
Ruru is confirmed, Ruru is the one who built his body for alms, which is why Dingdong Dantes and Dingdong Dantes.
Aside from the huge amount, Ruru is getting worse, Ruru is taller, the stubbornness of his mother and his / her accomplice.
She could not let him see his 6-year-old uniform, because of her outfit she is wearing.
According to the young lady Gaga, after he / she was seated, she was already lying in the gym in Dansalan College for Muños, to boxing, boxing and everything that will be taken out for the right form of his body.
Ruru is admits that Dingdong and Dingdong were able to borrow money.
But he would like to feel the amount of blood pressure because she wants to love her, "he should be able to give him his best friend.
It is not good to look for a young man who will be able to get a young man for him because he / she needs to, what is needed here is that the body is beautiful and spacious.
He thought it was Aljur Abrenica who can choose, that's why she was very happy that it went to her.
Ruru is able to see what Dong said in an interview that she is happy that she was the one chosen by Dong because she was followed by Dong in the Protective Services Program and she is very proud of her.
Sunshine said to him that he should learn to sleep in the forest and be able to sleep.
We can stay at Cosain or basing, Ruru,, but they might not be able to breathe.
She wants to get tired that her body is in good form and now, there are still many who are lacking.
Is there still something lacking, why, what do he need to raise him?
"It is already big! It is already big!" Okay, "we always answer to us by a young man, that our question is too late.
Because even if he gets bigger, he may lead the mat and barism.
Ruru is just laughed and worried about his dimples.
