Embassy of the US, the women attacked the eve of women's eve.

By P2,500.
March 8, 2012.

Gabriela was able to reach women in front of the embassy of the US, but they were immediately violent that pushed the police away from the embassy.
A red smoke that was scattered in front of the embassy of the embassy (PPHP.
Militant groups of women who are Gabriela in front of the embassy of the United States (US) in Roxas Boulevard in Manila are successful in Manila a day before the international day of women.
Gabriela condemned the increasing military forces of the US in the Philippines to protect their interest in the country and to the Pacific Ocean.
The police and agents of the embassy pushed the funeral rally by the group, who tried to take a red paint to the Seal of the embassy.
"The protesters here in front of the embassy is to expose and protest about the distress between the administration of (US President Benigno Aquino III, to ensure the wealth of the Asia-Pacific and make sure that the wealth of the Asia-Pacific and make sure that the wealth of the Asia-Pacific will be suppressed," said Lana, general secretary from Gabriela.
Increasing number of military.
The group condemned what they said that they are going to set the condition for the greater violation of the US government in the national sovereignty in the Philippines.
Linmei shared the slow movement of the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office at the West Philippine Sea (South China Sea (South China Sea) because in the same time, the Department of oil and gas of an estimated 38 foreign company, daughter, has an American soldier.
There is also a high level with the US and officials of the Philippines in Washington, D.C. in April to strengthen those who will ruin the life and livelihood of the women in Asia.
Despite the investigation of the police, the women of Gabriela in front of the embassy of the US to condemn the increasing number of military forces of the US in the country.
Linmei also criticized the scheduled training of the US and the Philippines on the west-0 pesos that will not be in a pile of spite of the enemies and opposition.
"The protesters are criticizing the brutal concluded Balikatan Examination, which is prohibited now against women and their families (NAIA) and will not last long, it is expected that it will spread to other places," added by Linmei.
In their protest, Gabriela is also showing their cooperation with the women being faced by Iraq, Iran, North Africa, and South Africa who became a victim of domination and military forces in the US last year.
10,000 on March 8.
The group promised that on March 8, election day of women, they will continue to registered to their opposition with the continuous control of the US in the economy, politics, and military in the country, as well as the lead together with the Aquino administration in the government of the US.
Gabriela who will experience more or less than 10,000 women and people on March 8 to protest in Plaza Miranda and Mendiola.
"(Dick) explained to the generation that suffered from poverty and economists like this kind of real condition should be stopped - and the women as children of our country will surely stop and be part of the struggle of the citizens against the end of the US," the end of libel.
