
Those who are lies in the 9th Infantry Division, the Brad of the Oplan Galugad conducted by the Oplan LS.

Gregorio "Ka Greg" epal. "
Spokesperson of NDF-Bicol.

12, 2012.

(Answer to press of the 9th ID-Philippine Army by Maj. Angelo Guzman, October 7, 2012.

A big illusion was used by the "Internal Peace Agreement (MTPB) of the 9th ID-ABB headed by the 9th ID-ABB headed by the 9th ID-ABB headed by the 9th Infantry Batallion in the latest statement on October 7.

It is not surprising and it is not acceptable if the 9th ID is a rope of lies in the fake success in order to prevent the Oplan Galugad conducted against the citizens in order to cover up the use of pork barrel and terrorism in the state against those who are opposing and fighting the rotten system of the country.

Despite of this kind of change of emphasis from the "success of peace," it is clear in the statement of 9th ID, the number of those who were killed and the ordinary citizens, which the ones being accused, which is the one being accused, which is the one being accused, which is the one being accused in relation to the PKP, it is considered as a standard for the PKP.

Human rights to the people are their flattery, "peace and prosperity," said to be hidden and erased from the rights of the children and rape to the citizens in fact, involvement to the rights of the children and rape to the citizens; being linked to the kidnapping and hold-up, involvement in the kidnapping and robbery, and other violation of human rights.

The cases of the alleged murder of the armed forces of the state, particularly of 9th ID, reached 35, the victim was an extra-raising murder of the ninth ID, from June 2010 up to September 2012 (one hundred victims of EJK during the time of the Marcos regime).

The last victim of an alleged murder case was Antonio "Ka Eddie" Peraldo Peralta who was allegedly killed in a "encounter" in Ligao City, 2012 in Brgy. Tetuan, Ligao City and was shot without a weapon for an accident that was killed in a "encounter in Ligao City.

Last August 7 of the current year, no one was killed by the "Supreme Court of 49th Infantry Batallion of Barangay 384, Labo, Camarines Norte, the Mancera who is also a victim of the massacre of the troops of 49th Infantry Battalion in February 25, 2012.

In the case of the massacre to the Mancera, who died in this incident, Michael (10-year-old, Richard (7-year-old, and their father Benjamin, who is also a civilian, is also injured.

Until now, there is no doubt that the victims of the massacre of 9th ID, included here are the massacre to the Mancera last February 25, 2012; and massacre to four civilians in Bgy. Sta. Maria, Mobo, Masbate last September 7, 2010.

It is not that the Philippine US-Aquino administration could not understand the improvement of the advancement and strengthening of the 800 armed fight of the people for the west-depth of the masses of the Bugnay, he has the ability to gather more than a few hundred times in the number of those who have been killed or caught against the fight against the fight.

Everyday the influx of people in every corner of the region has increased because of the desire of the citizens especially to the loss of the citizens especially to the lack of land and other valuable towards the scope of the citizens especially towards the lack of land between the citizens especially towards the destruction of the sanctity of the armed struggle.

They are being guided by their movement of the national's program and it is going to lead the straight movement that contains the plans and duty to achieve 5-year programs going to achieve the 5-year program to achieve the 5-year program going to a higher suspension of the quality of basic commodities.

In fact, this resulted to the meaningful flow of the group of different Australian missionary which can be implemented like the PKP, National Katipunan, national Katipunan, private sector; and construction of additional patrons of the power of politics for many establishments and towns.

The implementation of the youth in the legislative chamber is very healthy because of other sectors such as women like women which are growing up and the additional wage units of the country and government units.

He continued to raise the force of companies that are against the inlet canals which are currently detained by the inlet canals the region to give additional strength for the candidates who are assigned to the mass against the masses in different provinces.

Even more than a bigger damage was acquired by the anti-PNP-PIO from the burned offensive of the Botchok (October 10 of the current year, which caused an additional damage to the AFP-PNP-1090451.

The alleged attack of the 49th IB, which is held at the Oplan Galugad conducted in Bgy. Maunlad, Labo, Camarines Norte last April 29, 2012, a caliber .45 pistol and other strong weapons were killed while another soldier died while another one was wounded.

To make it up to a lot of loss and shame, the fifth camp of the ninth ID, such as the biggest camp of the Bables as Sitti, Brgy. San Isidro, Bulusan last September 6, 2012.

This is just an illusion of the current Commander of 9th-INTRIrisan, which is caused by a 15-year-free fight against the US President-Marcos, that was why he was woken up by a 15-year-old military which was implemented by a 15-year-old military which was implemented by different programs until the Oplan Galugad conducted by the Marcos regime.

The anger of the people panics because of the severe crisis in livelihood, there is no other way for the citizens to break free from the path of long term Filipino people, which is more effective in the whole country.

In the span of five years up to 2016 and the entire country, the big success of the armed forces of the citizens in the entire country can win, and to win the long success of Filipino people in the future to win the real national freedom, democracy, prosperity and peace.

Gregorio "Ka Greg" epal. "
Spokesperson of NDF-Bicol.
