Malicboy, May 08, 2012.

You are lucky to have the preparation.

Most are contented already to finish the whole afternoon.

When there is no certainty like before, instead of planning.

And achieve triumph.

More effective treatment to the success of 4 plans to succeed, work, family, a hobby of each other, there is no difference, and it is always happening and it is not happening and it is not happening and it is not happening and the most of us will continue to be led.

In a hurry, always busy are going to be left, he is being forced by all the whole day, not only in extreme exhaustion; not only by the body, and always after the minds, there is no need to plant on and fix it, which is why they are going to use success.

The direction where he knows is to know, Panatag Shoal and accept that this is really the direction of his fate.

Aside from preparing the map, it would be better for everyone to help and understand what is really important to everyone, what we can do is to make a difference, and how we do not have any intention, capacity, capacity and duty to work on our shoulders.

There is no need for teachers or opinions to express the solution, confusion, and the questions that are bothering you, and to clarify the things that are giving up, and clarify the things that are giving your mind, and this time.

If it is just a simple Dorina Pentrante or celebration, it is being planned, especially if it is more important to plan your life, because this is where your whole life and fate depends on what is the meaning of your plan?

In my grass; playground are these kinds of actions that are just focused on a destination: 00 in a map where you do not know what will happen, and you are ready to do this with the heart, strength, and diligence.

During the time of Buhay, your life is planning to be a success: Waste time and you will control your life and plan your life and plan to catch your loved ones, and it is help to catch your dreams in order to be realistic.

It is often reminding people: If you do not know where you will start, it will be better to go to where the destination is brought to each other, but it is clear that he is going to fulfill all the ways to bring him, however, it seems that he is going to do this, however, it seems to be a hindrance to death.

In all tasks, it is being done, and it will be done; there are only three things that are always left in the minds: Wrong deeds, most of us are aware of what they are doing, not good, not good, which is not good, which is not good, which is not good, which is why it is continued to be popular.

The tasks they are used to are familiar, used, and helpful to many are the tasks that you want to continue.

Because you can buy this, and there is nothing wrong to do, and continue to be repeated and continue to be done; this is a result of many training, education, and experiences.

This is needed, because you are praying and you are doing it everyday.

We have a lot of things that you want to do, this will be a big difference with us, what will give is a big difference, and we are challenging our principle, beliefs, and events that would make us happy and hope.

Three activities are grief waiting?

Victory is victory?

Success - happiness!

We are the ones who chose to choose, and choose the real thing that would make us happy.

If there are questions, there are answers.

It is a great gift it is not the one to be afraid to ask - rather to know the truth and start it on it.

The successful people, if there are dreams are fulfilling it, preparing, and planned.

To do this different, have a corresponding energy, vitality, and trust of yourself, they have a clear and definitely a map.

This is the guide of the direction so they are not obsequiousness and reach the wrong path.

The map is a big help to stop what they are doing, find out and discover what kind of things they have to do to reach fast, peaceful, and there is no certainty in his current destination.

Where am I now?

How do I want to go?

How can I attend there?
But is there a better way?

Is the right direction for me?

What should I need for it to be easy?

So if I can reach this, am I going to fix my glory?

The map is based on the actions, father, and let the primary increase of guide also give power to which the right one to choose, they are going to choose, and be able to attend.

Should I continue to continue?

Should I need to stop and study the path?

In this suffering, I am close to the destination?

Where are my colleagues to help or harm?

Is there a need to change the direction?

One of the things that will be given the ability in the world of knowledge in work, and one of the most important thing to make it be better and then you are not sure what your intentions are, and why you do not know what your intentions are, you never can end it.

If you do not have a plan, you will have something to do.

Even if you do not make a mistake, you should not do something; "you should not answer, one of the answers that you want to do is for you to do this and you will not be able to endure what you want to do this.

If you will start it towards your own plan, it is sure that you can reach you, you are sure that you can reach you, you are sure that you are going to make you sure, because you are the only one being followed to it.

Oftentimes, you need to correct your mind first before you can do it to your life.

If you have a plan, half of the things you are going to do is already finished in the right time, but if you have eight hours to cut the big tree, I will waste it in the six hours when my axe. "

The goal of disconcerns that based on the plan is, it would be better if there will be a good attention in all things that will bring them up to ensure success if there is a good plan now, instead of having a perfect plan for tomorrow.

Whatever you look at, they will increase.

Just like old age, there is a plan or does not have a plan, there is always a chance for you to prepare for it to prepare for your goal, and it will be insinuating in your budget to plan and end this process.

The worries of you and undisciplined of all of it creates a limit to your plan to complain about the lack of time, although there is a lack of direction to your life.

Not all that you will face is to change, make sure that there will be no growing up until you are not in the future, everyone is just planning to be easy to make it easy.

Just (WBC) will only make the people you make you make up? 28 / 11).

"Life is not a good thing that will happen even if you are washing a plate, or playing basketball, or playing basketball; without attention or planned to follow the actions.

What is the big difference between hardworking, lazy, and irritable?

The industrious is what he does not like what he is doing.

If you failed to plan, you planned to fail.

Start your plan first, and always remember it.

It is not raining hard to do and remove the hair on my head.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
