
Wheels should be avoided.

The violence happened again in Mindanao despite the actions of the rebel group Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) which can cause the harassment done by President Benigno Simeon Aquino III.
Why did you say?
Why is it that all those who have an interest on this talk are not the only one who knows that the MNLF, indigenous people and local government units of Mindanao will be talking about this discussion but what is being talked about by B. S. Aquino and pro-Malaysian MILF are the land and wealth of Mindanao.
Because the President acts that the MNLF and the citizens of the republic have nothing to do, that is why we are not included in the agreement of his administration and MILF.
Of course, some sectors are spent especially the MNLF which is why there is a conflict in Mindanao.
According to those who have reached me, the Malaysia and some of those who are trying to talk to are those who are trying to talk to the MILF, but I found out that it is not like the MNLF, the MILF has no interest to chase Sabah.
This is why he is leading to Malaysia.
Notice that in Kuala Lumpor, the capital of Malaysia, the talks of GRP and MILF are always doing something that will be implemented and given weapons and training of the MILF to not meddle with Sabah.
I remember the report that came out in the decades of 70, the former Senator Benigno "Ninoy" Aquino asked for help in Malaysia against the dictator and former President.
Ferdinand Marcos in return to Sabah.
If B. S. Aquino has not been arrogant about the thinking that the MNLF has no use of corruption, this is the tire that should not happen if the Philippines has a broad perspective of the President and if he did not stop the Philippines, who is like a student of a university.
He / she was wearing.
Malaysia should not be allowed to get involved in the peace talks by the government and MILF after he was killed and abused by innocent Filipinos living in North Borromeo and Sabah recently.
Aside from this, the protests of the MNLF and MILF, which led to Malaysia, estimated to kill more or less than 150,000 people.
This includes the evacuation of almost 85th among our countrymen going to Sabah.
