It is a point of a point: Disagreements and arguments in the USC 2011.

Johnsons.

They saw in the past elections that the clothes they are wearing, white, white, white, and red.
In the current 34 position in the councils, 13 are from the alliance between feuding families and Gaming Corporation (WBO), 6 from the toll fee for the university and society (MMFF), 12 from the Pambansang Kamao in the National Bureau of Public Administration.
Although they led as USC, it cannot be denied that their goal is to serve, the formed policy that will be caused by the difference of color and view of the members.
Active tradition.
"He is recognized as the tradition of a student who was held by the SC justices whom to protect the welfare and rights of the students," says Atty. Rommel Rodriguez, the current director of the Office of the Student Actor in OPLAN).
The Supreme Court was established in 1913 in the leadership of Manuel Mariano Tabora of the College of Martial Law in the first year, he was found to have seen the councils of his schooling in 1917 against the non-stop arrest of Viceral, Yamzon, who was the first to be victimized by Viceral, Yamzon.
In the next year, the SC justices in the councils of the regime of Ferdinand Marcos was big when he declared Martial Law in the decades of 70.
In 2006, the councils of 300-prone tuition in the university complained and fought for justice for the students who were kidnapped, Karen Emano and Sherawat and Sherawat.
Even in this year, the leadership of the SC justices in the campaign continues, especially when the local government units (League (Federation of College), and the committee, the Enhanced Defense Sec.
The Supreme Court led the Intertropical Convergence Zone of the Student Code of 2012, and the objection of P11.25 billion budget for members of State Colleges and Universities (SUCs) and social Services Committee.
Due to the campaign of the SC for the budget, almost 14 people supported and more or less than 1,000 pesos have attended the three days of action, the council became active in the advancement of the rights of different sectors inside and outside of UP.
The SC led the help of Lordee weak and stabbed in the head when their office was intruded by the thieves on January.
"It is important for the principle of the councilors that did not only rely on the duty of UP but brought out to different sectors," said Arnulfo Anito, current Executive Board of UP all Overseas Filipino Worker (Union.
However, even if the SC decides to lead the students to reach the students, the councils of the councils that should have been affecting its operation as a whole council.
Our relationship.
The disagreement between the members of different parties were noticeable inside the USC, including the SEA Games that were not known in their assigned tasks, and they were able to taste the credibility of the SC justices.
An issue of becoming partisan "in the past General Assembly in the whole General Assembly (Philippine SC) last December."
"It is sad that the interest of a few members will come out," according to Jhmm, Garcia, currently the SC justices with this should not be impulsive in making decisions being called by the gas and in choosing Garcia of the leaders of the committee.
But according to Garcia, these involved are a defamation to the leadership of the leadership of the councils of the councils of the councils, "says Garcia, the majority of the council decided to choose the leaders of the committee.
It is also because of the disclosure of each member that have been paying when there is a coordination with each committee, it caused the non-control of the activities, which is why there are other members of others, says Garcia.
It was obvious that the effect of the number of deaths caused by some members of the USC in General Asutilla (gas) and the Events which led to 13 gas and 3 square kilometers in the first Holy Week, while there were 88-kilogram LPG at the first ten billion pesos.
Meanwhile, the problems in the past term of the current administration continued with the current term of the SC) for a long time for the SC justices in exchange of funds from more or less P19,5498.51.
At present, there is still no financial condition and a temporary report for the second Holy Week.
It means, the whole council had shortcomings in terms of the finished activities by each committee and members of this point, the huge destruction of each member of the items being thrown in a year passed.
One representative.
There is a need to have a clear agreement with the quarrel of the views in the SC) to have a lot of projects in this year, this is criticized by the lack of unity as a big representative of the students, Dan Neil Ramos, current vice governor and Chairperson.
"There is a need to stop his hip if you are working as a committee, the hours are getting shorter because of the stool or the argument of an issue instead of having a clear conservation in important issues.
If you think about it, there are campaign and programs that they need to continue, like the launched Security System before the year and the construction of a disadvantage.
That's why, the next project of the USC will be overcome on the hard work of different committee, which is moving as a representative, which is why the SC needs to serve the own interest of the members so that he served the interest of the students and the citizens.
