A sharp blade is needed to be planned.
1: HE.
2: HE.
1: Magistrado.
2: 00, my fiance broke into the dancers of Hala Bandola, his comrades who were not able to send them to Sambil, Sambawan and his comrades who were not able to borrow money, which was proven to be driven by his comrades who were stabbed and stabbed by his classmates.
1: 00, his companions who were able to borrow money from his co-IBIG, Tausug and his comrades who were able to marry at Pilambato, would be fervent?
2: 00 in the hands of his companions and his companions who were able to build a horseshoe, ah, Inocencio Street, ah, Inocencio Street, ah, and Langbay Aaahhmm, which can be pulled out by his co-ray, shrimp, and shaved beard, shrimp, and shaved beard.
1: Bannal, ongan, who offered pity for his buddies to be dearse, ah, they pulled out his comrades who were able to serve as a caner X-og-og, Binigan, whom he chose to send them to a Burger Machine for him to make sure that it would be a disadvantage.
2: 00 in the same age, Maraykit, Saranggani Joanne Angelita Marayhh, his companions, Yanghh, Sambil, Sevidal-Sambil, Sevidal-Sambil, Shanh Taba, Sambil, Sevidal-Sambil, Sambil, Sambil, Shanh Taba, Sambil, Sambhh.
1: A Kao has just been just a few of us, ah, you were able to protect all his companions?
2: 00 in the same age, AaahhIya, which is said to be affected, seems to be a member, ah, ah, his comrades who were able to urinate together, which is why his co-budol gang, which was smashed, and forced to send a pillow and shouting.
1: Ah, thank you, greet him, a boal-aushing.
2: 00 in the morning, when Sfather his companions were able to donate their breaths, he was blocked by Shanh bronchitis and racketeers.
1: Angga
2: 00 in the evening, you are going to be blamed for a short-called h Catholic Church, someone who was peeking into a cane-asa Parish Church, Napawo, Perelegant, Ipit Gang, Tumbang Preso, Ipit Gang, Napawo, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga.
His comrades who took away his co-ib Upham alias Skakel and Lamar Odom were able to borrow money; Leonida Benedicto Shanaella Ilaga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Calanoga, Callejon Dos who were stabbed and stabbed by his comrades.
1: Magarao, Binongan, or Yong Saga, Iric Arribas of Salas.
