
Special OPS, was made to evict the farmers of Luisita.

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
June 7, 2012.

Lito Bais, the leader of the farmers in Hacienda Luisita, revealed the Oplan April Spring in a press conference (hectares, Quijano).
Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP) was revealed by the Oplan April Spring, "a special plan of Cojuangco-Aquino and Rizal Commercial Center (RCBC) to evict the farmers from 500 hectares of land in Hacienda Luisita.
In a press conference in Quezon City, the group distributed a copy of a plan sent by Anachen-Diaz, lawyer of RCBC, to former Marikina Representative Romeo de mercedes, who introduced themselves as representatives of the banks, (i-5.
The Oplan Galugad conducted in exchange of the steps in order to achieve the goal of RCBC from which the said plan is connected to the Special Action Force (Philippine National Police (Philippine National Police (Commission (Philippine National Police) Food Park. "
They allegedly gave the copy of the plan of a fervent prayer of RCBC from which they have the sympathy of the farmers of Hacienda Luisita, "hated, the plan for an email of Anacosta on March 30.
According to Lito Bais, the president of the United Nationalist Alliance), this is proof that the reform presented to the land of former President Benigno Aquino III, under the Comprehensive Tax Reform Program (COP), is difficult, because the struggle for the land was difficult, "said the leader of the farmer.
"The plan of Aquino is to extend the boils of U P to 2016 when he is part of a bigger plan than Oplan April Spring.
Oplan Galugad conducted.
The Oplan April Spring is a campaign to ask the farmers who were exhumed since last year, this has a purpose that: "Will be the purpose of the community in the Pacific Economic Cooperation of the Pambansang Kamao in the bureaucracy.
In the final decision of the Supreme Court last April 24 this year, he was not included in the scheduled resolution of the land the 500 hectares of Brgy. Balite, which was sold by the farmers by the Department of Agrarian Reform (NFL), and insisted that the HL" of RCBC from the land was illegal.
According to Bamboa, the accomplice of Cojuangco-Aquino is an accomplice of RCBC from conducting the Oplan April Spring, due to 187-hectare of the properties of RCBC from, and the left is owned by Hacienda Industrial Park.
In the said plan, included in the activities are "propaganda in the counter propaganda," this is one of the paid contribution in the newspaper in the middle and Northern Luzon, which is also a budget for the press ng Pilipinas, press conference, press ers, and tarpaulins.
Also included in the activities are the "organization, which has a total budget of P410,000 that every person has a budget for the proliferation of 300 every day there is a budget for 5,000 pesos per person in one day.
The identity of the enemy of the enemies are also in the plan and is possible to be an ally, from the local leaders and groups.
Part of the strategy and tactics of said plan is a part of the said plan, which can be done within 24 hours, which should be held within 24 hours, with the help of "tanim-law," of the police and court.
Bamboa, said to be a dialogue with the farmers, brazo de mercedes depends on a meeting last April 13 in Brgy. Buenavista, which was supposedly offered by the leaders to raise the cases filed against them, in exchange for a rest from the land, which was firmly denied by the leaders of Ambullets (alliance with Filipino-Bukid in the hacienda).
Last April 27, the guards of RCBC and members of Ammdefended themselves in a shack that they stole from the said land, RCBC from who survived the farmers in the past.
But according to Bais, the destruction of RCBC from the leader of his staff on the line with this is being maligned by the members of Cojuangco-Aquino to distribute our unity, "he said.
The farmers of Luisita also expressed their fear in the delayed verification of the beneficiary of the beneficiary of the Supreme Court in the number of 6,296.
"They announced the interview of DAR even if not as beneficiary of their interview, and there are still 8,000 pesos in the interview, and there will still be no trouble, because they will possibly use Cojuangco, and it is possible that they will be used by Cojuangco," said Bais.
Protest movement on the anniversary of the Black Nazarene.
The number of protests of farmers in different regions of June 11 and 12 are announced to commemorate the 124 anniversary of the Virgin P because they are against the heightened implementation of the said division of the reforms.
According to Adik-sweat, Rafael Mariano, "the big backside of DAR and Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, which is proof that its huge land remains high, and it is certain that he will remain in the control of big land title, and for sure, he will remain complete even if the Black Nazarene remain in control.
Farmers of Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines, against the implementation of the Virgin P, to protest on the 124 anniversary of the program (establishments, Quijano).
They allegedly gave way to the suspension of the thousands of Cerge Bureau of Land Onok Island, Cerge Bureau of Land Transportation Office and Earcals).
Instead, Aaahhated Tax Reform bill aims to send the catholic bishops conference of the Philippines to support the catholic bishops conference of the Philippines to support the GAB instead of Civil P.
According to Katipunan, Samahang Basketbol ng mga Bayani (Kash@-@ TK), the successful reforms are said to be exported and have the ability to raise the land, "said that it is not similar to AnP who escaped the distribution of land."
According to Orly Marketing of the Kashh TK, around 16,429 hectares of Bondoc Street and South Quezon still remains in the control of the landowner. "He remains in his ranch, in spite of the 24-year of SOP, he said.
The farmers are also conducting a protest against the eight members of the military in Bondoc Peninsula, South Quezon, which is allegedly serving "Philippine Army" by the landowner, including the uncle of the President, Danding Cojuangco.
