
Domeng and the movie.

By Rolando Nana, August 27, 2012.

On the midst of no wounds, (Carlos Solo of queen, director; Tangavors; 10: 00, 26 August 2012, celebration.

I rarely watch Dr, but, by this, it's a big Risk Reduction and Dilawan around me, "what I am doing here?" What is what I am doing here? "What is what I am doing here?" What is what I am doing here? "What is what I am doing here?" What is what I am doing here? "What is what I am doing here?" What is what I am doing here?

That's why my foot is very heavy when we watch a lot of wounds, but I was mistaken, there was an agreement that the Production team led the leadership of Carlos Salagan and queen, who was able to go with influence from the movie even without using the medium built.

In the three-year-called branch of Tuazole, Rentangaron, there have been three one-called Industries which formed a copy of the main scene that makes the additional force from the two more.

And he / she sits in gag-Salas.

To those who are looking at the background, the fcolor of the light's lights on Katch SJ oy was given a hot topic in the first part of the flag during the first part of American diplomacy, which contains a message for the constitutional process.

Emphasis on the color in the entirety of Dilawan, in my memory, the red from little moments of becoming Filipino and after, the only image of a background - there were also some of the colors and the event that happened before this.

.

This version of no wound, one of the so-so-called "Ipit Gang," is the greatest one in expressing its goal in a few decades, and probably, it was given to a few decades of course, in the first endorsement of "Bayan Patroller," the Papal visit. "

In the scene, the three houses have been signed on stage when they lose one child, which is why it is possible that there will be an effect of the viewer.

The revelation of the municipal hall and what is expected in the actual form of Dilawan, is being considered as a unique form and will remain in a unique form and will stay here even if the political message has come out, that is why this is prohibited here in this time.

It is now right to visit the color of the flag, the separation from different branches of power in the society with the help of Bangsamoro Basic Law, especially with the pending call of the American troops that resulted in the arrival of the American colonizers.

It is also here in Dilawan around the stairs "of the caretakers from the stairs" of the caretakers who shows that their lovers is free, and in the time of reading their lovers, and in the time of a new position and revelation of a new position and revelation in the end.

Acting on the acting and voice of Cris Villacco, who was given a good life during the time of her romantic relationship and happiness was given to her lovers and joy, which is one of the unique behavior, which led to her male boss who has a male boss.

The foul odor needs to be the lead in the suspension of the influence to other art of art that becomes more than the fifth World), and the new language of the Pacific Ocean, and the new language of the Pacific Ocean.

They are noisy, and even running out in the scene where they received their interest, but I just thought that this is part of their own interest, that is why I already accepted that this is a part of the span of three hours, meaningful and creative.
