
The billion pork barrel that Napoles' orders were taken back to lotto?

Postanes and his mind.
On May September 2, 2013.
In showbiz.

With the cruise ship of the Philippines, the P10-B pork barrel scam, Janet / Jenny Lim Napoles, is that we just want to think that he / she would just want to think that the justice has been given to him in exchange for the taxes that he stole from the tax of every Filipino people.
It was fully extinguished around 9: 47 in the August 28 when Napoles surrendered to President Noynoy Aquino, the palace was announced to have announced the Palace for P10-M on top of his head with the P10-billion pesos worth it from fake NG Os.
A Standard Lunch Program, Napoles's Office is one of the corresponding step to hunt his questionable lawmakers that is why if he is a certain guilty in the name of delicadeza, he is certain that they have a step down in the name of delicadeza.
But-ray of the Commission on Towerville, Tell of the media, let it go.
It is known that it is known to be delivered to the Filipinos, that we can be delivered to each lotto so that every lotto will be put in every lotto so that each person is hoping to change the luck that is going to change their lives.
On the span of the indigenous people in the Middle East, they were able to go to school and be able to stroll in the newspapers, which is possible to come out in a six-signal number of lotto.
The numbers that have a connection with his personal life can be usually made into a bettor in their personal life, whether the birthday of any loved ones or those who will suddenly enter their brain or deliberately have a huge number.
Persist, of the top of all Tyo, "who can lie down."
However, in case we get back the alleged loot of Napoles through lotto, this numbers that related to him, 8 (10) in the evening of his surrender), 37 (10) of his surrender), and 13) of his surrender), and 13) in the year 2013).
Though it was a six-year-old child!
Drilon, friendship with Janet Napoles?
From the pages of showbiz on this newspaper, our column, Fight IT led by an artist and Times - if the showbiz and Times - if the topic of showbusiness, especially the topic of the national interest, especially the topic of the national interest.
From our source of payment, Janet Lim Napoles's background supported by the Pambansang Kamao, unknown to the knowledge of the Nihonggo, which was about to be taken from Basilan in Mindanao, which was the one to stop the action of his life.
According to our payment, Napoles celebrated two important date for every year and the Heritage Park will celebrate for two important date for every year, the final resting place for our rich countrymen.
Janet / Jenny to Her / her mom, upon arriving at the Heritage Park in the corner of Her Mother.
Since Christmas season of service, according to our source, we need to be doubly careful for those who go to the Heritage Park, which is one of the famous personalities that instead of their respective houses, together with their families in a few pre-Christmas season.
Is it true that one of them is Senate President Franklin Drilon?
Ronnie Caringal, three!
