I'll do you, or where you are here, you may lead to you, so that we do not have money, that is why we don't have money, that is why we don't have money to pay, that's why we don't have money to pay the water, that's why we don't have money to pay the water; that's why we don't have money to pay the water.
Later, you are happy now that you know how to fall for you, so that you are going to sleep; we are just here that you are living in a love; that is why it's okay that you are here and what you are doing is right, right, and what else will you say, right?
Now, in the end, it's as if you're the only one to buy only in the remaining use of us, you said that before you get married.
"Yes, which will be compared to that later?" He said, that he will not be able to do that, right now, he will be killed; we will be killed, right now, I will be killed, right now, but there are still no more and that is where April is over.
Then, what do I do not know that you are a teacher at all times, because you really need to play that, because you really need to play, that's why you need to call me, "that's why you need to call me," that's because you cannot call him, "said that you can talk to him.
I will tell you but my friend.
"There would be a baby who goes into a baby; he / she was able to look down; he / she could not just say that, because, as long as you say that it's okay, that he / she cannot say that it's okay, that's why he / she said that he / she's okay.
I am full-tempered; he / she is very stupid; isn't it right?
You did not text me if that is the text that you bought from "Kin" that I bought last night, but I looked like a child who does not know how to be a mistress.
It is okay with me if that is not enough for me to remember yes.
Very short; I thought you are going to go there earlier, but I thought you are going to there earlier to go to there earlier that we are going to live here, we are really here; I am here, "yes.
Yes.
It is said that nothing is gone.
According to him, he / she said that he / she didn't pay attention to each other; he / she has been noticing that he / she has been paying for a long time, that's why he's very beautiful, very beautiful.
That's why it's been a long time that we were able to look at each other for a long time; that's why he / she can go to school; he / she is indeed!
For what happened, he / she was distressed.
In Facebook.
What are we doing?
I am well-tempered; he / she takes care of us.
Yes, there are classes.
Covetous, deport; and Yahoo Account Key.
That is the only thing that can be seen in the streets.
Yes.
Yes, wait for that.
Yes, ah, wait for you.
Okay, we will go there to watch.
