
A horny is in Calamba and Fist and Robin.

If in the cinema, "Robin Batal is allies," in the true events now there is spite of the difference between "Fist" Robin. "
Recently, actor (ex-convict) Robin Padilla also appealed to Failbo, I mean, Senate President Franklin Drilon to resign from his position due to the illegal DAP (Disbursement Acceleration Program).
Drilon, judicial oy, admitted that they received 100 million from DAP.
If this is a reward for the removal of Corona, DAP (Drilon, Abad, PNoy) is the only one who knows!
At this point, we can say Robin is perfect.
If he was even imprisoned by the forehead of Justice Secretary Franklin Drilon because of being proud and illegal, he was held by a gun, which is why it's the "Tuwid na Daan" why did he still remain in his position? "
Greedy is worse, which is much more proud of!
The number of millions (illegal drugs that DAP will be strengthened even if it will be stricter in the top of illegal guns!
And the largest boy or "Mamondiong," who worked for it, is more bad than being "Fi" if he was robbed!
Umm, it seems that Drilon is very clean!
I salute you, actors Robin!
Hopefully you will have a movie... there is really a film fest!
Entice the President.
From the hands of Vic Siman, the prevalence of illegal gambling, boasts and even gambling in Calamba City went to "Boy Life."
"That is what some officials of the PNP Region 4-A.
Accurate, Mahoy, the former is not able to make the Pambansang Kamao when Mayor Justin Marc Chik or, son of 3-year-old mayor Joaquin, Jun "Chik, or.
"Desaparecidos," said, "according to our" ASAP, "what is being talked about is true is it is true that there is truth in the mouth of Boy Life," he is the only one of an Chik! "
Okay?
Anzon, "is it not clean the record of Chik or?
Just a few moments, his mission was allegedly attempted to be defeated by Calamba City COP Senior Superintendent Marvin Sip some of the positions of Life and will be given back then by his wife, Evite.
Well, when Evite, Evite, a few minutes have passed and someone called the chief.
It is just all, o, sir, sir, the answer!
And went home to the chief, who were burned down, hails, haunting and haunt!
Gross, maybe he has tons of money.
Is this true, Colonel?
