"As a father's fantos," said to be affected by the dorm, "OSalas.

Julian Inah Anciation said.
Even though it is set to fix the nine dormitories in UP Diliman (UPP), both number of men are scheduled to be accepted as residents for the next Holy Week.
Just like the past year, there are still three out of every 10 to be buried in the dorm ers, men or those who have a student who started in 2013, the Office of the municipal hall (OSH) Director Brillante Mendoza.
Fixing the Independence Day is set to be started in the Independence Day, which is why the 280 girls will only receive a dormitories in said dormitories.
It will only be added that not less than the 72 square meters from the 72 at gunpoint, 78 of Molave Street and more than 90-90 men which were temporarily accepted in Independence Day in the next Holy Week, Lanuza, Lanuza.
OSuterio said that on the 25th of April on the initial list of armed men who have received, the residents can give appeal to those who will not accept after the said date.
The Commission on Higher Education provided 50 million funds for the presidential candidates, such as the cision, electrical posts, electrical posts, and fixing of the nearest location of dormitories in dormitories to fervent prayer.
Currently in fixing of Sampaguita Pictures, months, and Ipil Refervent prayer Hala, who are all in need of the shape, full of blindfolded, and plaza, which is expected to be finished in the second Holy Week which is expected to be finished in the second kilometer path.
From the estimation of the estimated up to the 20th Infantry Batallion in the Ubay, 2000, those who will renew their tribe-tech, however, because of the scheduled fixing, temporarily half or 1500 from the residents who will renew the next Holy Week.
Meanwhile, there is still no assurance that there is a possibility of fixing other dormitory in other dormitories, although it was first sold and taking a bath.
OSDick is still coordinating with their dorm even if they were able to temporarily put the start of fixing a few buildings, to add more the number of residents that could be accepted.
However, it is not expected that fixing a dormitories in Povidine iodine if you are delayed in fixing things, the students will be delayed, "said Lanuza.
"Sevidal of the dorm Are, 30 years old, was identified to be the Pambansang Kamao in the New Year," said Nationalist Alliance (ACD) head Esbuzon.
Standard for.
To choose the student who will be given importance in dormitories, they need to get more than 85 points under a "point system" in Commercial Center (CRS).
It is also based on the number of points by the applicants for the distance of their home from the Pacific Ocean, and with the information that the students from the provinces of Visayas and Mindanao were given priority, the students coming from the provinces of Visayas and Mindanao and those who are in low pressure due to the STS., Lanuza, Lanuza.
However, there is a shortcoming, in the said point system, according to OSH Executive Director Noel Maryo, "it is based in the minds of his parents, but if they are from Mindanao, but if the parents are from Mindanao, but the place where the parents are from Mindanao is high, but the place of the country is near?"
"Because there is no human rights, it also does not have anything to rely on based on the The point system, which can be applied as a signal number 1, said Lanuza.
Despite this kind of limitation, the said system will still be used for the next dorm applications and for its lack, to be stricter implementation of their dorm which has a lot of violation of their stay in dormitories, addition, Lanuza.
The UPP University Provincial Council (Enhanced Defense Committee Heard Arguera Canayugan said that the government should allocate a higher budget to UP.
"We still haven't given attention to all the needs of the students, so they really need to be famous, not just little by little," said Canayugan.
