"There is no heart of additional benefit from the health sector.

By P2,500.
February 17, 2012.

"The heart of the workers in the All Soul's Day depends on the All Soul's Day because of the additional benefits and plans based on the medical services of the government, according to the Alliance of Health Organization (PPHP.
Filipino workers did not expect the 20-year-old benefits that they fought for under Magat Carta for Public Health Organization, which passed last 1992 and took the government's own government.
This is what pushed the 20-year service of Emma Tanigue, Las Pinas General Hospital who went out of the very first time and cooperate in the rally in Mendiola.
The members of the government are lined up on the day of Valentine's Day (PPHP.
It is pending to put an award in the laundry of 130 pesos per month from 150 and 30 pesos for every day of work from 50 pesos, which is one of those who have been accompanied by the Department of Health Order Number 20-51 this 25th of January on the 25th of January.
Meanwhile based on Toribio, national chairman of Alliance (Health Organization explained that it is prohibited in the provisions of Joint Resolution number 4 or Salazole, SSL) III (SSL) III (SSL)) to attract benefits according to Magdalena, Carta of Public Health Organization.
"They are saying that this is a state policy but also a law is, Carta, if they will make a law, (it should not be" those who hit their rights, "added Tanigue.
According to Tanigue, due to a small salary, the employees were able to put their ATM card because of the increase of benefits, some allegedly received additional 1,000 pesos in their salary.
The arrival is about to die.
Aaahhnoi just said in the LMedical Center of the Philippines, the things in the hospital are not enough, they usually buy the things they use to protect themselves from any illness that they may get tired of.
"There are many patients but we are not able to serve everyone and what is sad and painful to us is that those with money are the only ones that we were able to serve," Soallano added.
According to times, because of the lack of budget allocated by the government, public hospitals were forced to collect bills and service that before it is free to give the emergency room to the public hospitals, the lack of emergency room in the public hospital is not the money they collected money from the public hospitals.
Though then, the budget of the health increased to P45,769-billion in 2012 from 32.427-B in 2011, the increase will go to PhilHealth, Public-Private Contact Policy "according to times.
"If you have PhilHealth, but what is lacking in the hospital and laboratories, what health services are waiting for a patient," according to Doctor Gener Rivera-Reyes, general secretary of Health Organization (ALS).
Even if it is bad for their health, employees of Mendiola, Manila are planning to plan for the attack of the Aquino administration with their benefits.
Bloody policy.
"Because of the state policy that is possible, it is possible that the benefits that will be lost from us are not only the benefits that will be lost in us but also our security guard," according to Ed Dammunitions from the Pambansang Kamao-Tropas.
"A state policy" said to be the response of officials of the Department of Budget Manangaron last February 6 with a conversation between them, to give clarity on the said memorandum.
MD by Doctor Emma Manuel, chairman of Alliance of Health Organization, the government is slowly receiving the budget of the health to condition the employees of the privatization of public hospitals.
According to Manuel, the privatization of the hospital is already laid out in the hospitals such as RITM and Philippine Peace Center, while the National Center for Mental Health is going to be transferred to no matter where it is.
"They think that we are taking advantage of it because in 2014, we do not have any benefits because in 2014, we do not have a Personal Economic Cooperation (Priority Development Assistance Fund) and in the year 2020, we do not have the Personal Economic Cooperation (Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement)," said Manuel.
Added to this, the increase in premium of PhilHealth, which is expected to reach 100 percent up to 160 percent, is a burden to the Filipino workers.
Up to 3 percent of the Bangsamoro Basic Law is going to be removed from the employees who are not less than 32,520 and may reach up to P18,000 pesos per year.
Because of the policy of DBM, even hazard is being given by employees in health, it will just be Pili, while the employees of the health will be in a sanctuary that will be launched everyday, according to Doctor Manuel.
Manuel explained, there are also attempting on what the government did to remove the benefits that was stated in Magat Carta for Public Health Organization, and even the effects of the said Magat Carta, good thing, to combat these members of health services.
They called "the deductions of this budget will have no heart, especially the poverty in the country, especially the poverty in the country despite the nonstop price of oil and goods.
