Smiling and courage.

This movie "The Guesilla," Poet "of the siblings, of Barangay Maria" Joma "Sison, is the first chairman of the Liberal Party of the Philippines.
Just like a lot of wrong beliefs that he said to the evil image of Talk n, it is often recalled that Joma to understand that she took a chase as terrorists and enemy of democracy, but in the movie of Dalston, he introduced himself as a new leader of a safe leader.
In our opinion, we usually think that the war where the war are violent, and we are often thinking that the war is violent, while the image of us by writers and intelligence is being aggressive while Bonifacio, and even Bonifacio are also aggressive).

Through the quails and arts, the individual is more strict with what he is feeling and thinking, and in simpler terms, his personality is entitled by "The Guesilla, one of all, people, and the advancement of the revolution.
The style of Dalston - the style of the Dalston in the corners of the movie, both Dalston in the language of the movie, had a sharp blade in the corners of the war, and even the branches of the branches, which are usually seen by the red assets of the branches.
Through the doceagermat, Barangay Dalston in the story of "The Guesilla," using the role of the three primary personnel of the movie, Julie de Lima, and his acceptance of the life of the CPP-old pickpocket, which is common to many of our fellowmen who live in the city.
Aside from Joma, some of the members of the New People's Army (NPA) were featured in the film that they were identified by their names in the struggle - Teresa, Cely, Antero, and many others even though they were not noticed by many other courageous individuals who offered their lives for the purpose of becoming more than their themselves.
Some of the unforgettable experience in the movie are the scenes of Joma and his wife, Julie, and also the relationship between Sison and the first Commander of the NPA, Ka Dante.
It is not just the wife and supporters of Joma that the role of Julie at the revolution.
The role of Ka Dante to the life of Joma Sison is also a big role as the leader of the NPA, that the lives of the farmers from the landlords are full, and there is a big difference between the farmers and the ground that they went through to the revolution.
In the process of strengthening the armed forces and the party, they will strengthen their personal relationship, according to Ka Dante, the party, which is being pushed by the party, and the armed forces are going to return to the legislative chamber, and the armed forces are going to return to the Saligang Batas of the legislative chamber.
The strength of the movie is the improvement of the arts and the wealth of material things although there are also a few films which are still used in the life of the so-called rebels of the government), which has been rare as the type of corrupt officials of the government (OFW), which is rare as the type of corrupt officials of the government (propaganda (propaganda) who were naked.
If you think about it, take care of the understand that the agreement was made by the people who are considered to have been recognized and threats to the current system which is considered to be an award in the current system of their courage to do the courage of the individuals who were given their faces in the riverside.
It is shown in the movie the bravery and courage not only by Joma, but all of the part of the revolutionary movement in his long history are not only him, but every one of the thousands who continue supporting the adore that he started.
