
Long live the Iglesia ni Cristo.

The Iglesia ni Cristo (INC) continues to raise the path and on the 25th year anniversary, the growth of the said brooks who is really serving and service from God and the country is clearly seen.
We also remember to those who became leaders and current leaders are the determination to raise the financial status quo by a sibling since it was built by his sibling Felix Manalo last July 2 7,1914 in Punta, Santa Ana, Manila.
A reality was also made "the legacy of his brother Erelief Manalo, which is the reason for the INC to suffer from different parts of the world and he was also released in the temple at Quezon City.
Even the current leader of the Iglesia ni Cristo, sister Eduardo Manalo, is slowly being implemented by the dreams of Ka Felix and Ka Erelief goods and it is proof that the Philippine Arena in Bulacan, where they would be the biggest Dome into the whole world with 2,000 pesos to 5.
People.
The new compound of the INC in Bulacan is owned by the Philippine Arena or biggest Dome into the world and will be built by EGM Memorial Medical Center, New Era University in Bulacan Campus and New Era Sports Stadium, that will be finished for 2 years from the 1100 years of Iglesia ni Cristo.
The appearance or building of many local government should not be broken not only in the country but in different parts of the world because the equivalent of a new chapel is the souls to save and bring them up the mistakes.
The Iglesia ni Cristo is going to continue with the spread of new members through the continuous journalism of all the local government, the brows, all the citizens are children of the Lord Jesus Christ.
It's not only for the piration of the people to be focused on by the INC because even the Guinness Banies of the World while they noticed their mission in the entire world through the fulfilment of the biggest marijuana mission in Parola, Tondo, Manila.
In the record of the Guinness, 3 record was destroyed in the 8 hours of the medical mission called by INC to help the citizens only on July 7 in Tondo, Manila, this is the most patient who were given blood pressure within 8 hours at the number 8,030 people who were taken from India in a number 8,030 people who were taken from India in the number of India.
It is certain that the brows will worsen not only in "Philippines, if not in the whole world and that is what we are expecting from the whole world and that is what we expected because of the good governance of the sibling Eduardo Manalo, and will also think of meaningful projects which are useful in the brows and the people.
You also have this column in preparation for the 16th year of Iglesia ni Cristo in 2014 which is a great day for all Filipinos.
We salute salute and greetings to this column with my two children, Captain Rovin Feliciano, Valenzuela City and Councilor Cristina Marie Feliciano, Valenzuela City and Councilor Cristina Manalo, Valenzuela City and one of Eduardo Manalo, and more than his brother Eduardo Manalo, and more than his brother Eduardo Manalo, who have no idea if they will not get carried away.
