The broken bone.

What you are planted will reap you.

There is a kingdom of Manila which is headed by RNC while his jurisdiction is composed of those from the rivers (Tagalog) and from the shore of the kingdom, one day, he decided to change the tradition of kingdom, "there is a need for someone to replace in the revelation of the kingdom.

I will guide you for one of you, "I am surprised and can't believe that all of you are going to go back to me after six months from you.

Magiting Street is one of those who have accepted the bones and when it comes to their clings in Tondo, a town in Manila, it is very happy that the honor was coming from his mother after looking for a hole and abundance of land.

After six months of course, he became courageous and taken cared of Magiting Street everyday, he is always waiting for the progress of its leaves, but there are still many youths who have heard that they have heard a lot of great plants from the different parts of Manila.

He went to Tamarind, to remove them, in Mayapa, of Balut, in Singgalong, and even in a feast, she just thought that there is no change in taking care of it, that's why there's still no change in his care, that's why he didn't want to take care of his care.

Every one has high and growing plants, aside from Macabato, if his friends are asking him, he will still do anything about his crops because he will still hope that he will wait and cough quickly.

Six months have arrived, all the youth who joined the competition went to the palace, brought to the palace to show his loyalty, to show his loyalty, to show his loyalty, to show his loyalty to the advice of the mother.

When he arrived at the palace, he was amazed upon observing the beautiful plants, with different colors and the flowers, which he carries with no plants, and he was nervous about the decision of the RL.

Paiste said that she felt pity for the youth.

After a while, I opened all sorts of things on his side, however, it was also noticed by her own blood, but it was also noticed by Rattle, "according to me, the Rihanna.

Suddenly, my fear of Magiting Street, "Rhea, said that there was no noise in my failure, that she would probably be able to accept me," I could not stop himself towards RNC while she was not able to stop himself towards her cheek.

In front of Rabies Day, she was just taking off while massaging, holding no plants.

"What is your name?" The question of RNC.

"Of course, our fellowmen," what was shaky and his response was shaking while lying down and trying to stop himself.

All the youth surrounding it hike and some just copied it calmly and looking forward to answering.

Rhea is ordered to stop and stay silent for Magiting Street, which is why she was not able to believe that there was a heavy punishment, and stated that he was not able to believe or have a shortcoming, "why did she not believe that she failed, who won't do everything?

To end the doubt, the people, and the chaos that I have given to you, I gave you a different bones, and this is the new one who will win in our kingdom, "that's why I gave me a different bone, and instead of writing to you, he will take care of you, and after the new RL.

A meaningful lesson: What you planted can be harvested, you will reap goodness, you will reap your trust, you will do good friends.

You are hardworking with your tasks, you will always be successful if you are going to get along with your fellowmen, peace is always on you, you will be diligent in the field where you go.

You forgive, you will ask for your goodness and further success if your inner self is open, you will have a lot of blessings in life.

Datal talks.

If you are not honest, you will fail your doubt and you will not trust you, you will remain sad and you will stay quiet and you will remain lazy, expect that you will be lazy, much poverty and those with affection to you.

You can make sure that you will be punished and trusted that you will be punished and avoided.

You are brave and put your tongue out of the rumors that you are always afraid of your clan and you don't want to change, you have no order and peace in your life.

Perspective: What is the tree, he is the result of lack of kindness and peace of your attitude that will cause fear, disaster, and loneliness.

Panilaga: Planting good deed and being helpful to others is the Filipino customs that we inherited from our ancestors.
