Barbie, to face a face face with Kris.
"I am not being harassed," By Jun Lalin August 25, 2016.
Even though many are worried about their relationship with Kiko Estrada, it seems that Barbie Foracza has not been taking advantage of those who are warning to him about the young son of Gary Estrada.
Barbie is just always preparing if the issue about her relationship with Kiko is being discussed.
"It seems like there is no derogatory that we need to admit as hahaha! Barbie keeps on talking to her while she is going to talk to her while she is going to talk to her while Kiko is always happy, Barbie is always happy!
And even if Barbie asks, it looks like Kiko is not nervous because they always say that they know their child and can be trusted.
About his participation at the Easter Sunday, you think that Kris Aquino will go back to GMA 7 and thoughtful, which was given the said show to the Kapuso network.
Is it true that he is afraid because he is asking the show of the so-called Queen of the all media? "I did not release Miss Kris if it is true that she would be the Kapuso actress.
"That is why I am going to be afraid, but I am not giving him if I am going to make him happy?
"I am not proud of Miss Kris, THer, I have no intention to do with what I am doing to Easter Sunday to make sure that we just want to be happy in show.
"And even if Miss Kris has a Kapuso actress, I will continue to continue my rape to him and maybe I will just stop when I am from Sunday to stop me.
"And now, they are not saying anything else," Barbie said.
Barbie added, that is why he is proud of Kris because it is just one of the Saligang Batas "that is why he is the highest form of flaterty" which is the highest form of flatterers "?" He is returning to us by Barbie.
Barbie also does not hear anything, Kris, because of what he is doing at the day of Sunday.
Barbie admits that he is very happy because he is a happy part of Easter Sunday, which is why Wish is a few years for their show up to many years.
Judy Ann Santos denied it, after she gave birth to their youngest, Luna, her husband, Ryan Agmailig, who has a hard time to lose weight.
When Juvenile was born in Lucho, many noticed that the actress quickly lost weight.
Accore, Jumarito said he is very thin, but he is slowly going to do it, and he doesn't want to do it, and he doesn't want him to become a blood pressure.
The wife of Ryan did not make a sound of weight today.
And after the CeCard movie, the actress would just make a new project when she is very thin.
Jumarito said that she can lose weight, so the fans of the actress believes that she can do it again, "he said.
Then, even before, even if he cooked for food, she still managed to lose weight, duh!
