I am now here in the house that I need to sacrifice.
I thought.
So much already.
"Isn't it very early Allowance (RES), look at the many things that he knew, that is why they have seen that there are many of those who are taking care of it, that is why they have seen what happened, that is why they have known each other, that is why they think they are going to leave.
"We went out to the cage that we are going to go back to jail; we have different kinds of fish, we hope that some of them are living in school, and what are those who are carrying the revolutionaries here, they will go to the morning.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was the background called here in front of the house where they were growing up, because of what happened in the house, they were very lucky that they were not alone and when they left a while ago.
So that no one is gone.
Many are going to be an obstacle in Tondo, isn't it possible that he can live on whatever we can talk to, so we just talk about it, because, she said, they just need to cut off what they can.
There are so many fishes.
We, Lester cannot say that, whatever he said to the Philippines, what are these.
These are just small ones.
Yes, it's because no matter what happens, you will buy all of us.
That is why I can't see them if we can take a debate.
The speed.
What should we do?
I am very happy, isn't it that we are not stupid; we will not be gone; we will not lose.
But the fight might not be fought because, there are others who, why are they going to fight with each other for a year, that's why they are going to be angry that they are going to be angry that they are going to be angry at that two days in the afternoon, they are going to be mad at each other in the afternoon.
Stupid ah, okay.
It is okay now that it is okay for us to know.
This is probably what they are with, that, in spite of one kilo of one kilo of one kilo of one kilo, that's why he inhaled his girlfriend, to remove his girlfriend, to remove us from the colleges, but there are still many different kinds of things that we would follow.
I am also the one who helped us to take care of us.
What?
"That's the only thing that we are proud of.
Ah, what is that?
What is your yes.
Yes, what we are doing here is that we have three-ten years old; there are three of us who are three of us who are both of us, who are all of us, who do not have different things there, no one else, who are innocent.
That?
He is still weak and take care of it, because you do not really want to take care of them, I have not only needed food with each other, that is why there is a need for food that we have to eat, but we have a capital to stay here in the water.
They are only able to finish all the clothes that they are going to catch up with no problem.
