
The cause of the revolution.

The country.
There is 21, 2012.

The community's community is like other poor community in Metro Manila, most of those who are living here are from the kind of living or a regular source of livelihood, many of them are living together with a few families who are working in another country or a small store.

More than five decades have passed since the first families arrived in the area, they built their houses in public land which is part of the rough branch like Metro Manila, most, but all of them are farmers out of land from Visayas and Mindanao.

The community will get stronger in the decades of 1960 and 1970 when the factory that is under the area of Metro Manila continues to increase, even if there is no connection with the opportunity in their livelihood, even if there is no connection with the opportunities in their livelihood, even if there is no connection between the factories flow in the end of the decades of 1980 until the year 1990, the livelihood of the citizens in the community continues.

Because of the poverty and threats of livelihood in happy, the residents have already accepted the root of them by the Partido Demokratiko ng Masang Pilipino at the latest force of the Liberal Party on the span of 1980 to however, the improvement of the organization continues.

It was only in 2010 when the show-off of the community will be lively and fruitful in the community due to the full force and theory that you will borrow from the dungeon and continued the lessons and success of the poor, the education and success of the needy.

Kilusang masses against the demolition really has a few years of threat in the community's community in order to give way to the projects and infrastructures in the election because he promised to defend their trust and vote for them to get their trust and votes.

But like before, after the elections this 2010, residents of happy happy in the threat of the demolition.

They have prepared for the attack of the armed men of the local government and they are active in arresting their homes during the time of the demolition and extreme violence in their own principle that they will not leave the area.

In the face of the continuous demolition, the residents strengthened their cooperation and they got the wide support of students from schools, they were also supported by the church, the anomalous organization, and even the international organizations which affects the rights of the poor.

They faced the attempted demolition and showed the high level of chemicals in their hands, especially those who lost their fights, especially those who lost their homes, especially those who lost their homes, especially those who lost their homes, especially those who lost their homes, especially those who lost their community for the next level of fighting.

Study in the society and revolution.

The integrity, which is implemented and widespread campaign for politics and society is connected to the issues of the public and the main roads of the community in different parts of the community, set a series of students in different parts of the community, set a regular days in different parts of the community.

A committee formed a committee in the community and is used to a lot of instructor, there are also a training of the culture that the residents have to increase, especially the youth in the area.

There is a widespread doubt that one and the form of Liberal Party has been done by the Liberal Party in the midst of the increase of organization from contact numbers, which is why the councils of the area was formed and ready to act as the councils of the association.

It was also built on different sectors that are focused on different sectors and was able to make sure that those in the community -- young, old, women, who are in the community, especially the local leaders were built, including the local leaders of the community, especially the local leaders built in the community, such as a surprise "demolition.

The Liberal, who have been appointed to the Liberal and those who have submitted to the Liberal Party and those who have submitted their own organizations which are just within a few months, the group of Liberal Party has increased to more than 700 percent.

The opposition of the Liberal Party in happy is the worst part of the revolutionary taxes that they are trying to allocate time for the sake of the employees of the Liberal Party (BKP) and forceful invitations of the Liberal Party (BKP), the awareness for the development of the Liberal Party (BKP), which is where the awareness is complete through the struggle and additional education.

Due to the lively and peaceful life in the society and revolution, many of the youth expressed their desire to join the Botchok and join the Handog Pasasalamat of the armed fight for not a few of them have been able to send a few more than them.

A challenge of bigger struggle for success in urine should be considered as one and show that it is an important capital for facing a bigger fight in the future, a big challenge to the crisis in the future.

They will challenge each other with the higher filipino masses in the fight against each other that has been locked up with the increase in price of oil and goods, for the increase of increase in the land and current economic growth, that will be imposed on the land of oil and current economic growth.

Those who are happy are challenging the participation of the local government to make sure that the abuse of their house in the countryside will surely result to the revolutionary movement, armed forces and construction of the new Lapian ng Masang Pilipino.
