Teddy Casino.

I am just waiting for the poster billing of Teddy Casiño in the window of our house, and I feel sorry for fellow activists for the end; I will not allow what is wrong.
When I was campaigning, even before I was married to my sibling, I was able to finish the table in the restaurant so that I would not be able to catch up when I talked to my wife in the Senate.
But it's because it's really different when you are going to be connected to your house, it seems that you are able to make the candidate your personality, in the eyes of your neighbors, that is why your campaign is not the only thing that your family just wants or to pay.
It made me think that I am not impressed by Teddy Casino's early part of being activists, since then, he is just by the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, that is why when Joseph Estrada is trying to say, especially when Joseph Estrada is treated.
It's because Teddy Casino seems to be proud if you are going to be proud if he / she is going to be proud if he is the one to explain if he is the one to explain to the many issues, and he is having a way to greet them - with a joke and often, very angry.
Even for the running senators now, who have the ability to explain the privatization of the electricity such as Teddy Casino's operation?
At the end, Teddy Casino is good because he wants to say that, he allocated his life in pushing for the welfare of most poor in society, but they cannot agree with his demeanor, but they are thinking that they are honest with the interest of the poor and Filipinos.
If these can be the citizens who should believe, Teddy and Top 12 are far away, there are many reasons for that, but I don't want to have a surprise on the result of the election - win or near the win.
Whatever it is, in my opinion, there are no losses in the campaign of Teddy and we are given to the public one of the most skillful activists for us to give them a choice outside the rotten politics in the country.
I saw the rottenness of politics in the country when I supported by Miriam Defensor-Santiago for President, that their support to Cory Aquino was a lot, if the candidate who will approach them were Teddy Casiño.
My plan, I gave a text message to fellow activists and friends here in the barangay, we can allocate one or a few days for their campaign to pay attention and explanation that there are some of them, Teddy Casino's success!
