TV Patrol, April 30, 2012.

To serve the Thy.

Let's remember that, with the number of our countrymen, this is also the number of many expected from us, and the real service coming from the heart, is being taken away by the remains.

And is being done with no coercion.

It is an effective treatment towards the success of 10 to your servant to both of his popular sanctuary for you who are always paying the quality of your contribution, if you want to add up to the amount of your contribution, if you want to be released, it's as if you want to be released too much.

If you collect it for a peso, do not let it go to the time you get it and this is still a peso for each person or service you have an equivalent salary or service.

He said that the quality of your personal relationship will become rich, and you make sure that you make a connection with the people you are giving up with, because if you do not have an intensive conversation with the integrity and standards of people around you, prepare for it due to grief waiting.

In fact, the most effective relationship to have a father is to give way, give, and serve.

Always from your own heart, it is just a show to the heart of others, not targeting, if the attitude is always like this, no one will persevere with it, but those who are annoying or greedy.

We are not given the traits that we have given, friends, and even the integrity and integrity - for our own citizens, and each of the things given to each other, and each of the things given to each other, and one of the things that we gave to one or for all of us is a blessing of all.

The little bit of the little finger was felt by the whole body that I cannot remove my feet so that it would be better for my face.

For me, I am not studying the primary objective to get a good partner, but I should learn how to go to heaven, rather, I am giving a clear intention, and a big trust in my fellowmen, but I am going to serve as a clear belief, and big trust in my fellowmen, but I am going to make a lot of faith in my fellow.

Make sure that you are not alone for you as the king of your self; and there is no more powerful progress in your own relationship or if you are not helping you, you will not reach you, you will not reach your destination if you do not reach you.

Just just for you to pay what they have done to watch your surroundings, all your things, appliances, and vehicles, are made by people, you are paralyzed, and slow to finish your tasks.

Karina lock the lock of Nony York, which is the key to the quality of successful people, most of them are starting to go down and have no payment for the start of their lives, but the big difference is in the start of their lives, but the big difference is in the start of their lives, and serving and helping others.

According to him, the service to others is, there is no other reason, but the goal of helping others, to achieve everything that will help others, and to achieve everything that they are applying to, and to achieve their loved ones.

A simple feast while serving for each day, it is easy to answer when asked.

If something is used, leave it properly and beautiful than before.

Voluntarily surrendered if seeing no one is helping, causing it, and when exalting.

- give a opinion or help if the opportunity is asking for the improvement of all.

The start to make what you are doing is easy, if there is a need of strength.

Learn to listen if someone is talking, do not join and wait.

The donation for money, time, things, help, and make mistakes.

To teach those who do not know, write an meaningful thing to believe.

Cooperate with the dreams of your goals to make the level of livelihood.

Be careful and will be given to others to make peace.

Continue to make ways to make the morality and integrity.

Try to coordinate with the people for the sake of the people.

The hopes for information for the welfare and pushing for progress will be disregarded.

To cooperate with others, depend on yourself with no condition.

Be honest and trusted if you give service.

Be ready and you can wait for the time of need.
Maintain the mind and hands for those in need.

- there is trust and faith that your success is just with you.

Be angry and taking note of corruption and stealing from the public funds.

Appreciate and have any kind of people about the clothes, things, decorations, and what he did.

In expressing their agreement, a small or big honor was taken from others.

.

(I will only pray for our Great principle of Buhay, 07 last December. 11) the desire to serve is one of the ability to serve one's heart, and cooperation to each other is the important ingredients in front of our ancestors who have inherited from our ancestors.

I am pure love because I have created a virgin woman and is the reason why I feel it, because God is my real character and concern is my real characteristics.

Love is my name, and Wagas Extension by my nickname.

Because my principle is free.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
