
Trouble in Korea.

Many blamed North Korea as the root of the crisis in Korean peninsula today, but what the majority did not notice is the truth that the real root of the crisis is the forcefully pushed in the country of America and when the second Filipino taxi.
Nueve 1945, the US and Russia were able to agree with the two parts that they used at the two parts of Russia while the US and Russia were conquered by the US and Russia at the former jurisdiction of a Japanese peninsula.
What can the two countries allow these two countries to distribute their homes after they do not have a corresponding consultation to the people who will be affected by America and Russia during this time when the Cold War is heated.
The people of the town-1948, was able to know the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (the official name of North Korea (the official name of South Korea (official name of South Korea (an official name of South Korea (Commission on 1948.
It is also needed to find out that the communists went to the 1949 in the People's Republic of China, and before the war in Korea (June 1950), America has decided to stop the communists in Asia, including North Korea and 0.R.O.C., which can be said that North Korea and P.R.C. P.
The authorities continue to stay in South Korea there is a big role if the administration of North Korea now can't blame them if they can take action because more than 30 percent of their population are killed and almost all of their cities and towns are devastated by the Americans in a war in Korean peninsula.
North Korea has long wanted to get along with America to stop the conflict but they do not want to listen to it because they do not want to listen anymore because they have a reason to raise the forces in Asia in order to face 0.R.O.C.
It is not related to peace or release of the people under the territory of North Korea, the US and allies of South Korea and Japanese who are behind their actions are their own interest in order to protect them but to sabotage the strengthening of its implementation.
