Just a few days after EDSA, I want the Philippines to talk about it.
Continue the Americans who violate the law of our country.
You are the name of a few more week for our business.
That you will not be shy with the Americans for children in the Philippines.
From Jam.
In the past decades, the Philippines became the primary number of things that happened in the American Asia Pacific Corporation, despite of them being biggest in the same floor of the prosecution process, it is better than the American soldiers who are fighting in America in EDSA, but they say that the passengers of the American soldiers will be charged with violating the law in the Philippines in the office.
Reporting, Alvin.
Taking pictures of To.
They responded.
There will be a new amount that can be seen; not fog; but no.
Say.
You will know.
Where will this be brought to?
He was able to answer to the ATM; that's why he went to the Philippines because it was also the eight people watching over the Philippines.
They want to avoid anything that happened to the case of Marlon province that my former president was able to fight him because last night, I said that you should just go to Caloocan, where is the iron fist to put it.
Do you just call the Philippines to talk about the Philippines, where the soldiers are temporarily looking at each other, and they are temporarily observing the soldiers in the other places where the government will drink, that's why these traditions they are selling is selling it.
What will they do?
There, in the middle of the line, to the Philippines, it seems that the Philippines will be able to pay for a payment for him to be the American Philippines but in case he has a different country, the Philippines may not be used as councilor.
Yes, Edgar Year near yes, four pesos will be the arrival of the former.
There is nothing in that.
You but feel your telescopes with a teacher in order to lower themselves.
It is clear that there is no use of a doctor in the country but in the middle.
It is said that it is not far from Batangas that we are following Batangas that we are following Batangas that we are not allowed by the toy; they are not allowed by the toys; they have also said that they need to be stupid; we need to go to the senate.
The noise of the children, the solution to the investigation is the slow agreement of six months.
