
VK queen of Datu Salibo and gambling of Toto Lacson.

"The so-called" VK Queen "(video karera) is the whole of Manila, except for Station 4 because the chief did not agree.
"Of this, deloy was extended to us by" Akamai "who is also a official of the police in Manila Police District.
What we are talking about now is the queen of VK to the kingdom of Erap Estrada who was identified as Gina, who is the wife of Ronnie Gutierrez.
In what we are saying, it is a lot of money that is earning a lot of money everyday, so many engines of Gina, who are scattered all from the barangay of Vice Mayor Isko Moreno, until there are those under the nose of Mayor Erap! Ehek!
Although the policemen who are planning to get out of too much control here on the widespread VK of Gina, they cannot do anything about their fear that they will be defeated!
As of now, our "Adona," will still feel like who is really on the hands of "Gutierrez, which is why he cannot stop his illegal activities.
Wait for it!

Different issues can be seen as a reason why many believe that 2016 is the unlucky year for the political life of Vice President Jojo Binay.
The issue of political dynasty are where it can go through "committee level" of Congress, the primary ones who will revolt against the position of some Binay.
It can be recalled that aside from the father who is the vice president of the country, the senator is his son, Nancy, a senator, and another daughter, Auto, and mayor of Makati, on patrol!
If the anti-political dynasties have finally been served, they will be the only one who will remain in the position.
But if VP Binay is the one to preserve a "attribute and" he will be the president, it's likely that the people will take away from Noguera of the people because of the issue of being "epal."
That even the calamity in Samar and Leyte were not lost from the etiquette!
Even in the issue of illegal gambling, the Binay family is also not safe.
In Bangkal, Makati, judicial oy, it is famous that the gambling Lord named Toto Lacson!
The "booies, gambling and jueteng" by Lacson could not be able to attend to the Makati police because of fear that Binay will be defeated by Binay!
The reason?
According to our "Avena," the mentioned GL is the primary supporters of the Binay family!
Wait for the indigenous people from the gambling of Lacson!
