There is a problem.

There is no doubt that the country really needs new, modern and big airports to be built on different cities, to assist the needs of the increasing population and influx of local and foreign tourists.
But the Depensa of Transportation and Communications (DOTC) has a problem, because it seems that it is not capable of making a clean, sensible, same and transparency in the adversary, which is project like the airport.
For those who do not know, the DOTC and Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH), the two agencies that have the most big projects which have the most big projects which can be started by President Noynoy Aquino, it seems that the true projects will be given to the country.
Just like the DOTC, up to now it still failed to bring those who are sensible and acceptable bidding, and one of the foolishness of bidding which was done recently is for P17.5-billion worth of Mactan, Cebu International Airport.
If this project will be finished, the airport is certain that NAIA will be the biggest and modern airports in the country.
It is expected that tourism in the region of Visayas is expected to be fruitful, but also the trade and for business that will give many jobs and opportunity for the citizens there.
But it seems that the project will be delayed again because even if the DOTC already gave the elected president which is Mefenamic Actor, and in his partner, GMR Indama said there is no ability to do the project because the foreign business has legal problems.
I will not give details about the aspects of the complaint but only my point is that the DOTC should not allow the documents of any of this project to make sure that many want to earn so even if the process is finished, there are still those who still want to ask for.
The question is why the DOTC still needs to accept the protests even if in basketball, the game is over?
It is almost like this kind of system that happened to the 685-billions of plate One Direction projects and 85th 2 billion pesos project which are similar to the Land Transportation Office (LTO), who is a national agency of the DOTC.
What is really the problem with the DOTC, I am sure that what you are thinking is just like what I am thinking!
