
Earthquake, flood, calamity and Malacañang.

It was the arrival of DILG Secretary Mar Roxas in Bohol to look at the condition of the victims of the earthquake in Visayas recently, and he immediately spoke to the media that she will clarify with the help of the government of Benigno Aquino III with no trace.
Good luck.
But I was worried because when they were seated on the throne in Malacañang, all of the promises were already given, "that was the only victims of the consecutive typhoon in Mindanao - that was the only victims of the consecutive typhoon in Mindanao - they were still hungry and almost already dead until now.
Before the case of earthquake, Mar Roxas care of Aquino also promised that they will also help the victims of the recent Filipino people between the government and MNLF chairman Nur Misuari), they still do not have help because their reason, will be clean, clean, and will be firm for the victims.
It seems that this regime is used to live in a promise that is also used to the fban of lies.
After all, when PNoy took the seat, he will finish the corrupt and corruption, the people believed it, but for what is happening now, there are still some who believe in the survey as well, because there is no one who believes in the survey.
The earthquake and flood are moving if not angry with us by Iris and nature, but the serious result and death of many can be lessened if the leaders of our government are ready to lessen if this is given protection immediately to save more lives, things and houses.
That will happen if the leaders have the care and appreciation of our lives and progressive countries and the leaders now do not have one of this kind of disease.
It is also like the issue on pork barrel or the Priority Development Assistance Fund which is like a sweet mango, which is being discussed by lawmakers in Congress but also in all local government.
As of now, Malacañang should not waste time for them to do what they can do to the victims of all kinds of calamity, they cannot just wait for funds because of G. Aquino's almost all the money of the country.
Just imagine that, Noynoy does not want to use the money which is in his pocket.
PCSO Assistance Fund (Presidential Special Assistance Fund (Presidential Intelligence Fund) of the Presidential Intelligence Assistance Fund) and there are still many kinds of decisions in his decision where it will be used.
In the course of what is happening, they still do not have any action and nothing happens aside from promises, the Fahavez and Aquino, Abad, Drilon, Drilon, is true, instead of serving our country!
