No matter how hard it is, it will still change.

All things here in the world are just short, if all you will come, however, the majority does not have something permanent, here on earth, just like the change in our lives, since childhood, until we are married and have their own family.
Your servant is noticing the youth now, at a young age, at a young age, there are those who are saying that you won't be responsible and good, if you are responsible and with no kind of self, you will lose in gambling.
Even if this is true, it is just right to think, especially the youth. Dick, do not be careless with what they want to do, especially at the point of love, they will always be placed in the middle of their marriage.
To be certain that they will be sure of a good fortune in marriage, first, "they will add to God their fiance, through fervent prayer."
Second, learn to follow your parents, if you are advised by not desirable to do, listen, be kind and thankful to your parents when the Lord who goes to you will come true to you.
For those who have married and have their own family, do good in carrying the family's life, solve it and always be positive in life, and always trust in the family, that will stay inside the family, who are in love, that are in love and will remain in love, that will be in love, that will be met until last.
Let us watch a good K to share of the experience of a mother's life.
Who became young at a young age and had passed by many challenges, he still remains strong and have succeeded in life.
Starting from his childhood, she experienced sadness in life, because, she has a good livelihood for their family, she is single and looking for love and attention by his parents, but his parents love her four siblings.
It is true that love is really powerful, because in spite of her youth, Knapsack is caught in love with a man, because even if they are against the challenges that they cannot take it, because even if everything is against them, she can still get married.
The events became more intense, and the woman almost had a huge hope, when there was a farmer's illness at the age of 27, the illness of her husband was severe because, unfortunately, his wife passed away.
In the midst of what he felt that there are 2 children who needed his strength to support them by two young men, 3 years old and 6-year-old child left by his dead husband.
Their life became more miserable, because he does not get along well with his-laws and passion in what happened to be considered, forced to be strong, which is the only hope of 2 young men to live and have a good future.
He worked hard in life, work because he was able to finish studies because God was really kind, because the mother was able to study and was able to finish his children.
He had a name in public service and now, he went back to the people who were taking care of him, not to take revenge on it, but to be able to take revenge on what happens, because the Lord can do something to what the Lord can do.
With his plain crusade, he experienced different kinds of socializing with others that he became strong with every challenge that he experienced, so that his mind will be open to the kind of profession he entered.
He thought that at first she could not do it but the guidance of God became successful in his risk in the field of radio and he liked the treacherous ways of his program.
Not only on the radio end of the good events in his chosen profession, there was also a chance that there will be a chance that will be a good report to Remate Dialogue, Pang-Masa), from Sunday to his own column, "your public servant."
What is always on his heart and mind, as long as you call and pray to your fervent prayer, it will be given to you what you are asking for you, time and place will present the Lord who is powerful for you because you are following his principles and order.
If that is the only thing that he is always looking at you who is ready to support and help me, because you will not leave you, because you will remain in your side so you will stay on your side.
