Are the new ways of distress?

By Tomas, Santos - February 28, 2014.

The word goes with the quick action of the weather; even if the appearance is changed or there is a sign, it is a proof that this is life and full of color.
It can't be denied that the progress of new appearance from the country like the pick up-up driver and father of Top Rank which is usually heard in radio, television and public places.
The pick up-up or criticisms refers to the quick use of the division in order to call attention to the person in connection to the person in relation to the person in accordance with the construction of two opposing sides through the rip or quick action.
It can't be avoided at the opening of the modern songs such as a pick up driver, like the pick up-up, and covetousness of the art of arts of the flag like robots and take advantage.
There is a difference in violence.
According to Jenelito de los Reyes, a soldier and professor of Filipino in the university, the attacks were not allowed to be considered as modern equipment.
"He will remain new and old at the same time it depends on who is using and discussion the" puzzle, "he said.
He added that it is also not new that the pick up-up was not that new because if you think about it, there was another person who was called by his attacks.
It is said that there is a similarity between corruption and attack through what he is urging him to think and use his own imagination to determine the discussion of what he said.
On the other hand, De los Reyes insisted that the implementation of supporting and harassment from the lower part of the time of its progress is different.
"If there is already an age of horny, there are times when there are times that it will not get what you want to say especially since the example used for example is modern," said De los Reyes.
According to Jose Wendell Capinig, a professor was given to the University of the Philippines (Diliman) and Pop, experts, with an appeal of "appeal" to the youth that is why they have a high level of supporting it.
"First, dear but metaphorny is the use of language in their attacks on second, maybe if the level of integrity," he said.
Put a hole and beat each other.
In the field of a heated kind of argument or debate, it is said that there is a big similarity to the art of art of the cost and the new argument of father and Top Rank.
According to Capinig, it can be considered as a new piece of hole on the Top Rank Promotions to be the only solution.
"It is possible to recognize the type of modern equipment on top of the kind of argument between two different parties about one topic," Capi said.
Capinig also added, aside from being an argument, it is easy to be popular with the masses because of his simple use of language.
According to De los Reyes, the way of show-raising to the masses of Top Rank Promotions to be the influence of its hot topic.
"It became a popular father of Top Rank due to the burning of its platforms: The internet is widespread if it is not because of this, if the internet or casually walk, it might not be a popular right now," he said.
Aside from being a hobby and start of the naughty spirit, there is also a good causes of attacks and coercion in the field of language and duck meat.
De los Reyes said that it is not the pick up-up line or flipped that they are receiving the appearance of language, but the took advantage of language such as television or radio, for him, the outline of language that they use in the pick up-up line and cowards.
"In the opportunity" what is wrong, "the big question is, who determines right or wrong things such as language," said De los Reyes "and the media who has vast influence on people?"
Meanwhile, Capoquian, who needs training in using language, those who want to commit suicide and haunting of Top Rank.
"There is a need to study well the language and make it a habit to use proper before it will rule it," Capi said.
De los Reyes stated that it is natural for Filipinos to have natural resources or not directly through a small dialogue which is why the use of attack is even worse.
"This is a colorful part of our culture, that sometimes, we are becoming a baggage because we cannot say that our thoughts is perfect because of fear of hurting the pain, especially when we say it is true that you will hurt you," he said.
According to Capinig, it is not easy to call as a part of the Filipino culture that only be part of the Filipino culture, instead, this is just one form of the foul acts that comes from the experiment of our culture.
Even though it started with a new kind of arrogance, until even a kind of hobby and enjoyment they believe that de los Reyes believes there are other good effects on the pick up-up line and coercion to the Filipinos.
"The discipline and measurement is a big help to those who were started to have started," said De los Reyes, "said by De los Reyes," says De los Reyes, which will bring goodness to our history, it cannot be denied that it is part of our culture and history. "
