History is the meaning of history as Martial Law and the lens of return.

By Lanie B.

History has no one version.
Worse than Juan Ponce Enrile last 1972, for example, there have been three version from Enrile, a few years after an attempt against him, that became the reason why his statement was planned, and it was true that his statement was true and his attempt to take his life was true.
What is it really?
They start anew.
Often the kind of image is being connected to Martial Law before, the police and the military can catch any of those who are busy with the head and rebels, and those who are included in the world have no assurance that their stay in the world will be lost and forcibly kidnapped in that time.
However, not everyone can say that the burial of the dictator is true in an interview with Roberto Apuyan y, former trade Secretary of Marcos, he said Marcos won the 1986 presidential elections even if the Filipinos did not believe to share the first People Power Plant.
If the residents of Ilocos Norte will be asked, the town of Marcos, they will say that life is progressive during the time of the former president, as said by Senator Bongbong Marcos, if his father was not defeated, the Philippines might suffer in Singapore.
Because of this, there are some who are trying to write by one derecord of Martial Law, which is why President Benigno Aquino III is one of those who believes in the number of possible version, it is possible that there is a big bird that occurred in this part of history.
Although all the sides may not be brought in one record, it is important that there is a big contribution that will be spread to the Filipinos because history is a way for the authors of a country, and instruments to protect the minds of the citizens.
But it is not a peaceful process to leave history from writing and in giving identity to a country, it is an important thing that Salik and who will be used on top of the events will be used.
Meaning of the statement.
Philosophy is undergoing a plate which is the one who wrote the history, he is also holding power by the Philippines, you will see how to hide our rich history, and the violence that they used to our country.
The Spaniards seem to burn all the record about the disconcerting of our beliefs and the appearance of our fake gods and diologists, and they are taking advantage of the horrible crime, such as folklore gized.
Meanwhile, in the revelation of the American troops that can be considered as heroes during the colonization of the Spaniards and the Americans, they have been able to get off the minds of the Filipinos, because they have done the national hero, Jose Rizal, for example, because of the aggressive group being led by Andres Bonifacio.
Every time the Martial Law was held, he is always detained by some personnel: The Marcoses, and his wife, Ninoy Aquino, and most of all, the thousands of ordinary Filipinos fought for it.
Some of those who are instruments used to roam free, the king, and the downfall of the United States (US) were said to have been mentioned by the approval of the United States (US) along with the strengthening of the campaign against Marcos in 1986 when the support of the US against Marcos in 1986.
The lack of clear and deep in our history is the cause of our lack of thorough investigation and understanding to our present situation.
For sure, it is certain.
It seems that even if they are corrupt the Marcoses, and they became a traitor in the town last 870 up to 80, it is noticeable on how they will be accepted and elected to the positions of the government, while Bongbong Marcos will be elected as senator and Bongbong Marcos.
If the changes in the progress of many Salik - the influence of the Marcoses, the state of political space in the country - the state of political space in the country - the objective of what the Filipinos understand what happened in the past will be considered.
And if there is a need to choose to spy on the violent process of writing to history, it is just right to analyze the events from positive outlook of the country, that up to now, are the experiences that are not at the top of power but to the real citizens.
In scrutinizing the past, there is always a person who will decide on how to move the full of consciousness of the Filipinos in any part of history, it is important that the big part of the population decided to stop the minds of the population and decided to stop the dictatorship.
It is also proper to go back on how the citizens are able to get along with the leadership of Corazon Aquino and the next leaders of the Senate, because they remain to admit as leaders of the majority, because they are not the one who is powerful, the real decision in making history.
