
Meow, Czar Ping.

Before you will be destroyed by your ally and allies, G. Panfilo "Ping" Lacson, just resign from being a construction in the rehabilitation center.
You are just using those who will be cooked for Benigno Aquino III (P3) to destroy your character.
It is clear and there is no doubt, because at first she called you as R and R czar, after an ordinary person, that only means a leader with no power, isn't it?
Just on the first week of your mind in Leyte and nearby provinces, you said that there are people (or politicians) who are leading to corruption, you said that what they desire for is not going to happen.
But thank you, Czar Lacson?
You are not yet ready to attack, after a temporary wage hike for the victims of the typhoon Yolanda!
Wow,, their speed, is it not? But of course, there is no crime.
What the leadership of Aquino, Ping. Ichine is really shameful, the amount that you think is the value of the walls, one fourth (1 / 4) and the floor is the floor of the floor.
Hey, just a little bit of love can be heard in the whole decision!
It is natural to deny death penalty of the DPWH.
Thank you to the PNP Chief, Czar Ping Lacson, and you know that it is Even-tempered in the Services of the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG) Leader and Detection Group (CIDG) whom they are just afraid of those in Commander-in-chief!
Just like that, you thought when Noynoy called for a cabinet meeting, they will discuss the dirty project of the tower.
So long, Mr. Czar Ping's, i'll get out that you are blamed by the people.
The citizens have a big trust to you as Mr. Clean but if you remain in the hands of those corrupt in Malacañang, he will be used in the hands of people with people who are envious of you.
It's simple, Ping.
The allies of Malacañang knows that you will run in 2016 if it is true or true, their fear at you will be intense.
Because Aquino trusts you, those who are behind the responsibility will not do anything but follow the space of the space and R of you.
But you saw, at first, your arms.
