
Aquino is using the flood in order to use the widespread demolition of community activity, PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
August 16, 2012.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) criticized the use of the Marcos regime in the past calamities and widespread wishes for the destruction of poor community and the projects which are linked to the corrupt community and the projects to be tainted by the corrupt leaders under the Public Works and Private Consignation.

Aquino has been pushing for a long time for the PPP's project to benefit from his big friends in business and their partner, who have been affected by the workers and the poor because this means a demolition and location of the big community of poor cities.

"It was revealed by the Marcos regime, it depends on the common flooding that is being blamed for the widespread flooding that resulted in the huge flooding in the big part of Metro Manila, and nearby areas that was released last week," said the KP.

During the past few days, Aquino ordered his haunt from the public Public Works and forced him to transfer, around 115,000 families living in the river and other parts of the river and even 70,000 families from the disputed island of the Marcos dictatorship from the middle of the poor city during the end of the year.

In the order of Aquino, it was stated by DPWH Sec. Rogelio Singson that if it reaches up to its peak, we became a lot of people who will be released if residents will not leave for the set time. "

"After this, Singson and his / her statement were taken back to the PR of Malacañang because he was met by the widespread criticisms against the PR of Malacañang, the PKP said that the Marcos regime showed his brains."

"While the citizens are taking advantage of it," added the PKP, "Aquino is blind about the huge failure to give to the filipino masses, and there is a need for the rehabilitation and electric posts, and there is a need for the rehabilitation of lack of water to prevent and control the flooding."

In the midst of the flooding, the Marcos regime failed to release of course, to make the people from dangerous places to make the budget of budget for the preparation of the disaster that Aquino implemented in 2010.

"PKP has reminded the millions of poor cities of Metro Manila to go down and fight the plan of the widespread demolition of the Marcos regime, they should fight the attempt of the flood and what is being accused of the flood as the suspect."

The KP has one indication for the workers and poor cities in their hopes to insist on the soil, projects, projects, projects, projects and cooperation to those who are living and due to its credible development of infrastructures in the country. "
