Napoles, whom I am worried about.

Senate President Franklin Drilon will possibly hope on the hope of "pork barrel scam of Janet Napoles so that he will not be forced to take care of his relation to the" brain "by the P10-billion pork barrel fund fund.
Which is why when the Senate's arrival this week (if Napoles will eventually surface, it will surely be strong if there will be a strong whispers if there will be someone who can carry it.
However, it's because Drilon is not sure if he can still get the feelings of Napoles so he will not abort the Senate hearing.
If Drilon wants to protect Napoles, not to protect up to where the depth of their relationship is, even their family, he was forced to send a subpoena against the scam queen because he will already be saved.
In case Napoles was able to think about it, he will surely turn down the people who first denied or admitted to save themselves as one of them, Drilon.
Napoles released a huge amount for the campaign of people on the side of the administration so he got a contract on different offices of the government.
But Napoles is not negligent and filed a good commission to those assigned for him so he should not let him face each other.
That is why it is anticipated for Napoles's testimony in the Senate even though his lawyer, Atty. Lorna Kapunan, will immediately attack the possible attack of his client Napoles.
It was announced that he firmly denied law that his client will not be dropped or allowed to be harmed or be able to make it back to yourself, which is why it came to self-Illegal Drugs Act (BTAC). "
"," Kapunan said, it seems that the Senate has no one to do with Napoles even though he attended the called investigation of the powerful Senate Blue Ribbon Committee.
Will the Senate and Napoles go ahead?
They will know who is the protagonist and strong in the two.
Maybe it is possible that Napoles is not for it because he knows that he is addicted to the Senate, Congress and even in other offices of the government.
