
Revolution looked at the message given to the Botchok (Rudy Abella.

Jose Agawan.
NPA Central Luzon Regional Trial Court (Tino Corpuz Command)
There are 07, 2013.

The masses will not be buried in the forgotten movement of the crimes and debt of blood of the poor and cheating of the masses and the country such as Rudy Abella, Tarlac, 2013, the death penalty of the Bagong Hunan Command yesterday, May 6.

Abella has been a former police, but he is more known as a leader of a terrifying leader in the Middle Luzon, especially in Tarlac, the said group was involved in the murder, massacre, rape, threat, robbery, and other crimes against the masses.

While he serves as a captain of the barangay in the past 11 years, he is also the brains of the syndicate who attacked the towns in the province of Tarlac, illegal cases of this syndicate was killing, extortion and robbery.

He is the handler of the bandit group who is pretending to be able to enter the houses, the masses was able to go down and his personnel were robbed and his personnel were robbed and his personnel were fired by their personnel, alias Baliw, 4) Randy Okawa, alias Odong; and 5) confronted Osurprise io alias Alvin.

As a leader of the Municipality of Barangay San Jose, Tarlac, he was active in pushing for the building of Balog-aels in Barangay Maunlad, San Jose in spite of the passing of the Sangguniang Bayan of the said project, and even if it would not result to the land and livelihood of the masses.

Before he implemented, Abella has been active and avid reader of the campaign of 75.3rd Bde Lima and the 3rd MG IB, who are both based in Barangay Burgos under his speech in the upcoming election 2013, the content of his speech.

Aside from the number of war, Abella is also active again of the enemy, particularly the 3rd MG IB, in the leadership of Larang Taba Torres.

Abella's candidacy as mayor of San Jose, Tarlac is the impending plan and attempt of the Marcos US-Aquino and to strengthen the custody of the filipino people like Cojuangco and the prevalence of terrorism in the province.

The people were extremely happy and they were happy to send a tribute to the Bastes that is a successful payment for the debt of Abella.
