Tom is sure with Carla who wants to marry her.
By Allan Dr and August 24, 2016.
Tom is happy when she arrived in her gathering of Isulan because he was the only girlfriend of his girlfriend Carla Abellana.
Her answer was quick, "Oo," in our question if she and Carla have thought through the wedding only, that's why she had something to go through cancer, but he had an operation but is still recovering in America.
That's why in the case of 76th birthday, he went to the US to accompany them to a treatment of Tom Villarin that up to now he is still fighting with cancer.
"In the past, Tom admitted that he was afraid, but when he saw how much his dad out, she felt relieved.
They have a lot of land in the SEA Games of Tom to be built a house so that he can go back to the Philippines, he wants to be alone.
According to us by Tom, he has a job "in the house which is" said, and then he will bring Carla to them.
If she is the one being asked, she wants her husband to be married, Magdalena, 29, and Carla have 30 years old.
Why did she say Carla have already mentioned the woman whom he wants to marry?
"I just know," it's just that, "
"I am happier.
Tom Rodriguez has been horrified when the story of the new Kapuso actress that Snooky Serna's story, which is about the 29-year-old man, has been an Alzheimer's disease.
The hairs stood up on Tom's neck, it seems that his body has officially filed against his body and so that he will go down when he knew the theme and he was able to fly.
"In the start, he thought that it was just an improvised explosive devices, then he found out that this is true and there are already a lot of cases of horrific disease that has no cure.
There are those who are talking to Tom to watch the Hollywood film Inill Alice who is also about to be an Alzheimer's and led by Jularanne Calment of Transportation Office for French actress, but he chose not to watch a film like this is the theme.
What he did was that he / she was able to give the real pension increase in the internet and the collections of his family who has a loved one in life who had a kind of illness.
Tom believes it is time to open the minds of many Filipinos about this illness that many are also affected.
What we said to Tom is "an award" at this kind of age, just like what happened to Julaton Bernabe, like what happened to Julaton Bernabe, like what happened to Julaton Bernabe, and Tita Gloria Romero that they hike which has an Alzheimer's in the movie only wealth (2000), but he does not want to look like that.
Her reason, if she will think about it, it seems like she is going to make himself happy.
In Scud of Sevidal of Sevidal of Sumang, Tom laughed at the top of his character "good in bed."
According to a Fil-Tropas, she is very lucky that his two partner is very lucky to be his partner here who is Lovi Poe and Max Collins, who are ready to give all the needed in sensitive scenes.
That's why he / she was impressed by Lovi and Max.
The two are very good that he did not make his act of acting or a short-short way that they will give them to their house.
"Beware," the story of Tom, they said that they already have a taping because it was Max who was Max, then she is a Standard Lunch Program.
The First Family's time with Tom is the two Kapuso actress, she said, to make sure that they are not only in kissing but all things.
