
There is a selection of treacherous ways to end up.

Greg stars Jr.

The people are intentionally making a fire in every increase in price of basic commodities in the price of basic goods, that's why it's true that this was brought to the former price of oil, which is why it is not allowed to reach the original price of price rollback of price hike.

They will build a lot, but there is still no more than half of the drug pusher which can be held by capitalists in order to calm the people, while they are only fooling them in front of them.

The mechanism that will decrease in the price of basic commodities in the price increase is a burden to the price of goods, that is really not a burden to the pockets of the citizens against the price of goods, which is really being used by basic commodities in order to hang out while the masses is being deceived.

Let's look at the meaning of rollback on the Intertropical Convergence Zone 2 (1) 1 cup of Standard Lunch Program (2) rollback of RA 9344, (2) rollback (EAMC), which is our Pambansang Kamao or Regulation.

In the initial decision, the price of commodities will be placed under the original price of price of commodities when there was no increase in the original price, but there was no height of price, but it did not return to its former price.

On the second in the second, "in our office," Regulations, "Regulation," this is not happening because of the derailing of law, like the oil price, that is why it is not the law of the government to change the price.

Let us analyze the past celebration of oil price only last January 2012, diesel will increase the price of P2.70 pesos per liter, while there is a pile of price of 80 centavos in diesel and 20 centavos in the low price of 80 centavos in diesel and 20 centavos in the price of 80 centavos in diesel and 20 centavos in the price hike.

A few years have passed, there is a crisis in rice and the former 20 kilos of rice reached $40 per kilo in the same kind of rice.

Naturally, it is a crisis, and the electrical cables estimated to be the price of rice cakes in the market, I remember the price of every kilo of rice is high, but only half of 100 pesos per kilo of rice is high, but only 1 billion pesos per kilo of rice is high, but only about 2,000 pesos per kilo of rice.

It was said by Marx, capital, capital or I, chapter with Benjamin Franklin Drilon, which may be a way of cheating in the whole price, because this is a way of cheating, a huge amount of cheating, but this is a huge amount of fraud, which is why there is still a pile, that is why there is still a pile.

It was even clear especially by Marx-tech, P48), "Wtch, the government is free to control the population of the basic commodities in the country, that is why the government is free to control the country, which is why it is given a small amount of price increase, which is why it is given a small amount of price hike.

And to solve this, one of the first steps is to restore the price of goods, just like the price of goods, such as salad, Oil Derna Law and other low laws in prices.
