
Gambling by "egg" in the eastern part of the Commission (RESalas.

It was around 10: 00 in the morning on Monday, or almost two hours after I sent our column on Tuesday, the NBI Director Nonnatus Rojas suddenly resigned from his duty.
In Burnham yesterday, we criticized the criticism of PNoy on those reported to him by Janet Lim-Napoles against the NBI.
According to the initial statement of Napoles, he was extremely being attacked by the NBI when he was not able to answer back to their departure which happened in relation to the kidnapping of Benhur Luy.
Because of PNoy, the NBI is asking Napoles to speed up the PNP in this PNP after he surrendered to him.
As a matter of fact, PNoy still spoke, "the NBI has not been less."
This is where we are able to make it pass, make sure that Napoles can only answer Napoles from his PDAF queen.
Because if the president of the country has a doubt of the credibility of the NBI, he has been saving evidences and supported by the court, how can he cht-t of the court, how to be det of the court. "
What is painful is, like what we wrote yesterday, it can be seen how he thrusted in order to destroy the credibility and stop the National Bureau of Investigation.
I repeat, PNoy has a sign of faith with Napoles, which is why he admitted, "the NBI himself asked Napoles about the release of the warrant of arrest?
"Isn't it chaotic? Is the NBI or allies of Napoles?
They will be asking about it, the real reason for the NBI Dir. Rojas's resignation is because he can read this results of the Zurbano family!

While illegal gambling is calm in some parts of the province of Cavite, the operation of "Danny Itlog" in Cavite City, Kawit, Noveleta, Noveleta, Kawit, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta, Rosario, Noveleta,
According to our Adona, that is why the people who are taking advantage in the four areas that have been mentioned are strong because "it is" Atong "in favor of talking with the mayors and PNP official.
In short, "Itlog" seems to send them a "amount of money."
What is being done by "Itlog" is a direct influence not only for the honor of the mayors of Cavite City, Kawit, Noveleta and Rosario.
Clearly, it is clear that "Itlog" will bleed on the mud of the credibility of Regional Director (4-A) C / Supt. Jesus Gatchalian.
Well, how can General Gatchalian believe his personnel if he is a "Itlog" that's why forests were being destroyed by his "Ipit Gang"? "
