
Jose the CA and the bosses in the government of the Philippines.

Where is the bosses in the government get the thickness of their faces?
Because in spite of the people's desire to control the comments and money from the country's money, it seems that they are more mad at the dancers.
There is no stop, there is no need to be abide by those who really want their faces.
A million reward for the SSS.
While the fire originated from the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Disbursement Acceleration Program, the eight commissioners of the Social Security System, the eight commissioners of the Social Security System has a corresponding reward for their good work in developing the SSS.
The commissioners of the P1 million each of them have their own themselves.
More than 200 million are being used by the employees of the agency.
Welcomed by Cong.
PNoy also said in his past SONA, the SSS needs to increase its funds to ensure the distribution of pension and other benefits.
If this will not be done, the day will come that no pension will be received from the members, they say.
"Is it that SSS is going crazy.
So, there is a need to rush the forces of the workers and company to give their contribution.
50 billion pesos.
The government is not saying something about the increase of contribution of the SSS member.
There is no one else but what he is asking for a 50 billion contribution of the SSS which is on the P500 billion capital for the Public-Private Consignation.
And the PPP) will hit the largest company in the Philippines that foreign companies are going to be partners in making decisions in making the value of projects in the Philippines.
Here, the officials of the government will surely nap in the commission and remove it.
It is certain that there is no straight path there.
All of those who destroy them.
How much the commissioners of the SSS are being mistreated, the officials of the government and businessmen are also affected by the officials of the government and businessmen.
They are really forced to face the faces of these.
Will be the same with PDAF.
How can we be sure that the bastard drivers and businessmen are going to bring contribution to the SSS?
Let us not go away from the PDAF case that was filed in the Supreme Court.
The legality of the PDAF of the three groups was considered a question after the P10 billion dollars made to be revealed.
What's important here, Bro, is that almost all those from Malacanang and Congress are pointing at the PDAF, and they want the Supreme Court to remove the ban of release of funds here for the benefit of their sick and scholar of the country.
You are distressed!
What are the people from Malacañang saying that they are happy because it is not 20 percent but 10 percent of those who have been removed from PDAF?
Jose MUp CA of Uruguay said.
Inhumane officials of the country do not care about front of the country using money.
And it is better not to see them sacrifice.
This is where we remembered what the President of Uruguay said.
He has a salary of $12, 500 but for the amount of $1,280 pesos only for their couple.
Even if this is the president, he is still the one who cooks and do the laundry and plant vegetables for their viand.
It is not being used to the Palace but in a small farm owned by his wife, who is a senator in their country.
And an decrepit car which is a Volkswagen Sedan that his vehicle has been tainted.
Many are poor.
The economy of Uruguay has grown more alive due to the lack of corruption of their President.
But there are still a lot of poor people who really want to get off.
For the sake of these, he respects the 15 of his salary in Philippine Charity Sweepstakes or for the needs of those who are lacking in life.
Here in us, it's as if the one-worthy style in service is not in the mind and will.
While our fellow officials are still seated, the wealth that they declared is getting bigger.
While the millions of poor Filipinos are increasing, the pockets of the bosses in the palace and Congress are increasing, including the inhumane officials of the government units, which can be exported like the SSS.
Remove them from them.
It is really pitiful that our beloved country is really pitiful.
Its government is true and clear to the thieves and those who are opportunists and have no conscience.
These crooks' brains have no content but also the rich in position.
There is really a need for change.
Remove the people with evil spirits which are the root of the suffering of the people.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.
