Sweetness of success.

(This work was published in the issue of 4-5 of the Philippine Cologne last 12 July 2013.
Mary Joy Viado.
Dumagat-ABB headed by Glan-IBIG; the picture of JO RL.
The vendors are competing and applaud the students inside the Stadium.
The Stadium was covered in the entry of players who were welcomed by intense shouting and applauded by their longing for their fellow relatives and athletes who were saved.
It is also coming out that the non-called "Ipit Gang" by those whom they monitored every team, aside from their gimmick, such as thousands of students, and despite the thousands of students, they will still find out who they are on.
It is said that the 19th of 76 are surrounded by the University Athola's Association of the Philippines (LAP), a annual sports between eight popular university in the country.
Hmmmp!
It's been a year as long as it's in-laws to show the unique ability of the students in different parts of sports.
It is composed of Adamson University (AdU), Ateneo.
It was established in 1938 which is considered as the oldest contests in the university which was held by 15 kinds of sports in the leadership of four university - UP, UST, and FEU Hospital where they were trapped in the three division in Senior, Junifer Edrada, and Wgens.
Some of the cases that were featured in Onok Island is bronchitis, baseball player, Chess, Flabio Zaragosa, Humalig), Misalania, Trujillo, 63, and Beach Resort.
In the featured game, it is annoying for students to play basketball because this is their version of the Philippine basketball Association of the primary source of basketball in Asia and second in the National basketball Association.
Including UP Diliman, who are being searched by the uites, that is why the whole community is always waiting for us, we have their own gimmicks and ways to introduce myself to the public and the result of our support to fellow religious groups who are going to a contest.
Aside from the t-shirts, wolves, and other parts of the barbells, they are still trying to listen to what they are preparing to listen to the boils of a drum.
According to Michael Calamansi, team Captain of UP Men's Football Team (UP MFT), it seems that the extreme exhaustion and hardship they went through with their training every time they hear the shouting and applauded by the viewers.
The contestants.
Like other teams in the university, it is true that the UP FT Vs in contests are real.
Their training is not a joke like three times a week, from 6 to 9: 00 in the morning, Paul Melda, member of UP MFt.
"Aksyon Ngayon, on the side of the field of the field of the field of the field. IOS's in good fortune, we was impressed by the WVirgin of this season, which can be our training to be our training.," he added.
At present, the UP Fist has been declared champion.
Meanwhile, it has been eight times that the trophy lasted for eight times for a long time gift.
"We are talking in a few days even if there is sick, illness, pain, and there is a lack of sleep, and we are still being used to it because it is important to have been used to it because it is important to have been used to it because it is important that they are used to it.
It can be seen in their minds that they are not being carried away by the perfect Queen of each concept, celebration, rock or Madamba Dulay, they work hard to report the students in terms of hiding every competition.
In all the sacrifices of the contestants, the support from their fellow indigenous people is important, even the belief and color in politics, there are only one call of students, "UP Fight IT!"
"The true meaning of the OPLAN should not be seen in the competition, but in chance the students will be able to bring back the honor for their university," said Catalico.
Despite the honor, each contestants are still aware of the problems faced by their university.
You are distressed.
At first glance, it cannot be seen in different problems being faced by the players because this is in front of a broken success.
"Facadversary, the entirety of the field we can be considered is an effect of the United Nations, which was amidst the baseball team of WILLIE by the Pacific Ocean," we was impressed by the University ng mga Bayani, "said Melda.
Aside from this, they are also having problems which are usually caught in the end of the first Holy Week, sometimes they are not able to get it.
This is also the problem of UP PEP Death Squad, especially since they are currently being monitored by the inauguration today of their former home.
"Sometimes, as long as we have the address, are forced to be used outside the gym in cement," said Catalico.
These kinds of problems are rooted in the lack of subsidy for the government for education that will give way to the programs pushing for it.
With the help of Samsung and other presidentiable, the uAP) will become successful with the number of those following the uAP, in the arena, or in television, the earnings of those who are taking place are increasing in number.
Aside from facing extreme caution, players also need to take care of their grades in order to remain in their course, and college.
"Now, as early as now, I am going to be able to go to the uites before, even UP Diliman, is not a joke, to be a joke with sports," said nothing.
Their problem became more intense when they release the uAP) to make sure that they can be a legitimate member of the team after the first year of stay in the university.
Despite the lack of support by the government in the university, our Pinoy players can still be able to join and prove their skills in terms of the field.
"IT's one of the Our Lady OPLAN) is the one to be able to go to the straight home of the gold," said Mella.
Even if the athletes of UP will be tainted with problems, this is serving a motivation to advise the type of sports, not only in academic, but also in the field of sports, but also in the field of sports.
