The fulfilment of the order: Erap is still strong in Manila.
March 28, 2016 started last Saturday de Gloria the 45-year period for those running for the local positions and police to change the candidates for the presidential candidates, mayor and congressman.
But because it is possible that the kick-off of the rally last Saturday and Sunday morning, many politicians opted to do their rally today on Monday, March 28.
Here in Metro Manila, the most hot campaign is waiting for the city of Manila, wherein President Joseph "Erap" Estrada is running for the vice mayor, wherein he attacked the mayor, Congressman Amado Bagatsing, who passed the mayor, "Lim-an" and "Alfredo Lim-an" which is currently facing Manila.
It is easy to read the message of the radio advertisement of Bagatsing, that the meaning of the Manileño under the campaign of Erap and ruled the darkness under the eight years of Lim's mayor.
This is not overlooked by Erap and Bagatsing has taught what happened to be the congressman of the 5th District of Manila, and where his 70 million pesos in the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) will have been included in the list of pork barrel queen Janet Lim-Napoles.
It can be recalled that the 68-year-old Bagatsing is also who suggested that instead of destroying the bomb bombing in Torre de Manila, it would be reversed in the statue of the national hero, Doctor Jose Rizal, that it would be our way to face Rizal in Torre de Manila and back to Manila Bay.
The 78-year-old Erap admitted that he is in poverty when he visited the City Hall with Mayor Lim, an 86-year-old age in his candidacy for mayor.
But Erap is proud that after two years of service, Manila is already able to pay all of its debt to Meralco and Manila Water District and it is more important, Manila almost bankrupt because of the inventor of the country's funds and not from the pocket of the few.
Also included in the custody of the Erap administration is the increase in the budget of barangays, buying hospitals, buying hospitals, improvement of public utility vehicles and ports, conduct a medical mission and distribution of more than 200 kilos and the increase in power by the police and teachers.

The Manila Police District (MPD) strengthened the campaign against illegal drugs wherein more than 3,000 drug pushers and drug user are arrested, imprisoned and charged with appropriate charges under the three years of Erap.
It is even a joke that Erap is saying that in the three candidates for the mayor of Manila, he is only one of the real Filipinos because his opponents are the same adviser of a Chinese and one Indian.
