
Thank you "Pope Francis.

Because of the worsening traffic and problems being experienced by millions of people in the whole world because of your greed for power, money and fame, it looks like it is timely to listen and follow what Pope Francis is saying.
Unlike the traditional Holy Pope who was first known to him which is almost considered as the Lord of God because of the kind of Vicar of Christ, Pope Francis is being shown that he is just an ordinary person.
That's why it is not surprising that every sermon he gives is often focused on the real situation of the people on earth and not about the pro-heavens.
Just this past few days, he shocked the world in two consecutive blows but controversial statements.
His first statement is related to the issue of how he will be treated by the church and the world as well as the people who belong in the third sex, and the issues of Hacons, and even for 500 pesos.
The catholic bishops conference of the Philippines was disrupted when Pope Francis said that the bad session for the priest to condemn these things is the reason why the feelings of the people in God and of my favorite catholic.
Pope Francis criticized the opening of the church's door to the said issue, instead of saved the people making said things.
Because of this, CBCP does not know what to do so Father Francis Lucas, who is the Executive Secretary of the Eve, Commission on Social Communications at the mass media to express that they agree with what the Pope said, although we know that they do not believe in it.
Yesterday, it is one of the time that he made a sermon to condemn the bad session for the people in the material things that caused them to do the Lord.
He also condemned the wrong system of the economy that he said is not just and against good manners, that's why we miss the poor because many people prioritize their self instead of helping them.
I am impressed by Pope Francis because all his statements are timely and hopefully, the businessmen and politicians leading it in our country are timely.
If we give each other, it will be better, peaceful and pleasing to live here in the Philippines.
