
Good priest.

What's difficult with others is that we are always included in the flow of people like now that the church is very popular, so every news that there is a priest involved, the priest was really bad.
It is pitiful for Meagerino Ramirez, I know him because I am the director of my director and served me as head (pro-Remontad) in the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the Nazarene of Quiapo.
First, it is not true that the check made by Ramirez should be implemented for him but the Philippine Charity Foundation for the church and the projects.
And one more thing, Ramirez does not know where the money of Napoles came from.
Like the contribution of the people on the mass every Sunday, was the priest still asking where the priest came from the plate number?
Even the image of the Nazarene is brought to the house of Napoles' family.
In fact, this message was owned by the mother of Napoles, which was made by his mother during the early tor of Quiapo, Ramirez, because he was a former devotees of the Nazarene, "the mother.
This image is focused on the houses of his children every week.
This is not the theme of the Nazarene that is owned by Quiapo Church.
So there is nothing wrong there.
The mother of Napoles, Missus Magdalena, Lim, has long been blessed by the church for a long time.
He sponsored a few-day program of Ramirez of Binondo, in exchange of Spring area and in Quiapo.
He has many supported by Ramirez's projects.
When Magdalena was killed in 2008, Janet Napoles and his siblings continued to beat the mother of their mother through the building of Foundation in the name (Magdalena, Incorporated.
So everything they helped by their mother is continuously being helped by their family.
One of them is Maving. Ramirez.
That's why when Ramirez was appointed by Ramirez whose continental CoCs) for Divine iodine the Asia of Rome, they also supported them.
As a matter of fact, the two houses that were used for them to have been used for the mysterious seminar, and the house of the priest and nuns came from Mumbai, China.
Twelve groups of priests and nuns passed by the box and was taught in English through the project of Ramirez.
As a former Vicar General Cardinal Sin who has a record that is being signed, Ramirez is often given to Cardinal Sin.
Ramirez is near the Chinese community.
They have high respect for Ramirez and they know there is no waste of donations.
It is natural for every project to need funds.
Where will he get it?
The Chinese community is supporting Ramirez.
It is sad that many of us will easily judge, "look at the record of other people.
I hope that we should give a chance for a help of the Philippines to give a chance for us to know the whole story before we judge, a person.
I am just playing with the wrong accusations against Monshouting. Ramirez.
This is not defending Napoles because I believe that if they are guilty, they should be responsible for their sins to the Filipino people.
