She said she was in the way.
He / she grew up; he / she was very strong, why is it still strong.
Yes, those who are in front of the people are at the front of the people but what I do not have Gloria Macapagal-minded; why are the good ones that you have said.
What you are doing there, if you look at that, of the issue.
Going out that the result of the investigation is not good at the jungle, the government made sure that the price hike on the jungle, the price of pesos was made up to the province of many pesos.
Maybe you want to know why the result of the president is still high.
Because they are looking for it in the past.
In the past there will also be a lower part of four thousand pesos for the fourth year, and there are still eight o'clock, like the Nursing high blood pressure, now that it will be easier but it seems that it is easier to drink.
In the next moment, I think there are a lot of people.
For the government, he is not contented with what he is saying, that the government will give the number one name in a woman, but I know if you really have a voice.
They really don't have their own welfare at what they are saying.
Covetous, fog; later.
Because why are we saying that?
115 years old, very cold.
Here in the competition, the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the viand of eight things has been lost, that's why they lost control.
We are still in Bulacan with a challenge in their life that is why she and her sibling are hiding something like that, and what's also what she will do there, she will be able to put him in, because I am going to be happy for two years.
!
So many thank you, thank you very much to all of you.
Yes, you are going to the right now that we are going to wait; we should be the president for the problems that might be the problem of the politician, which is probably the problem of the politician '"Romulo Gloria.
Oh no, an estimation of twenty pesos was the one who answered for two years to answer.
I have been cut off; as well as the former President Estrada, right now, who will be the former President Estrada right now, for you to be able to attend the line with each other; we are like that.
I do not know a famous milk, a person who can't think thoroughly about the person, which is why the survey's survey should not be thought of, so I really want the government to know the officials who are near the stomach of the people.
It's because no matter what the government is against the vehicle, maybe he can take notice later on how their stomach can be noticed; we can't take care.
I want to say that we are saying that we are going to say that we are going to repeat, we are going to serve as a plate number but we need to answer those hours now but there is no money that is needed by the morning.
We are very weak because there is no price increase in the price of petroleum products to buy at the house that is based on the class of tuition, who will become interested in the impeachment of Corona.
You should not use all the strength from the end of the government to crush the enemies that they can use, you can only use that only the things that can help in a shopping mall.
