It's been a year since our countrymen are mentioned to be affected if there will be a August when there was a August when we've mentioned that the number of our fellow citizens here for me will vote.
They have no more than Adeleza that they are happy in walking so that the Ate Jojo will run fast and he might hear that we are going to hear each other.
What Jay is saying is that we need to check in here.
!
That's why I bought it, you will force it.
An estimate of Two people, who have no class, almost all kinds of classes should be quick and this is okay, according to him, thank you very much and answer the administrator when will he be.
Which has been lacking in the beginning.
Twenty years when did you have done you?
We already have something like that, which is why it's very strong, that's why it's very strong, that's why we are going to.
Ah, what?
What kind of viand?
What is the problem if he is a president, but for the sake of Two people.
That is why I am hoping for the medal of Cabanatuan City.
For this, Two people, both of us will have lumps.
I will be forced to school for six months.
Despite the end here, they are studying.
Support!
Two!
You are saying.
It will come that it is not as if we are going to go to the streets; we are going to go to school; we have told you that you are making a temptation of my palm like a wet hair on the welfare of the person.
"Thank you very much, one morning to you, they just noticed that it's only a peso, but I said that it's still difficult for us to go back to the country, which is why we really need to get back here so that the environment will not be able to get back here, which is why there's a need to get back here, which is why there's a need to get back here in Metro Manila, which is why there's a lot of people who died, which is why there's a lot of people who died.
Why?
And and he will just go to the number of Marikina City- this is the price of Maria, are you going to have a big condo that might have been used by the government because there might be an amount of money that might be seen in Marikina; he might be one of those who are living in Marikina; that's why I am the one who is seated in front of the people, that's why he / she was the one who was seated in front of the road; that's why he / she was the one who was seated at the same age, which was why he / she was seated at the same age, which was why he / she was seated in front of the house.
The part of the government is finished.
Something that has no problem, is it not yet, isn't it?
