The government is just pretending to be set aside from the danger brought by Balikatan Examination.

John Toledo.

It was seven o'clock in the evening last April 18 when they went out of the lake in HH, 56, together with his son, 26, to find a fish, but they were not ready for them while waiting for them in the lake after their boat broke into a critical condition while his child was put in critical condition.
From April 16 to 27, more than 1,000 troops of the American soldiers arrived in the country to do the 19th of Balikatan last Pampanga, Nueva Ecija, Cavite, Tarlac, Metro Manila and Western Mindanao.
In the Balikatan, small-workers are advised to fish or join the country where the operation is being implemented, because majority are dying without being caught, according to the soldiers, Willy Marbella, Deputy Secretary General of Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines.
There are those who were hit by the live-in-law of Balikatan last 2004 in Zambales, Marbella, on 2002, when the American troops and Filipinos attacked the house of BuButig in Basilan, that was wounded by the Americans and was not able to see his family again.
"This is a proof that while the US is getting stronger, human rights are also getting stronger," Vencer Crisostomo, Secretary General of Sangguniang Partylist.
Bloody history.
It is said that the first turn of Balikatan last 1991, as part of the obligation of the Philippines in America under the 1951, which is temporarily stopped when the American troops removed from the former permanent US Embassy in Clark, Pampanga.
During the time of former President Joseph Estrada, the Anti-Illegal Forces Agreement (VFA) continued, where America gave power to conduct the operation of military in the Philippines as long as part of a huge campaign against the Philippines, which led to 2001 as a part of a wide campaign against questionable program.
The said counter-governmental organization continues to follow the next year under different names of former President Gloria Arroyo, Oplan Bantay, and 206 victims of the extrajudicial killings (EJK) and 206 victims of the extrajudicial killings (EJK) and 206 victims of the extrajudicial killings (EJK) and 206 victims.
Oplan Tokhang was the call of the program under Benigno Aquino III, since he sat on July 2010 up to March 2012, there are 76 victims of EJK and 9 that were deported, according to Karylle.
"
Personal interest.
In the start of the Balikatan, the members of League of Filipino students destroyed red and blue waters of the United States in Manila, but there were also a lot of other groups who will call the Aquino administration in the help of the US for the modernization of the armed military.
In 2011, the US was given to the armed forces of the Philippines to the armed forces of the Philippines in the armed forces of the Philippines to observe the jurisdiction of the Philippines last March this year, the US filed a new chapter in the territory of the Philippines.
The Philippines has a big contribution in the US in exchange of joint military and the help of the rebels in the Philippines from 2006 for the amount of $5.8 million or almost P15.8 million or almost P15.8 million or almost 6186 million, according to the US Department of State.
He is also having a big support for the administration in Balikatan, according to the data of the bird, P4331 million pesos to P120.4 million pesos and the budget allocated by the government in Balikatan last 2005 until 2012. "Says the bird Foundation Heantoc, Sonny Africa.
Because of the military hearing aid, the US was able to take advantage of their natural resources and spit on the territory of the Philippines, according to the New People's Day (P43.8 billion) that costs $840 million (P36 pesos (P36 million) that costs $840 million), according to the New People's Network, which is released by the US State Department, which costs $840 million (P36 billion pesos worth of online.
"For the Philippines, they are saying that there is a military hardware, hearing aid and a Gabinite, with the US. But IT led to the US side.
In the final scrutinizing, the interest of the US will only be placed in the Balikatan and even if the US will give assistance to the military, this is just coins compared to the economists of US in the Philippines, he added.
Stupid in the territory.
Aside from his personal interests, the US is also using an agreement such as VFA and PT to corrupt countries, the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) Secretary General Renato Reyes.
The US is just using the Philippines to strengthen the regional power in Asia-Pacific, said Reyes.
According to him, it is a clear example of this kind of example of the US in the Scarborough Shoal or the Scarborough Shoal or Scarborough Shoal is part of the Philippines and the Panatag Shoal or Scarborough Shoal is part of the Philippines as a reply to the Philippines and defense of the US Embassy and defense of the US and the Philippines.
This meeting will result to this meeting with the newly born US military, such as Formal Entry SEC (CSL) in the country, Arnold Padilla, Bayan Public Information Office, Bayan Public Works and CSL.
Just like the arguments in Scarborough Shoal, the US also used the issue of North Korean rocket launchers last April as a reason to strengthen the countries in the Asia-Pacific Ocean, he needs to protect the countries in the Asia-Pacific Ocean, he needs to protect the countries in the Asia-Pacific Ocean, he needs to protect the countries in the Asia-Pacific Ocean, he needs to protect the countries in the Asia-Pacific Ocean, he needs to protect the countries in the Asia-Pacific Ocean.
It is more important for the cooperation and training of the Balikatan last Baliwan, while the US is continuously meddling with the movements of the countries in the Asia-Pacific Region including the Philippines, not in the end, the safety and livelihood of the people in the name of cooperation in a country.
