A gamble in the mountains of Compostella Valley and Davao Oriental.

If they will ask those who are living in Mati City of Davao Oriental Province, how many politicians are saying that they have not seen him, they usually see them.
"Those who saw this are those who have been visitors in the mountainous part or sometimes in Davao Oriental Provincial Jail, there is a sign that there will be a few trees planted in the mountains here in Davao Oriental and other trees planted in the mountains here in Davao Oriental, and even in Compostela Valley Province, there is a sign of the remaining trees that will increase in the remaining forest here.
It can be seen in the forest here is the fragrance of various kinds of insects, which can be seen in a taste of human beings which can be bought, shrimp, and other ingredients that you think are planted on the mountains of the mountains here in East Mindanao.
The owners of the bird are kind of classes, and in the start of time, there are still several trees scattered and there are still small trees that fell from the fat and small trees that fell from the bones and might start there by a bird or other animals.
If you go to those at night or at dawn, you will see those who have a kind of animal, who are also kind of animals, but, little by little, or little by little hair, speed of hair, speed of movement, and size.
They are also buying the leaves and food that they will eat, that's why there's a big effect on the loss or staying inside a tall tree, even if there is a big effect on the leaves of high trees, it is as if there is a big effect on the leaves of small trees, it is as if there is a topic of good thing to be discussed, but it is far from the current topic.
In my fear in the history of the island of Mindanao, the island has become part of the island of Leyte - some of ten thousand years have passed, that is why two separate islands have passed, but aside from a few more difference, they may start anew.
It is sad that the old forest in the whole country is getting worse in the entire country, especially when there was no covetousness of the high trees that they have started in the island of Mindanao, we can get a lesson and ways to go back to the mountains of Davao Oriental and Compostela Valley.
Even the remaining small or broken trees in Mount Halcon are also in danger to be erased from the middle of this mountain and now, it's as if you are living here at Mati City Provincial Jail, it's as if you are living here at Mati City Provincial Jail, it's as if you are living here at Mati City Provincial Jail, it's as if you are living here at Mati City Provincial Jail, it's as if you are living here at Mati City Provincial Jail, it's as if you are living here at Mati City Provincial Jail, it is as if you are living here at Mati City Provincial Jail.
And when the trees are lost, he is also the disappearance of many animals and plants which are commerce at our world and we should just wait for the alternative projects to get to our countrymen who are hoping to get a livelihood of our countrymen who are depending on this project.
Although the forest is about to die, everything is not too late.
