The students of the U P of the West University of the Philippines, Manoy has a good sleep to hit the increase in their relationship to buy life of P-U: We are just graduating from the free tuition in order not to report by PNoy.
I do not know.
Because if it would be next to go home, the start of some students the past few days that he will go home to the Philippines University of the Philippines, this is a university that would be brought here to the Philippines University of the Philippines, so what would happen to Hannah, who just looked for Hannah, who jumped into the sea on vacation.
It is said that I think that I am going out of the middle of the streets; and to the following days, the attitude of the students of P-U) for the death of the students of P / U: PNoy in the death of those who are frequent of crystal meth, because of the problem, was replaced.
Will sleep.
She said that many things are going to be expected with such things.
Like before.
He saw this way.
Two worry after the increase in low tuition fee.
We make sure that the time is not right with the kind of parents who are living on the road, but when they are living here, they are living here, they are only ones who pay the tuition but the rights.
The students Noguessed that the revelation of the house is not a joke to the revelation of the house.
Both of them were five-four-four-four years.
MPDPS-the call of this.
Covetous; we are not rich; we don't have children who are rich here who will pay their answer to them that's why NLEX's toll fee is not replaced with PNoy.
That's why I believe that in a point, they are having a hard work; we are having a hard work; we are having a hard time to look down; the lives of the students are difficult.
Even if there are no Social Work and anything that should be done even if not, of course, he should not be vigilant here with P / U: Looking at the university part of Brigada Eskwela only because of what happened that is ready there.
Mikabalon, it seems that you do not have a way to look for a road; and to be able to go to the University, they have paid the time, Pia will pay for the time, Pia will pay for the time.
School where the incident happened.
