AiAi was obviously surprised with the anger of Allyxon!
"Alden is just like my child," AiAi was in-24 Oras Weekend, also criticized!

Alyas fans, jealousy is not in the place!
By Jojo Binay / March 21, 2016 "Baba one responsible for the social media seemed to be the message of AiAi delas Alas for the fans of Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza, who was criticized in an unknown reason.
AiAi was wondering when we talked to yesterday because even his friends who were priests, Alden and Maine fans are getting along with the defamation to her.
AiAi cannot remember that she has said something against Alden and Maine, that's why it's a puzzle for him that she is being crushed on social media, "hopefully they are not graduating from the social media," hopefully they are not graduating from each other that they are saying that I will respect Maine.
"They should not have jealousy for our friendship with Alden because she seems to be my daughter," AiAi said that she was put in a joke that she was not in a joke that the people of Alden and Maine had made a joke.
The jealousy and comments of some of the fans of Alden and Maine, who also criticized 24 Oras Weekend.
Maine surprised Alden in his concert at Ynares and join again last Friday "the line line amount of 24 Oras Weekend.

Some fans of Alden and Maine got angry because there was no truth that the young lady watched the concert of the actor.
The fans of Alden and Maine are proud of the narrow-mindedness of the understanding since we watched the news from 24 Oras Weekend.
The television series, Nelson Canlas said that Maine felt the concert of Alden because her report is clear that her report is supported by the video that Maine touched Alden using a video.
AiAi had a concert in New York!
AiAi delas Alas will be left in this week because he has a concert in Shermelyn Benetech, New York on March 26, and Rain, Arts Center on March 27.

AiAi was not last in New York because the shooting of the movie project is starting in April 4 at April 4.
AiAi was not yet known in the final title of her movie that came from the direction of Joey Reyes and Mother's Day, a movie that was left by Mother lily Montecy.
Contestants are in "Eat Bulaga," better than Frenguavas well!
She is still not losing hope as Lorena Emcita that his dream of becoming a singer is going to be fulfilled on 2011 during the season of 119th Independence Day or the Batiles of GMA 7.
Tanim-year-old Lotion was only old when she joined the gift of the Kapuso network of the Kapuso Network, and she was known then in Singgalong Street in Davao.
It was said that Klay Thompson will serve as Lotion last 2012 and he went out of the television series of GMA 7 but he went out of the television series of GMA 7 but she was surprised when she was seen by Jimboy Duet in Eat Bulaga when they were together in the programs of GMA 7.
Frencherr, who is the partner of Lobo and the September Fire Tor The RL.
It is definite that no one will argue with our opinion that are the et are of Lotion and Frenchore that they have watched in the national television as a proof that he is better to sing the judicial system compared to his celebrity.
The joining of Lotion in front of Eat Bulaga is what they remember that 17-year-old singer is not sure that the 17-year-old singer is not trying to insist because she joined a born Tor Be-A Star of TV 5 last month.
