Thousands of workers have a protest in May.

Kilusang Mayo Uno (ESA) is expected to lead to 30,000 pesos will participate in the celebration and protest in Purok Uno in Metro Manila and up to 100,000 of the other parts of the whole country.
The group announced that the celebration will serve as a protest against the alleged lack of action of President Aquino on the worsening hunger and poverty in the whole country.
"It is a few days for payment and fighting for the coming May Uno,", Elmer Liscano, chairman of Lamunting, Leste and they also do not have an immediate change in the situation of the workers and other sectors of the society.
"After the nine-year under GMA, PNoy was not able to attend to our affection," said the government's refusal to give the wage increase of the government as well as an additional wage increase for the government employees and other call of other sectors.

According to the leader of the workers, the worth of the Emergency Shelter Assistance of Livni) last year was not enough because he was not included with the 'salary increase but from P13 to P21, the Department of Labor laws that could be given by the employers.
Lampihan also said that Aquino is just using the sentiments of the public against the previous administration of Arroyo to increase his popularity.
"Pretending to be against Gloria (Arroyo), but it seems like Gloria Arroyo (Aquino)," you are my boss, "he said, but I have a boss who was surprised and hurting?" Said Liwag.
Aside from this, the Filipino workers of Hacienda Luisita also join the decision of the Supreme Court to make a testimony on the ownership of the land of the hacienda.
"The farmers in Hacienda Luisita, from (being a Filipino worker; we are going to spend time on the land we sold," says Lito Bais, the chairman of the United Nationalist Alliance, "La Union (trapo).
Ullurata believes that there is an attempt by the Department of Agarian Reform of DAR) that the decision of the Supreme Court to share the land to the Filipino workers, based on the statements of DAR, it will take a year before the land will be distributed.
But according to Bais, the distribution will be faster if the agency will implement the call of the farmers to take it through the slow distribution.

"It would have been easy for the process to put more than its title for more than its title for more than 6,000 pesos and it was really being sold by UltraTech," said Bais.
Meanwhile, the organization of corrupt Filipinos promised that they meet the celebration and protest in May Uno.
"All of our hearts (in other countries) are going to join the action (protest in (May Uno," said Garry Martinez, as President of Migrante International.
Also included in those who are going to join the group of poor cities in the leadership of Kalapati, Damayang Lagi, wherein they will be brought to the call for justice to the bloody demolition of Silverio Compound, Paranaque, and Russian lawyer.
It will also participate in the huge protest the ConFootball Federation of Unity, Recruitment and Admiral Kuusuela of organization that does not attend mass or Calaguas, Gabriela, Anakbayan, and many others.
