Tom is a good kisser.
Tom early.
Lovi Poe will renew the contract of GMA only three years, which he signed a contract with the Kapuso network.
The SSgt-Tauch and Mch, where he will be his partner, Tom Rodriguez, is one of those whom Lovi Poe is doing in his new contract.
On the other hand, she and Tom were talking in their new house that they talked before he talked with a new person that they should not be seen in their scenes.
There are times when they suddenly look at each other in their scenes even though their director is not saying anything.
Their agreement is, that's why there is no need to be in a good relationship, Lovi said that Tom is a good kisser and if the actor-in a hamburger of one to ten wins, the highest-ten-ten-ten-ten-ten-year-old, ten years old.
From Tom's good kisser, we shared that he is lucky in her new boss, Lovi clarified that Tom is also lucky with her!
Lovi has no reaction now, that is why no matter how strong his lover is with her in her scenes with Sumang one TIDs and MG), nobody would resign from his part, but with Tom, there is something that Carla Abellana is.
Isn't she afraid of the reaction of Carla? "Not! We-FRIENDS.
Lovi has been an artist for ten years and in her long time in showbiz, she knows that the things they are doing with Tom are just the scene of Tom in Saba one TIDs.
They are searching for each other and they do not want the people of Production that they will still force to be part of their scenes because they get married in their new house.
Is it still okay for him to make a project of his ex-son Rocco Nacino?
Lovi said that there is no problem with what he said, even if he and Rocco are already separated, they are not enemies.
They have a relationship with each other and it is not possible that Lovi Poe Exam, Lovi, Lovi a "Tauch and MG), is unique because this is different from the story that Tom has an Alzheimer's disease.
In his opinion, Lovi wants to give him a one action show of GMA 7.
He wants to take action because aside from boxing, he frequently training all sorts of martial arts skill.
He is said to be a different way to give him an action to GMA 7 because there is almost no female artist who has a action on TV.
