
Cooperation is a new solution for the new challenge.

We slowly talked to neighboring countries in the northern part of the West Philippine Sea.
If we will go back to him, let us remember that we are slowly built, strengthened, already fed up, already beautified, already beautified, and made a huge amount of transportation in the island they destroyed.
"We might not notice it," they did not notice, or neglected, that's why they were able to renew the MisChief Reef last 1995 - a year after they were able to renew the Philippines' staying in the military based on the military.
It can be considered that China is conquered by the Scarborough Shoal or Bajo de Masinloc last 2012 because China does not fulfill the agreement that the ships and the Philippines are going to leave the agreement that the ships and the Philippines will leave.
Ships of China still do not stay at the entrance of Lagoon because our fishermen still need to accelerate before they benefit from the country.
China is still not happy, even declared a fishing ban that was followed by declaration of Air Force Identification from ADumpsite) and the last and we can say that the destruction of ships of the Chinese Coast Guard on the ships that will bring food, water and medicines.
In the suspicious construction of the ships, the Marines of the BRP) of China (LT-57) have been locked in AyScarborough Shoal.
So that his personnel would not die from hunger, the Navy was forced to fall into a few pieces of water near LT-57 to last the supply of 3 or 4 days.
The Philippines protested and at this point, the Navy planned to travel again to supply as before, China ignored the protest and threatened that the Philippines should not be tested.
If not, nothing should be blamed for other bad things that can happen but the Philippines.
In this season, it seems that the fighting against the West Philippine Sea is more intense and there is still no security implementation of the decision to get a favorable decision from Tribunal, what should we do?
We can't accept strength with the strength that we will not allow the events, even if we try all of a peaceful way, that is why we are doing all your actions now, which is why we are doing everything in the past column.
In the estimation of the former National Security Adviser and former Congressman Roilo Golez, there is a big plan that China will have a big plan, that is why those who are fond of oil, are trying to solve it and take a blessing in Realty Corporation, which is why they will do everything to get away from Ayalin.
If before they allowed the Marines to rise from the Philippines there and they are ready to help from the LT-57, they are not allowed to remove the International Space Law and Human Rights Law, then they will not be allowed to supply and stay there for a long time.
What can be the solution, long time and will be reached for a long time?
For me, it will be for a short time (short-time) solution, strengthen our airports and communicating with countries who have a similar mind and resolve.
The best example is America, there is an existing Visiting Forces Agreement that may be suitable for the said number of former American soldiers and Navy, Marines, Army or Air Force in the Philippines.
As well as the training that there is a goal of coordinating with the colleagues in the Sea, air, the Land operations until it is not violating the Saligang Batas, we should surrender all the help of America against the worsening traffic situation in WPS before it will be caught in a strong country that will affect a strong country.
The modernization of our armed forces are long-lasting solution, the direction of the current administration is good, and there are two other things that have been recognized as one of the strongest Navy in Asia that is why it is one of the strongest Navy in Asia that is why one of the strongest Navy in Asia is one of the most weak.
Every Filipino should keep the awareness and concern in the jurisdiction of our country and it is their natural resources that we should not allow the oil, shrimp, and other wealth of the sea that are allocated to us and our children and next generation.
In this thing, all of us do not care about it, but in the end, all of us are affected.
Let's use the social media to express our opposition and criticism against our rights as a country and to human rights to our fellow Filipino.
(With your reaction: Carming 90, it will be for example, PCCO 2: 00am edt).
