For the record, we were presented to the truth.
April 21, 2016.
It is also good for the mouth of various allegation to the candidates to scrutinize each other when their boils are true.
Just like what has been used by Vice Ganda Senator Bongbong Marcos, it was said that it was a young electricity in Ilocos where their clan was rooted in the command and was able to build two big marshmallows.
Those who were called oil that are not able to lose energy, or the source of electricity that came from the environment and it means that there is no payment for Sen. Marcos to be proud of by Senator Bongbong, because it is said that the residents of Ilocos will not approve of it because there is a high level of electricity in their province.
According to him, the electricity in his province is cheap because of the numerous mishaps.
In fact, a lot of these kinds of electricity are the price hike in the province and it is contrary to the propaganda of the son of the former dictator Ferdinand Marcos Junior, they even added that these advices are not direct benefit from this project.
It came out from a few study that the electricity in Ilocos is expensive compared to its neighboring provinces who have no idea about this project because the Ilocos Norte Electric Cooperative (Izzy Canillo) admitted that the residents of Ilocos Norte Electric Cooperative (Izzy Canillo) admitted that their electricity will not be benefiting from the Wesmari and Electronic Court (WBC).
The WEF is a market where the high supply of electricity from the source of money should be too high.
But according to the acceptance of all the electricity that came from the Bangquerigo who was directly put in the WEF, and the residents of Ilocos will not taste it.
That's why Senator Bongbong's bothers is bad that the mill mill will be profitable and not as an alternative electricity for these kinds of electricity?!
In the campaign period for the vice-President, it will be noticed that Leni Robredo will always catch up in the survey, but slowly, his support will increase until this week, the only vice-rap of a clean record.
Robredo was leading the latest survey of the Social Weather Stations or SWS survey which was done on April 14 at the fight for vice-President where he got 30 percent of the amount.
It is gladdening to know and give importance to his potential to be elected for the second highest position in the government, but this does not end here, supporters of the only girl candidate should not celebrate.
Let us remember that we will wait for a month before the election ends and he will need all the support from you, and he will need to protect all the support from Camarines Sur in Kabikolan, which is why they should not be able to respond to the lack of defamation and black propaganda, especially since the campaigns are in "homily."
Because at this time, the politics will get stronger, and it should be better if you hold these news, as well as supporters of a decent propaganda even if it is possible, to clarify the issue so that the issues will not be affected.
Leni said in the incoming issue, "the truth is," but we know that politics is dirty, but we know that politics is dirty and the challenge of Congresswoman Leni to those who will try to destroy the fact that he gets the worse popularity.
But despite this, it looks like Robredo was not moved in the mud that he was expecting to throw against him because he did not hide anything.
