To raise the Oryang.

By Priscilla Mireilles?
January 9, 2012.

Albee de Rossi, as the Oryang, doctor, who became the political prisoners during the time of the martial law (from "Ka Oryang" Facebook page.
He maintained the movie "Ka Oryang" (however, "Oratier and Kino Arts, 2011.
The story of Purok Less Dalena is the story of the script of Barangay Larang Tena and Keith Sicat.
Alyas de Rossi was featured first, Emilio Garcia, Angelita Bayani, Mariven Necino, Kalupaan, Che Ramos, Alex Vincent Medina and Atejano.
A picture of the students is the start of the movie "Ka Oryang." And it was really a picture of the pictures taken by the Philippines in Diliman, even the angle of the pictures taken by the film camera in Diliman, last 1971, daughter, daughter, and the angle of the pictures taken by the Philippines in Diliman, last 1971, daughter, daughter, and the angle of the pictures taken by the Philippines in Diliman, last 1971, daughter, daughter, and the angle of the pictures taken by the Philippines in Diliman, last 1971, daughter, daughter-in-law in the city of Diliman, last 1971.
In the start of the movie in this scene, the indigenous people of the story of Oryang's story, which we also know, from the following elections, came closer to the actual speech of the dictator Ferdinand Marcos, and exhibited as a doctor to those behind bars (although we think, he is still not activists.
Since then, we brought the lens of the camera in the eyes, skin, face, different parts of the body, an ordinary person from the barbells that is currently a doctor in a place where we saw that it is a doctor in a place that we saw as a doctor in a place that we saw as a doctor in a place that we saw as a doctor in an old woman.
Afterwards, he was able to visit a man named Matik and respectfully and the man we saw him from the huge part of the body, because we were expecting that their love was started, and we were expecting that their love was started, and they were able to understand each other, and had sex with a river.
But the man has a great intention, Noli said that he has a responsibility in the area, in the town, she said that Oryang is able to convince her to convince her to convince her to convince her to convince her to go back to his work in the countryside.
But the country has been wrapped with the law, that's why it's not long for the military to arrest him by the military as well, while the military's daughter was imprisoned, who was tortured, after the military, Noli, was tortured, and she was tortured, by the same high-ranking official of the military.
It will end the difficulty of Oryang to set him free, carrying the son who is planning to go to jail, with no explanation before he showed the Marcos's visit to the communists, while the communists did not try to try their own country.
The story stopped in a good way but we do not need to say how.
Jobelts first as the germs that Noli made.
In the gathering of a film festival, where it was released, the revelations of Ka Oryang "can be considered as a series of pictures of the film, but it seems that it is effective in the pictures taken by the film, but in a series of pictures taken by the viewers, but many of the people are scattered in the attention of the viewer.
In my opinion, this is a weakness of the movie that will be chosen by the people, it is certain that the progress of the story is slow, especially in the provinces where it seems that the progress of life is slow, especially in the provinces where it seems that the progress of life is slow, especially in the provinces which can only say.
However, if the story is about to talk about it, it is certain that it will rise from others: A few days to read or watch the people in the news are the antagonist: The people to convince their best and real citizens to join them.
Orbos, although it is not fully utilized by the implementation of the character of the germs, he knows that he would be a good person to join the revolution; however, we know that he is a good person to join the revolution, but it seems that we are able to convince his courage to join the revolution, but it seems that the military is more cruel, in front of Angelita Bayani than other inmates.
They are great, but what is their motive in the fight? Oryang is fighting for his own right, and of course, he is fighting for his fellow inmates, and of course, he also loves her fellow inmates, but, he also loves the revolution?, but we are not sure of the revolution.
If we are four of the exposed motivation of Oryang, we can say that it is very good to explain what they are fighting for, why it is very difficult to explain what they are fighting for, and what is the programs of the society?
However, they probably say that it is not his duty to explain the revolution.
If the case is like that, the "Ka Oryang" is very regretting it, not only in personal traits of those who are fighting, not only in the personal traits of those who are fighting, but in spite of the looming martial law, in spite of the looming martial law, in spite of the looming martial law, there is a lot of propaganda to accept the prevailing system.
We need to take care from the attack that Ka Orbos, and returned to the countryside, carrying his son, Noli was still there, why there was a war there.
