Roxas as governor.

Even before the announcement of President Noynoy Aquino, it is coming out from the newspapers who will replace the deceased Secretary Jesse Robredo.
And according to the report, Department of Armed Forces station and communication Secretary Mar Roxas will borrow the President as Interior and Local Government of government secretary.
Even though many names were mentioned to be the DILG head, in the end, Roxas is still the former SILG.
Not even if PNoy is choosing another personality because May 2013 election is near, the image and fate of the Liberal Party is at stake, which may not be too strong.
Who else will you know?
Aside from those who will be released by Associate Justice Gregory Academy, a "afternoon official" who is also an official of the Malacanang is also being used by "Jimmy" to those who will be visited by Adelana.
It is sad to think that a friend like Mandela is known to be sensible and without nonsense in the body is Naga's things in the corruption.
Aside from Zaldy, one from the palace is competing with the name "afternoon," he is also using "Jimmy" in his foolishness.
Let us just let the name of "afternoon"
The first thing that you are close to President Noynoy Aquino is close to President Noynoy Aquino, well, what will he say and think of just a lot.
What happened to them might be bad.
That's why our suggestion is, our friend should act to deny the recognition given to him because his clean name is at stake.
It is possible that he is sulking or getting mad at us since we released several times his name in our column.
But, for us, it is just concern because we just want to let him know that he is used to being shy with each other.
His continued silence is not acceptable to the people who trusted PNoy and believe in his "straight path,"
In the midst of his pain, the spreading of "Jimmy" to his Kotong is continuously using his name and "said afternoon."
Even if it is still that, we believe they will go out of Zaldy Ampatuan to face the rape and be embarrassed of his name.
Maybe he is just being bothered by our conscience.
