
The said operation, on top?

Following this is what we wrote that there will be a title, "Senator Miriam Defensor."
"A person alias" Filipinos have a reaction, "he said, Baleking is stupid because the Department of Justice Secretary Leila de Lima will investigate under the" Task Force Enrile. "
Just like what we said, we do not have bad bread with even Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago that we also know that if there is a big issue like the final investigation of pork barrel scam queen Janet Lim-Napoles, he became stronger?
The thing is, instead of the investigation is Napoles, what he stressed is that it is the former Senate President and now Senate Minority Juan Ponce Enrile (MIAA), the investigation is over and we have learned about it, "I am the" I am "I," I, "I am the" I am "I," I, "I am the" I am "I am" I "
In that incident, a big time has been lost, no for a useless time, money of the country and to waste of tired, not only by the senators and involved but because of the consecutive calamities that was destroyed, and because of the consecutive calamities, they have been buried in the topic of pork barrel and Napoles.
Filipinos said there are an OFW, who is said to be a citizen but he knows the issue on the case filed by JPE.
A friend, in the investigation of the Senate last year about the accusations being thrown by the vehicles in the Cagayan Economic Cooperation Authority, almost all senators stopped when they found out the truth.
The important information gathered by the vehicle to CEZA has its own line, which is there all kinds of things that they put in us for the payment of the importation from the Bureau of Internal Revenue, Customs and Land Transportation Office.
The only role of Enrile is owned by CEZA as economic provisions like what caused the law of Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority) free to join the business there and other parts of the country.
In the SBMA back then, based on the military by the US Armed Forces, more or less 25 thousand pesos, in the hands of Filipinos, almost 100 thousands have died there and more are increasing.
In CEZA, almost 10,000 are given jobs by the vehicle that is important now, they are no longer because of the accusations being filed against him, which is why there is a complete document, permission from the taxes?
