
Why are Jinggoy okay?

Just like what is expected, the senators and other politicians and personalities who are said to be accomplices of Janet Lim-Napoles can be charged with the anomalous use of the pork barrel fund.
I just want to clarify that like the millions of our countrymen, I support the effort of the Aquino administration to clean all kinds of corruption in the government and punished those who should be punished.
But it is different if the goal of cleaning the government is what they use for the cleaning of the government to push for their personal political agenda of some corrupt politicians.
It is noticeable that using the investigation on the pork barrel issue is noticeable in order for those in the palace to fulfill some mission in life.
For example the case was filed against Senator Jinggoy Estrada, Senator Juan Ponce Enrile and Senator Bong Revilla at the issue on the anomalous use of the pork barrel.
It is clear that it is clear that there are three opposing personalities in the opposition except that Jinggoy and Bong also cannot deny that they have a plan to run for a higher position in 2016.
But because of what happened and because of the extreme publicity that they are reaching, it seems that there is no more chance for them to win in other words, different and broken damage are their image in the eyes of the public.
That is why it is puzzling for the number of politicians and officials of the government who are involved in the scam and known friends who also benefited from Napoles, not being involved in the anomalies by the residents of COA and NBI.
The operation of the operation is ready and it is really being used by Napoles and Benhur Luy as a bullet against the opposition.
And because it seems that they are successful against Jinggoy, I will not be surprised if only a few months from now it is VP Jojo Binay who also has a plan to run in 2016 when he will be the center of investigation and prosecution.
Because I heard that they are preparing for a part of the evidence against him and they are trying to find a good timing before reaching him. Wish, I hope that the purpose of cleaning the government is real and honest, the goal of cleaning the government and this is not being used in the name of politics.
