"What kind of time is that we are going to be Nuralmonds because they do not have any idea of what kind of time when we have not given a direct motorcycle, that is why we do not have a direct motorcycle here in our country, I do not want to stroll in our country, but I don't want to stroll in our country.
Okay.
They were on a motorcycle with a motorcycle that was given as code Guzman, so he / she grew up.
My generation has five years and I also told me to be with me going to Divisoria.
What you are saying earlier that there will be a situation in the past few days that we do not have a person yes, and then they are watching.
This is the principle of Tuesday that Margaret will go to the Philippines and then on Baby.
It is good that it's good and then.
He might have told school that he does not have a order in San Agustin.
Yes, Two have five children.
You will cook a family.
On March, I was not able to do anything that's why he / she could not do anything anymore.
Okay, it is still here that we are talking about this problem, ah, what kind of protest is, that should be done here and in the next moment, Joker will try to be ready later and just call me as a call.
The operation in the spines are going to us to get away from far away.
Ah, we are very pitiful; we are our children.
Our fellowmen, before paying taxes, he said that the trash can come later, we do not have to do anything, that's why it's five years.
March going to the sea is nice, exactly when the motor was given on Monday, I told him that I am going to look down; he / she went to the call.
Yes, we should be patient yes, and I said that the cardiets for him to be a carefree for being a carefree.
Ah, we are the ones who are pitiful; we might get tired, maybe later.
Thank you very much for the morning to stay here with us so that you should monitor the name of your boss' name.
That's why you can hear that if you have mentioned to him, we have mentioned to him that the fishermen have been saying we are living together but I am preparing to be a little, to become a little, but I don't know that he / she is not going to sleep.
Because there is a need for you to do that, ah, for example, you are doing this in the end.
If this is, you understand that I am not stupid; we can go ahead, but it seems that I pass through it.
"What would you help our fellow countrymen who are only five o'clock in the same age, so he can talk, and after he can talk, why is it at six o'clock in the morning.
He / she was able to beat the two just a moment, he will leave the morning.
"When I go there to school, yes, we should just fix the things that we say that we will transfer their viand, ah, what kind we do with our fellow countrymen.
You are the revolutionaries that will be implemented on Wednesday.
After this, souls will die so look like old people.
I am very pitiful; we are always starting to say that ma'am is saying.
Ah, it is a good operation that happened that you are applying for something.
There is a noodle house near when our fellow countrymen are our fellow countrymen, who are our fellow citizens, so we have a good thoughts, just do not let us go.
Going to you.
Yes.
