Zamboanga is struggling in a different straight path.

It is really possible that the weakness of life and properties in Zamboanga City will not be implemented.
How can you give the people who lost money, those who have lost their homes and other properties and those who lost their future because of the fierce war in the city?
It is certain that around P4 billion will not be enough to raise their houses, infrastructure, similar to school and office of the government and are still different to ashes in the fire and destroyed the war.
Call for help.
Now, the authorities are seeing that not only the Zamboanga City but the entire Mindanao is affected by the war, that's why they are calling all those who helped in order to recover from the city but to ensure that people will not leave Mindanao.
It's because those who will invest in Mindanao will be driven out because of security problem, the whole place will lose weight, not only for the citizens but for the whole country.
Even the mother of Lupang Hinirang is much better now that it can be seen for too much wealth in oil, naturally, gas, and others.
Blame for the other.
It is wanted by the authorities that all their goals for the city and the entire Mindanao will be good but there is only one who wants to commit suicide.
And together with this they are trying to file a pile of cases in the city and destroy the entire Mindanao, including other personalities who are allegedly using chaos for their own interest in relation to the anomalies in the form of pork barrel.
There is an assurance but it is not enough.
It is also good that the government does not want to raise the city and call for everyone for security and fair in Mindanao but not only to the citizens but to socializing.
But all of these are uncertain or maybe the authorities do not have any meaning to the problems and complaints of the citizens.
The value being said by the residents of Zamboanga City will not be ignored, if they just listened to the Office of the Presidential Adviser on Peace Process about the widespread peace talks in Mindanao, hopefully the attack of these in the city will not happen.
Because the authorities just ignored this forces with the belief that it has no use, even the agreement that the government entered from them with the blessing of the organization of Islamic countries.
The voice of the man.
It is only now that they are trying to catch up with words that they are not ignored by the group but it is there that danger or danger that they cannot just pick up.
The MNLF and other groups are already alive in many places in the country, especially in Mindanao, and there might be another possible increase in the city if the authorities would continue to disregard those who have complaints from the government.
That is why, if the government really wants to ensure peace in the area, and wherever I love the Philippines, it should listen to the voice of the little.
There is 9PETaba.
Among those that the government should also clarify is the agreement they entered in the Moro Islamic Liberation Front for peace.
It is in the five provinces and a few cities in the jurisdiction of the agreement, but in the feeling of others, although the territory that the MILF won't be focused on 13 provinces and together with the city and government which is part of the agreement of MNLF and the government during the time of Pres. Fidel Ramos.
Only here, no one can hurt a peaceful mind, there is always a possible increase of chaos.
Dorina Pentrante.
Aside from the lack of assurance with the investigation of the authorities in the jurisdiction of AOIL Region in Muslim Mindanao, others feel that there is a race of new group.
Who will not have fear if the 75 percent of the taxes that they collected and other riches that they collected and other resources such as gold, horny, metal, and others in the area?
Who will feel a peaceful mind if only half of the wealth of oil is natural, naturally, gas and other natural resources?
And some say that some say that their lives and death are in Mindanao?
Opened it again.
The government is very good in rushing the peace talks and management of Mindanao.
This should be brought all the interest in the area: To having power, in handling the wealth of the place, in handling the wealth of the place, and even an uncertain situation in Malaysia in the issue despite the conflict between it and the Philippines about Sabah.
If all these can't be bought or made a way, it seems that the Philippines is in the mouth of Mayon volcano which is always in danger in its explosion.
