
It is very popular and Eladversary.

By Rogelio L. Oryang.
June 8, 2014.

It is because our education has a huge amount from educated Filipinos when our economy of the United States will not respond until now, it is not equal to the needs of the country towards prosperity and foreign interests, which are benefiting from intelligence and strength of those who are living in college that are not paid for by a justifiable salary.
Naturally, because there are Americans who insisted by the current educated Filipinos, what is being stabbed in our brain is the one being stabbed in our minds, history and culture but even their products, political or livelihood or whatever rules just in favor of the selfish interest of America.
Meanwhile, to progress, and continue to progress, many countries in the world - like Germany, Pramis, Russia, China, and it is not good for the use of Uncle Sam even if they use intelligence but they are using intelligence but in the content of your mind.
In the field of culture, according to the state of Ka ley Karina, we made the Filipino Elbelieve Presley, Frank Sinra, Tom Jones and Michael Jackson, and some of the songs are talking to English even to Filipinos, which is very clear in the culture of Cambodians.
Instead of going forward to the spines and technology towards the industrialized countries, the Philippines was left alone in the field of 50 years if compared to progressive countries in Asia and every 100 years of the countries in the west where the countries are everywhere.
It is an insult that what we can do is that what we can do is, Japan, Japan or Korea, which is why when there is a bomb thrown at the space or even when there is a bomb thrown in the space or even if there is a bomb thrown by the bus and the vehicle, there is a bomb that we can put to put to jail and be the ones to be imprisoned at the present time.
Even if the country bothers the steel and dero, we can't make a simple ride or needle and a buy of their owners, bitterness, human beings and hammer from other countries, or other products they can make.
What did not happen to the country of the educated Filipinos who have been renting a lot of educated Filipinos?
It is clear that this kind of colorums will only get tired of this kind of view, remain in the country, and there is only a factory of rich college and the university's generation, there is no national feelings or concern for the national welfare.
Anyway, it is really wanted by the countries that the United States just want to let the Philippines go through, so that they can always depend on the importation of their products, poison or medicine or food, airplane or gasoline tank.
If we just want to progress with the country and see even the shadow of the existing education and society is very important, it would be better to straighten up our history that can give and be appropriate to the national needs towards real progress, freedom and freedom.
