Violence and negligence of the children.

Macky Macasaverted!
October 1, 2012.

There is a severe effect of the series of poor workers in Metro Manila to the children.
This is what a group of Foreign Affairs has told the rights of the children, in a press conference recently, after the successive demolition of poor community such as Fort Bonifacio, Pasay and Guimbal, Makati this past week.
In the said boasts on, the Salominations are said in the Children's Conro to lead the poor community whose lives are only a picture of the whole situation of the children and their families in the whole country.
"President Aquino is negligent in the right and important to the filipino children," said Melissa San Yeul, spokesperson of Salomy.
The group also said that the Aquino administration does not mind the situation of the children and "the administration is buried in poverty and their families in poverty will be put in danger.
San Miguel identified the policies of the economy implemented by the Aquino administration like the Public Private (PPP).
"Under the PPP, the owners of the needy will continue to give way to the large foreign businessmen while abandonment of the government is responsibility to give enough service to children like education and health," said San Miguel.
He added that the picture of the government's negligence is to improve the condition of 94-million families who are hungry, "because the children were not able to escape from hunger and every day of poverty, because the livelihood of their family will continue to worsen," he said.
Open a solution.
Gabriela contradicted the programs and livelihood of the government for the poor children and their families, such as Condleweight championship (CCT) which is included in the target of the government for the target of the United Nations (UN).
"The CCT for children are not able to find a solution on the situation of the children, whose number of the poor should have been achieved compared to millions of poor people," Gervacio, said that there are a lot of families affected by the programs of the government like the privatization of the public service.
"In addition to the demolition of poor people in the city and the privatization of the countryside, he said.
Said leader also said that they will go back to 3,041,152 families in the program 4Ps, because the program is temporary, "if the program is finished, the poverty of beneficiary will end," said it.
The leader of the women blame the lack of clear and competing change in the policies of the government regarding the poverty of the poor families.
"The number of those who have no job are increasing, along with this, the number of children who are forced to work because of poverty and to help the family," said it is a good time.
In the latest record of the National Statistics Office last October 2011, the young workers who are aged five to 17, most of those who are in the agricultural sector and others are in dangerous jobs such as mining and other dangerous jobs such as mining, lower action and even to prostitution.
"Four of the ten children workers are young women," Jay said.
Violence to the children.
Salazza also added that because of the failure of the government in reaching the difficulty being experienced by the children and their families, some of the children are becoming aggressive in making crimes or those who are used by syndicates.
But more dismay over the rights of the children in the attempt to amend the law of Juvymax Justice (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2006 or RA 9344.
This June 2012, the proposed law given to Republic Act 9344 was passed in Congress, which was asked by the House Bill 3252, the age of the Criminal Court, according to the group, it could not help the children who violated the law.
"It will not be solved from the age of 15 years to 12," said San Miguel, he also said that the RA 9344 will not be implemented yet because of the lack of budget allocated so he failed to help the children who have sinned against the law.
Aside from children who have been locked in early work, losing their homes because of the different demolition and children involved in the crime, many children are becoming victims of violation of human rights due to the severe operation of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP).
It is said that the government is continuously lying about the situation of human rights.
"There are a lot of BI (Noni) for the children, we are saying to the children not to lie down, but the government is lying about the situation of human rights," says Cristina Palabay, general secretary of Karylle.
Palabay said that what the government is saying is lies in the national community who have been made a concrete action to solve the extrajudicial killings and the culture of freedom of Justice or DOJ to some lawmakers and groups of human rights to the US.
De Lima said that the government is hoping to solve the cases of human rights, although there is a need to prolong the number of convictions.
But for sure, the culture of Norcia can be proven to be proven by the victims.
"Just last week, Genesor Ammon, a leader of the indigenous people in Agusan del Sur, said," he said.
According to Karuhatan, Ambo on the 112 victims of the EJK under President Aquino, the children were not able to escape from the murder, because nine were recorded by the group including three children killed in the midst of the military operations in Maguindanao last August.
Aside from this, the children who were forced to evacuate together with their families were forced to evacuate because of the severe military operations, there are majority of 112 cases which are still on the level of the prosecution or in court.
The group believes that the government gives lies in order for the financial help of the US for the military that reaches up to $13 million pesos.
Along with the press conference, the two children from North Cotabato said that the soldiers were arrested and was arrested by the soldiers in their operation against the rebel New People's Army and there was also a family from Quezon who evacuated due to the fear of the military.
They will face a source of source or child human rights on October 2, to commemorate the month of the children.
