Sharon, you are only eating May 6, 2016.
A happy and full of Sharon Cuneta was the first time we talked with Senator Kiko Pangilinan for the showbiz press day before of a celebrity.
The Megastar is very surprised, but he is thankful that he is included in the new season of The Vaice cream in exchange of coach Sarah Geronimo.
According to Golden Boy, she will be with the show of Lea Salonga and BPAT.
It is said that aside from the show that he has a movie, he is going to do a movie so he can easily lose weight.
His secret is prayer and pride.
He joked, what he is eating is pride and he removed the caress of his diet.
Daylusan also said that at nightfall, I should do it now that's why he should have done it now.
It's because he / she was already lying down because I miss the shooting, which is still different compared to TV.
Sharon will also help in diets with the caraving of Senator Kiko where they are in my kingdom.
Sometimes he is asleep immediately because of exhaustion.
On the 83 to the campaign of Senator Kiko, he brought her family.
The hired senator said that everyday, he leaves the family she is renting in the house, so she decided to bring them in order to show that one family is going to join and help each other.
After all, the Megastar does not need to be campaigning because Kiko is already under the top 3 in the survey of Senator.
But according to Shawie, however, he is proud of Kiko that after 2 hours of her husband at the Senate and 1-year-old man with her husband and everyone knows that he is loyal, that's why he does not need too much to be alone like before.
They have been married for 20 years in April 28.
The secret of their relationship is secret.
"He is doing it" what he wants and what I want, "what he wants," is confused by the ears of the Senator Kiko Pangilinan.
Sharon has not yet able to talk to his best friend, Zsa Zsa Padilla, who is content of the news now because of her debt in architect fiancalan said by its architect.
"According to him, I was not able to text him (Zsa Zsa Padilla a text message that I found out that I still didn't have a text message.
"I have both friends (Conrad), but of course, Zsa Zsa Padilla more than me.
"
Thank you, this is a period to be a period to be. Let, what happened after a resort in Little Baguio, thank you Can Humalig).
"He / she cannot be defeated.
The truth is he didn't have any idea and all of what happened because he was only found out and he was not able to talk to Zsa Zsa Padilla.
She only heard Karylle.
"I will not be measured.
"What" that is, Tsacheva, is going to go back to him again, right? "Right?"
Mark was asked to ask because she was the one who introduced Zsa Zsa and Conrad III.
"Well, thank you know, Tantod that is an hour of Together,"
Thank you, I know, Arinoli, to go to the wake, Arinoli, to serve as a wake.
"It is a good thing I know if Fight IT's is also be known if it is just for them," that is just for them. "
"We are like me," Walis "thank you, Sharon," "None of my business," okay, okay!
