
Said goodbye.

(On the first time the works on the issue of the Philippine Cologne last 28 of 2013 will be published.
Jerome Noguides.
While looking back on the 116th anniversary of the declaration of the law of the Marcos regime, the thousands of victims of human rights and the use of violence and threats of the government to all who would try to be part of it will go to our memories.
There are those who think that Marcos did something not to match with other countries in the country - the construction of San Juanico Bridge, North and South Luzon Expressway, the remains of Marcos to the country, what could be the ones given by Marcos to the country, what could be in exchange?
Former President Marcos declared Martial Law last September 21, 1972.
Just a few decades have passed since the Martial Law was finished, it seems that the people's opinions about President Marcos are enough to dismiss the violence of his leadership, and this is the time when the Philippines is being harvested by farmers for the entire country, and will be exported by some products, like shoes.
While there is no sharp research on how the Philippines achieved the high level of the economy, and how big was the role of Marcos in the devaluation of the economy of the country in the next year, it seems that the incessant violation of human rights to a government government is already forgotten.
It cannot be placed in words the importance of events in the country because for our country, the start of the progress is almost not yet finished, every one right or wrong decision in the past may help a lot to the new ones who are going to go to the future.
As said by the famous writers, George Sayana, "though it will be considered as a Filipino to know and remember the mistakes of the past so that it will not happen again in the future because it will not happen again in the future.
We should think that we are doing this not only to avoid mistakes in the past, but in memory of those who risked their lives in order to fight back during martial law, it is our duty to take care of the desired freedom.
