The holiness of the HIV-GROs) for China.

The water from the Chinese Coast Guard are about the other Filipino fishermen on the part of the Panatag Shoal (Scarborough Shoal) on the 25th of January 2014, Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) General Emmanuel Bautista himself in a social gathering of Foreign Cordero.

Again, this incident earned various reactions and proposals that our fellow fishermen are resentful because they say that this is not a violation of our rights as a country because it is said that this is a violation of our rights as a country, because instead of doing their duties, they themselves have violated it.

But in the end, what will be the way that we can do to do in a calm case?

Again, the diplomatic ways such as protest.

In the last case of the bombing of water, and like what is expected, China did not accept the protest.

According to them, the Panatag Shoal is going to them even if it is at 351, it was discovered that this is from the nearest island (Humalig) in fact that it is also called to 200 square meters from the coast of Zambales and it is also called on the lower part of Masinloc, Zambales.

This is not a thing that we should just laugh or the issue that we should get tired of saying, "there is a picture of the abuses done by those who have witnessed in the violation of the law," the Philippines still has a picture on our rights as the country's statements, according to March 30, 2014 to submit our "memorial program."

The memorial is a said to be legal to be submitted by the Philippines to the International Tribunal on the Martial Law of the Philippine Sea (WPS) and other agencies like the Philippine Navy, Philippine Coast Guard, or other agencies like example of the Bureau of Fisheries Code.

We hope that we should not waste this extraordinary opportunity wherein we will support the rights of our progressive countries, or the destruction of our dyed sea, or the title of our airports, or the title of our territory, we should not let us go there because we all, are affected.

The Philippines is in the right direction, according to America, in filing a case against the rebels against China, it has been a few hours for the Philippines to stop the Philippines in filing a case.

This thing is, and the continued refusal of China to join the process of the barism is a clear indication that they know, "they should not allow the ships that were used to us last 2012, but only the Philippines was pulled out and since then, they have already conquered Panatag Shoal.

Part of the steps of the Philippines towards the right direction is the talk of the Philippines in Malaysia, on the last visit of the Philippines Benigno Aquino III, the country like Japanese have already discussed their desire to cooperate in the Philippines against those that can give the actions of China.

It is a good step, in my opinion, because we can't rely on the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to act as an organization because the countries who are allies of the country are also members of China and will not vote against the end.

And most of all, we are asking the congressman to our district to not surrender all the funds for the continuation of your Philippine Navy and Philippine Air Force who has a primary mandate in the territorial Defense Cooperation or defense of our territory in the waters of our territory and pushing.

The lesson that we will find is one of the disappearance of the islands before, it can't be said that there is no one who can reach or reach or not defend them and cannot defend them and cannot defend them from the unique ability of the armed forces.
