El.

Toni Gonzaga-hearted.

The speech of the President is ready for his SONA, every move of the national progress and change is final, it is expected that the number of employees of the government is expected, they are wearing a shack and set by the famous designer.
Meanwhile, not far away, militant groups gathered at the stretch of Commonwealth.
In a social gathering, it's as if they're on the spoon to deliver songs and short-minded which will reveal the tragic condition of the citizens in different sectors of the society, it is expected that there will be one of the primary veins on this day of unity, art, and protest.
Spreading and fighting.
Along with the arts and protest movement, which destroys those who are made up and songs, and making noises in walls and streets, the art of protests in different form, media, and discipline.
Even during the time of the Marcos regime, the UP Rebuprofen is already known in their distribution of the folklore giants, which is as if there is a limited staff and pro-mindedness, its use of sound and movement is severe.
Even though these corrupt condition in society have forgotten, playing with the elements of the filipino culture, similar to the famous songs, those who are popular outside the television, are very popular, but this is becoming effective as a style or it is Satan.
It's been a year since the protest continues to park in the speed of the President in 1999, the group Udancestrado was started by the group Udancestries of art as instrument for the president during the SONA.
The personality of a personality, which was made up by a simple materials that exploded, like paper and thin bamboo container, is not on the end of the president's representative, and the common people are thinking about it so that the common people can understand and understand the critics.
In the past SONA, the transformation of Aquino has been seen from a yellow lane which creates an illusion for a rotten egg that is riding a US military jeep in the act of burning of a US military jeep in the act of burning of the President and it seems that the nation's patience will kill their consciousness.
There are also those who cannot be complacent about like the Sinunuc of the town, AlSining, and a sign that the art will serve as an expert in this way, art, which is usually considered in the field of form and integrity, which is usually in the field of form and clubs.
Full of protest.
According to the critics of the arts of the art of the arts of the society and the conditions being implemented here in the same time, the improvement of the art of society and for history is a big contribution to the development being used by Guillermo, the arts of the art of the society.
He will reveal the condition and experience of the armed forces that will reveal the freezing temperature, which is believed to have been fighting in the prevailing corruption, art of political issues, which is needed in the arts of the masses to make your content of the masses to make a sharp mind.
Because of the political environment of the art of protest, it usually look down as a propaganda, as time passes by, there is a bad meaning of such propaganda, which is contrary to the original violation of corruption and fraud, that is far from the intention and objective of art of protests.
Even though political and with a huge number of protests in the material reality and the conditions in the society, it is a good example of this is the content of those who are living in the city and for political ambition.
But, no matter how much it is OPLAN), it will also eat a huge amount of fire with the gigantic size of the President at the end of the day, it is slowly forgotten that the influx of people and vehicles will end, and will look for a new branch in the next protests.
Effects of trouble.
Temporal is the environment of the art of protest because of the environment of protests on the streets, where the needs of the people and by the authorities continue to be erased because of the flow of traffic and for business, that's why it cannot be avoided to erase or destroy the trace of the protest that happened.
Because of this, different kinds of form, media, and discipline will also be used for the art of protests as well as an expert of the destruction of protests as instrument of struggle as instruments in protests as an antidwindling economy, which is being used by the original image being implemented and usually used in protests.
Different from the common art of art is different, there is no authors who owns the art of protests on the streets, it seems that the needs of habeas corpus will be erased because, in the end, product of excessive consciousness and struggle of different sectors of society is the arts of the society.
The arts of the art of protest continues to be moved by the lack of struggle for the art of protests due to the middle of the ashes and garbage caused by protests, the militant citizens are still standing, ready to observe the next actions of Aquino.
So that the art of protest will be effective, it needs a high level of loyalty in society, not just like the common sectors that can be said to claim and be used as instruments in taking advantage and changes on the outrageous happenings in society.
