
COMELEC Caraga, you have an cheating in the vote counting.

09, 2016 Jennifer P. Guna.

Butuan City, May 9 (Pia) - the Commission on Elections (Comelec) Caraga Regional Director Attorney Renato Magistrado said that there is cheating in the vote counting machines (PMs) that he will use this election on this day.
In the gathering held by the officials of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), Philippine Military Agency (Pia) and the local media recently, Atty. Magbuyen was emphasized that there is no truth that there will be no truth that there will be no truth in the vote counting machines in the election.
According to him, this is just a black propaganda to people who want to commit trouble in the election and is decided to think of the voters.
Attorney Magahin further added that their group is ready to be ready with different agencies of the government for whatever possible happen in the election especially that there are people who are planning to break it.
"We are very ready for the election and all of our vote counting machines are working and there is no more thing about it," Atty. Magbureaucracy.
It was also found out that in Libertad Elementary School, one of the barangays in the city of Butuan City, with the biggest voters, are ready to be ready for the actions of the board of elections as well as the security of the board of election inspector.
According to Nenita, principal II of the said location, they are ready to completely complete the list of their targets, and it can be ready to fix all the vote counting machines after the final-law enforcers would be ready to fix in case there will be a big problem that will affect evacuation centers.
"There is already an set up for all of our co-Ms in different evacuation centers but also for the necessary election inspector.
Meanwhile, regional director Abner Caga of Pia Caraga, also stated that the social media center is in an Sandali, Philippine National Police (PNP) Caraga Regional Office.
Director Caga added that the said media center will be open and full of media for any hour this day (Janghai, Pia-Caraga).
