Phl Marines who are honored by courage versus Syrian rebels.

Joy Cantos.

Manila, Philippines - It was awarded yesterday by the recognition given by the Pinoy Moviefest that gave courage to the fight in Syrian rebels in Golan Heights in August.
344 Filipino troops were part of the 7th Philippine Contingent who was given by Hero's Pisces in Malacañang and Camp Aguinaldo after he returned to the country on September 19 and 21.
The size of the shelter was destroyed after the Filipino troops refused to surrender and give the weapons to protect their weapons in spite of the mandate of a lot, which is the 45th Infantry Commander Iqbal Singh that last August 28-30.
The effect of the Phl peacekeepers from his position on August 31 past 1: 00 in the early morning.
The Armed Forces Chief of Staff Col. EEra James Enriquez and Contingent is also given by Discipline Office of Lt. Col. Ted Failon.
They were able to take the mind of Captain Nilo Rosete, who led the "Ipit Gang"; 2 / Lieutenant Larry Goodatas, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Gaspar Sabino, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Gaspar Sabino, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Gaspar Sabino, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Gaspar Sabino, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Gaspar Sabino, Staff Sergeant Ramil Llaneras, Staff Sergeant Gaspar Sabino, Staff Sergeant

The Pinoy Moviefest of the new mission set on them by the AFP and this is the giving security to Pope Francis on January 2015.
According to Contingent Commander Damiable, the new mission is going to be unique and a big challenge to the Holy Pope.
Dampuenga, will serve as leader of the security force who will ruin the security of the Pope.
