Bring back the luck.

John Toledo.

You will be seen from far away from a long procession for a long time, a 50-wheeler truck, who was tied to a blue rope with the statue of black Christ - the stars of the feast on that day, will be noticed.
There are 20-yellow men who are riding the bark; hence, they praise about the statue of the cloth like a towel and handkerchief, before they throw back to the sea of devotees who were first going up and kissing the black Christ.
This is the scene in the procession of the feast of the Black Nazarene every January 9 that was started during the 117th century as celebration of Travers, or the transfer of the statue of Nazareno from Intramuros going to Quiapo Church.
Last August or, I first went to the procession that before I can be watched on television, it has not even been the time for the time, I started to travel to Quiapo.
I noticed that walking with the appearance of devotees, all of them, had a small statue of Nazarene, those with small statue of Nazareno, "those who are wearing yellow and candles, or even the son of the Black Nazarene," they were wearing yellow and t-shirts wherein the face of the Nazarene has been squandered.
Similar to Christ, when he climbed the mountain of Goldentist, the devotees of the procession will also no longer have a piece of clothes on the procession.
According to devotees, it is beneficial for a disease and bring luck to the small stones that I met during the feast, the blessing of the Nazarene is the reason for her having a job, which is why while going to Luneta, I thought of buying a small towel in print the face of Nazarene.
The mass was almost over when I arrived at the Quirino Grandstand when I arrived at the Quirino Grandstand when I arrived at the middle of the sea of devotees, and when the priest was able to go abroad! "The priest was able to go abroad!
The words uttered by the priest is really familiar, that is also what I can hear from the success that I have heard in Quiapo where I look back, it seems that the flow of abundant life is coming in exchange of a prosperous life of people.
Even if I was not able to help him and also joined with jumping, the towel to have a boyfriend, finish college, and be lucky in the whole year.
In front of me, there are devotees who suddenly shouted at them! "When the bark was thrown away, and in an instant, I was stuck to the cold and fear that I was getting carried away by the rope so I searched for the iron way towards the watching.
When he handed it to the top, I asked for help from a devotees who went out of it from the back when I tried to throw the towel which I bought when I tried to throw the jewelries that I bought when I bought the two towel and threw it on the air.
Even at the side of the road, the devotees who have their own needs at those with no work or no husband, parents who want to go abroad, students who want to go abroad, students who want to pass, and even foreign businessmen who want to pass.
Reggie, 18, of the devotees I talked to that day, like me, she is the first time to attend the feast of the Nazarene, and that she would not get sick for each other, and it is difficult for her to get sick in exchange for the difficulty in exchange for his devotion for the city.
I have seen seven people who were fainted and were rushed to academic, however, I don't care about this event, even if there is no clear belief in reality, even if there is no clear relation to the reality, it is always clear that this is the root of many events in the world.
In the procession of the procession, the church is set to set a ritual that should be followed by the devotees that should be followed by Christ, this is far from the Bible because it is far from the Bible because they take care of the Bible because they take care of their own body.
When my eyes are tired of passing, I went home carrying a towel, I am not hoping that my wishes will come true because I am only one of the devotees who jumped and cried on that day, but for those who are with the devotees, they will not last and lose their beliefs.
Every time I am returning to the appearance of the devotees, I think that they are far from the bad character of the Black Nazarene, it seems that this is not different because this is not a blind belief and ritual caused by the Lord Nazarene to prevent the primary characteristics of the Black Nazarene, which is why it seems to have been carried away by the primary characteristics of the Black Nazarene.
If I will go back to the next year, I wish to wake up to the truth to the Filipinos.
