Mrs. Drilon and the 1987 Constitution.

We admire the courage of Senate President Franklin Drilon after the issue of P10 billion pork barrel scam exploded.
At first, he was just quiet when the story was out of bringing out the story of who was involved and said that he was sitting on the accusations, and said that he was sitting at the Senate President in an opportunity, he was holding the said expensive (ball or LGU) devastated it!
I remember that during the criticisms against the former President and now Pampanga Congresswoman Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo (PCP GMA), he was still crying and told him, "Madame President, other US US Palace for thank you.
When Drilon saw the thinning of his support to GMA, he was suddenly drifted to the troops of BS Aquino III and in the inventor of the burial in order to get the Senate President.
It is not surprising if one day, he suddenly fell in his position as Senate President because there are people around the Senate to oust him because of the extreme showing-up on the pork barrel scam queen Janet Lim-Napoles, who showed the Blue Ribbon Committee hearing, why?
And you senators, are you going to stay there?
Are you happy that the PDAF or pork barrel will be stepped on by the PDAF or pork barrel and you will just stay here?
Anyway, "you could not deny in the revelation of Senator Bongbong Marcos and Jinggoy Estrada that you receive" impeachment bonus "which costs 50 million pesos!
The first step is also exposed before the impeachment and addition, while the process of conviction for the former Chairman Renato Corona is being done, is it not Senator Manny Villar?

If the case they charged with an ordinary person, along with the word Constitutional human rights, especially the big people, especially the politicians who have been involved and pointed at the witness, "said the abuse and answer of them.
The truth is, the 1987 Constitution is tainted with wrong policies, and if examined thoroughly, there will be more than a standard, rules and guarantee as the stability.
It is more intense for the politics of its appearance and the anti-Marcos constitution!
It was admitted by forty-nine people who were personally chosen by Cory, mother of Noynoy, a year after he passed through his post, many of them (49) were said to be removed after the former dictator who was the president of the country was publicized.
We will not fight over poverty even no matter how much the leaders of the 1987 Constitution has not been implemented, there is a big obstacle in the improvement of the 1987 Constitution.
This has been proven during the time of former President Fidel Ramos and Erap Estrada, and to the PCGMA, the economy has improved, not given protection because of the many basis of the 1987 Constitution, a total basis of a charter change!
