
1 year of the decision of the SC in Hacienda Luisita, not being implemented.

Jovelle was distressed.
April 28, 2013.

After three days of traveling, the farmers of Hacienda Luisita reached Manila in Tarlac. (Jovento Allowance (Joanna).
One year when the farmers of Hacienda Luisita released their fight against the land of the Supreme Court last year, but there is still no land being implemented, but there is still no promise by the Aquino government to come true.
From April 24 to 27, the farmers traveled to Tarlac to Manila to insist again the distribution of land, one year after the court decides to favor them, but not a simple distribution of land their call.
Within four days, more than 250 kilometers farmers have marched in the leadership of Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines, in the office of Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas) and United Nationalist Alliance (Ammunition) and United Kingdom) and United Nationalist Alliance (ULU).
According to Lito Bais, the chairman of the ULU, "
Very, very hot.
On the third day of the New Year, the farmers passed by Angeles City where they were ready to support the farmers in Bulacan, they were ready to support the farmers in Bulacan, where they continued to gather up to the office of the Department of Agrarian Reform of DAR) in Quezon City.
The farmers (Joanne Jeromin are resting in the sidewalk in sidewalks.
When the group arrived at gunpoint at around seven o'clock in the evening last April 26, the support of different sectors of society who were not alone at the San Roque, one of the places which was considered to be picked up from San Roque, one of the places considered to be enched in QC.
There are children who were also asked to lay down, and in the Solidaridad newspaper last night, there was a copy of the students from the university of the Philippines, and other theories, similar to the doctors and nurses, who want to pass through protests for the real reforms.
The farmer's land, will reduce it?
The alleged new order of President Aquino and his uncle was reported by Cojuangco, "it should be lessened but the source of domination of the former Filipino workers in a statement, he said that they are going to be sent by DAR and 35 hectares of the hacienda), based on their inspection.
According to the report, it was not in the decision of the Supreme Court last year, that they were also complained by Ambulong on March 8 to 14.
Filipinos interviewed Francisco Dizon, an official of ULWU), he was not allowed to create a free distribution of land for them, which is why she is just waiting for a free distribution of land for them, while only one is left from the Filipino workers, at P9.50 every day.
The farmers endured the severe heat of the sun to convey their call for free distribution of land. (Jovento Allowance (Joanna).
In spite of the decision of the Supreme Court, he can see the distribution of the land, and that it will be easy to get back again to the Cojuangco-Aquino if they will pay the privatization under Carper. "So we are also wondering why it is that way?"
It was the year 1957 when the Marcos family borrow from the GSIS building and Central Bank to recover the land that the land was brought back to the farmers within 10 years, but the term of former President Corazon Aquino was returned, but the farmers were able to cover their ancestors.
After 35 years of SOP, Carper was born because of the failure of the program to implement the true reform in the land, it was stated in Carine that within 5 years, the farmers should be distributed, that means that the farmers should take advantage of the land for them to finally protect them.
Many supporters were met when they arrived at the office of DAR and Jovento Allowance (Joanna).
This is where the farmers are having problems because instead of free to share the land, the Lord citizens, who have no ability to pay the interest of their principal, that is why they are still getting buried especially in debt.
In the case of Hacienda Luisita, the amount of payment given by the government to the Aquino family will not be resolved.
"Of DAR and these are becoming instruments used by the government and to those who, where his hands are lost of land, but while in the other hand, Joseph Canlas, the chairman of alliance with Magbureaucracy in the Middle Luzon.
That's why the fight of the farmer continues, with their supporters, for the free distribution of land in Hacienda Luisita, the continuing symbol of the failure of the government in implementing reform the land.
As well, they will fight about 1.33 billion worth of the Supreme Court to give them to the farmers from the sale of Cojuangco-Aquino in more than 580 hectares of the hacienda.
