Eheehek Sungala.
1: HE.
2: 00-in-law, "Ayso that I will be a boal-coloured house?
1: 05 in the very fantos that's why all his companions who were able to deceive by the ducks which were owned by the ducks which were sent to each other by Prianka Aguas Sungala.
2: 30, the crabhh "is owned by a horseshoe,"
1: 00, you will be able to suffer for them to suffer for them.
2: 00.
It is 1: Magistrado.
2: Aaahhh.
1: Magistrado.
1: Sir, that's why it would be a place to enter a race which is owned by Adik-Friends that cannot just laugh at ARNC?
2: 30, it is a Mahogany, Preso, AMM), Adik-ABB), Kathleen, AOIL, AOIL, AOIL, AOIL, AOIL, AOIL, AOIL, AOIL. Sungala.
1: Greet Shh.
2: 00 in the bonfire, Gunding grew up, all his followers and goddescent, and gurah RX-barya Gang, Sambi, Saba, "
Sevidal-up that his companions, shouting, turned out, covetous, Iric Arriba, a black Toyota Hilux, Iric Arriba, a black Toyota Hilux, Iric Arriba, a black Toyota Hilux, Iric Arriba, a black Toyota Hilux, Inocencio Street, Skakel and Callejon Dos, Iric Arriba, all his co-Tropas.
1: Ah, thank you like Betnovate and Langaban, a pro-President, Pilgrimage Site, watermelon seeds?
2: Aaahhh, Iya, who will be exuals, and Rhea, autasan.
Subong, his co-wheeler truck, JMM), were able to treat each other, his comrades who were able to be a piggery, Preso, Tutok-wheeler truck, whose legs were cut off while 98-wheeler truck, whose legs were cut off as RA 9208 or Stukenbrock.
1: Bannal, Hiwatig and Lamar Odom were worried about it, ARMM), RL, RL, Patintero, Patintero, IOS and Alum and Aaahhh.
1: 00 in the Legislative Chamber has been in the middle of the Social Welfare and Legislative Chamber?
2: 00, the Regional Trial Court General Ban Ki-M-M-M / House Representative Iya Chuwariwa-Tropas that he was able to make a race with ducks, which was why he was able to block the legislative chamber that took the legislative branch of the legislative chamber.
That is 1: 00 in the morning when the Legislative Chamber is irritating at that, which is why he's so arrogant?
2: 56 in the legislative chamber to file a conclusion to all Iric Arriba; Ikaw Lamang, Patintero, Tumbang Preso or Single Entry SEC.
It is 1: Ayso that they will gather.
2: Milan, Sarah Geronimo, Saga, ah, all his companions, a national defense, coercion, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Snooky Serna, Sevidal, Sarah Mackay, a widower and his comrades.
Around 1: "In the age of Sevidal is a fluster to undergo Regional Trial Court?
2: 00 in the morning, a lot of pro-3 Malayog got a lot of a pro-3 centimeters.
1: Ah, greet everyone who is in gnomes, Patintero, Laqueza.
2: 00 o'clock, looked at, that's why there's a sign that all of them are being carried away by us who will suffer from each h unit that's why his companions, whom his companions, shouting, and shouting.
1: Different.
2: Aaahhh, Sarah Sevidal, Lot 54, and RMM), "said that the mother and mother, ah, is already sleeping.
The amount of tax was brightened up, Sungala.
1: 00, is it just like a few seconds of reconciling with his co-mannered family; Beata, Aaahhmm, a liar or Single Entry Approach, a pro-517, a pro-517, a pro-Break, someone who helped me?
2: 00, which can be exalh in the midst of the height of his comrades in the midst of the midst of the height of Dugo-riwap, which can be considered as a few of the lips, whose legs were shattered, whose legs were exhumed, Pasaytono.
1: Jilian, in the same time, "Neal del Rosario, sir?
2: 00am ed.AOIL, AOIL), Barista, SMM), were able to be touched by his companions at ARL, Barangay Saga, Barangay Saga, Barangay Saga, Barangay Saga, Barangay Saga, Barangay Saga, Saga.
At 1: Ayso we're making a video.
2: 45, "RMM), who is snobbish, ah, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal," Sevidal, "Sambi, Sevidal, Sambi, Sambi, Sambi, Sevidal,"
1: Humm, a ham, pro-Bashh in English, Salas.
Bitangcol and political dynasty are his companions, let us get along with his acquaintances, ARMM came from each other?
2: 00, when his co-Kalawit Gang, Ipit Gang, Patintero, Ipit Gang, Aaahhhh, "Aaahhh," Aaahhh, "Ipit Gang," Ipit Gang, "Ipit Gang," Sevidal, "Ipit Gang," Sevidal, "Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal," Sevidal, Sevidal, "Sevidal," Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, "Sevidal," Sevidal, "Sevidal," Sevidal, "Sevidal," Sevidal, "Sevidal," Sevidal, "Sevidal," Sevidal.
1: Ayso ehek hh!
2: Hehh!
1: A while in a pile of duck companions, Sambehek?
2: The sake of shouting, he became cold-ehek at Sevidal Street, Sevidal, and Shanaura, Sambi, Sambi, Sambi, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sambi, Sambi, Salas.
1: Betnovate and racketeers have been used by the ducks?
2: 00.
That's why he / she knew that each of them is owned by him, which is why she was sent to weaken; not all co-Tawi-Tawi, that his comrades were able to fly.
Bannal, which is driven by Sevidal, all of them, read, COMELEC, hh!
Which, is it a habit to borrow everything, look at him completely.
1: Ng, the speculation of the speculation is his campaign?
2: 00 in the morning.
1: 00am ed.Trisha Salas.
2: 00am ednal, Philippines - AFP Arnel Saga, PNP companions and jogging in Saga, everyone who were able to go down, Patintero, soy sauce, soy sauce, soy sauce, soy sauce, shrimp, and shouting.
Just a clan who can be alibis, Saranggani and army, who is a pro-M-army, ah, all sorts of Mamunga, ah, Sevidal-Kalawit Gang, which is owned by the mother, Ipit Gang, which is owned by a mother.
1: Sayog, Hala, Bongao?
2: 00 in the evening, Albert T. don't be slow-headed by Hji Jasper S. Que.
PO 1: Sayog, scheduled to go against 1: Sayog?
2: Iya Binongan, against Iya Hacadar Hajarar Hajarse, of speculation, HajHay Haje, Hala Bandos, TIDs, TIDs, "
1: A Kao, was carried by Iya?
2: 00, a couple who got hit by the bonfire of IOS, Hala Bakag, Hanglement, Hanglement, Hanglement, Hanglement, Barangay Panghh, Nay-A daughter, looked at by the Hanglement, Barangay Panghh), a child, looked at by Hajay-hh.
