I miss the system.

Maroons Tucuran.

"Con Higher Education, the news about the opening of the video.
The scene is going to start on the peak when GE is held at the College of Arts and Letti, where his classmates were not noticing it, but this time, all students were able to hide in different ways while wearing the different clothes and costume.
The said video is one of the version of Hardresses, which is scattered on YouTube and other pages in the internet, and it can be said that it turns out that it is going to kill each other for a present time.
Aside from being a form of joy, is there really no meaning in the issue of Bangsamoro Basic Law, which is only related to the rising of political culture that is popular especially the attention of the public about the more serious issues of society?
Do the Hartwig.
According to this website, the Harduster of snacks, has started in a video that was made by the U-bala "Atong" the original video showed up with four men who were wearing shorts and the original video turned out to be very entertained by the noise of the American electronic gadgets, which is directed to "Harder, which is called" Harder. "
From the said video, a group of male teenagers were made to make a version which is starting to be accompanied by a person in malnutrition and helmets on the first week of February and became the basis for thousands of kilos of dancing.
Just in just a moment, the Hardresses were quickly spread, and even before February, more than a billion version of said video was stolen from YouTube when it reached more than 44 million people who watched them.
Jawooooooo?
However, there are some critics who got alarmed in the spread of the new dancing, which in fact, a mission of original Harduster, a type of hip-bust operation that came from Hartwig, New York.
First known as "Albee" "who is said to be the first one who made it in 1981 to RTEker and Hartwig, part of the original dancing in the shoulders and body, which is as if the body is wrapped in Egypt as well.
According to Tabag-American online site, The Rodriquez, the new internet is having a direct harassment from a black culture of the American white vinegar as well as a big part of the political hip in the United States, which is a big part of the development of his hip in the United States.
Even though critics have a point out of saying that it will not be taken away with the issue of Hardresses because of the issues related to him and a black culture, it is also appropriate to have the corresponding potential of a new acquaintance that is built.
Take a medical exam.
From the insults of the African-American, there is a need to change the surge of the Harduster to serve as the new Low Pres.
There is a big similarity to the form of action as a form of movement because it has become a big form of action of the masses, that there are other form of action that reached the world against violence, they have the ability to reach the world against violence, and the thousands of people lined up to reach the particular issues.
If it will be examined carefully, Hardresses are with their natural character compared to both sides - who are both in the issue of harassment and foolishness, and anyone who can make their version of Hardatas, and anyone who can cross the internet can be seen by them.
As well, the very form of the said viral video is representatives of the bad movement, as a community, and cannot be able to do not want to do the, more than a heart attack, more than a heart attack, more than a heart attack, and Hartwig.
But, like any form of the Priority Development Assistance Fund, it is just right that the advisers of the Hardresses are fearless because, like other elements of the Pinoy culture, it is easy to fall into a ravine and uncertainty if they will not be guided.
This is just an example in choosing the place to get a video, many of the version of Hardresses are taking advantage of the office, high establishments, and private places which can be considered as representatives of the weapons and lack of capitalist countries.
But the consciousness of the chilled Creator is their priority to take a video of their desire to fall and shouting, that's why the struggle of struggle, such as factories, farms, or even streets.
In Tunisia, Egypt, for example, the students and youth are starting to celebrate the desired state of the political leaders that are contrary to the culture of the Muslim brothers in the Philippines, as well as some of the militant students of the Social Welfare and Development of relief goods for the victims of the storm Pablo.
It cannot be denied that the Hardresses are centered in fact, any form of the famous internet for sure, but it should not end up in the right path, so it should not end up in the right path, so it won't end up in the right path, so that it will not lead to abomination.
In the end, it is also right that there will be a creative form of action such as Hardresses, but instead, they should not be able to push through, but instead, they should not be able to make a pot, and instead, it is not right that the actions towards society should not be complete.
