Filipino is the masses to Syria.

Joy Cantos.

Manila, Philippines - an active exchange of gunshots between AFP peacekeepers and attacking Syrian rebels in Golan Heights will start this Saturday morning.
"We Ari to be under the attack (Golan Heights), Our Lady Are that was a fire with Syrian rebels," Defense Secretary Voltaire Gazmin.
In the information that reached Gazmin, it was 11: 00 in the morning in the Philippines that the Syrian rebels attacked the Syrian rebels and position 68 which is being monitored by the 75 Filipinos Contingent is being monitored by the Filipinos.
It is said that around 35 Filipinos peacekeepers from position have been taken out.
However, the fight in position is still ongoing.
Prior to this, Colonel Roberto Anzon, commander of Peacademics, commander of Peacadversary, they are ready to use the "Ipit Gang" and fought back to Syrian rebels to defend the facilities of the United Nations that is being monitored by Filipino soldiers.

This Friday, ultimatum at the Syrian rebels against the 75 AFP Spokesperson of their weapons not allowed to put their weapons but the Filipinos did not agree with fear of being treated.
According to Lt. Col. Ramon Zarraga, no one was reported hurt or killed in the ranks of Filipinos.
It was immediately conducted by the emergency meeting "Gazmin, AFP Chief General Gregorio Pio Catapang Jr., and the service commanders of Army, Navy and Air Force in Camp Aguinaldo.
The Filipino Flash also insisted that they will fight and their weapons were not allowed to surrender to the Syrian rebels who were kidnapped by 43 continents, after they were surrounded by rebels after they were surrounded by rebels.
At present, the troop of Phl Dellosa and the surrounding Syrian rebels are still on fire.
"Tabag-A, PAre), was identified by the safety of the safety of Our Stars," said Zumballoween. "
Officials still continue to monitor and are finding out if there is an identification of the Filipino troops in Golan Heights, which is considered as the "area of separation" which is considered a competing case because the government of Syria and Israel are fighting for him.
332 are AFP peacekeepers from Golan Heights to leave the country last November 2013 and was scheduled to go home this October.
