
Admiral's guests (also a part II)

One more thing, alright!
The National Historical Commission (NHC) said that the rating of Admiral's guests who are inside the currently Subic Bay Development Authority) of the former Naval Base of the Americans were not yet identified.
Why is there no record?!
The gay is the child of a gay, how will there be a record, that is why the Americans have no record in 1992 when close the largest highway of the US outside the US Embassy in the Philippines.
This is the truth: We have followed the history towards the US Naval Base until Subic Bay Development Authority (SBMA), which is why we know that there is no record.
It was in ABS-CBN DZMM that we left when the Americans left but aside from Olongapo, we were also workers at the Public Works Center of the US Naval Base before we sailed in the field.
Reporting.
That's why we know that the documentary on the activities, things, which affects infrastructure, which can be implemented if the Americans have a transaction.
Aside from this, any age of 50 or more than 50 or more old, a candidate, with the Diocesan of Historical Commission on / Insp. or might be National Historical site, that is known by those from NHC.
That is why the lack of opposition or resolve of NHC has been standing in the destruction of Admiral's guest who is standing and the Japanese have already passed and the Japanese have left something, even if it is not inherent, it is not natural that it is not their nature.
Does this have something to do with the members of Jimmy Lorenzana alias JLo of the SBMA Board of directors?
This is the truth: Many are ready to pay the rent on the land, buildings and others who want to get in Admiral's guests who want to get a business but refused.
But when JLo is seated in the SBMA hold-headed by Chairman Felicisima Chappelle, he was not ignored by the Historical Commission on Admiral's guests, he was even given to the family of JLo, his nephew and support to the City Hall, Olongapo City Mayor Bong Gordon.
Five percent (5 percent) will be given to the SBMA back every year, if there is a declaration of income from the hotel that he built at the restaurant, the Olongapo Arts Cullat, the Lorenzana said.
How don't the SBMA recover if this is being blessed.
Businesses are going to be dynamic again?
Two should take action here: The National Historical Commission on and the new SBMA board.
This is only one of National Historical Commission, areas, which are not appropriate on the law that we keep on just to serve as a way for the people to wake up to the abuse of some of there and of course, the people are useless!
