
The size of the solution is the scratches.

By Atty. Remigio D. Saladero.

April 25, 2012.

In Mindanao Power Summit in Davao City last April 13, 2012, Pres. Noynoy Aquino recommended the cancellation of the privatization of the privatization of the electric post in Mindanao to stop the increase in the price of electricity in the said place.

It seems that the President does not understand what he is saying even if we were able to go back to other parts of the country, the policies of the country.

During the administration of Pres. Cory Aquino, he started bothers the industry of oil and after that, Pres. Ramos implemented the cancellation of the privatization of the foreign corporations of the government in Petron.

In the administration of Pres. Arroyo, the Electric Power Plant (GAA) has approved the assets of the National Power Corporation (NPC).

These steps are done by the government with the belief that it will lower the price of oil and electricity.

But what happened?

What is the cause of this?

When it comes to power in Mindanao, it can be recalled that last 2010, it can be recalled that it was in 2010 when the power was calling for the rehabilitation in Iligan and Power Line, and Pully electric post in Baldomi Plains, and Pully Hai Power Plant to meet the power crisis in Mindanao.

This project will need a huge amount that will reach billions and slow down from the pipe because of this, the NPC is doubt in implementing its implementation.

We should think that the NPC is approved of the NPC, "said to be a" epal. "

It is not service to the public, but a pipe, the primary motive of this company is not going to happen if President Arroyo wants to strengthen and even the remaining power supply in Mindanao which is owned by the government.

Isn't it that this is a big deal, the cause of the crisis, but the government is thinking the solution but instead of giving the medicine, instead of giving them a poison, you give the poison.

If it will be cut off, we are the only one to shout because of the sanctity of the commissioners while other countries continue to undergo autopsy to their important industry.

It is obvious in the oil industry, the leading companies in the world are owned by the government and not private companies.

Like the example of Aroroy, it is owned by the government of Saudi Arabia and not by the private sector that is also owned by the government of Iran; Qatar General Teddy Casino which is owned by the country in Qatar, and Iraqi National Oil CoCs) owned by the government of Iraq.

We also add to the pro-laws owned by the government of Russia and Peking China which is owned by the government of China, they all are owned by the government and is based on public service and national security in their stay, not because of the pipe.

The implementation of the privatization of the privatization of the Priority Development Assistance Fund which caused it has been tainted with the severity of the discretion in the world when the Aquino government will learn?
