
Papa apRA to the poor.

We have a lot of experience and is given to us by our Utility about the Catholic Church about poverty.
And these are related to what we are saying that the new Pope, ex-Cardinal Tagle is hard to be poor or now is Pope Francis.
How can Pope Francis make it difficult for my beloved Philippines?
Don't mingle.
They don't eat beans and not fond of First Class that's why the new Pope.
First, instead of trying to choose a pure gold Street, Peter's also as a symbol of his power and Barangay Pasambong or Supreme Ponio, the ring that he chose is just like gold.
Second, it seems that he will maintain what he is doing when Cardinal was still in Buenacillo, Argentina.
"Is it that she cooks her own food and doing the laundry in his clothing and taking a bus but instead of riding a fancy car.
Third, it was said that he didn't want a grand reception of a grand reception or.
Others said, Pope Francis is different when he was replaced by Pope Benedra, who is allegedly fond of being cranky life, clothes, cars and others.
The poorest people!
With his sermon, one of the most important age of his words is the protection of the people who love him.
Subsequent to this is the alleged protection of the surroundings where everyone works.
And he asked all the authorities, including the leaders of the country, to do these like what was done by Jesus.
The truth is, at present, the poor in society have no space.
Just like those who are like airplanes, Teysie, who killed his own life when he was stopped to study in UP Metro Manila due to lack of money for his toll fee.
And do the care of being a picture of those who will be poor?
Education in the Catholic school.
Many have a problem in the Catholic school now in the Philippines.
They love them very much, especially in their famous school.
One of those who is the most expensive catholic Church is the most controlled by the religious order that Pope Francis came from.
It is up to you, Bro, whatever order is this group.
What if it is difficult when it comes?
Let us go back to the question how Pope Francis will get poor in the Philippines.
We have mentioned the love life of Pope Francis from the school of Pope Francis.
But this is what our Ubers are saying like this.
The children of a worker, farmers, are going to go to the Catholic school because they are very expensive bills for them.
Before stealing, these were exposed.
When the students are applying for the Catholic school, the books are expensive.
The book here, Bro, is not like the books to the public funds that will be used to use and return to siblings from the first levels going to higher level.
Each enrollment, before the book and will not allow the next sibling of the student to be relieved.
It turns out, the authorities are doing this in school to ensure the entry of money in school.
That's why, we can say that there is no poor school and life, the priests and nuns that have control over them.
There are a loved ones.
Our Ubers said, not only the educated church is the one you love.
It is said that the UV Expresses are expensive and with a loved one, including the cemeteries where the candidates to be buried in life will be buried.
It is said that the mixture of bishop is one of the bishop who made a sacrament such as marriage and mass held for the dead.
Own work.
Anyway, we understand that this is a way for the priest and nuns to live and to service.
How can they say that their teachers and their other employees are not paid, if the students' funds are full and expensive.
What should be the changes in the school to assist the students from the changes in the world that needs to be studied?
Pompously.
Because of the expensive bills of the students, the priests and nuns would become subservient.
And not just like these are the hornets, who are always having difficulty in their jobs that are brought by people to God who are recognized by the catholics.
Thank you very much.
The acquaintances and friends of our priests and nuns said, that they usually see the free service they are doing.
And we believe because we will be treated as a father in this activity that is really a bad hearing aid by Bishop, Father and sister.
God bless you, Pope Francis and all the poor priests, nuns and their men in the church.
