
Editorials in school, almost 12.5 pesos!
June 13, 2016, it is said that almost 12.5 million students will attack today in the opening of classes in schools in the entire Philippines.
It is a very big as a huge number of French protest that tried to be held on "Povidine" which can be held on August.
There are some private schools and state Universities that they decided on August to start classes and not yet included in the 2.5 million pesos' worth of students' students.
The first illness of the student in this year is very high, especially in Metro Manila, it seems hard to think that the flow of traffic in Metro Manila will be hard to think that the flow of traffic in Metro Manila is getting worse, "there is still a new flow of traffic in Metro Manila?"
It will be seen today if the new ordinance has an effect from the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) that 15-A stop by all vehicles in front of the schools or school zone to act and take advantage of students.
Aside from this, the traffic enforcers are going to capture the school library, and even adjacent roads, the barangay watchmen also promised to help the traffic in areas where there is a school.
The MMDA also said that it is also good for them to monitor the tricycle that are many of the students, and some are crossing the big roads and Highways (real strategy should not be allowed to earn.
With all the problems being faced by the big population in those who are going to the school, it is important to priority the safety of the students.
That's why it is also good for the restriction of Land Transportation Office (LTFRB) in the school service, illegal drugs are prohibited and needs to be compared to the regulations of the agency.
The Philippine National Police (PNP) has already approved on giving security to the school library. What's important to see in the vicinity are the presence of police in police and their mobile phone.

If classes are already open, it is certain that drug addicts, muggers, carbiness and even a bit silent for the school, that's why the police and barangay wardens are on alert and alert.
