
The people in showbiz promised to save even if it is not Holy Week.

By Boy Abunda.
April 6, 2012.

One of the first who is the first one who will sacrifice now in showbiz even before and not on the Holy Week, no one else but the new TV host is Jony ah, Rolly Pebrer, a small businessman, but she is dreaming of saved his poor fellow Filipino to hell with a person.
Do you know why and this is in order to determine one of the coercion in the religion of a born again Christian?
Because there are millions of million people who are suffering and are addicted to a lot of million pesos in the television - for sure, more or less than fifteen million pesos or 113 million pesos in the morning until twelve o'clock in the afternoon, but he is not giving up.
But his pocket is painful.
He / she was wearing.
"I just want to help the Filipino people," Jani ah, the diment of Rolly Nana, who is pitiful, even if the people of showbiz say that they are pitiful and have not yet been hit on the wall in his head to get into his head.
Jilian is known for the problems of the poor in the Philippines because almost every week, there are a lot of problems in his program - married couples who have no medication for sending their children to buy medication, with cancer so that there will be no cure for the illness and other presidentiable.
"Is there no hope for filipinos?
And he learns money from some who are worthy of the barangay.
It seems that it is very lucky, look at a fortune or hoping for the fate and good fortune through lotto, "jueteng," will be called in Rolex, PET, and others.
Sometimes, Jony ah became fierce for the tragic fate of the Filipinos so he handed the wealth that they received for business.
"We share," said Jani ah.
"This is also in philosophy in other game show in the entire Philippines such as" Wil, "as a big time," Eat Bulaga, "
That's why it is just starting to be Jony ah, and the Co who identified as MJ Felipe, one of the regular judges in the "show up," Mico, "Mico, and Calaguas, which is why he was able to pay in the fight against the program.
He / she was wearing.
One of the basis of the purpose of Jony ah, is her born again Christian, who is always "the Lord Nazarene," to the needy who is really needed by the Constitution, and this is also needed to be understood by the Constitution, and this is a common discussion if there is a common discussion if there is a common discussion.
Also in addition to the capitalized system of the whole country, and the institutions that are built in our culture, economy, politics and the institutions in relation to those who do not care about others even if they are not doing anything for the sake of the Filipinos.
Because of the true meaning and movement, a standard for a standard also has not been achieved because of the selfish motives of the people who are member of the high goal of service to the people.
They need the people like Jony ah, who is going to be cooked from the suffering of those who are struggling.
