
And the victims cried.

One day after the Supreme Court declared the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) or pork barrel, it was declared that no congressman did not attend their regular session at the House of Representatives.
I hope that my suspicion was wrong, but it is clear on the rays of the sun that they did, it is clear that you will go out of disapproval of the decision of the Supreme Court now, Kabayan, you already know the attitude of your congressman, as they say, no money, of Honey!
If they are continuously absent, they should just be removed from the dangerous implementation of the legislative chamber as retaliation of the legislative chamber, they know the real work in congress to create a meaningful law or amendment to old laws and not appropriate for the current time. "
Why are you meddling with the work of government agencies to identify their program while the lawmakers are looking for a project of pork barrel, it is not true to serve as a choice but to earn money and to make them rich.
There are also those who are asking about how to be a scholar, the fund should be allocated to the Department of Education, how they should give the funds to the Department of Health.
Now, my perspective to your lawmakers are the fishes that are scattered around by the lawmakers because what I think of you is the treacherous ways of my duty to serve the country by making a meaningful law.
And if you continue to serve as a protest against the 14-0-0 decision of the Supreme Court against the pork barrel, you should cry and make a way on how to bring the people in making the new face of pork barrel.
But be careful of all that the people are watching over and when their wrongdoings are over, for sure, you will find a doubt, you will be able to feed and get to know you as their sibling, you will comeback.
Do not expect that you will have a new pork barrel scam, you do not care for the Supreme Court (DA) that you do not care for the funds of the country, do you not care of the funds of the country.
