You will be the one to be the biggest ist in maybe today.
One day, there was no other day when one of his personal cellphone was found in a free cellphone, which was deport, Zamboanga of September.
Vehicle might be between the heart of the government in Manila.
"We are not now at the side of the door Barbara in the place where I hope that those who are members of rice complained at the side of the wall here even if it is the father who will sell the children.
He was only for a few minutes and he / she has been in your motorcycle for just a few minutes.
This is what the Red Cross was going to help, we are our soldiers, while our soldiers are in our backs that's why we went down to their position in a vacant place, which is the former of Red Cross in it.
This includes the course of the people here in a week to be kept.
On the day of fulfilling your dream, will you give you a friend's help now.
It has been bitter that it reached an hour for 15 pesos in spite of a way of fifty-million worth of prominent participants.
Say.
On the other hand, he / she was able to look at each other; that more than one hundred thousand, more than ten were affected by two hundred twenty two centers.
It took two days since the presence of Pampanga was finished, then it was your enemies.
You are going to do there, whose side are, where are you right now, of course the car of the people there not yet returned.
It is possible that there is a possibility that there would be a possibility that there would be no longer happening there are Two people who are annoying or later on you.
There will be no doubt that there are still no significance in those who have evacuated the homes and continue to have been bought as well as well as they do not have to buy a normal center and are already going to be able to buy a normal area, and then, are not affected.
Yes right at what happened to the room.
That is now those said to say that who will be the one even with the barbells; we are going to sleep; we are going to sleep for Two people.
