Multiply very.

Ma'am Noor.

So that many will end up in the bed, it is just simple for giving a dream: Choose the right letter and a circle where he will make the most desired answer.
On the day of UP College Admission test (UPU), those who are dreaming of going to the leading university of the Philippines have been dreaming of going to the leading university of the Philippines, more than 60,000 students, but there are only 10,000 students to pass.
Weapons are the two Mondays to No.2, an anomaly, and those who are buried in knowledge, thousands of students are going to find a chance to fulfill the wish of many youths. "
Jobelts.
It is not a joke in taking a limited number of conflict in the university but in the movie - it is still a year that he is going to be exported compared to other islands being taken from the country.
It's because there is an honor for a type of UP.
The most skillful professor and experts are being swept in the knowledge and skills of Isko and Isnain that some of those who are not common in other university will notice, the student does not need to stand up every time he is answering or asking for the professor.
UP recognize the equal level of the professor and students inside the peak.
UP Diliman were also preparing where the students are not afraid to express their opinion because there are no prohibited questions about the religion, and even if the government is not implemented, there is nothing in the rules of UP to prohibit the question of the state of the state.
There have been the prestigious contest of a university which proves that this space is effective for the improvement of this space for the will be cooked because, it is not surprising that many are waiting to be part of the ranks of UP.
Up or.
Because of the recognition given by the people of UP, some businessmen have a chance to earn a chance to earn money, like jackets, glass, and other products, there are also children of t-shirt that are said to have a child t-shirt which are said to be TSET review. "
The schools are taking advantage of the passing of students in UP CAIDs who are trying to find tarpaulins where the names of the UP CAIDs, are taking advantage of their ways to attract students.
As if mentioned by those mentioned that the change of education is the change of education, where priority is the progress of education, instead of the priorities of the country's education, it seems that the education of the Philippines will just agree with what the said national market will follow.
Every vacation, the review centers are everywhere for those who want to have passed in UP CAIDs, he said that those who want to send their children to the three-year-old people who have been able to enroll to review center, proof that there is a shortcoming, those who have a shortcoming, are still there.
Aside from the qualifications of the past three years of damp, it is also expected by those in review which can get different "tips on the passing of UP CAIDs.
There are different tactic that are being discussed, similar to choosing the defense, but the answer is not sure that the education will be spread to the review, but this is not the total improvement of the minds and ability of the students.
Even in the very high post, the will be cooked for being good to the teacher and putting up all the things written in a hamburger which is tainted by the students to get a high mark.
But it does not mean that their intelligence would not mean that the high mark will be achieved through the entry of students in UP, they will learn that not being a "Ipit Gang" or being followed by the teacher, is being harassed by the academy.
It can also be considered that the passing of UP CAIDs will be considered to use and be used in choosing the right answer, and perhaps in just going to listen and read.
"There is no fear for anyone.
However, not all the time is that the society is confused with the critical condition being pointed at UP.
Before they entered UP, perhaps many received a warning from their parents not to go with their parents not to join the rally, but they are trying to follow this warning on the very spirit of being a resident of UP.
Despite the silence of many in the decades of 70, the residents of UP chose to lead the actions against the Marcos dictatorship, but also the readiness of Isko, to stand up their ideas that are not just being complained or sold.
That's why the passing of UP CAIDs is more than the harvest of "human rights," if the new Isko becomes the right of all Filipinos to ask, state their own opinions, and receive an age of education just like a university to be spread.
In the end, there is only an illusion that they chose to be an illusion for other students, they have chosen the right letter and can be considered as a special thing that would be proven that they would get the challenge of Oblation to serve the country using a hardworking opportunity to present to their university.
