Paaralan-rap of the DENR.

There are a few moments after a hindrance for Boss PNoy to build a straight path, and it seems that one of them can be found in the Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
Look at, regular patrons, the Commission on Appointments is complaining, even the DENR that does not know, to confirm as the leader of the said department.
Do you know that what we are talking about to chase is no other than DENR Secretary Ramon Paje?

See, regular patrons, the reasons why the CA, which included Senator Serge Osmeña and Koko Pimentel, and the DeRihanna.
It is a big problem for Paje and seemed not to implement the Executive Order 23) of PNoy that aims to stop the risk of the entire country because of the accidents caused by the scattered forest.
After a while, there are those who have been caught in the drug addicts that were thrown away from the provinces going to Manila and are involved in the controversies that the Anti-Illegal Drugs Group, which is headed by Paje as chairman, in the illegal immigrants?
And there is allegedly an expert between the number of diets and the Central Office of DENR and Malacañang here.

Meanwhile, according to Senior NREU, Paje, who is a Midnight Cabinet, Atty. Daniel Macaraeg, Binuhe.
Inspector NREU, regular patrons who created the position of Assistant Secretary for Anti-Kidnapping Group (Anti-Illegal Drugs Act of Macaraeg, but there is no appointment of DENR in the DENR.
Paje and corruption of some of the DENR in Bicol are allegedly being neglected because of the children of Cong. Dr Arroyo, who is the son of Chapels.
Here, Paje and his assistant secretary Anacorza Tyo, is also distressed as she is the one who can take care of greed with the DENR.
Paje Egan is not new to DENR and he is just an example of an official "WHO)," a 24-year-old, from DENR.
This is the reason why he knows the alley ways of the road to DENR, including the adore, this is one of the reasons why he will own the CA and the PNoy, how can it be considered as Paulin-rap of the DENR?
