A resident of Silverio Matute who died in the bloody demolition, was given tribute.

The white t-shirt he is wearing "justice is now being done for Arnel Leonor, and all the victims of violence and demolition of Silverio Compound, Paranaque of the explosion that brought Arnel Leonor in his final resting place.
Arnel "Nonoy" Leonor, 19 years old, in the middle of the brutal slaying of Southern Police District to the houses and store in Silverio Compound in Paranaque City.
It was past 12: 00 in the morning when the crash site of Silverio heading to Manila North Cemetery where he gave an award to the controversial group Anakbayan, Arnel, at two o'clock when he was buried in his final resting place.
"The youngest is the youngest among four siblings, who will take a course for the couple Arnel in the coming school year, according to his parents, she also dreams of being famous, but we are not with him," said Glenda Leonor, mother of Arnel.
According to the National Bureau of Investigation, Arnel was hit by a bullet of a gun in the head of Paranaque City Police Officer one member of Paranaque City Special Action Force (Commission (Lakas ng mga Bayani (LP) to fire a gun in the middle of the demolition.
According to Kalapati, Nevi), construction of condominium units and other establishments of Henry Sy of the area.
"Sy, Bernabe, and PNP, should be held accountable!
Up to the present, the one who should be responsible for the murder of the young man has not yet been identified.
According to the fact that was led by a human rights that was led by the group of human rights in April 27, it is not only Henry Sy who should be responsible for the Philippine National Police (PNP) and local government of Paranaque in the leadership of Mayor Florencio "Jun, Bernabe.
Ji Closeup forever, general secretary of Karl said, the suspects might be responsible if the residents who witnessed violence should be held accountable but most of them are afraid of them.
"At present, some of the residents are still afraid to talk because of the widespread intelligence personnel in the community, some are living with relatives in other places," said Clyde Fernandez.
At present, it is said that the policemen, who were civilians, denied that they were removed from the class of Silverio Compound, despite this, the government and the police are washing their hands in a Silverio Matute.
"It depends on the government and PNP the rights of the poor people who live in the city to fight for their rights in their homes and livelihood because there are residents who were hit by a bullet while there were no one hit them," says Cristina Palabay, spokesperson of Karylle.
PPP-Aquino, suspect.
The Karylle and militant groups are considered a perpetrator in the death of Leonor, the program Public partner's program (PPP) of President Benigno Aquino III.
The primary policy of the administration is the PPP) of this, the government and private sector are becoming business partners.
"The Pukan in the private companies such as SM Beer is being given the things that should be given by the government like the land, the interest of the private sector instead of the interest of the citizens that should have been fighting for by the government," stated Naing.
The militant groups will challenge Aquino to hold Sy, Bernabe, and the PNP if he really is serious to resolve this case of human rights.
