Making a sound in pronouncing, Maira Wallis.

Jonathan Magistrado.

Many students in college are already known in the minds of many students in college that every August, the month is being celebrated, while they were busy on their role in pronounce, and on their role that will be held for the bagman of Danglement and Noli Me Tangere.
Year-year, the schools and the entire country celebrated the month of language, but outside of stage where the voice of the children who were taking advantage of their offspring, the Filipinos are commemorating their own language.
Brimming.
After the release of the Philippines from the colonization of the Japanese, the new government government issued a protest in 1935, a few steps in order to save the Philippines which is a big challenge because of the number of native language in the entire islands.
That is why in 1937, the former President Manuel L. Quezon and the Surge of the filipino masses, which is currently being used by the Filipino language, this is the film that has been used in Manila as the center of trade in Manila, and to open the national words from different language in different language in the country.
The month of August is the celebration of the month of the Filipino language because this month was born in the former President Quezon, the recognized father of the Filipino language, however, the celebration of its celebration for a week was appointed.
Only the Philippines has a celebration for their own language, and when this is the time that the students who are wearing a shack and happiness are expected, the events that are wearing a shack and happiness will be forgotten, and happiness will be considered in the shack and happiness in the closet.
Filipinos are celebrating our own language, but for the remaining months, there is no assurance if Filipinos are proud of the Filipino, or if there are other language that will be held.
EpiPen.
There is still a heated debate on what language would be the right thing to use for teaching in schools, many lawmakers insisted that it is better to use the Filipino language in teaching as well as the filipino language that the students can easily understand if this is going to be used.
In 2003, the former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo set the use of the filipino language in teaching, according to the management of Filipino Workers (12 years, according to the price hike for the Filipinos, it is said that it will be better for the students to defend their classes because it is better for the students to discuss their classes because it is better for the students to discuss their classes.
In this aspect, the new program can even recognize the ability of the indigenous people and the filipino masses to explain their own language in order to support their own filipino language, together with supporting our own language, and enriching our own culture.
Abaels.
But until now, our hands are still tied to better in our use of the filipino language more than our own language.
There was a heated discussion about the importance of Filipinos last year when it was published in Manila Bulletin of the Manila Bulletin of the Manila Bulletin of James Soriano, a student columnist, "Leste," according to Soriano, the language-mannered family, not the Filipino language.
On the other hand, we can't blame and hide the truth that it is English which is often used by the "Ipit Gang" hoping that even during the colonization of the Americans, we need to support the filipino language to become progressive in the country.
Since then, the Americans were able to love the Filipinos in order to love the western culture and the most effective instruments in their colonization is the system of education which gave emphasis to the use of the English language and the industry in English.
But in the past decades, it was proven by the pen of Virgilio Mendez, Rolando Tolentino, and other experts in the ability of the filipino language, especially about our own culture so that it can be proven that there is no more than the Filipino language in the Filipino language.
But until our industry is currently confined in the midst of the western countries, our tongue will remain in our own language and culture as long as there is still no chance to achieve our freedom from here, it is not impossible to think that every August, we will be able to think about it every August.
