
In the part of my "Disbursement Acceleration Program (Leadversary, Examination was also a part of 1).

My opponent in the company is currently under the training of the company, the number Scout Ranger that last June 2000 was when I was surprised by what our Regi-Commander named CaGabriel "Bing" Ledesma, is in the training.

"Of course, you need to release a person that will be given to those who are going to serve the provinces in Basilan and Maguindanao.

Even if I do not want to follow it, I need to obey who is the one who wants to lessen the order that you already want to lessen the ability of the government units that are continuously fighting in those times but it is impossible that I will contradict the legal orders of my boss?

"Yes, sir, please choose to bring my troops later when I return to the barracks."

"Do not worry, that there is a replacement from the Army headquarters and I was able to send a doctor there," said my kind Commander.

I was wearing a head but I immediately followed the order so I decided to talk to my First Class and the NJ.

"He ordered me that 20 of you are going to transfer to the companies that have been transferred to the companies that have been utilized for many years, Scout Ranger, and with 2-33333,000.00 services," I said to my personnel.

They know that they would go to the fight and they know that they are going to be a new Addie because they are new in that unit.

After my explanation, I share with the charge of MSg Noel Jerios in choosing those who let us go to the funeral parlor.

Half of voluntarily surrendered and half is the point system of First First Class, who has a point on who is going to be transferred based on the issue that he is talking about.

Meanwhile, the list was completed, the list was completed that others were allowed to run in the fight, but some did not know what to do but he immediately called up his things.

"Fervent prayer and do not violate the SONAs, you should be able to always let the unit pass through wherever you'll go," I will go to them.

My problem is, more or less than 40 people are left in my company, Allison in Panay Island, I know that we are ready to be ready in case we will be caught.

Those in exchange.

After a week, the 20 soldiers arrived in exchange of M35 trucks.

I was shocked when I discovered that all of them were non-rangers in the provinces who always park in and Escort Battalion in the experience they are the soldiers who grew up in the park!

"We are dead here," the Pambansang Kamao asked.

"" They might run again to the war, "said one.

I decided to worry about my personnel even more or less two years in the fight in Basilan last 1997 and 1999.

"Do not worry, let us make a way for us to do their ballots.

For the first time I faced and talked to my new personnel at their face, it was trace of loneliness because of the sudden knob of the fate where the fight was to be attended.

"Gens men, read in my party units, you are proud that you are still being used in Scout Ranger, I know you are not used in Scout Ranger, but I can do you as a real perpetrator who knows how to follow the order."

"Get to know and respect your NL. If they are senior to you even just one year, you should call them to be loyal to your company and in First Scout Ranger, Regi.

My new members in the company are just nodding while taking a stand in order to play.

I finished the words of my strict warning.

"In Scout rangers, isn't it so that we will not be embarrassed, we will not leave the war where you will run and leave his colleagues in the fight, you are just a bullet from me!"

Park!

To fulfill the quick challenge in my new personnel as protector, I opted to have the training for them on that day.

I confessed to my Commander of the plan to collect training for new soldiers.

"I want to go home to our troops, sir, I need to be a big sister to my units in order to maintain our relationship," I said to her.

When my boss was allowed by my boss, I sent my First Class and NCOs to talk to the Japanese tourist.

"Gens men, we know that some of you are senior citizens.

"I will give you up to 5pm to change my appearance and I want that you are not wearing her hair that's why you don't get her hair on top, go!"

Anti corruption.

According to Zig, the effect of the attitude of someone new, is that it is being used to get along with them the real basic training.

It was back to square meters away with Scout Ranger unit when they are taking advantage to get to know the culture and tradition of the unit.

We were able to identify the drug user and heroes under the unit after we are worried about the effects of the NCOs that comes to the leadership of the personnel.

We are experiencing the training of the life of the soldiers who are planning to take care of the mountain up to 10-20. we always run today at around 10-20.

We also taught them in Scout Ranger, and the skills that they are going to study how they could conduct a direct action in order like raids and watershed areas.

In the act, it should be considered as a father of the sole target of 2 M16 rifle and M14 rifle.

In the fire fire, it should have been able to step down from a shooting incident from a distance of 5 meters to 25 meters.

I am experiencing the Burger Machine for him and a shooting incident and the team / Homicide Section, I also taught them from a call for fire piston which can be denied by the bandits to be criticized by the bandits.

The Land Standard Lunch Program in the corners of the Barangay Sibul and TIDs in the town of San Miguel is repeating ourselves.

I can sleep on disgusting stove near Mt. Io to experience the bite of a mosquito and Kornik it is good for them to have a little and small food but I prepared them in life who are poor.

I was asked by a bullet on the counter-raising training while there was no accident hit.

They have also learned a patrol based on the operations being linked-up operations and the Import Special Action Force that they are repeating, and hot-headed.

The standard that we did is "Go" and "No." If the performance of the rating, he is taught again and made it well as well as the performance of the performance of the immune system. "

In short, they almost passed through the training being given to Scout rangers.

When their 1 Montenero, training and black skin are their skin and dark because of the expose of the sun, their appearance is new and even their attitude.

In Commander's time, I repeat them again.

"It is an intensive care if you are not wearing any anger that you are not wearing a bad feeling if you do not really have a Musikaramay fund which is important to me, your attitude, that you should have a direct effect of your colleagues in the war, it is prohibited to run!"

I was able to show them that I am going to count them from the ranks of my Warriors even if they still do not have experience in going to war.

"There are many of them who are wearing a Mushatch, but they are always taking care of those who have nothing to do with, he is in the heart of being electrocuted,"

Based on their performance of the training and the evaded of the NL), I am confident with them but there's still a point in my mind because the real world champion is different.

Even in that way, I prepared myself to be with my famous drug pusher.

When we were able to put one hundred pesos to Sulu last September 16, 2000, I know that there would be a relationship there.

If I want to step on the glory, I am also one of the sins.
