
The "four Sevidal is solved.

Inspector Ferjen Tor17, 2013.

PO 1: Four o'clock - a Wedrial attacked the Wediting money that is led by Angel Locsin, Bea Alampayan, and a good movie that is led by Angel Locsin, Bea Alandola, Toni Gonzaga, muscular body, but aside from having fun, the tears of many viewers would be improved.

It's a big help here is the good action of the stars, those who will be set up and a colorful direction of Jose Almonte, and of course, there is no reason for the viewers, as proof, and not only because of the name Stars, but also because of the name Stars, but in the total beauty of the film itself.

It is a good thing that the wedding of the youngest sibling (chickenna Dee) is to be able to take care of their children, and also to explain the feelings of a mother to each other; as if it is true that there is a scene from the people's life, that is why it's really a scene of the lives of the viewers, that is why they are going to be laughing at the darkness in the cinema.

It is best that Bea Alonte, "does Bobbie, who became successful in America but has long been bitterness in her chest because of the" grabbed "of his brother" Alex "(Angel Locsin).

Even if she still has a grudge with her mother, she has a favorite child and she does not want it to be the most prominent scene of her feeling, she takes up all the things she feels, she is slowly giving up with his mother.

Toni Gonzaga, "Teddie" (short-Adora), who has been hidden from the family that she has been hidden in Spain, is usually ashamed of the country that she has been used to be an OFW and he is usually ashamed of the continuous act, like what happened to Teddie.

It is different that Angel Locsin showed the role of "Alex" and he was brought with a good character by a black dog or stubborn ones because they were considered to be one of the worst tension in the family, and everyone was waiting when he will spread or explode from the two.

Shaina would also have a good intention to fulfill her sister's role, who was left in taking care of her mother and her youngest sibling, but she did not mention why she remained single and professionals, but in the end his role and sacrifice for the family was identified.

There were a few characters just like an example, Angeline Quinto was not given a life by Angeline Quinto and she was not able to marry the role of Carine Dee, and even his mother, who is his / her mother, who is his / her mother, who is his / her mother's role, poor, but fame.

Mar's role is also the role of the actor who is just pretending to be a pet ("epal")), Toni Gonzaga, and his acting on acting as a scene.

The money and time of viewers will not regret anything in this movie but it is also not enough to get free from the theme of the family, that is why the conflict between the family is still complete, which is why the conflict between the family will be completed and will never be destroyed by the crisis in society.

During the Quicken Loans Arena (19 July 2013) Vanessa Valdez, not Jose Almonte, the person who wrote the alphabet right for the said film, thank you for the comments about it.
