To the parish priest of Chito.

As a Filipino people, even if he is religious or not, he believes in God or not, Catholic or not, in the political economy, someone will become a born again or Bapist and other religion, someone will become a born again to Chito Miranda, the boils of the parish priest.
The contestant has an equivalent to the local government for INK and ADD or the other amendments must be given birth.
This queen is going to attend to Jesus but rather to be forced or sincere in the heart (for example, will give information or to give information to the authorities or not) - the citizens of the place.
The contestant has the power to collect or destroying a foul odor or a person just alive inside it so he has control over him.
To his parish priest, there is the documents of his personality as a testimony that he is a legal member of the lesson of a standard, rules and regulations - from the birth to death - the official who cannot be seen from other presidentiable.
He is certain that he will pay an administrative case or he has already paid the ratification of it to take other documents related to his profession including singing or going to other countries especially when needed.
To their parish will also get a marriage contract by her parents if they get married under the law of the chosen faith.
Or by the release of colorums and collection of information from the church and the government, regarding an example of issuing death penalty to those who have connections with him, he may be needed in any occasion and opportunity.
To a short word, Chito is part of the culture of a parish priest or local in the city or in the province or especially in the towns or municipality.

As early as now, instead of going out of the scandal made by Miranda, together with the young actress, Neri Naig, there are whispering among the things that he will inherit, people like you, officials or whatever it is.
Neri are also a member of a parish priest.
But for sure, Chito, Alfonso, in real life, has been questioned in the oil of writing and gossip for his girlfriend who does not want to follow his girlfriend whom she does not want to follow to his girlfriend whom he doesn't want to follow in the law that he will follow.

The sex video of Chito and Neri are still being discussed, one more than ten days in the Star Circle in the chest of ABS-CBN before, and when he went with Royalty Marlboro St., Joseph Bitangcol, Joross Gamboa, Melissa Ricks and others.
The public saw the ashes that was smooth and aggressive between Chito and Neri, where both of them were naked and naked in the eyes of the camera, where in fact, they were separated and really wanted to be in the act of a romance.
The Manang and friends will say that they will go to hell with Miranda and Naig; they will get hit in boiling oil anymore; they will get hit by a sound, sharp, sharp objects and racketeering and cover them from Satan.
"That is the start of the parish priest that the tradition and education will be reduced because that is the threat or faith against those who are guilty in the eyes of God and the people.
Is there no fear for a girlfriend or they do not have beliefs or they can't do anything or really there is no one in their bodies?
Do they want to humiliate or show off what they did?

It is possible for you to know if there is love between Neri and Chito when they are doing everything that I do in the bed.
An active pre-marital affair.
Whether it is love or not, the invention will be against this but when they do it, they fought with the Reproductive Health Organization (RH bill for the welfare of their health as the freedom of their health and comfort to the Lord for the most of those who get much more?
Are Neri and Chito joined the fight of the people for the good governance of the health for the public or for the people to blame them or they do not care?
Perhaps it is not because there are a lot of muscular body and the only way that Chito is used to have sex with Neri, including the use of condoms to sex with a young actress.
And baking in their self is their freedom or indecency but for what?
What is the motive of those involved in this controversy?
This time, it will be better for the feelings of the public or those who have something to do, or professionals, for them are getting married and good relationship at the back and front of the camera as a woman and man, live in or not.
As public possessions, the people are being followed by their private union with the help of the media and be free from the bitter and violent movement of people when they proved that they are most important to live together during the time.
These only ones, members of the parish priest or local or any person who are being called by a group of members and the members of the different groups and local are part of the progressive community in the internet or the netizens who are calling on it.
In the course of the events, the establishments that will violate the establishments are the netizens, and they are judging Chito.
You take care of your understanding and there are those who are coordinating with someone who are just meddling and others are meddling.
Because the government's system gets broken, all sorts of comments and sentiments of them have different comments, fruits, fruits, mouth sore and swelling of envy.

For the gender of the society, the woman is more fiery in this situation that is why Naig needs to fight for his rights.
As a woman, she has been hidden in his friends as well as she needs to take care of Miranda, whom he needs to take care of him.
A woman like Neri has a personal strength and power to fight if needed or he will run against women who are destroying their welfare against the mistreatment of a person like him.
This is if Chito does not stand up what they are going to share together.
