Threat to freedom of the Philippines.

It is said that it is said to be said in general, "short" or "weak" the memory of Filipinos.
But the accomplices such as Renato Constantino was made sure that the real problem is the lack of misfortune which is patriotic, with no doubt of the product of colorums in the past and that will become the present time.
There are just some of the high officials of the country, or the people who are pretending to be good to us, for example the danger of mentality that are patriotic.
Let's take a peek at the declaration of President Benigno Aquino III, Edwin Lacierda, who is the primary obstacle in the peace talks between the government of the Philippines (GPhilippine) and the disputed National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP).
The policy and programs of the regime will be approved by the proposal of the Duterte administration for the proposal of the NDFP members for the agreement of the two sides of the reforms that they are applying for, no one else but the minds of economists.
How can the government and the government have not yet belittled the patrons who will take care of the airports and important activities of the Filipinos in fact, the government's lack of illegal activities and important activities of the industry, the early style of the industry is full of capital, which will lead to capital for the importation of industry.
MD of Doctor Giovanni Lozano, chairman of the Agham at Adamates of Science and Technology) Pandayan by the New People's technology), which is the key for the agricultural sector, which is the key for the agriculture and improvement of the public funds for the agriculture and improvement of the masses.
It is not only security for food and ability to own the result of this, the national can give way for sure and quality of jobs for the increase in price, it is also the result of having a good training.
It is the opposite of the national corruption and policy and programs of the Aquino government, it will be good for the following: 1) lack of protection and support to the farmers, workers, and middle of the rules of foreign markets, 2), and middle of the constricted streets like the earth and its natural resources.
We will not be surprised that in spite of the high foreign Nationalist Alliance (thankful for the high ranks of Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs), his ability to pay debt); and real economic growth, although it has become a high level of poverty and benefits of poverty and people.
The officials of the government promised to resolve the development for all of their families for five years, that is why the economy is giving up to their own families for five years, but because the economy is giving up the quality of jobs, they will keep it hard after the program.
The supporters and allies of Aquino are also trying to explain why Filipinos cannot feel the benefits of the workers, but it is still slow to change the services of the workers, but it is still slow down under the services of the workers, but it is still slow under the public service, which is why the public's life is difficult, which is why the lives of the families are hard to feel.
The truth is already exposed: The majority of the Filipinos do not feel this "because this is focused on the economy of foreign capital and local business partners, and not in developing the livelihood of ordinary Filipinos.
The continuation of the policy and reality in the progress of the economy of the foreign contacts is the real reason for the lack of defense of the Aquino administration and those who were first here.
This is the truth and it is an belief that for the back of the government to express the physical appearance of the US, including the discretion and international military in the end, it can be seen in the Philippines' statements that are not always on the side of the Philippines with all the issues.
That is why it is uncertain, but it is embarrassing, the statement of Malacanang is supported by the US in the conflict in South China Sea, while the US is also supporting any formal, legal, political and military who are supporting and obligation in supporting the position of the Philippines.
The first step towards the celebration of Independence Day this June 12 is to know that the national freedom and sovereignty against the political positions (economy, politics and military) by the only general power, as well as lazy, will be the leaders of the leaders.
