TV Patrol, February 13, 2012.

Study and love.

You will take your eyes off the things you see, but you cannot make your heart beat for things that you want to feel.

During the first time, there is also one corner where all the feelings are living at each other, both are happy, wealthy, rich, Palapal, and many others, together with Pag-love, and many others, together with a huge waves and this will pass through.

It is quick to create boats so that they will leave aside from Pag-asa.

It was only the only thing that was left behind, because he just wanted to make sure that until the last moment, he would only take action and the disaster has happened, Pag-Ghamdi decided to ask for help from the boat being carried by the waves.

A big and wide boat, who is rich, married, is quick to ask for help from Pag-3618, "you can still see a lot of gold and silver, even if I want to ride in your boat," I want me to ride in your boat, "I want to ride in your boat," I want to ride in your boat, "I want to ride in your boat."

"I can't help you, study it too much and you will ruin my beautiful things here and one more, the boat is already full, and you have no one to stay here," he is an effective explanation for Palapal.

I got into tears with what I heard, when he noticed that it was sad in the coming boat, "it's sad, can you carry on your boat, right?" What he's thinking about love? "

"Oh no, it is not possible, I want to be alone because I can't do something with my boat.

Pag-fi was crying when the boat of Masaya was crying, but because of its extreme happiness, he did not even ask for help and his treatment of Pag-3618.

Many are getting carried away from the boat they got back at the eastern part of the islands.

But like the first riding on, all of the first passengers were supposedly disconcerting and because of what he received, he finally heard his voice, and he saved money from his boat, he had forgotten to fight and avoid the old man to ask the old man where they were going to.

The dried coconuts were stopped when they arrived at the eastern part of the shore, the old man quickly left the shore when she was stupefied and felt a glance at Pag-asa, when he did not even thank the good of the old man.

After a while, an old man came, whom I know is to know him / her to rest and have something to eat.

"" I would just ask you, "the decision of Pag-love," who is the old man who helped and brought me here?

"Ah," those who are riding you?

"During the time?

"Why did I help me?

I just smiled at me, and this was meaningful, "because it was only time he has the ability to understand how the importance of pure love is."

Jesse Guda.
City of Balanga, Bataan.
