Let us look at the payment of San Mateo Rizal but in Manila, up to more than 50 years have passed since it's not really something that really happened, but does not have electricity; however, there is no electricity here and not even for the sake of the cellphone.
They are going to buy food that they are going through; we don't think that they are in the province far from the house.
A few hours will come that time will come.
The noise in San Mateo in the province is as if it is one of the Philippines that we are carrying two thousand who are carrying a show from you.
Because of the hard time that the country is going up to the town, the primary problem of those who live here are the primary problem of the people.
When you were able to go out, I was able to go well to the siblings Ronalyn Valdez, from here.
Ronalyn Iyo-year-old he was looking at a six-year-old son and six-years.
It's because they are still in the middle of a lot of food that will be used to get up and down to the deep predicament that they are forced to pass through with our conversation at the river, we are already here in the river that's why we are only here in the river that's because we only have two titles in our house here.
He noticed the heavens.
I need to.
Because if you want the mountain said, the mountain said.
When we buy water, maybe what is happening to them might happen.
Ronie was already strong.
Our water is the poorest part of the head.
These things, we almost have been hit by Drum Radio with just two establishments that we sold, but we are the hardest for us to be strong before so that it would be a big problem here in this place.
Hmmmp!
Covetous, fur, very hard.
That's because I am having a hard time, there are also people who, at the age of age, are not the importance of conversations that they are carrying, Ronie Kallahal who wants to go to school first the first night.
But this dream was not noticed by Ronalyn Valdez, which was not able to speak.
The students, Elementary School and their names are weak at school, but we still do not have any difficulty with my parents so that there are a lot of people who are fond of talking to each other but now that you do not have anything else to send people to each other, but now, you do not have anything else to send.
In life, we have hope for hope near Manila to them.
