"He is his body, what do you have three children or at the same time that you are watching over something like what you want, you are confused with what you want, you might wait for you not to see a handsome thing.
When are you Zailon and Two children?
Very short; he / she was distressed; he / she had a charter change; he / she said that he / she didn't have a charter change; however, I really thought that I am really not serious with me, but I really thought that I am really not serious with those who are wearing him.
Yes, we are very pitiful; we are lacking.
I do not know if you are the child of Day, that you are now good now that there is a good person here, it is good that there are people here, which is why he / she is not in a contract where you are a lot of people here and we have a lot of people.
Let's immediately go here, you will not stay there for a long time, isn't it like this?
What yes, you buy you?
I do not know, i'll be able to look down; I am the only girl; my young girl.
How can we go to the same woman.
Woman.
Yes, you should be able to take responsibility for me, I am the only one to fool me; so that I am not the woman you want?
Okay, I will just go to any store so you should go to me.
What is the morning, who is the responsible child whom I already know.
Really!
"What kind of time?
I said I am not mad at it so that you are closed the bamboo yesterday if you ask for the medicine that he does not care.
My eyes are weak.
He admitted that you had a disagreement first before deciding.
You will drink a lot of you, your father, you are like a robot; we can make it look like we were able to go to each other, so that we can go to you, you might go to me, look at me.
A while ago, they watched where the work they are planning to push through; I am still alive; I am still alive, because you really know that this is your child, which is why I do not have a child, that is why I have a lot of chicken, we are okay, we are okay.
Yes, I am with someone else, at five o'clock in the morning.
Voted in.
I do not understand what to play like that, didn't it tell me that I have told me that he / she didn't have told me that I am the ones who voted in me.
Look for you to play the bystanders, who have long been looking for a long time, and what's that they are the sixth time, why do you not know your face that I will win in my face that's why I am not handsome; I am not handsome.
You!
You are friends.
When will you give birth?
