The target was the target to be defeated, Robin Mendoza June 15, 2016.
They would allow the fourth winner in the order given to Laoag with Sallano's V-V-Laban (13 OSB's conference at the The Arena in San Juan tomorrow.
After losing to the Air Force, the Purest Water Defenders who took the next three games for the second time to rise from the second position of the PAF Jet Spikers who have returned to their European Union, was not able to comment at their fight at around 4: 00 in the afternoon.
"
"We are not yet full, all of us, we really have a lot of shortcomings, and as a team, so we can do this to the Social Work," he added.
Soriano is taking advantage of the depth of what he will have to be in the Tere which is also being done in order to take his enemies.
"It's because they are wanted to be named Denden, Bea (Tan), Alyssa Einstein, we all sorts of Alyssa Einstein, we, we know that she is a good upbringing on the bottom of the switch.," he said.
"For the US, we were not let go to the US, which is amazing, each other, that's why there might be changes that will be given to the Commission on Human Rights (Commission on Higher Education, what we should do," he added.
"Epal.

Meanwhile, Laoag City is coming from the Moros, who defeated WBO Air Force, 25-14, 25-23, 25-23, 25-23.
Power Severe Actor, coach Nes Pad, said that when they will go back to Jojohnn Prado and Jan Galang from the Interpol ID, in Baguio, their weapons were enough against the star on top of the street.
"Now we are complete," we are going to show themselves to the game, "he said.
On the second game, it will come to the cliff of the Air Force on the bitter losses in the Filipino University.
The PAF Jet Spikers who have put an end of the game held but Air Force coach Jasper Jimenez is hoping for them to be able to get back.
"" We really need to step down on the game game, but I really need to fight, so we need to fight, "he said.
"They really need to be careful because they seem to be a burden inside the court," he added.
Veteran transgender Judy Cabotahe, and Joy cases were left behind, while the 6-foot-3 CAFGU, Dell Palos, will be able to return to the game after fixing his personal issues.
Lady Bulaga, on the other hand, was riding a motorcycle to board the Iriga, 25-15, 25-16, 25-16, 25-18 last Monday.
