The increase in tuition, discussed in the Congress.

Because there are no other people who will inherit and will continue the society but the youth, there is no reason for the government to ensure that the citizens of quality and affordable education will be given right.
But critics of the government have said to the sectors of education, instead of the youth to enter the university to have a quality education, it seems that they are able to push away from this every year because the increase of bills in private and public locations will be increased.
In the consultative dialogue on Students, Regulation of Tumagay in the Lower House recently, the different groups of students were brought by different groups of students about this complaint against the government.
The said gathering of Liberal Party-list was headed by the World Health-list, National Union of Students, the Philippines (NSP), the Korean national ye Movement of the Philippines (CCMP), and other organization of the youth, assigned by different private and public university.
Not affordable.
Based on the data of NUSP) submitted to Committee on Higher Education (INTE) of congress, from the year 2001, the average wage that was paid for the National Capital Region and P250,000 pesos in the national road will only be P435.59.
In the year 2012, around P56,531 were recorded in NCR and P1,078.60 for the national rules when it comes to the low tuition fee.
Last year, 354 Higher Education (HEIJ) is approved by the CHED to increase the tuition fee in this year, according to inform about the increase in tuition because of the shortage of CHED to stop them.
Some of the university who are expected to increase their tuition this year based on the data of SFO 4: 40 percent), University of Santo Tomas (7-10 percent), National University (7.6 percent), University of Santo Tomas (7-10 percent), National University (7.6 percent), University of Santo Tomas (7-10 percent), University of Sto. Tomas (7-10 percent), University of Santo Tomas (7-10 percent), Far Eastern University (7-10 percent), Far Eastern University (7-10 percent).
Because of this, the leaders of students are worried that many students in a private university are afraid to be transferred to public schools.
But according to NUSP, the state Universities (Colleges (SUCs) for the tuition and bills caused by the Aquino administration to fund the responsibility of the government is the responsibility of the government, Roademia (Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education.
According to Amnesty International, around 26 are estimated to experience the increase in budget for the next year of seven in areas that were devastated by typhoon Yolanda, including in spite of a hole in the Leyte Normandie University, Eastern Visayas Region, and University of the Philippines System.
Aside from the tuition, problems of students in the same public and private school are the ones being felt in the same public and private school, according to the Sangguniang Kabataan, they are just squeezed out of them, especially when they are asking, they would not feel where they are going to make it.
Part of this is what they are calling for to nace, which is estimated to be exhibited that there is an eye (physical education) toll fee which is also a energy department and air conditioner.
In a text message, they are saying that the actual price is far from the actual price like an ID, which is about P200 in the market, but up to P1,000 will be for P1,000.
TUGUEGARAOCITY, it cannot be explained where they are going to make it go, such as donation, NLEX's toll fee, toll fee, development, development, development, and Security System.
Said to be added to the people!
The complication of CMO.
According to Isabel, the official of CHED, that he replied to the accusations of the students in Congress, there is truth to the continuous increase of the students in the Congress, there is truth to the increase in terms of the students, but they allegedly passed through consultation and chemotherapy which are stated in addition Hills, 3-2012.

Commission on Higher Education explained that they are included in the form of CMO 3 that is being followed by the university in relation to the high tuition fee.
But according to NUJP, boils from university because the Commission on Human Rights is so strict because the Commission on tuition fee is too much because it also has reservations with this when it was first.
Was also asked by Representative Edcel Lagman if the Commission on Higher Education were able to find out if the information given to them (the administrator of university) is right to increase their tuition based on CMO 3.
Let us answer, from other groups, they will be sent to other groups because of the lack of documents given to them because of the lack of people in the said commission, so he said to the students to help them and report the university who violate the said commission.
But according to Sheryl Allowance (EPD), they submitted a complaint last 2013 on Higher 3, but it was supposedly gone by the said commission but it was also said that this is the Commission on Higher Education, but the Commission on Higher Education were not yet released.
"The long time passes before the Commission on Higher Education are on the complaints of the students based on the process, so it is hard to return to the students when the slow action of CHED," according to Allison.
According to Representative Roman Tirado, chairman of Top TE, it will be hard for the students to trust the process of CMO 3 because a year has passed and the Commission on Elections) has no concrete action regarding this.
Constitution Rep. Winston Castelo is asked if they are allowed the increase in tuition in university based on the establishment or Compliance in university (which was stated by the CMO 3) or based on the determination of being twisted.
But like the first answer, all of the initial answer, most of the answers of CHED, are disappointed by the students.
"What we can hear now is that they are whispering that it is possible that the students whom we are doing are difficult for us, that is why we still want to know if we are still watching the Commission on Elections (or nothing)," according to Caano, Arguaving, from the university of the Philippines.
Meanwhile, according to Einstein Crime Operatives (of the Philippines (SCaano), the Commission on Elections (CMP) said that the Commission on Audit) should not wait for a complaint from the students to take action because if there will be a million peso income from many university.

"The data of the government is showing the number of those who are not able to study in college because of the high tuition fee they should only be alarmed at the number of those who were not able to reach college," according to Recana.
According to the person to make the decision, if they will allow the increase in tuition, if they will allow the increase in tuition, if these are following the major schism that will increase in 2013, only 354 will be allowed.
Sets her right away.
The lack of democratic rights to students inside the university is one of the alleged cause of the increase in tuition fee.
According to the College was EdGuillena, of the Philippines (CEGP), they recorded more than 230 campus of freedom last year in the whole country, most of those who were taking advantage of the tuition and other bills that affects their students in the university.
"How can there be a democratic participation in the university when it comes to the issue of high tuition, if they will not know the proposed increase because they are not allowed to release these kinds of issues in their territory?" According to Mark Lino Abila, general and secretary of CEGP.
According to Recana, students who are taking advantage of the rights are being used to solve the right such as the right of them to enumerate themselves and human rights to conduct issues in university.

"There are many places that their students are not allowed to build the organization, especially the anomalous organization that are supporting the rights of the students, what is higher; the Constitution of the Philippines or a student who is a student," according to Recana.
Sorsogon Representative Einstein said Escudero, all "do, are all" do, "what can be seen for those who are handing and are not stated in the rights of the students.
According to the distance, it was stated in the new Commission Memorandum Number 9 that they released the rights of the students to have an organization.
According to Remulla, it is not enough for Higher Education (9 to ensure the democratic rights of the students who need to release a memorandum in relation to the rights of the students while they are waiting for the proposed law in relation to the Congress.
CMO 3.
In relation to this, they will allegedly give the Commission on Higher 3 to fix the problem of CMO 3 in relation to the increase in tuition, according to Romulo Telerty.
According to him, the action of Commission on Higher Education can be seen slow to know if the increase in tuition or if used to be done the CMO 3.
The CMO 3, which is the basis of the Commission on Human Rights, is still the basis of the proposed increase of bills in the university, according to space in the interview of the Filipino Weeker.
While the Commission on Elections is still not clear on the call of the students and the youth are still being heard in Congress in the present, it will remain as students who cannot join the university and millions of youth at present.
But it is not for the students and youth to deal with and let them continue stealing their rights which has been given to many people for a long time.
