It was admitted that PO 1: Mr. STP as a ticket to educated Filipinos.

By Maroons.

I remember the afternoon of the Papal visit to the Noguof Admission from the U0.Sunday last February 2008, a few days before the Brigada Eskwela will pass in the celebration, Subic Gateway Park announced that I passed the UP Diliman, together with the whole crew.
The passing of UP College Admission test (UPRT) seems to have been able to go back to the comfort of life because I am lucky because for almost 70,000, I got one of those who passed.
But they tried to show the news, my mother immediately has a problem on how to continue her studies in college.
General.
My parents are separated and my father moved me early, but my father died early, which is why my mother-in-coloured family died early, together with her new wife and another child.
My mother's family is hard to have a small house, there is no electricity and is always lacking for every day because I was only able to spend money from the family of Father, even if my money is full, sometimes there is still nothing else.
Mother, my gang, a factory, while a jeepney driver is a jeep with his live-in partner, if their income is not enough for a day to buy food, can you be able to study in college?
In the news during those times, more than 300-worth of tuition in UP arrived from 300 every kilometer unit, "will look for a way, even if they are holding a knife," said Nanay.
Thank you.
I immediately took care of the schism for the entry of UP when I found out from my friends that there is a program who can help me - the financial Assistance Program (STS), that is why it was just last March.
The STS is a program of UP where the students were able to pay the payment for their family first in 1989 the first increase of income from each one according to his needs, "according to the policy of the program.
They were able to go to the funeral parlor, Bracosta (ABS-CBN), with five hours because of the television series of former Nihonggo.
At first glance, the goal of the program is good but instead of giving the whole P1,000 every unit, based on this, the needs to be paid or not even free is free.
Me and my mother teared up with the amount of major schism because it is not professional for the office of Internal Revenue, which is also needed by the office of Internal Revenue, which is also needed by the office of Internal Revenue, which is also needed by the office of Internal Revenue, as well as my dead father, the documents are also needed.
We reached for almost a week to complete all the documents.
It is a price hike.
Because I am going to spend for the STS.
To be able to pay, my mother got another job, according to him, there is not only a tuition fee that needs to be paid for how to pay their weekly income and fare?
Not long ago, the body of the mother broke down because of the difficulty in working on February of the year 2010, his mother passed away.
With the bad joke of fate, my personal tragedy became a way to step down because I feel for a free tuition and P12,000 pesos, which is based on the recognition given by ABS-80s, which is one of the whole population of UP.
A medical exam.
My story was only one of the many stories of the municipality that was tortured by the native of UP.
Even if President Francois Hollande that he is going to do is the tuition in UP after raising the tuition, it is estimated that more than 80 percent of the Philippine UP System (equivalent to 18 percent of the UP Diliman, which are paying 1,000 pesos up to 500,000 pesos.
In a study done by Cologne, it appears that from 1991, the number of students of UP Diliman, which are full of free tuition, in 1991, two of every three students of Diliman, are on their own tuition, last year, the number of those who have a free tuition, last year, the number.
But according to UP President Alfredo Pascual, "we should not blame the STS.
If President Pascual was right, it is hard to explain to the increase in number of students who are applying for more than 20 percent every year since the price increase in the Office of Schmidt, according to the data of the Office of Schmidt, according to the data of the Office of Schweighart is slowly increasing.
If the data is examined by Mount Athos and Quicken Loans Arena, it turns out that the number of tuition fee continues to pass through the sudden increase and the number of those who are going to apply for the STL and Quicken Loans Arena.
At this point, what I am thinking about is a lot of explanation that the number of students of UP who are lacking in life is slowly being lessened, but in the end, it is not enough for the hope and assistance that could be given to his fellow youth who have no ability to make the education of UP.
If these souls will continue to dry by the ability of the poor to stay in school, we may hear nothing more than my story for people who are hoping to raise them from the hardship of educated places in the university.
