I know: Dennis and Kim, in full partner in the wall, bathroom, stairs, and living room!
By Jun Nardo, June 10, 2016 Kim Domingo said that Kim Domingo has a lot of thinking when she took a piece of gratitude with Dennis Trillo in different parts of the house that they are using again at the taping of Juan de happy Love, however, according to dens, he / she will just send a new actress.
In the scene, Kim was helped by Kim to look for a house for him to live in. "But he thought all parts of the house we were making a miracle there," the actor said.
Dennis defended, he is just professionals.

"It was giving out that Kim was given to their scene," she was okay, she was not ashamed because she was not ashamed because she was able to do at TV "that kind of scene he was able to do with the movie their movie with Tom (Rodriguez)," the defense, "he added.
Meanwhile, dens are not convicted by the first time that he was treated when Kim revealed to him in front of his co-workers and his boils.
"According to Very, it's because Kim is ill-mannered," Dennis Padilla's reason, "is the reason why Kim is a hot scene with Kim?
"Then, no, I was forced to be forced," the response of the prime actor.
Where do they let in running around?
"There in the wall of the bathroom, the stairs, living room, which is very new to us, and when they saw the reaction of the people on how they say," what we did was happy, "what we did before," reason of dens.

Is he distressed as to the true color?
"True," that is not true, "he denied it.
He does not do it in every corner of the house?
"Not, duh!" Dennis emphasis.
In the interview, according to Dennis, she also said the gossip is not true that she is already separated with his girlfriend, Jennylyn Mercado.
"
Congratulations to eving of Game, Thcones, surprised this taping!
Rocco and COnace.
One of the cast of TV Patrol, Game, Thcals, Ness (Nony) was surprised when he visited the set of GMA 7 in Encantadia, Conro to do the Two episodes of GOT, GOT, Paving.
Fewi-parkinsonism, there will be the Special Action Force that Conejero.
Because the program has already started taping for being in social media, Marian Rivera and Rocco were together in the scene.
But in the scene of Yan and Rocco, the characters of IOS in the first Encantadia. Tindan, was also included because his appearance is unscary because his face is calm, huh!
