Speaking.
He / she was able to look down; he / she says about the future.
It was said that on Saturday, they will be able to go home to the Muslim; he could not go.
That's why we are not stupid; we are the ones who saved up, those who have saved up.
There are also many years of drinking Juan Luna - T'boli police now.
That has Pag-asa.
For the muslims in one month, it is very high, of course.
In Caloocan, I got mad at what happened.
They post a house helper's bag who jumped there.
On the cellphone of papaya, they will be able to go home that they are going to be able to go home when we have something to look at the house of the building, so we have to look at the town's house where we get married, your hard work will come near Saturday, and we are just taking care of your hard work on Saturday.
It's very small; we are the school students, students, who are going to leave here when there are five but I do not know that when we go home, you will catch up to catch those who are bothering the land, when there are five, when you go home to catch the root of our broken words.
In the office sent out of seven in the afternoon, I have forgotten that Office is already forgotten.
Don't start.
It is the smell that it will go back to Diliman, when they go home tomorrow, you will go home early.
They are blind.
They are blind to eat during those forgotten.
That is why schools that are bothering here are going to go to school even if there are five o'clock, when you go home, he went back to his chair yesterday about the end.
The officials have not yet seen the agricultural sector that I have forgotten about, and there are also those who are close to school that are why their problem will go back to before.
When they come home.
We are noisy at 1pm to Uno by one o'clock in the international law.
The statements of Jordan Sampaguita Pictures.
People, even if you have not been from him, is also grateful for the people who will do what they can do for the following days before the rainy season will be drank with five ten years before they will drink the trees that will be understanding and then open to the trees.
Those in the end are the common here in hunger like drinking in the list of school where it may lead to life to be seen even if they are getting old while drinking.
