
QCPC was snubbed by QC Mayor Herbert Bautista.

Last Monday, November 19, 2012, the new officials of Quezon City Press Corps are held in the ground floor of the Quezon City Hall.
It was past 7: 00 in the evening when everyone was waiting for, Quezon City Mayor Herbert Bautista, Vice Mayor Herbert Bautista, Vice Mayor Joy Belmonte and the councilor, which is why the National Press Club (NPC) President Benny Antioquia is there and some NPC).
In spite of this, the registered journalists are still hoping that, and a few guests like former QC Vice Mayor Alice Herrera, who were beside the chair, former councilor, Jorge Cariño, and the singer Anthony Castelo, will arrive at Joy Belmonte or whichever councilor.
It was past 9: 00 in the evening when Mayor Bistek, Joy and the councilor were not seen in the said gathering, according to Alapan 2, chief of Staff of Bistek, there was an important appointment with Mayor Bautista that was why it could not reach.
"There is no joke, from the belief that there is no need to tell the truth, if it will come or not.
"Why is there a need to think about it, anyway, the journalists have accepted if he will come or not, and it is still different, what he is seeing, especially that he's still different, and he is the one to be seen, along with NPC Pres.
I have asked myself why Mayor Herbert Bautista did not arrive in expressing her own "press Corps when it was held in her own house (City Hall).
One of what I wonder about is why in the revelation of other press core, it was replaced by other press core, but she was encouraged by his own Pres. Cort, he snubbed.
Umm, looks like I smelled something not good about it.
Is there anger or resentment or maybe Bautista still has a grudge against the QCPC Press Corps?
I was just asking!
Even though the president of the QCPC was not given any statement by the ECPC, Rio Araje, of Manila Standard Lunch Program and some of its officials, it is obvious to them that their feelings are bad.
Many of those who attended the people who attended the various reasons why Herbert and Joy ten of the councilors ordered the QCPC and all sorts of resentment by the group, Mayor of journalists.
My goodness, Mayor Bistek was really new since he became a mayor of QC, especially now that he has no heavy opponent in being a mayor in the coming days.
2013 election.
