Let us coast.

In our coming out of the origin to reach the destination, a lot of things that can be seen in the streets - luxury and poverty, cleanliness and filthiness.
What is needed is a peaceful occasion to remove the eyes of the occasion so that there will be more reports, not only the eyes, but also in the mind, we are having a general view on the situation of the society while seeing the particular situation of a fellow citizen.
In the end of Escolta in Manila, I noticed a man who was selling cajada, based on their faces in front of his mind, I found out that the amount of cajada, one thing in front of the products they sell is different from the products they sell.
You can't blame you if you feel pity for you, simple words, but if you will ask my reaction, there will be more time to enter the mind based on communication with some Filipinos and having a study.
The first image is different from a market in my trip back in Baguio City.
The second image is what was written on the paper that was written to me by a mechanic when I grabbed a vehicle, because the power of the steering wheel was destroyed, what I need to buy is the sale of its steering wheel.
The third image is written in a jeepney going to Blumentritt-Novaliches.
Just do not think that this is just because of a limited education, it is true that this is the issue of low education but the issue is more than this.
Because of what they are trapped, it is much more important to earn for the family than to learn how to buy rice and cheap viand for the challenges of life, there might be a practical goal of buying rice and cheap viand just because there is only water to vote, it is possible!
It's a good sign of course, "it is possible that the ambition in life will come out in this situation without opportunity to achieve it, many people are benefiting from the fact that many citizens are benefiting while most of them are benefiting.
In this point, the battle is becoming a nuisance to the things that's why the poor cannot do it.
For those who are selling camara, flower, he can scrutinize the most of which is why when he comes home, I am doubting if there is a camara, ingredients in the sardines that's at the way to feed to his family.
As well as the case of selling mercury contamination, I am doubting the strawberry of his loved ones because he can't buy all the items being sold.
In the case of the mechanism that can't be measured, do not belittled his ability because the machine will only know the difference, but he is not benefiting from his talent because the only thing she is using home is an old bicycle.
For the driver of a jeep that knows the route and knows all the ways to sneak to fight the traffic, it is a priority for the passengers in exchange of a garage of a vehicle that is not his way home or riding a jeepney so that he will be a passenger.
This is what the poor are doing all over and unacceptable meaning of words, whatever promises of the people in power remains to be ashamed because even the message of communication is contrary to the policy that will be implemented.
Even in English or a Filipino in English or Filipino, expect that the distress will be used by the officials of the government, but it is much better if some of the officials of the government have been noticeable, especially in the programs of the government, even if the programs that should be serving the interest of the poor are benefiting from the interest of the poor.
Let us all go to the coast of poverty in our society to notice the wrong disposal of our language, and in our opinion, we can see the obscenity happening while those in power are taking advantage and used to cover the truth.
