OFWs in Malaysia

How important is the Overseas Filipino Workers workers in the government?
How can he consider the contribution of the OFWs in the economy of the country which costs more than $23 billion every year or almost 1 billion pesos which is almost half of the national budget?
How can he give the said contribution to the economy of the country, especially during the time of the national crisis and crisis of the government in lack of money from the dollars and peso?
These are just some, Bro, for our questions because of the negligence of the government for OFWs.
OFWs in Malaysia
It is sad to hear the announcement of the government that he is not receiving any official report from Malaysia due to the crabulary of the OFW.
Because of the cringe at peace, Bro, OFWs hide that they will be imprisoned first in the end.
There are other abuse or abuse from the OFWs and the jail guards.
It is more painful, that the government knows the announcement of a cringe at peace but it appears that it does not act to ensure the bad events here.
What are the reasons why the government is always like this about the current crisis he is facing?
There is a crisis in the living room.
This is also what happened in the program in Saudi Arabia.
According to Saudi Arabia, it reached up to half a million foreigners to be taken out under the Saudizziness.
Included in the foreigners will be the OFWs who want to evict Arabs for a long time so that their countrymen will have a job.
How many are being thrown out and not given attention by the government of OFW?
According to the organization following the Hong Kong, like Migrante International, an estimated 1.5 OFW are affected.
When the letter was started to start, there were those who got caught and being locked, that's when the government became confused to help the OFW.
He became deaf to the call of many before to help them go home or fix their papers and they just let the OFWs close to the Philippine Embassy.
According to him, the majority of the OFWs there are okay.
But how many helped by the government to be free in prison, they should be sent home to the Philippines or bring them to other institutions in order for a new job?
We have no news about it, we do not have much news about this.
Full, no, no service.
It appears that "the primary problem of the government from the OFW is just very popular.
They are not able to go out of the country, but they have paid for some dollars.
It is true that the government has helped in the increase in salary of OFWs, an example in Saudi who was formerly at $150 every month but became more than 400 pesos.
But this is not enough because in truth, those who go to Saudi are telling that this is not followed by the employers in Saudi.
The OFWs did not complain because they did not complain in the Philippines with a good job and salary.
That's why they are abroad because they are all hungry, lack of work and their livelihood to the Philippines.
Back to Malaysia
The government said, they have added diplomat or officials of the government to coordinate with the authorities in Malaysia for the protection of the OFW's protection.
However, it is very painful to think that our government is always in action in giving protection to OFWs in times of sick.
How will the government fix the lives of OFWs in Malaysia?
Is it enough to meet these in the sea, give just a little noodles as food and to show other modern equipment for each other?
Even Sabah.
Another painful thing is, even in Sabah, a lot of Filipino and OFW are currently happening in a large part of the cratic.
It is painful to think about this because of the belief of the island of Sabah but the government let it claim the order of Malaysia to the reasons of the questionable reason.
And it is also being neglected for OFWs or Filipinos who are involved in it.
