
Talking about Gina Lopez as the DENR secretary.
By Ellen Torresna), 2016, 2016, I do not believe in front of a supporters of the next president of the Philippines, Rodrigo Duterte, that's why he wanted to return to ABS-CBN and she is also getting mad at her with Gina's side.
Duterte knows that Gina Lopez will have a hard time with the DENR that his head will be ruined there, others said.
It's because Duterte is mad at ABS-CBN when they think they are pro-Mar Roxas because they are the ones released by the famous TV councilors using the children against Duterte, which is called by Senator.

Antonio Trillanes IV, in the last week of the campaign last May.
It is said that it is good that Duterte will be together, his / her idol, Eve.
Maybe Duterte does not believe that of environmentalist Lopez, he will continue to protect the surroundings against the bad effects of mining.
It is good to listen to the call to stop mining.
For those who are screaming, they should not use things from mining and one of them is the cellphone on many parts of the cellphone from mining.
A priest said, didn't Gina think of having an argument with the businessman Manny V. Pangilinan, the president of Philex Mining Corp. he is made by metal from mining from mining?
Almost all of our belongings are from mining.
In the stove which is used in cooking, in serious in gnomes, watermelon seeds, up to the spoon and fork.

Our homes (aside from the hut that is made of bamboo and bamboo), can't stand up if there is no cement, steel, and galvanized iron, that can't be done without remove or use a hammer.
Things in the hospital and school, almost all from mining.
That's why it's a big critics who will shout the "total ban on mining, if you are riding a car, taxi or jeepney, train or airplane, that you do not want mining, it should be naked.
The question: Now that he is the DENR secretary, will Gina Lopez open his view that not all mining are responsible, that's why there are irresponsible mining and those who should stop.
But there are mining which are responsible for what I saw, "and I know one of them is fighting the group supported by Gina Lopez.
