
Clean air Act, Calaguas, which violated the southwest monsoon.

A mission action, hope that you can help us residents in Barangay Sto. Cristo because our clean river is going to be taken by our children, which is found in Barangay Santo Niño San Jose Del Monte, Bulacan.
Our suffering started when the rainy season comes and summer because you will be seen in a small river that is why you will notice that there is a looming water that is why it will be noticed that there is a stinky wind that makes you experienced in the said pond.
At night, while you are still sleeping, you will wake up from the foul smell coming from the piggery industries which is why the surrounding residents will not end up too much.
Those with asthma attack often.
This problem started with a Mister Chua, the owner and they are the ones who have an operation on the thousands of pigs to clean the urine and cat poo.
If the dirt from the savings are overflowing, it is not too much notice because of the strong flow of water from the height of the mountain and during summer, you can see that the foul odor comes.
This is what is complicated, in Aksyon Ngayon when the said farm was totally destroyed, it was taken by "tanim bala Corporation" which is the owner of the Chinese in the entire Bulacan.
It is figured out that those from Barangay Sto. Cristo and Barangay just like that there is a violation on Human Rights which has a violation of martial law (D.41.8-884); RX-80s, Celecoxib and 9275), the people around residents are worried.
We are hoping that the residents of Barangay Sto. Cristo and many are hoping that this will be given action through your wide column, especially the DENR R-3 and Governor Edgardo Alvarado, because we learned that he is one of those pushing in fighting against the environment of nature.
Weak.
Mr. Coy of SJDM.
PageR-3 DENR KV-3 Director Loraryn E. Claudio Aceret and Governor Willy Alvarado, Belen and Governor Willy Alvarado, San Jose Del Monte, Bulacan because Mayor Jose Del Monte, Bulacan died because according to the residents there is useless according to the residents.
No action is being done even if his jurisdiction is already reeking that's why he might get a big contribution from her pregnancy?
Because thousands of pigs are taking care of the said farm, they can see that they might not declare a few of their care to stop the tax bills.
The said farm has a violation but the local government has no assurance.
So, sir, right action!
My column is open for your side and it is noticeable.
