The woman's condition is the "Ipit Gang" of PNoy.

Macky Macasaverted!
February 24, 2013.

The economy is going to progress as proof of this is the increase of 6.6 percent of Graft Capricorn (GP) last 2012 but it was far from the feelings of women and Filipino people.
For militant women, there is no need to celebrate this, because the increase in GDP or improvement of the economy is not being felt, it is not being implemented by the progress of women's condition.
"It's just a simple standard for their mother - it's not to be a simple case," Pad Perez, 24 director of Medical Center for Wdancers (CWR), to a good quality of economy to address the needs for every day.
Every mother of the family hopes to have food for the family, payment for electricity and water, as well as the expenses in taking care of their children, that is why the economy is simple and use the economy if there is no space in poverty and experiencing hunger.
The family of the women are still hungry.
In the latest data of the National Statistics Authority (NSalas) last 2009, Poverty. 9) from 26.9 percent of 26.9 percent of 26.9 percent in 2006, but according to CWR, the rise of the increase in the number of those who are struggling.
"It was said that the decision of the poor is high," said Perez, through the lack of abuse of NSplit if it is only needed by each family who has five members of P164.35 every day for food, or P32.46 every day.
But CWR said, even if the number of those who are starving, they have not yet lessened the number of those who are hungry and it shows up to P4.8 pesos per person is needed for food in every day or P214 people members of the family.
"We even used the number of NSplit if we just brought the other ingredients for food," Perez explained that they are able to save themselves.
CWR said there is no more opportunity for the "Ipit Gang" which is being proud of by the government, but many are still paying for many of the citizens especially the women who are threatening to raise the salary of the whole family.
There is supposedly too small salary compared to fast and incessant increase in price of goods and services, many of the women have no livelihood.
Women with the strength.
"He stayed in the big difference in the participation of the women with the Labor laws," said Perez.
Even the International Criminal Court has already known that there are no more jobs - than 6.7 percent in 2012, that the number of women with women and men are small, that's why the number of women are high-paid workers, "he said, is higher.
Perez also said, the work that can be received by women can be limited, most of them are in giving service to almost half or 68 percent of women, but it is a big problem for them to go against 3-4 months.
One of the primary causes of the government is for them to have a job with women, another country, according to CWR, 7 to 10 different towns that are in public service, majority of domestic workers, because they are young, they are afraid to report, "Perez explained.

Cover-control.
Because of the extreme poverty experienced, women are forced to save their budget.
In the research of CWR, majority of women in the community are saying they will be saved from the use of electricity, water and other expenses, just to be able to pay for the high needs of the family - for the year 2012, on the 25th of the Philippines, on the 25th anniversary in the whole world.
But instead of forcing the government to address the worsening hunger, the group said that it was just being swept by different activities from the program, 77 percent who said that they would want to have a permanent work or long-lasting source of income compared to the program without assurance.
Even if they say that even the support of the farmers who will be able to help to ease poverty in the countryside, "Perez insisted that the money they received from the poor, used for food, medicine and expenses in studies are not effective.
"It's because the farmers have no own land, the reaction of Lita Mariano, the second chairman of Amihan, an organization of farmers, aside from lack of land, there is also a high expenses for rice, even just one hectares of rice field.
Mariano said, up to P56,000 / every hectares of the production, including the payment for the rent on the land, he added that there will be a lot of non-control of their rice, but if they will buy the farmers of rice, the farmers of rice can buy up to 0.50 pesos per kilo of rice.
CWR insisted that aside from not helping, programs to ease the poverty was tainted with anomaly and corruption.
"Work is what the women need, as well as the best of the social service," Perez insisted.
Services not.

There is no sufficient work, poverty and hunger, poverty is still severe, such as education and health, the government wants to control the population as a response for the safety of the poor.
It is because in relation to this is the privatization of the 26 public hospital, including Fabregas), who is the primary hospital in Metro Manila, but it is also focused in controlling the population and use of the private clinic in order to improve the ability of 300 took place.
According to CWR, expenses for the health of every citizen is bigger than the support of the government for this, "Perez said that it is coming from the own pocket of the citizens, and it is brought to 60 percent in the health of the government, that is only being used for high points by the government.
"If it is not for 12 mothers who die every day, they are not going to make the cause of this but no one to step down to health services," said Perez.
Aside from service to health, women are also having a hard time due to the increase of oil price especially in the month of February, it has reached more than 100 percent in the price of LPG, due to the increase in the price of LPG.
Aside from this, the supply of electricity will be increased again (19 centavos in the month of March last March, as well as the water (P10.00 in Maynilad and P5500,000 on the next month.
The group of women insisted that the policy in the straight path of President Aquino is the cause of being a veteran tiger in the Philippines, but just for the big businessmen and foreign contacts.
Already having a hard time, abused.
"While many are hungry, struggling and unemployed, along with this is the increase of violence of women," Perez stated.
In the record of the Philippine National Police - Women's Month, the number of women being abused, according to the report of PNP, has grown up to the report of PNP, 14 women or children are becoming victims of rape or grave chest, while a woman or a child was hurt in every 34 minutes.
But it is said that the abuses done by the authorities of the state, particularly the military, where the CWR of 10 cases last 2012, most of those who were abducted by the CWR of a 21-year-old student was reported to have been raped by the elements of 25th Infantry Batallion in Masbate.
Aside from the abuse of the abuse, the primary women and children were experiencing the hardship and abuse of the military in their campaign against insurgency and development in Mindanao who were killed in the mining of the gigantic corporation of SMI, one of them were killed in the mining of the giant corporation of SMI, one of them were killed last 2012 because of the operation of military.

According to him, women and children are the holiest part in the time of calamity recently, in the report of the United Nations Office for CoCs) of Antartica in the ranks of the victims of typhoon Pablo in Compostela Valley and Davao Oriental.
"Even in our studies before, those women and children," says Jojo Guan, executive director of CWR, said that it is also a symbol of the negligence of the government of the Philippines every year, but we also know that it is more than ten typhoons passing by the Philippines every year, but we always have a surprise, "he said.
Guan added, "PNoy is saying that the people are his boss, but it's just a simple response to the victims, but according to the complaint of the victims, those that are lacking or those that are lacking or those that are lacking or those that are not coming from the secluded places, especially in secluded places.
That is why the women do not believe that they are proud of the best "Ipit Gang" which they will break it through their "epal."
