
I am a weakness.

Former Senator Joker Arroyo was laid in this form of Budget Secretary Florencio Abad's action to accompany his name to the senators who received pork barrel a few months after the impeachment court, former Chief Jus, Renato Corona, last 2012.
In total, the pork barrel that was released by the Palace to give as a reward to the senators who were fired from Corona is up to 1.7 billion pesos.
Joker got angry because he was not really touched by his pork barrel, since he was seated as a senator and even when he was still a representative of Makati City.
That is why Abad is really weak at his statement that Joker also accepted the pork barrel that reaches P47 million as a reward for the increase of Corona.
Joker was puzzled because he was with Senator Bongbong Marcos and Miriam Defensor-Santiago to vote in order not to oust the chief magistrate.
Last Saturday, Abad admitted to his press of the truth that the additional fund of the case was true, but he said, is part of the funds given by the senators so that the economy will improve.
This last when Joker found out that the reason why he was included in the list of given pork barrel is so that it can be washed, that it is one legitimate fund Disbursement Acceleration Program of the palace.
Thus, Abad is in danger of his position because he is likely to be charged with provide aid if it is proven that the additional pork barrel is from Malacanang.
And now Joker is now meddling and they are preparing that he has not asked anything like what he wants, it is likely that this issue will probably get bigger and more.
Even former Senator Ping Lacson was also proven by the first revealed by Senator Jinggoy Estrada that we had a bribe to ensure that Corona will be defeated.
Even though he voted in favor of firing, Ping said that he did not accept the offer of an additional pork barrel for him, Arroyo insisted that Abad can be charged because of the fallopian tube of the legislative chamber that caused him to undergo autopsy.
The question, what can President Noy Aquino say about this incident especially that the Palace knows something about this issue.
