
Teach the pork barrel scam and the policemen.

Do you think that you will lead the people in walking towards the truth about the controversy at the vandalism of them and their money?
This is the question, Bro, to the officials of the town that all the skin is taking advantage of the pork barrel scam in different parts to hide their involvement in it.
Included in the pork barrel is the Priority Development Assistance Fund, Presidential Social Weather Center, Disbursement Acceleration Program, of the budget and others.
Gloria Galla.
While the people in the palace is full of convulsion because of the alleged bribery and giving incentives to the congressmen and senators on his hidden wealth, they are teaching others that are happening while they are in their custody.
Aling Gloria is being picked up by the national budget through doing anything done here so that it will gather more than P1 billion that will lead to the protests or impeachment against him.
Aling Gloria allegedly offered his big money back then to stop the congressmen who will be impeached, and maybe they are still behind the defamation of the Tuwid na Daan.
No matter what is said, they have made a "tanim-bala" or exported while the hundreds of million pesos will be removed from the national budget and puts the hundreds of million pesos to the implementation of the project or program.
PDAF, DAP, "
While they are destroying Miss Gloria, they are still preparing for the Palace in PDAF and DAP, which is allegedly made up by the senators and congressmen against Corona.
Aside from the legal and legal process of PDAF and DAP, these are also used in real public service.
We did not make a post, they said, then wash your hands after Ponong Pilgrimage Site.
If there is already 10 percent only and not like 20 percent like the time of Miss Gloria, "they did not share to everything." Hehehe!
They asked for.
Aside from the exchange of stones thrown at them and washing the hands of corruption, corruption and reconciliation happen, those from the Palace, "those who were given DAP, are really asking for.
It can be recalled that Senator Bongbong Marcos and ex-Senator Joker Arroyo, who are fighting against the DAP, related to the impeachment, "they did not know.
Bongbong first responded to 113 million pesos which was used to replace him by Joker in P47M DAP that he had asked for.
It was said that the palace was just happy with them by the Palace.
Pres.
Because of the big doubt in handling the pork barrel, PDAF, DAP, and the budget of the past and currently in the palace, the palace is also in doubt of the Saligang Batas to P450 pesos of the Presidential Social Assistance Fund.
This is also included here is PDAF, which is forcefully given up by the Palace in the Supreme Court to issue a temporary restraining order against it.
Almost no one believes that Klay Thompson will benefit from the people, especially when the election is fast approaching 2016 which wants to be done by those from the palace.
The enemies of the Palace suspects that this huge funds will only be used for the politics and only consolation for the people to have the same for the people.
It is said that this is the same for more than P4.8 billion PDAF and DAP that was used against Corona for the impeachment case last month of 2012.
It was also used by P4.4B to spend for the senators and congressmen for the upcoming election in 2013.
Truth.
What is the truth now and who is telling the truth?
What's good is to listen to the voices of the people especially that the newspapers, broadcast media and internet will be free in the arrival of the different and negative comments of politicians regarding the foolishness of politicians and justice.
Whatever the people talk about, decision and action of the people, hopefully these can be followed by the authorities.
Police!
The policemen in the scene are not taking advantage again in the scene where the people will marry at the Tuwid na Daan, this is also what is happening in the ranks of the police.
Can you imagine that the chief of police are trying hard to look handsome for their reports about the crime in their jurisdiction.
"It turns out, what is happening is the opposite.
Sped away with the lightning.
What's worse, is that if only the police will be included in the report of the police and reports of the people about the police, the speed of police continued to respond to the crimes.
"Is it that at the time when the crime happened, the police were immediately there and they were quick in lightning.
What can you be expecting from the KCOP, sidewalk or capture P P, which will be six evidence and increase?
The name of the clear and real serving in the police is being destroyed.
