Patrolling, July 27, 2012.

Be arrogant.

Only hanger is not allowed to be fooled and are all negligent just to be fooled and are wise, but the intelligent people will be forgiven but never.

Make the act of forgiveness for each mistake and do not forget about the destruction they have done.

It is easy to forgive to know the poor that even if a wound is left, there will be a scar that will never admit and tell the truth about what he has done and the attitude of trust is impossible to happen.

To be victimized and hurt, this is just normal, if we continue to be sore when we continue to make mistakes.

Forgiveness is coming from the victim as long as you are in your heart, as if you are in your heart, it seems like you are a poison that is slowly being abused by you while those who have sinned will become poison and you have forgotten the incident.

If you forgive a person, you are removed the conviction for him, and be liberated from the worry that caused you to be done to you.

Until we did not leave the victim's feelings, we will stay in a quicksand of pain and rape for people who have seen us.

It is not easy to forgive anyone in need a lot of people who intentionally take self-control, and a long time for the more painful experiences, however, if we want to be peaceful, it would be the one to face our attention only on meaningful things.

We should avoid being attracted to those who are blaming, wrong beliefs, and many reasons why we have nothing to happen if we have no participation in our self - it is not going to happen if we have no participation in our self - this is for us to start the process of forgiveness.

I understand that it is hard to accept and follow the hands of those who have been victimized by those who were victimized by those who were victims of him, they do not know the simple way or things that can't be brought back to their peace.

I was able to talk about the conversation between Jesus and his disciples, Pedro, "I did not want to forgive seven times," at this point, she did not need to forgive those who have to count the number of those who continue to count.

Jesus also mentioned this to Pedro that forgiveness is peace of mind instead of hurtful words that we need to be peaceful from forgiveness.

If you will face the hardship brought by others, we need to continue to forgive and be freed from jail by worries and blind to revenge.

Many of us continue to fight for a long time, being a victim, shame, and fragrance of various regret on every day, every year, no matter of lending money and blaming others.

He made a lot of people close to the quicksand of repentance, pity for self, shame, rape, and continuous depression, and continuing to face the life, finally change, and use a peaceful life.

The ability to forgive is a sign of spiritual belief that can be considered as sudden.

While we are aging, our athletes are growing up what is right for the right fares to guide, but we can't be able to return to it, but we can be able to steal and face our tasks.

We do not do what we want, but we have a responsibility to who we are.

If there are questions, there are answers.

- the primary things that you did not do and interfere with you.

How many things have been done, "you will spend extreme regret and anger, within a year? Or more than ten years?

- what you are not able to do is coming out because of the extreme emotion that is dependent on your will about this issue?

Who is blaming anyone or what you are blaming for the failure to do what you want in your life?

What are the things or things that you have to do, you will not fail you, and you are sure that you will change your situation in life? And why you will not start it?

We are very important to forgive us from doing mistakes that we need to learn from mistakes and peaceful charges.

Success or failed?

Whatever it is, you are in your power to choose and this will be your fate.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.

Watch 31 for important issues.
His own tribute and study is strong.
