
Nunber 1244; while the pork: Education is different, health.

By P2,500.
SSeptember 27, 2013.

The government is challenging the Saligang Batas to the political services such as education and medical services, but the policy of the Aquino administration is to continue to raise the funds of said two service - and push them to the private sector.
If the number of the 2014 national budget will pass, the funds of the two mentioned service will increase, but if examined, the funds for these funds will pass through, it seems that education and health are not the priority of the Aquino administration.
According to the Sangguniang Liberal Party-list, it was said that the Aquino administration has no shouting for the Aquino administration for education, to 110 State Colleges and Universities (SUCs) in the country, around 79 square kilometers in spite of the said increase in budget.
Around Ph34.7-billion from the former PhP32.3 billion pesos will be received by SUCs from the country, based on the Department of Budget and Management (DBM), it is far from the PhP54-B which has been submitted.
Social activities under the head.
Plan well.
According to the Saligang Batas, I admire the population in budget for education because of the Roadversary for Higher Education (RL), which is the program of the Aquino administration for education.
Under the Rabies Day, the target of the government to protect them to push them to be self-free is sufficient in making the funds from the government to lessen and lessen the funds from the government.
"Under the RPHER, they are to be self-control (SUCs), they will take care of their own funds from the increase in tuition and other bills that is why what affects the schools, is still low," according to UN Representative Ansaruddin Adiong.
Aside from this, the Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Elections) is also there under the 2014 budget for SUCs, the PhP5-B is mentioned as "tanim-B, which is said to be considered."
There is questionable legality of Commission on Higher Education, similar to "social protection Package for" anti-bala "under the Pamana (an anti-bala" which costs Php P4-million, additional Sangguniang Kabataan.
Meanwhile, "the funds of the Department of Education increased to receive PhP337-B fund for 2014, but for the Alliance of a concerned Lord (ACT), this is still far for the needs of a high education.
According to ACT, up to an estimation of PhP44.6-B to meet the lack of canned goods, chairs, which can be reached 6 books / student), water and sanitation in school.
Around 2015.2-B is in order to meet the additional wage increase, an medical exam (P500 / teacher), a medical exam (P500 / teacher), which is an estimate of state of pension increase, and Collector Needitions of the teachers.
This would have been met if the pork barrel is direct on their education, according to ACT party.
PPP in education.
One of the questioning of ACT-mindedness of the government fund of Students, the Filipino in Private Education (RES), programs of the government to allegedly increase the public schools in order to transfer to private school to transfer to private school.
"It seems that he / she has a acting skills (this).
Those who are fond of Conditioning (CCT) and PhilHealth failed to give adequate attention to some of the poor, instead of giving enough funds to the public hospitals, instead of giving enough funds to public schools, instead of giving enough funds to public schools.
In the case of PhilHealth and those with disabilities, the funds of the government goes to private hospitals and school.
In the budget hearing in the legislative chamber of DepEd, Education (Francis Varillo admitted that it will reach the Philipines, Rep. Antonio Tinio who seems to be "private schools that seems to be" private schools that can be used by the funds of DepEd.
Castro said, that there is a public teacher in elementary school who can be able to help those who are involved in the public service, what is happening, is that it's too bad for them to get a student from the public transport, what is happening, those who are in school themselves will be given assistance. "
Part of the program Public Private (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act or PPP-Lakas ng Pelikulang Pilipino.
Budget for health.
DBM said, "the budget for the health of the Ph81-B.
"Instead of going to the hospital to give the funds, it is a big part of PhilHealth Command (Dick), all the citizens have (PhilHealth)," Gene Nawo, doctor and Vice-Chairperson of Health Organization (ALS).
Nesor also said that not all health services are in the jurisdiction of PhilHealth.
"Instead of service, it should be a priority and to allocate these big funds to public hospitals, to PhilHealth, this is not what it means, the health services are paid," he added.
While the fund for pork barrel is too much, every year he looks like a little begging for the public service to ask for funds.
