
The black Nazarene and the people will die.

The feast of the Black Nazarene is open in Quiapo, Manila.
Million people will surely attend the procession and the city of Manila will almost stop because of the severe traffic in its area like what happened in the past days.
But the people do not mind this with the belief that the Black Nazarene is a miracle and blessed.
Many believe that the Black Nazarene has a big difference with the people, especially for the devotees.
Benefit is the only ones to be the only ones.
Many politicians are going to go with the procession especially if the feast of the Black Nazarene is during the time of election such as 2013.
There are many butting in there and they want to be alone by the camera of Hamen to get votes from millions of devotees.
The former politician is a pro-god and it means that it will not be a thief if he is seated in position.
And if you are pro-god and "the candidate is not a thief, he may win in the election?
One is safe, one.
To the politicians who play in the feast of the Black Nazarene, we remember something, Bro.
"A politician with fear of stealing and abuse from his duty is what he is facing," one, raised the case while writing this.
There are two politicians who are millions but more than billions have been carried away by the people's money.
The question: Is it that the Black Nazarene is a friend of the Black Nazarene?
Which is why, one is lucky while a lot has been used to each other?
Oh no, forgive us, the Black Nazarene, they do not know what they are doing.
A gay.
One of the sure devotees and who will attend the procession is the woman who asked and was granted by the Black Nazarene.
A widow was a widow from the man who was killed inside a stab in Tondo, Manila.
While his three children are increasing, he is working as an accountant of a government agency.
Because he neglect his children coming in the age as a couple, he had a novena for nine days to the church of Black Nazarene Nazareth.
She asked a new wife who would understand him as a widow and will receive her children as a real child.
She almost turned out his knee to walk and walk inside the church.
Brother-in-law.
It did not last long, the response to the request of the woman who is a widow came.
One afternoon, he arrived from work, his young brother-in-law was carrying his youngest brother in-law.
He found his children cooked for dinner.
The days passed, his brother-in-law served as the father of the children.
He came back.
She went back to the Black Nazarene again because of fear of her chest happening.
She asked there if his brother-in-law is the answer to her prayers.
Again, one afternoon when she arrived from his office and was tired, her youngest brother-in-law called her to kiss her.
As gratitude, a widow was hugged by her brother-in-law and they already married their parents.
From then on, he was able to send the orders.
Until now, according to our UZI, I am not able to know the child of a widow.
They are all over each other and they love all of her brother-in-law.
Shootout.
Killings are severe now, wherever.
Last massacre, I mean suspicion, ehek, shootout where the incident happened in the province of Quezon the day before yesterday.
- 13 members of the Criminal Court and riding two motorcycles with a destination or victims were killed.
The attempt by the police to the place where the killed victims came from was right.
Scary.
While time goes by and days after the shootout, the deeper the case.
There are policemen who were killed by those who were killed, including a police officer.
There is a relative of a cabinet secretary who is a high official of the local government and there is also a member of the Intelligence Service of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.
In the end, the shootout where this massacre has become suspicious, whether it is a massacre or suspicion.
There have been some who started to believe in the intelligence report "of the police who suffered a checkpoint at a checkpoint by a gun-uppers right away.
Massacre!
Before the shootout happened, a massacre had a massacre in Cavite.
Just like what everyone knows, eight are dead and eight are wounded in the massacre made by two drug user.
"The gunman was one of the gunman while the one who was from a gunshot wound in a .45 in a caliber."
There are still many killings, Bro, like beheading, a Navy, and his companion of one applicants at work.
The killings of women and children are still different when they make sure that there is a drug addict and a blood pressure.
Of the Lord Nazarene.
Now, we admire the Black Nazarene to save us from the people who will die.
Hopefully, we will not be victims of the powder in the surrounding.
