It's also a reward.

A heavy and big responsibility is being part of the character of a person, and just like a minute, he is conquered by simple things, the teachers, going to share knowledge to a child.
It seems that his Filipina Maritess Enriquez who is an OFW in Cambodia, becoming a teacher and ensure that there is a quality that he gives to his students.
He is in Bicol, and he is just in the Philippines and he is already in the Philippines with teaching.
He was the first one who taught him and for two thousand a year, he served the knowledge to his students.
She is not in his plan to work in another country, but when they once visited her husband in the country Cambodia, they are convinced to find their fate there.
The opportunity arrived almost together for her and her husband, and that was the start of their residence while working in the said country.
According to Maritess, there is almost no difference from living here in the Philippines, from the climate, food, and even his teacher or a teacher.
In a university in Philipines, Penh, the first one who introduced himself.
"I taught" Build Brando University, to those who taught me to be with a federal law, because it is lucky that the background I can do is a big help here, "he said.
Despite of the other race he is teaching, and sometimes, he is having a hard time in talking to his students, he remained to have dedication in his profession.
It was in the year 2005 when Ma-fi was transferred to the school where she became the principal of an international school where he was called at Quzard International School, where he showed his ability not only in teaching but also in driving a school.
"I also had Chance to the principal of the international school for 2 years so that I am also beautiful here," he added.
Aside from the good salary that you are receiving, according to him, the dreams of Cambodians of teachers who are working there are high and it is one of those who are proud and gives inspiration to him so he can better do what he is taking.
Teaching and being a teacher is not a joke, this is like planting new knowledge in the minds of the children that you are teaching, those who can help in making their personality and they are going to face the path of being horny. "Your children, Are-raising, will be the will to be held in the country.
