Stress by Drilon and funds of PNoy.

Even if I will call the consecutive press of Senate President Franklin Drilon about the issue of burying Janet Lim-Napoles, which will be called by Janet Lim-Napoles, which is called by Senator Drilon who does not know Napoles.
When they went out of Sweety, he said he will just dominate "said," said by Prayes, "Monropha."
In some interview with Drilon, he said that he went ahead of his co-senators who said that the answer of Napoles is based on Privacy Law because it is sure that the subpoena "signed by Drilon made a lead to Miss Janet.
Prior to that, his refusal to expose Napoles's subpoena, and he asked for an advice from the Ombudsman who is holding the case because he is his ally and Noynoy Aquino, according to his ally, Boy Franklin Drilon.
That's why there will be no hearing in the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee on November 7, it is nothing, garbage and Moro and Moro brothers in order not to say that Napoles does not want to show up in the Senate and that is also no doubt that it will be blessed by Malacañang.
At first, Bakar 3 admits that he is holding the treasury of the country to ensure that not to be wasted, being spent on the "wrong way." He is holding the funds of the Presidential Social Assistance Fund, Priority Development Assistance Fund, PDAF, DAP, government troops of Ram Revilla and Bong Revilla which is in his hands.
In the calamities in Zamboanga City, Nueva Ecija, Bohol and Cebu - he assures that the funds for the calamity. Jilian was made to do, he said that the calamity funding went out!
Okay, just ignore it.
Just use the Malhmir region, Noynoy said, Noynoy said, he could not be touched it because for his program, former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo because he abused the funds of Malhmm, "right?
It would have been Very good thing, since the National Tristan (alia de Leon will speak to the Senate Development Coordinating Council, there is no evidence that he admitted that the funds of Malhmm?
"I thought no one will be blamed now, PNoy is saying that he is in control of all the funds but it is already nothing?
