
So by PNoy?, stinky water in Sta.

Well, this is like Lingayen Dagupan Archbishop Emeritus Oscar Cruz seems to challenge the ability and strength of President Benigno Aquino III in relation to the problems faced by the country, particularly on the issue about the P10 billion pork barrel scam.
Is there something impossible for Aquino to solve the problem based on its remaining time on his administration.
Because, only three years is left in his administration.
If that is the case filed against former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, there is still no result except for the forcefully filed case, this is even starting in the investigation?
Politics is really a different kind of politics in the Philippines.
The fight is really serious with politicians who are not allies of those seated or by the administration because it is certain that they will focus on all the scam even if it is from the allies of the administration.
Archbishop Cruz is really the right to belittled the ability of President Noynoy because there are many times when there are many instances when there are many politicians, especially if he is an ally.
There are still a lot of who will be hit if the investigation of the National Bureau of Investigation is really miraculous and that the politicians are really being choked by the politicians who are going to fight against PNoy in the coming election in 2016.
And most of all, it can be said that PNoy could take the fight if justice will be achieved by returning to the people who stole money from the public funds.

It would have been good for the service of Sta. Lucia was good to be sent to Greenground Executive Subdivision in Barangay San Mateo, Rizal because 24 / 7 will be the flow of water in the houses even if it is weak.
What's worse, is that it is not under the Manila Development Assistance Fund scam, if not in Sta. Lucia Realty Corporation, the water that the residents of the said subdivision will become dirty and stinky.
So, why is it that the water service in the subdivision is not allowed to leave.
It can be said that it is allowed to be washed and cleaning the car and things, the plants were filled with plants but don't drink because of the foul smell.
Even a worker who made a house can't work on the smell of many water.
Well, when Sta. Lucia will act in relation to the foul and dirty water?
If there is an unexpected event that happened, or if you get sick because of water, you need to take action! "Right now, when right?
