
Holy Spirit.

Holy Spirit.
And for the christians, this week is very important because we are commemorating the hardship experienced by the Lord Jesus Christ so that the people would pulverize or save the sin.
But it seems that the true meaning of the Holy Brigada Eskwela is gone, which is why it has been entered by the Pambansang Kamao so the announcement is like the "Ipit Gang" of the restaurant.
The Lentation will be fine with the expensive beach resort and other places to visit.
Some of the things that they are calling on are giving them a "roach of commodities.
There are different kinds of vows or belief on the Holy Brigada Eskwela every Friday when I welcome the cross of some influential people for them, the implementation of the cross is a holy task to imitate the Lord Jesus Christ.
Various reactions have been done by the vows that have been used in the grotto of Antipolo, as long as I became bloody with the whole body and others even though he was not directly opposed by the Catholic Church, he also did not agree.
This is also the time when many are "tanim-L." It is a severe discipline in order to refuse their self the things that are being done if not on the holy Week, forbidden foods, happy and many prohibited.
There are also many who are praying to the "Station of the Cross" and visit to different churches or "Visita Iglesia." Or the people who are believed to be wrapped by script of life especially those with severe problems or illness.
Other way we are commemorating the Holy Week, what is important is what is important is what is important is that there is nothing wrong if eating, together with the family in the restaurant, may be examined properly, hoping that there will be an implication in our faith.
We should also think that the Holy Week is not just the ban for self.
This is also those who are pushing and reminding us that the love of God for all of us is nonstop.
The Lord Jesus Christ offered herself.
The Holy Week is also a Sunday to ask for forgiveness from the mistakes that we have done to others and to God, and for forgiveness to the people who had a liability or sin to us, it is hard to do this especially when you have been keeping a anger or resentment towards people.
But it is the Holy Week that we can handle it from our feelings to ask for forgiveness and forgive.
To my followers I want to share to you, a short prayer I learned from the time of severe challenges in my life.
