
The religious group, the only ones who are the only ones of the Sultanate VTRIJ?

PNoy already made the transition team to manage the Bangsamoro Basic Law that in the opinion of most Filipinos, they have long been waiting for an argument in different problems that they want to call the Bangsamoro Basic Law in and Muslims in Mindanao.
It is the purpose of the said Bangsamoro Basic Law to exchange the RL-Illegal Drugs Act or Muslims in Mindanao and along with this is the dissolution of ARMM.
But it is only noticed that there are still many questions that may result to the said division of the Constitutional Commission or not, it is only time to tell which is right or wrong.
Have you think that at first glance, the goal of political will be good but this is enough to convince other presidentiable, like three lead and beneficial groups inside the region, including the Ulama of the politicians, Sultanate or clan?
On the part of the Sultanate which is included in the region, it seems that the government has a shortcoming, and give enough time for the content of the plans of PNoy and the MILF.
This is a sign of the attack of the Romasanta Army of the Sultanate of Sulu in Sabah, which according to PNoy is planned to sabotage the peace talks between the MILF and Golovkin.
It seems that the elders of the elders is deafening that up to now, their position is not heard in the peace talks which is the style of politicians who want to wait for the Seal "is a sign of being weak.
It is a bit noisy in the launch of their advocacy for ARMM, although they are considered that they are treated and ready to progress and succeed in other issues that can be agreed by both sides (GPhilippine and MILF).

Different kinds of political leaders have already started, especially for the very first time, the election of the region with the national and local elections in May 2013 will be good, but there is a province of ARNC like Basilan, Tawi-Tawi, Maguindanao and Sulu.
The night started to implement "last February 23, 2013 in the said province because of the threat of violence which could possibly spread because of the problem being faced by Coco deport of the scam.
There might be trouble in the coming February 28 because of the wild acts of many Lumad by the politicians, police, soldiers and other armed civilians who know that the authorities are not paid for the said day.
"It is all out war," the description of a mayor who does not want to be identified.
