"Based on the electricity supply in Mindanao, in favor of Sy's interest.

We will roll up the electricity industry in the hands of a few giant businessmen like Henry Sy of the plan to implement the plant in Mindanao.
This is the reaction of Kilusang Mayo Uno (equivalent) to the endorsement of President Benigno Aquino III for the private sector "to fulfill responsibility" by giving responsibility in Mindanao.
According to Elmer Liscano, chairman of Alunan, the businessmen like Sy (owner of SM) in Mindanao arrived in Mindanao upon arriving at Ynares, Transmission, distribution and increase of electricity under the Republic Act Number 36 or shape of Power Plant (WestMinCom).
The Arroyo administration passed the RA 9208 or Epperson in order to slow down the price of electricity in order for sure that there will be a bigger competition in the industry of electricity, but the opposite happened in the industry of electricity, which is nonstop and increasing in number.
In the release of Aquino, it is noticeable that the power of the electricity in Mindanao will probably give thanks to those who are like Sy which will increase in cases when he is detained, Liwag.
"Under one governance, the workers and the people of Mindanao will be able to find it hard because of the incessant increase in supply of electricity," said Liwag.
Sy is now the president, chief executive officer and owner of the National Grid Corporation of the Philippines (MIAA), a private company that is currently detained and assigned to the power Transmission of the country.
"Henry Sy's candidacy has no limit now that we saw this in the previous issue by fulfilling of the trees in Baguio and the long history of our laborers," added the leader of the worker.
Meanwhile, Senator Aquilino Pimentel Jr., Francis Escudero III, Sevidal of Mindanao Development Authority (MDA), and North Cotabato Governor Lala Tantio-Mendoza, for an appeal of false investigation in Mindanao is ongoing.
The Philippine National Transmission Corporation of the NGCP is also blamed for what caused a action of power in order to be encouraged to encourage more the privatization of the Aguire of Aguino, Manila.
Disapproves.
The removal of Aquino to the private sector that the electricity in Mindanao Power Summit in April 14 also gathered criticisms.
According to Gabriela Representative Edcel Lagman, "(Misibis) as the spokesperson of the President for the private sector who are also interested to buy the power industry of Mindanao," this step is not going to help if the poverty of the citizens of Mindanao will not help.
He added that in the present, Mindanao is one of the countries in the country that are not yet affected by the cities of Caraga (3.8 billion pesos in the region of Caraga (34.8 percent) and Zamboanga Peninsula (38.1 percent) and Zamboanga Peninsula (36.6 percent).
"Even in front of extreme poverty, Aquino still wants to release an additional money for the citizens so that this is not the reason why the expenses like infrastructures, and projects in energy," de Jesus also said.
Aquino said that the weather is already finished in Mindanao, and only the private sector will only be able to make the competing supply of electricity in the island.
In addition to this, the bills of the electricity will be increased slightly if those from Mindanao will not allow the series of brownouts to happen again.
"This is not just an issue of energy, this is also about the improvement of socializing and destroys work, and even in choosing the future of this country, it can be said that I left you in good hands," Aquino said to the contestants in the summit.
"Ikaw Lamang, junked.
The leaders of the militants are seeing, even the local leaders of Mindanao like Davao del Norte Governor Rodolfo del Rosario and ARNC Governor Migz Villafuerte), the ones who are planning to dismiss and protest against the cancellation of the cancellation of the Honor Code.
According to Bayan Muna Rep. Teodoro Casiño, the Aquino could make sure to join the private sector in the services of the electricity in order to favor "friends, classmates, and Kabarilan" of the President.
"We are looking for a few reports that Mindanao will be used in Mindanao's crisis to show up the profit from big power-ers ers such as Viterz Group, which if the DOE has become responsible in the administration," said Casiño.
During the time of the term of Pres. Corazon Aquino, pray as well as the model, and mixed with human beings which can make the profit of it as the owner of the power price.
According to de Jesus, if the President is confusing the resolution of the crisis, there is no other way but according to the Epperson.
"It is said that abandonment of Aquino) is to do all the hopes of the implementation of the privatization of it and independently, especially for the poor who do not even file for food three times in their table," said de Jesus.
