"There was still no exchange for Marikina.

Many of my neighbors agreed to transfer after the southwest monsoon.
They were extremely hurt in the three consecutive flooding within three days.
Perhaps there are also many people like me who live in the river where they left and left their house.
Good news is most of them, in Marikina to transfer to a higher place just like Marikina Heights, Concepcion Dos, Parang and Formanes.
Not because they are just near their job.
Their children are studying.
My former neighbors are in Ortigas, Makati and Quezon City going to their office so that they will go back to their office.
What is there in Marikina and did this not be left behind by the residents?
Marikina is known in being clean, orderly and disciplined.
And although we are not safe from the crime such as other cities in Metro Manila, we have a high crime rate and we remain in defending Police Station "in Eastern Police Department.
We went quickly.
In other tragedy, with the help of the national government units, other local government units, media, general public, we can easily fix our city after the calamity.
In Marikina, it is like you are in the city and in the province.
There are many opportunities to return properly but the course of life is slow here, all the people.
What if all the people are almost relatives here, especially those who are famous and legitimate, which is also from town and city proper.
It is very easy to approach our government officials like Mayor Del De Guzman, Vice Mayor Jose Fabian, Representative Miro Quimbo, and Representative MarayTeodoro, as well as councilor and captain.
Anyone knows that an ordinary citizen is easy to face, talk to and put their problem with the authorities.
In addition to that, Marikina is the most famous and most prominent force of the city hall.
He / she was moved to the department office, Homicide Section, his / her staff on Good Government and other public.
Service.
It is said that it is natural for her to be organized and hardworking that is why there are many progress and those who get rich.
What else would it be, "Marikina City, Marikina City, there are Marikina, park, Sports Center, alibis, and others.
I ask, if you are living in this city, is you going to transfer you back?
