Ao 31, the DOC.

Last October 1, 2012, Malacanang released the order to fix all the national agencies that their services are given to the people.
Some are trying to increase their order to increase the rules, including the fine of the violation of the citizens of the laws and the government and the agencies.
These will be conducted so that the funds of the national government will not be lessened and this is a bad effect of the funds for the government agencies.
It is the content of this policy of Administrative Order 31.
Complaint of the Aquinos.
Our laborers immediately complained and they said, this is a burden to them, to the people, especially until now, they still don't feel changes in their lives from public service.
It is said that the government does not do anything about their suggestions to ease their lives, even the briber is their situation.
Suggestions.
To have the contents, blood and bones are the lives of the people, the government needs to pay attention to many things that they are crying and have changes.
According to the crooked videographer, Bro, the big problem is said by millions of workers, more and more are more than the victims of fighting against trash.
The DOC or end of contract was called by their themselves by the victims of their noodle house when they saw them in factories, mall, restaurant and others.
That is why in the Philippine Airlines that being a newcomer is in danger.
There is a crisis in the DOC.
Millions, Bro, does not have the ability to build their own home because of the construction of their own home because even if they have not been paying in their own house, when the DOC has already arrived, they already went to their lack of monthly income.
Many of the DOC are only renting.
But just because they are going to sleep or renting, they get rid of their homes and are renting.
Hunger and foolishness.
Another severe effect of the DOC, Bro, the hunger of the families of the victims.
Let us imagine that the work is only for five months in the Holy Week, experience that time is long in searching for work than having a job in exchange for work.
The victims who are living in the stomach are not just hungry because there is nothing to buy noodles and 1 / 4 rice and one cup of sardines.
Here, here they are hungry, the laws are still stop going to school, money, money and the projects in school, ignorance and the projects in school.
It will not work, Bro, this kind of charity is of the Department of Social Welfare and Development of this because this is given to the prevalence of its 4Ps.
It is up to you to add to the meaning of DSWD's 4Ps.
