BBL is to be fought for! By Boyet Jihadist, June 27, 2016.
Exit of the Aquino administration has no plans to surrender and let go of the formation of businessmen in the middle of the call of businessmen in the middle of the call of businessmen at the start of the Duterte administration who will keep it as "DOLE-" and we are requesting the people that will just depend on the government.
Presidential Communications Office (MTPB) Secretary Herminio Coloma Jr. stressed that the implementation of the 4Ps or Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program is part of "social contract" by President Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino III for the people to be elected in the position last 2010 elections.
"From the beginning, President Aquino is still determined to have an anti-Poverty program, this can never be considered as an iron fist, it was only reached by, it took it and forget that it is not like that," Coloma said.
According to the secretary, it is thoroughly studied through the National Capital Regional Trial Court where they find out who is deserving to be a part of this program, second, they assured that they are going to be included in this program, and who are the members of the family, what are the age of the family.
There is also a relation with the condition, according to him, the 4Ps, where 85 percent of the students who will benefit from, should be vigilant so that they should be vigilant to make sure that they are going to be vigilant, and the mother of the CCT, who is pregnant, is going to have a few meters.
"That's why it is clear that it does not mean that it will not be caused by defense, and to prove that more, the program can be considered even more," the program's schooling of the family members which will be held up to high school, "Coloma said.
Coloma also warned that it is the obligation of the government to help the poor, not like businessmen who are only being focused on.
"Is it not a mission and duty of the government to give them social protection? Isn't it a mission and duty of the government to improve them from poverty?
Maybe that is what our members should know and understand and understand our members of the business sector in their picture of being an amount of debts., "Coloma said.
