Human rights, "Aquino's body, was criticized by the PKP has a gimmick.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 1, 2012.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines belittled the form of the Marcos regime of the so-called "human rights body," said, no one else but just a gimmick to make it look serious in defending the human rights while the armed agents of the state of human rights are ongoing.
Aquino announced the release of Administrative Order Number 35 last Thursday that was ordered by the building of a Inter Agency Committee (IOS) to bury the cases of the human rights that was sentenced to the human rights that the previous administration has committed.

"A desperate attempt to form a so-called human rights' body, so that there are some abuse of human rights in and outside the country because of the ongoing serious abuse of human rights in the Philippines and by the Philippine National Police as members of Iris," said the KP.

"This is the only thing it shows that IOS in the issue of resolving the featured cases of violations of the military and police along with the policies of the military and police together with the rules of the military and the past administrations."

"In the face of the brutal Oplan Galugad conducted by Aquino, a direct respect for human rights to the people."

"Aquino promised for three years to support the human rights such as others, Aquino failed to fulfill his promise, after three years in the process of implementation of the civilians in the process of implementation of oil under the Oplan Galugad of Aquino," said PKP.

"The armed forces are conducting the state of the massacre, to be able to arrest, violent, illegal drugs and other human rights in the implementation of the human rights in the name of peace and progress."

"On October 18, the soldiers of the 27th Southeast PA) massacred the three members of the Zamboanga del Sur, included in some other few weeks before it was shot and killed by the soldiers of the barangay captain, Ely OPLAN), and was beheaded by the soldiers of the 2nd Infantry Batallion in front of his house several hundred meters.

"The number of crimes being resolved by the cases of human rights under the Marcos regime, including the massacre to Atty. Leonardo Co and his colleagues in the north, Leyte last November 2011, the murder of Father Pops Tantangan last October 3, Pampanga and the massacre to the Mancera in Camarines Norte last February 25, 2012.

"All of this was dismissed by Aquino as the alleged propaganda of the Lef'," said the KP, based on his statement in a radio interview in New Zealand last October.

"Minoras and PNP so that it is good for the public to look at the public that this is serious with respect for human rights by giving birth to the anti-Filipino people taking care of those who are oppressed and being abused," said the KP.
