
There have been successive operations conducted by the Jose Rapid Command - Masbate against the elements of the expulsion of military.

Gregorio and NDF-NDF.

There is 15, 2012.

The reports of different parts of the Bugnay in the region.

It was killed in the operation that the Jose Rapisora, of the Botchok (Masbate is one of the active elements of the 9th Infantry Battalion who was identified as Pacu ico, Boy "Tuwid na Daan" this May 14, 2012 in the morning in Bgy. Polong, Mobo.

Boy Abunda is an avid reader of the operations conducted by the AFP and the construction of the group of important rebels against the units of Botchok in the town of Mobo and after it was transferred to the illegal elements of the AFP and PNP, which is a long time for the Bibot Domingo in the island of Ticao Island, Masbate.

The killed was identified as Joseph Letti and a caliber .45 pistol and bullets were confiscated from him while Letada was drinking in Barangay Talisay, San Fernando, Masbate.

Letat was the one who taught and gave the troops of PNP-RMG that resulted in a long and bloody fight, they burned the 15 houses of the civilians, and some of their pet animals and other stuff, and the many people were evacuated in the area.

On the past April 23, 2012, around 4: 00 in the afternoon, the operation of the Botchok (IED), Bgy. Maravilla, Bgy. Maravilla, Palimpinon, Masbate, was killed in the said operation, Aldrin Areza, Masbate, and a caliber .45 gun and bullets were confiscated from him.

Areza al is known as a leader of the called GROs), a mysterious group of big politicians in the third district of Masbate and involved in many cases of hold-up, robbery and murder.

Last April 21, 2012 at noon, it was killed by the Bables as one of the operation to be an avid element of the AFP in Bgy. Naguirangan, Esperanza, Masbate.

The military has too much regret for the death of their agents with the robbery which is the reason why it was granted a 21-wheeler truck to the military on the day of his burial.

On April 28, 2012. Albay was ambushed by one Tim Orasa Command of the Santos Binalungan, Brgy. Kajatian, Brgy. Pinagwaraan, Albay due to the critical condition of the military and the military and the military against its operation against the Bastes.

The worst crime was his infidelity to the revolutionary movement and temper of his companions, praying for the two cases of the BHB) which resulted in the death of a red pickpocket which resulted in the death of a red pickpocket.

Last May 11, 2009, it was asked for the military to be imprisoned by the military in an operation of the Bastes in Bgy. Del Rosario, Joweelyn Jumilla, Albay on September 24, 2009, which resulted to the death of the civilians, Ka Santy, Albay last September 24, 2009.

Voluntarily prayers, is the former member of the BHB) to surrender to the American military and became the spy and asked for the operations conducted by the AFP against the Bastes.

April 25, 2012.

The more than 100 people are benefiting in the free treatment of Botchok (HB), free peace and thanksgiving to the people of the masses and their armed forces in the advancement of Filipino towns in the area.

On April 8, 2012. Sorsogon was disappointed by a family member of the BHB) under Celso Mabalaca), the treacherous attack of the 31st Infantry Battalion in Brgy. Salvacion, Magallanes, Sorsogon last April 8, around 6: 35 in the morning.

The red warriors are resting when they found out from the 24 soldiers of 31st Lieutenant Shelina Calumay, who was left hanging and killed in the area on the other hand, one soldier was left in the said fight but was hidden in the public by his genitals.

March 26, 2012.

Pfc. Edel Longon was dead and wounded from the thighs he was hit on the leg, the soldiers were on their way home from a few days of military and riding a truck when they fired at the red yacht he was not able to block the red pickpocket.
