
Price of shoes.

In every gathering today, whether a government or an ordinary citizens are talking, we cannot take back what is happening in politics.
The appearance of Janet Lim Napoles at the Senate in November. 7 is still being investigated.
The speech of President Noynoy Aquino's speech to explain the position of the administration is also given different reactions on the current administration of DAP, and PDAF.
In all of these, there is a question - what is the good thing caused by all of these to the country.
He probably can answer anything.
All are waiting for the outcome.
Is there clear that proven guilty?
Does something be liable?
Will the process of pork barrel or true that he is gone and will not be returned again?
But some are saying that a good caused by a few.
For example, recently, a popular news on the current vote of the government of the shoes for the soldiers should be released.
According to the report, P2,800 oil price that was given by the Philippine Army for the price of a pair of Army groups will increase.
Also according to news report, there is a price of the same shoes that can buy at the amount of 850 pesos per bait.
The size of a mental!
The said report also has information that there are beautiful kinds of Army and supply of American soldiers but almost half of the price.
Together with almost the news about the shoes, the office of Senator Chiz Escudero, who is the Chairman of Committee on Finance in the Senate, said that the agency of the government might be required to put the details of their spending on the people's money in their website.
Does this mean the expenses of every agency will be seen even if it is right and for the benefits of the country?
"It is okay for example, now, the price of shoes will surely stop for Filipino soldiers.
Think about it, if you will buy more cheap, then a lot can be bought.
This might be the result of all the chaos in the government, right to correct, many work and so that the country will benefit more.
