
Pass the RH bill.

In many times in the past days, I wrote about this column about supporting the pending controversial Reproductive Health bill.
While it is not for a long time, the lives of many mothers and children who are carrying in the womb are continuously in danger, not safe and difficult to be a mother in the Philippines this time.
This is true especially if a mother is included in the ranks of poor and ordinary citizens.
What's more painful is that the people, particularly the showcase of Roman Catholic Church, are becoming an obstacle to make the women in the country be safer and comfortable.
It's because it's for the church to oppose the proposed Reproductive health bill that according to them is against their belief that all life is given by God.
It's because the priest believes that the controversial bill will be the way to take the lives of the baby in the womb of their mother.
The priests are afraid that because of the RH bill, the youth will be more aggressive and will reveal the tasks that have sex, having sex even if they are not yet married and not in the time of pregnancy.
And to prove that they are decided to stop the passing of the RH bill, the catholic bishops conference of the Philippines has already been preparing to have released a cauldron containing the lawmakers who supported the controversial proposal.
Despite the strict objection of the church, I believe that there is nothing wrong with the RH bill and instead, it will help for the goodness of women who are Filipina.
It is the purpose of the RH bill to have women to choose the right number of children based on the ways they will use in the economic Planning.
They can also make the ways to take care of themselves during the time of their pregnancy.
They will also be given support for a safer release and how they will take care of and will be raised by their children.
That is why the lawmakers who are pushing the RH bill should not be afraid even if the citizens are planning to call for them not to win in the coming election, and they already know what is right and wrong, so they already know what is right and wrong, which is why they already know the call of the church.
Especially the lives and welfare of the mothers and their children are at stake, from God and not to the priests who want to be suppressed.
