The 119th Independence Day ": The visitor of PNoy in the US, a visitor from the employer.

It is exposed that the current administration is already exposed, the current Aquino administration is still following the orders of the US government.
For the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), it is obvious in the recent visit of Pres. Benigno Aquino III in the United States (US) in the West Philippine Sea (South China Sea) that they are going to help at the Philippines' territory at Clark, Pampanga and Subic, Zambales.
This only means, according to Bayan, the Aquino administration has given the intensified operation of the military of the US to the Philippines.
He is already fed up!
"According to the country, the government of Aquino is doing everything that he wants to be" the US "of the US for showing power; a Catholic Church for its show of power; a Catholic Church," Renato Reyes Jr., the general secretary of the Bayan.
Although he is worried because the Independence Day of the country on June 12 is getting nearer, the incidents like Aquino's visitors in the US are just reminding the US to remain in the game in Asia-Pacific, "said Reyes.

For the Bayan, it is not acceptable to what the Aquino administration is saying to help the Philippines from the said threat from China, that even though the US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is clear, the US is considered a larger part from China, that is why the war in China will not allow the war in China for now.
It is saddening that the government of the Philippines is sad to look at the same interest of the US and the Philippines, this is not going to happen when the US wants to be the number one power in the Pacific economy and military while they are still trying to insist that there is a low economy, "said Reyes.
The US is focused in Asia.
It can be seen on the statement of the officials of the Obama administration which aims to strengthen the influential military in Asia-Pacific to contradict the stronger influence of China, not to protect the interest of the "allies" like the Philippines.
The civilians and military officials of the US government are currently looking at different countries in Asia-Pacific to ask for support from the increase of the influential military of the US in the region.
Last week, US Defense Secretary de Leon said in Singapore that the 60 percent of the entire armed force will be placed in the Pacific Ocean, which is currently around 50 percent "by the Naval Forces, in Asia, and 50 percent are in the region of the DOAtsuko NJ.
Pantukan was also went to Vietnam recently to request the armed ships of the US in Cangaron, Bay, former Naval Forces of the US in the height of the US in the midst of the price of the US in the said country (which is better known as "Vietnam Expressway).
On the part of the Philippines, aside from the coming of Aquino to the US, one after the visit of officials of the US in the country last month, he visited and met with Aquino and in the leadership of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), the chief of Joint Task Force (AFP).
Last January 26-27, 2012, Washington DC was held in Washington DC the second "medical exam" between the officials of the US and the Philippines before this, last January 3, 2012, which was announced by the officials of the US for its troop in Asia.

"Sevidal,"
For Reyes, the Aquino administration is a very big hypocrite in accepting said military aid (from the kind of new military hearing (from the rise of the military from the US, while it is also clear to condemn the threats of China in Spratings and Scarborough Shoal in the West Philippine Sea.
"There is no change in the way of Aquino to bringing the foreign policy of the Philippines, he continued the tradition of the Philippines and the US, we will progress in the belief that we will progress as a country in front of the embassy of the US last June 8.
Militant groups marched in the leadership of Bayan last June 8 in front of the embassy of the US to condemn the official visit of Aquino in the US, together with the International League of Peoples' Gapos Gang "in the office of Aquino in Washington DC.
