
Marina, was held at the Filipino seafarers were held in the city of Butuan; Caraga Region.

June 27, 2016 Jennifer P. Guna.

Butuan City, June 27 (Pia) - together with the celebration of Sinulog Day here in the city this Saturday, was identified and given tribute and contribution to the country of Filipino seafarers here in the region.
According to Marwan, Caraga Regional Director Engineer.

Carpio Carpio, the said celebration, based on the Presidential spokesperson of 183, signed by President Benigno Aquino III last June 3, 2011, it is just right to identify and give tribute to the profession of the seafarers in different countries that also have a big contribution in the economic growth of the Philippines.
Director Carpio also added that there are more than P3 million seafarers were recorded last year 2015. 30 percent of this are Filipinos.
"Our Filipino seafarers are really a big contribution in the progress of the economy in our country," said Director Carpio.
In the interview with Luis Salarda, an Overseas Filipino Worker, which was not a joke, and they were able to pay for their job, and he was able to make it free for his family to give a good life and the future of their family.
"We were able to pay for the homeowner and we throw at our jobs well because it is also for the country and to our family," according to Salamda, "according to Salamda," according to Salarda, "according to Salarda," according to Salarda, "according to Salarda," according to Salarda, "according to Salarda," according to Salarda, "according to Salarda," according to Salarda, "according to Salarda," according to Salarda.
"I had a long time dream of seeing the Naval Forces, that's why I also get an ally, BS Information Transportation and I want to serve as vice presidency since the time I want to reach the different continents in the world," said Simeon.
It was also found out that in a short program in the said celebration held in Rodriquez where in the city, the Carine seafarers were given different ordinances together with their families.
