It is an estimation of the report that it is not yet received from the barangay that it will not escape from a long vacation for it to be free for the children and for the children's troops that are pointing at them.
Trap.
And then, until he / she was only up to his severed head by a barangay earlier this morning, I was only here for the victims of what they were doing.
And then, until there are already old people who, as long as they want to enter a debate in the center but it's too late for you to enter a debate in the center but it's too late for you to get clothes in a debate in the center but it's too late for you to get the authorities in this last night.
Joel has Zak.
They are five.
They are the only ones who do not really have children.
It's a news that you are the guards of the authorities on the ocean, if it's my father who is my father, I can see that there are many fathers who are roaming around the barangay, which is why the authorities have grown up in the barangay for two days before the authorities have undergone the investigation.
Which was caught yes, isn't it that, there are people who are looking, on the September twenty-NPA, we were talked to by some of our co-workers.
Why?
?
It will be repeated yesterday morning when the number of fish that was given by the students can be seen, that it is sure that this is the nose, no one is getting dressed in the way home so as not to pay attention to what I said.
I told him that what you did was intense here, the authorities did what they won.
Because he / she said that he / she thought that they are praises for them from my friends whom they buy.
Door.
The people of the two.
Week of the year in the span of every week, they went down and went down to a fishing boats so you are still talking to someone else.
You are just alone.
Talk to him.
Given.
According to me, he said.
Because those who are annoying so he / she says that you have a job, only have a job, to look at least have a job.
I do not know that I have given that.
Here, they are asking about the small voices that you have to consider human rights to them.
Let us see something that is why it is going to be ve.
Bicol!
Who was texting, then, as long as they go straight.
Because the price of nothing will happen here in the span of ten up to the system that you are doing here is guarding the troops of the government to find those left members of all books that's why he himself is also hiding here in the resort.
Yes, June, only when they are looking for a few million pesos, we are looking for a few million pesos.
And then she feels that the covetous of us is the covetousness of us.
What is happening here in the city is that he is saying something that he is talking about one another, he said that, in the province of Zamboanga, he joined the things we are saying now inside a month.
I also have an intensive care; as long as I heard that you are still holding a protest that will be held in the remaining Emperor Hacader.
Your officials should not be able to get it with the authorities, there is also the primary reason why Valerie Weigmann is going to go to the birthday of Valerie Weigmann.
Because he does not want to get hurt, he / she does not want to get hurt even if he was still taking a bath.
What we are looking for is small but it was just earlier when we went there in Zamboanga police, there were those who were caught to have been caught by those who were caught to get those who were caught, who were caught by those who were caught.
We have heard that, we have heard what is the name of the review of negative comments being thrown in Cavite in the province, that is why it's not really being said that there are people who are going to pass here in Cavite in the province, that's why it's not true that he came from the group of times in the province, one night, including the company of the book.
