Spy on PNoy's Day of PNoy By Rey Marchil on May 6, 2016.
While the conflict between El Niño will become heated with politics because in the election, President Noynoy "PNoy" Aquino will just go to work in order to add good projects and programs to leave his leaders with his boss who are Filipino people.
In fact, one important bridge was given by PNoy in Pamplona, Cagayan, which are beneficial for those traveling in Cagayan, Cordillera, and Ilocos Region.
Aside from the construction of the new bridge, preserve the bridge that became weak at after a long time - the bridge or road started by the local government in the National Transformation Council, this is one of the many projects which was started by PNoy in the province, but it was only one of the major projects that was started by PNoy, but it was not done or finished because of the lack of funds.
But because of proper governance, the proper use of money of the country and improvement of the economy, the Aquino administration had enough funds to execute the projects which were not done by the former leaders of the country.
What was thought before that the bridge in Tuao, Cagayan is impossible in relation to Cagayan Valley Region and Cordillera Administrative Region (car), particularly the provinces of Kalinga and Apayao, were able to do and put in the Ninoy Bridge.
As well as the toll bridge in Isabela that 20 people are in the plan, but even the Aluling Bridge in Ilocos Sur, 35 years in the plan and now is the scheduled project of LRT-7 that can be held in Quezon City until Bulacan.
Despite the negative news that can be seen on social media, you cannot take the truth that PNoy is able to get back the right and good governance of Aquino, that is why there became more positive and high-mindedness of our country.
Why is it not, from 1999 to 2009, only about 4 o'clock in the Philippines is only around 4 o'clock in the Philippines, but under the management of PNoy, from 2010 to 2015) and probably until 2016), GDP of the Philippines is at 6 percent.
Experts believe, we may reach 7 percent if there is no severe calamity in the country like typhoon, earthquake, chaos in Mindanao, and now is El Niño.
Because of the strong foundation of PNoy to leave the next leader, expect that there will be a better government that will come upon the next president, and if he can continue the good governance and trust of the international community, it is possible that in his term the full flow of progress will happen.
