
The people are stubborn "and Binay will get involved in gambling.

Aside from "" epal "" named Vice President Jojo Binay's name on social media, he even dragged his family on the issue of "political dynasty."
But this is not the end of "calvary" against the dream of since then of the president of the country in 2016.
Because the residents of Bangkal, Makati already believes that if they will be president as well as well as the president, Toto Lacson, gambling in the entire country.
According to our Avena, in 2016, they are expecting this bill: "Cjoin again in Makati, hopefully in the whole country!"
In fact, according to the Akamai says, it is one of the GL. "Binay's" relief goods "by Binay, who had the names of the vice president and sent to Leyte!
Just a few moments, why is it that Makati City Police Chief Senior Superintendent Manuel Lupit, Jr. is just quiet despite the increasing gambling of Lacson?
Shh, he will be the general if he is a president, since then is indeed, hehehe!
We call DILG Secretary Mar Roxas, even you, sir, is also afraid of Binay?
Before you dream of Binay to become president in 2016, we should help together with the gambling of Toto Lacson!
Noguna!

The collections of all fallopian tube of his grandmother and a grandmother!
Only a few of them were called by Senator Juan Ponce Enrile by Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago.
Lagrao, Mamoy, seems to be ready, "as a sign of salt from the left and right," grandma. "Hehehe.
The said "speech" speech was as revenge for the first attempt to beat him by grandmother, the "brain" of the war in Zamboanga and the Priority Development Assistance Fund scam.
She is hesitant, grandmother is expected to answer on December 4 for her grandfather's harassment.
And it is expected that, if the two elderly does not stop it, it will surely continue their sour-ehek!
And of course, in every gathering of two consecutive days, they are being spent on the tax of the people! King-mother!
It is really difficult to vote for the gateway.
What's worse is we have no idea, that grandmother is getting angry, grandmother and older brother, haunting, hak, hmmmp!
I will stop it, you hope you are just an example of the young senators!
They are stubborn.
