The author as the author of the Joe Burgos.

For the late Joe Burgos, the author is always scheduled to arrive because the news is always in a hurry to take a report because the country is not running out of problems.
There are problems at manipulating people, there are issues that do not end up, with their contact numbers to be examined so the news is not lacking.
Often the call on the truth will be on your side, even if the meaning of this is different, but what is the truth, sometimes, the opposite is the opposite of those in power when they follow the situation of those who are deprived of power.
At the time when the statements of an opponent will have a connection with the statements, the Joe Burgos should be better to make a stand in order for the public to know the examination of the issue.
Let us end the pretenses that will not be on the side of the Black Nazarene, who believe in the concoction, which is only being used by the people who want to maintain the political order, because they are the primary root of the situation there is no wide call to change the society.
What should be done on?
Through the information, the data of the report can be measured by the process of waking up, that is why we can see the sensitive characteristics of the Joe Burgos by the information that we see, the data is wrong if the data is wrong or not careful when the data is wrong.
To be effective in reflect, there is a need to understand the advancement of the highest standard of profession, it is clear that the commandments of the world is clear and it will only happen if the Pambansang Kamao has sufficient data and examination of the product of proper research.
For the mayor, the resolve of the Joe Burgos, a process of gratitude that needs to be shared to the wide citizens, his immediate resolve will be noticeable in his research of data.
For the late Joe Burgos, the research must be a simple event that can be put in the end, which is the important thing that has a connection with the issue, and the serious topic has a deep tone, while an effective topic has been reported in a proper topic when the tone is being reported in the way.
It is practical to be practical when she knew that the total condition of the society has been practical because there is a length of news in print, radio, television and online. Even if it is said that the news is not effective if it is too long, if it is too long.
In this situation, the challenge to the late Joe ta is noticeable through using short words, sentences that may be more important in choosing the angle in a protest against ordinary citizens, what is more important is the exchange of words between ordinary citizens?
There is a saying in English: "A journalist, which is why it is appropriate for the public to follow this issue, but instead of giving information on the issue that he attacked, instead of revealing the information, he just thought about giving information, what he thought is to give information, what he thought is to give information, what he thought is to give information, what he thought is to give attention to the colorful words and coercion.
It was noticeable that a sign of gathering the news about the rape incident was noticeable, instead of being examined by the women's situation in a civilized nation's situation, they choose the rape in a way of telling the details of the crime.
This is what's being given attention to via via in the news that, for example, instead of discuss the increase in the price of oil in the rules of the public service, it is not important to get the reaction of ordinary citizens (who is called by an ordinary citizens (in a Street interview "), it is just being used as an additional details (if ever there is a space in the news).
It is really important to take your duty well because you also need to remember the ability of your Joe Burgos to be in favor of the opinion of real public through meaningful information.
For the late Joe Burgos, the meaningful day is for the nipple and to be meaningful, he needs to stand up.
