
DUTERTECATECAYETANO) Parañaque.

Senator Alan Peter Cayetano is in full opinion in 2016. This is noticeable from the actions of the mother of Taguig because, aside from being riding on the issue, he is always preparing the entire country.
Even his personnel are being monitored in focusing on the campaign of Alan who is his wife, Taguig Mayor Lani because he is decided to run for a higher position in 2016, especially that many of his colleagues in the Senate are said to have been broken or to the public.
Even the reconciliation with the Binay on the issue of Fort Bonifacio is obvious to have been taken away from the side of the two politicians because they notice that they are going to be affected by the people in arguments in the issue of The Fort Bonifacio, which the money that they are going to go to places in the said place of fear.
The people are puzzled as to why Mister Alan will get stronger when he said he is getting the discomfort of the position because of the issue of spend or money, but it is said that the majority leader of the Senate would be different since they were able to hold the highest position in Taguig.
"That is what we will monitor because it is possible that Taguig will do the opportunity to vote for his dream of position in 2016.
Um!
Who is alias Jojo Binay, who is part of Mayor Edwin Olivarez, if our worry is right, one Jojo is also the one to ask the former Parañaque City Mayor Joey Marquez.
In the issue of releasing Thy.
It is said that this is the discussion now in Parañaque because if Jojo is only a child now by Mayor Edwin Olivarez and Marquez, it is possible that the current mayor is going to go to the Ombudsman.
It's because we also have news that he has put it to a former city mayor in northern part of Metro Manila, that is why they charged a case in the Ombudsman because he could not be able to make the corruption in the Ombudsman because he could not make it and use this to the influential of computers.
"That is what we should wait for because Olivarez will possibly be involved in it.
