
Reporting, Pia and Loren.

I do not personally know Senator Loren Legarda and Pia Cayetano but I cannot pay attention to the good things they are doing as lawmakers.
We prioritize Senator Pia who has proven that he is worthy to be seated in the Senate and he is not only elected because he is the son of the late lawmaker, Senator Rene "Compostella Valley" Cayetano.
Just an example during the impeachment trial of former Chief Justice Renato Corona where the people saw the clear and orderly way of his interrogation to know what is really true.
As a woman, Pia is also known in defending the rights of his co-workers and he became more seen with the Reproductive health bill to sleep in Congress for more than 13 years.
Despite the criticism and defamation made by those who are against the proposal, he did not make it down until he finally passed and approved on the federal conference committee of the Congress.
Pia is not able to go out of the Catholic Church because of the zealous campaign of the senator.
On the other hand, I am also impressed by Sen. Loren because she has shown a lot of opportunities for her idol.
The words of climate change, global warming and other term about the climate and nature, Loren is first active in warning about the threats of the continuous abuse of people in nature.
In other words, he is the pro-Added Tax which has been a long time before this is understood by many of our countrymen and even officials of the government.
Not only about the environment is his advocacy but also the welfare of women and other Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs).
And the last thing he did to call my attention is when he called for President Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino III to sign the law about the expanded Anti-Illegal Drugs Act which can be given protection to the women and youth against human rights.
The law is timely because of the severe tragedy caused by typhoon Pablo in a big part of Mindanao.
There are times that these are the ones who are taking advantage of human traders in order to get their victims their things before they get into danger.
It is just right that Loren and Pia will be blamed for what they are receiving through their actions which is not a waste of time when they are going to live in the Senate.
Unlike other male senators there who do not have anything but also a nagger and have high voltage of electricity in the Senate.
