
Chief of Caloocan Police, traffic.

Here is a protest against Senior Superintendent Bernard Cajiyang, chief of Caloocan City Police.
That's why it's only right that Mayor Oscar "Oca" Malapitan presented because they have one direction: The city will be in order, even if it will be peaceful and more progressive.
It is certain that there are still a lot like Colonel Antonio Tobias of the ranks of Philip-Philippine National Police, who are really loyal and honest in their duties but we cannot help but give attention to this official.
It is not just one but two times to be watched by your own father on how to set a good example, Colonel Ti-bong Marcos in his jurisdiction.
It will really make your mind and give inspiration to others to see him who is going to fix the flow of traffic in the main roads in the city, especially at Monumento Area and Samson Road.
It is just because the traffic problem in areas because of the said incidents are too much because of those mentioned, it is no longer necessary to fix it by other traffic enforcers, he himself went out of the traffic which is truly amazed by the motorists and even jeepney and bus drivers.
Even your servant is a witness to being a traffic, Colonel Antonio Tobias, which is really focused in fixing the flow of traffic, "he did not mind once to contribute, and the weather suddenly gets hot.
"He does not care, and he is there in the middle of the road as a traffic," isn't it?
The truth is, "he is one of those who are calling me to witness my witness to witness him, because it has reached us that he is really being questioned, Colonel Antonio Village at work.
He wants to have a result immediately that is why if he knows that his personnel will not be able to meet, he will immediately act promptly.
It is also found out that Mayor Orca is coordinating with him during the height of the southwest monsoon and typhoon Maring while they are low in flood, together with other local officials, so that they will have to give relief goods to thousands of families in evacuation centers.
We can say that Mayor Orca is lucky because there is an official in the city such as Col. Ferdinand Topacio who is sure to stay good for the order of Caloocan or Colonel Antonio Ugay, because there was a mayor who also decided to give assistance and all out of the police.
But the clear win and lucky are the entire city and the citizens are lucky because they will surely end up well at night because it is certain that their place will always be peaceful and it will surely be progressive because there is Colonel Senares?
Of course, and wherever they will not be successful in their mission, if they will only take action, they need the support of all, officials and employees, barangay leader and the entire citizens of the city.
Gross!
