
Celebration of the criminals for the ILLIM for Purisima.

While the whole country is busy in focusing on the attack of Moro National Liberation Front in Zamboanga City and the pork barrel scam involved by Janet Lim-Napoles and our courageous lawmakers, almost no one has noticed the tragic massacre in Angeles City, Pampanga this past week.
The heinous murder of the 25-year-old executive executive, who was identified as Renante Redoble Jainism, and other tragic crime happening in our country due to the failure of the Philippine National Police under the leadership of Director General Alan Purisima.
It seems that our countrymen are not noticing that the worsening traffic in our country continues.
The criminals who spread terror in our community are becoming stronger.
A few days have passed, the thieves entered the house of one of our co-workers and took the expensive things.
It is good that their rooms have not entered their room because it might lead to a tragedy like what happened in Angeles City.
It is as if theft is also the cause of the massacre at the L and S Subdivision in Barangay Tantangan, Angeles City.
The victims were identified as Nicolas Egiddy, 42; and his wife, Corazon, 47; son Kenneth Nolan, 19, and their three housemates.
The family Eve er is known in their community because they naturally do this, which is why many regret what happened to their family.
Even more, the truth became more than the criminals to bring weapons and conduct a crime while the citizens have no other thoughts but to defend their safety.
Can the mad officials in the PNP think that they will be able to fulfill their duty well, instead of putting the civilians following the law, they will only be sent to by armed criminals, including those who are members of armed groups, like MNLF?
Why are we people who are ready to spend for thousands of years to have a permit that a gun is being carried by our own government because of the twisted mind of people like Purisima?
Why are we being mistreated and not these criminals?
It is hoping that the administration of the PNP will be tainted and carefully analyze the rules of the civilians, whose only wish is to have their own protection for their livelihood and loved ones.
Maybe it should not be worried for them to be Standard Lunch Program and many of the victims of the crime should not end up in their tragic end, if the PNP already has the ability to defend our people.
