Kristine, a good mother, according to Bossing!
By Jun Nardo, Rose Garcia June 15, 2016, Bossing will also be with her daughter-in-law, Kristine Hermosa.

The actress became a young lady with Enteng Kabisote that's time, in the TV that she can see the wife of her daughter Oyo, she is also the one she can see in the TV but to the Kapuso network she is very shy.
"Liezel is very happy because I have mentioned it earlier, I know he really misses his job.

He really misses a lot of songs.
"But since he has a family, she will also make sure that his priorities will be seen on the Priority Development Assistance Fund), okay," I still want to live-up, dad, but I do not want to stop when she is crying. "
"He's because he's the type of actress who was able to bring home to the house" when she was too late, she did not want to bring him there and until he / she doesn't want to bring him there, her relationship with her husband and her mother will be affected.
"According to the point, even if I really miss you so I said," Comedy agrees, "yes, dad, dad," she agreed to be his father again (Pauleen Luna), when she will become a father again (Pauleen Luna)?
"Me?

"I try to try it," that will come and it will come "in God's time," the reason of Vic. Anzon, since Sunday, June 19, the Hay Bahay!
Kristine, cried on the first day of taping!
Four-month-old Kristine Hermosa in their 14 son of Oyo Sotto said that he has long been doing a project that he can do, but he is not the masses.
ABS-CBN has told her that she could not feel it so she is happy with her husband, Vic Sotto, and her husband, Vic Sotto, and besides, she has long wanted to joke.
In Oyo's part, he will not be with his father in a sitcom.

Daddy was also separated for several times when I was married to work when we were married in real life, of course, I am happy because we are together in the house, even at work, we are still together.
"He / she told her children to the house because she was not used by the children that she is not used to that she is not in the house." When we learned that she was crying and crying, that is why she went with me.
Upon us and Kristine, they say that their children are not just crying, even if he / she says, she cried when Miss taping she said.
"Separation pay," Kristine said.
"Of course, the new Adora is a new partner but," like Oyo, "like Oyo, she said she has no problem with John-in-law, and she does not have a problem with Kristine for his co-law and his co-law.
"Ever since I am worried about their companies, but before of course, I was able to lead our conversation, but I did not know who, but he was very happy, but we were more happy," we were together. "
They said that both of them were wearing a house helper in Hala as a couple, and she was the owner of the house who would be left by Vic and AiAi delas Alas because they have not been fighting in Hay Bahay.
