A Cbased on Acting or Calanoga.

If the country's education in the country is very high, which is the reason why people of UP arrived, Ateneo, UST and De La Salle University, it looks like nothing has been solved in the current character of a country, if not affordable for the current character of the country in college in the country.
If the data of the United Nations and the World Bank will be looked into, for example, it will be considered as an example, if it will be considered the difference between the academic, which is the reason why it cannot keep up the local university in other university in the ASEAN countries.
For example, on the issue of a chambers (enrollment, or or part of the population in college, this 2010, 2011, in the Philippines, that is why we are trying to make the bill to be in college as well, why is it that the Filipinos who are living in college are still far from college, and why are the Filipinos who do not want to enter college?
It is not surprising if the youth are low in college in the country, because of the boils of education in the country, a big part of education in the country, and more than 75 percent, are still in private schools that are still lacking in every daily expenses, in college?
For example, on the issue of the Philippine National High School or the total income of the country that was sentenced to the amount of population, for the year 2011, the Philippines is still low, which is used to be compared to Malaysia ($35.4), which is used to be compared to the value of education in college in the said countries.
Maybe it is the key of Singapore and Malaysia, countries in the ASEAN countries who have high tuition in college, but this is a small amount of education in college, that is why there is a small amount of education in college, which is more than $415,503, which is estimated to be $4,6450 but only $4,650 pesos, and $3,649.
However, the part of the government is very part in operating a university in Singapore and Malaysia in the form of the country, which is far from Thailand (4.1 percent, or Vivero last year, which is far from Thailand (12.00 percent), which is far from Thailand (12.00 percent), which is far from Thailand (4.8 percent), which is currently being experienced by the government of the government, which is currently being experienced by the government of the government?
These are just some of the reasons that show that although the proposal to make the academic, in the truth, this has no meaning to solve the problem of low quality of education in college in the country, especially the lack of high quality of education in college.
But there are even more fair basis why it should not be continued, if this proposal should not be junked.
First, the suffering of the poor in college, which is a big part is the families of the farmers, will have a hard time to collect money for payment for the tuition and other expenses.
Second, it is also good for the current acons of the country's cycle because it is not right to protest because the price increase in the whole world is difficult, and it is hard to make the government have the highest number of electricity in the whole world, and there is no need for the government to do this, there is no space for this kind of proposals to do.
Third and most important reason for everyone, to steal the current trait of the system of education in the country, which is based on the needs of the market, that for now, serving the interest and needs of the foreigner and some of them are benefiting and benefiting.
To whom will she make this habit?
The progressive and progressive countries in UP have been looking for a right, "in the same way to be the ones who are working for global warming, we have been less, less, less, less, less, less than the primary duties of the people, serve the people and lead the national progress.
