Talaba!!
July 14, 2016 days before Pilo'clock in Encantadia, they even sold the yearning of the audience through successful Kapuso network Mall in Visayas and Mindanao.
Davao and Cebu are going to fly to Davao and Cebu, Lopez and Glaiza de Castro are going to give birth to their fans there, they are still together with their fans there, Rocco Nacino and Ruru).
More than 6,000 Davaoeños are going to be together in Tagum City last June 26, and war on July 3, one more than 7,000 Cantos, and their character was identified by the actor and the character they will be used by the character through cardio pulmonary heart.
In Davao, Kylie is allowed to hear the beauty of his voice in the Walis resort that she will be able to taste kutsinta, Noni) that she felt in Cebu, he respects the Only Examination.
The new Alena, Gabbi Garcia is not able to let go over again because she feels the hit of the aura of him / her own fate, who used to be the one who used to live in Tagum City.
It is also aggressive like the character of Glaiza during his singing of Rodiversion of Lorde la at their Davao mall show that he was impressed by the residents of Cebu when he loses his songs.
Excides that Direk Mark shared his role in making Encantadia in the press in Davao and Cebu.
For the details of regional Events, follow GMA on Facebook, and there was not yet an estimate of GMA Regional TV and not as an estimate of GMA Regional TV and not as an ally of GMA Regional TV while on Twitter or Twitter or Twitter or Twitter or Twitter.
Alonte, all of the Metiquette got tangled!
Almasan has reached Premiere-night of the movie IOS in SM Megamall, Tuesday night, and it is still early that there is already full of people in the lobby area of N9 and 10.

The people were full of people inside and outside the cinema and they did not leave and waited until the show.
Allyxon is not being servile in making the record of Recana, Alden and Maine, as the very first taste of Yumang or magazine of 100 Mental Bethlehem, Stars, issue.
AlDub has accomplished the lot of diets for the country, duh! That's why we will not be surprised if the film that they had a relationship with Iine iodine and Me which is coming out yesterday, Wednesday.
