
Who is the First?

In the Army, there is a non-governmental organization officer (NO) who is called "First 'or (Pega).

Who is Perst?

He did not have any other choice but to the Pambansang Kamao.

In the Infantry Division, he is usually the oldest person who was given a position as being out of tune with all the armed personnel (EP).

He is the bridge between the officials and EP.

The official is just thinking what he will do, he is full of initiative.

As they say, he / she was asked to be a collector of Ns of New LTO) that is why he is asked for an advice by the officials on the things that are happening in the company.

If there is a directive or mandate of the government Commander, this is a use of Persist.

He had a lot of responsibilities in the company like that.

As adviser of the officials in driving the company, based on the crash site of the Affairs Office of the unit, which is an ally of the Pambansang Kamao.

As the most famous father of the soldiers, he does not want to rest their welfare just like your career, discipline and Morones.

Usually, Persist is from the house when there is a widespread military operations where it is included in all officials on the trip.

If the official or EP is forced to court the court, who usually is a great ball, who would say that the young lady's parents will tell him what the young lady's parents will say, that is why he was also the one to court for what he wants.

Perst was considered to have been respected and also feared by his personnel because of his credibility and his credibility, and especially that he and the officials trusted.

He did not just ignore the head of his official in any field, whether to ensure that they will be taken from military operations.

When there is a drink, Perst was the latest one to be drunk because he is being assured to have no choice or fight.

As they have said, it is just a piece of insult to Peraldo, Tupi and all the stubborn ones, even if they get broken.

To the wives of the soldiers, Persist went to for help from the misunderstanding of the couple and was also a good marriage between the couple, especially on the smartest soldiers.

He was the one who said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she was sent to a law, is like a law.

That is the soldier who is called Perst.
