
Gela, and Robin to DOLE.

There are several issues that have passed since we discussed this column about the good deeds of Labor Secretary Rosalinda D. Baledz in his department.
And one of the most proud of Secretary Balentz will be included in the list of corrupt and corrupt offices of the government.
That's why his campaign against all kinds of corruption is tight but despite his hard work to clean the image of DOLE, he has personnel who are not in favor of his campaign.
Just like his pity, Batal and Robin Padilla who really wanted to lie down.
By many people they victimized.
Unlike the original Battu and Robin who helps the poor and who is oppressed, the Batman and Robin of DOLE should be the opposite.
It's because, Adelinquent driver can say that they are going to be rich or not in helping those who are fooled and being abused, but also for the sake of being mistreated!
They introduced themselves as lawyers and their families who are here in the country, who are here in the country, who came to the department to ask for help.
And according to the payment, it is not only the OFWs and their families who got fooled by them but also the employers and agencies who are also not safe from them.
The compassion of those who will take care of those who have a direct contact with Secretary Balarz and if you are an OFW or their family and you need help, you should pass through with them first.
On the part of the employers and agency, they are being threatened by them and if they are not fixed, they disturb the lives of it and of course they also use the name of Secretary Balarz.
Meanwhile, Batman is a bandits who did not think and made it to the DOLE but to make money while Robin Padilla is a little bit more than Robin, who also have to go to the money.
A lot of racket is Batal and Robin, we will reveal it.
And your intestines are really going to give in the disgust for the lies of these fools.
But now that we have started to reveal the nonsense of the fools, we are expecting to investigate immediately by Secretary Balunder z.
He can start the investigation on the interrogation of the DOLE and he can easily know because his lawyer is not the ones who will get along with lawyers.
What's important is that the lies of these two will be cut off before everything becomes too late.
It is also due to be expected in the cabinet and it might be good for Secretary Balarz to get fired because of the foolishness of these.
