
Since he was late (no last part.

At first, I am wondering why his / her own personnel did not respect the staff of the media Affairs Service for Public Works and Information Bureau of the House of Representatives.
Aside from its high education (he has a doctorate in his higher position (he has a doctorate in his head) and it is better if we will ask the former congressman from Marikina, Romeo de mercedes depends on it.
But because of the bad example she showed to his personnel and colleagues in the office, it is more painful for her being lazy, what you are fond of when you are late, right now, all you do when you are in the office are all gossip.
"That is the reason why when he has returned to his position after Speaker Sonny Belmonte last July 2010, there was no more than a few months, he was filed with an administrative case by his own personnel, not only one, but ten!
These were complained by his negligence, often absent and almost every day when the employees of the House of Representatives came to waste, the money of the government is gone, especially since his salary is high as director.
Aside from the administrative case, he was filed with a case in the Ombudsman because of the debt that he has done for the salary of the salary and attacks although he is just giving up in America.
It is to the name of Sevidal, which led the case against Buencesino, but after almost two years, the said group has not yet made a decision yet because if not, they might be the first fired.
What's worse, when he cannot be considered as Buencamino, he took the take away from the two of his personnel who have casual position.
According to him, he wants to reinstate the two former staff of Nido, although there is no background for them in the media, wow, okay, how are you?
What is surprising is why the conversation between the case of Buencamino is delayed, is there not enough evidence "that is why it really has a problem," what is the proof that he is needed, okay?
I thought it might be true that those who served as Buencamino is true that even at the late hours of the night, Speaker Belmonte called him that he knows a widow?
He said that if he says he is saying that he has been saying that he / she has been saying that he / she has been used by Speaker Belmonte and he is always being beaten-on the telephone even if the people are in a deep sleep.
Why is he always late because he was being shot at night by speaker Belmonte?
I do not want to believe that Speaker Belmonte will allow these corruption in the Lower House but it seems like I want to believe in the scandal that he himself does not meddle with the case of Buencamino, until he continues to protect the case of Buencamino, until he continues to save the case of Buencamino.
The media Affairs Service for the Lower House will never win.
Even if you can still see that from a rock!
