On the other side of those who are also solid, the benefits that our policemen have paid for the soldiers so that they are now from Laguna, which is why they were given permission from Laguna, which is why they were given permission from Palawan which is why they were given permission from Palawan.
From Quezon City, isn't it?
The service of our police should not be more important to the soldiers but this is one of the things that I can do, even if it is my father, isn't it?
It seems like he has undergone the internet and then let it go back, I only know that I am the only one I know.
The uniform we are.
We will follow the payment for two thousand pesos to a month that is why we have no longer been separated for three months, but we almost have been separated for almost three months, but almost all of those who have classes are still separated, but for a few years that we have been with a stone.
"You have accepted that it is even if you say it was as if I was with March two of my bosses who arrived.
!
Okay.
Maybe with the questions that Rizal said, "I said," I said to me, that's why when the goods are really tired, that's why they're really tired, that's why they're really tired of the price that is given to them in the cold place of Baguio.
Yes, it is not possible that you are here in a far place, at nightfall, but there are those who are in a distant place.
You if you have a school.
To enter.
On the side of duty, he / she's on duty; he / she is calling the school, they are calling the school that they are calling for the school that they are calling for as an instructor, which is why Zailon and two hours are all over Palawan.
The past few months will be higher in the present afternoon at four o'clock in the middle of the government there are still there who will sacrifice our policemen in a store that might be the reason for work; as long as he / she was full of survey, he / she was full of survey; he / she was full of survey; he / she was full of survey; he / she was full of survey; he / she was full of survey; he / she was full of survey;
It's because it's because we are different from our work in the state of this state, so we are made up by my job with friends with friends.
We are going to know that there are also those who died from the soldiers and especially when we are a big thing, I will not forget if we would make it look if we will look at the police who are also at the same police;
My children are laughing at me.
Whoever is their depends on?
Covetous, deport; Christian Salvador.
Covetous, fur, a big thing.
You are going to talk to sir, sir, this is also a dog earlier than 10 pesos before eating a little by little; so we are not able to catch up in your heart now.
I do not understand that I am going to be horseshoe, now you will go to be amiable to you, you do not know if the end of it will die here.
We will do something like that.
Birthday.
It turns out that Two people are going to buy, isn't it that it is just expensive but it is over that we can see.
The four-four hours gave a certification in the reason why there is no disturbance.
"They really just remember this at the mass when we were sad, that we have not yet done anything and that is not yet happening, right, and then that they are not first to be first by one.
It happened.
There are how you do not have an end but they think that this is really the same thing that we are really being given to Agriculture and if it's just like this.
Thank you very much.
