Oyo, praying for the women who will be born!
"I saw what happened to my father," -- this.
Baba Barazole, 19, 2016, aside from the family of actors, Oyo Sotto also has families.
His uncle Tito Sotto, is a senator, and has his cousin and she is also his uncle who is a councilor.
Even though Oyo was trying to convince her relatives to enter politics, "my cousin said that he ran in Muntinlupa.

"It's okay with them, even Daddy, you said," Try who wants to run for office, but it seems that I do not want me, I do not want to meet, "right?
"Just to have position, I really want to help my heart to really help," like Oyo, who is one of the stars in the sitcom Hay, Bahay!
Upon arrival to the children of Kristine, there is no problem if they want them to enter showbiz.
"We talked about it," Lara said, that we want them to study first but, if they really want to study, they should be after their studies, the deep relationship with the Lord. "
Indeed, Oyo and Kristine are very commendable, that their relationship becomes hot, isn't he tempted to look for another woman?
"Well" that is really the only thing that there is no hiding place on the telephone! "He knows," what I know, "to my bosses, in Facebook, in my Twitter.
"According to Verano, we were surprised when we didn't hide what she could hide if I knew where I was lying in brook at me, things, he knew who were my companions at work.

"We cannot avoid Temptation Island but what is important is God is there in your life because if God is there, there is always a way to avoid extravagant spending," like Oyo. "
So, how can she avoid women?
"Just pray! God is really the only hard time, if we will let it be, you will let your family be broken," your family, I do not want to be happy.
"I saw what happened to my father, I saw what happened to other people, I did not want to happen to me."
Anyway, even if Pauleen Luna has already been in Oyo, he is still Pauleen's call here.
"I did not ask him not to call his mother because he might also be a few.
"Maybe Pauleen is just okay there," said Oyo. "
