
The relief goods will also be discreet in relief goods.

The authorities should investigate thoroughly about the destruction of deception during those affected by the earthquake in Bohol and Cebu.
And if someone would be proven guilty of phenomenon, that is why those who need to do these bastard criminals are doing anything?
Added.
In the following days, Bro, additional wages are very popular for the votes to win and lose their opponents.
In this election, what is happening is different, especially with the food being thrown.
It is also being choked, but not in the votes but for those that are from relief goods but to win in the election and there is a big inconvenience.
The relief goods of politicians are increasing for their own or voters this election.
Money to buy.
The politicians are asking those who are being victimized by calamities.
Whoever will be sure of the voters in the town election, these are the ones who take advantage of relief goods.
In the end we are not allies.
They are doing food that are buying relief goods.
If not, it's as if they are doing the barbells.
"Give me relief goods but give your votes to me" the contract.
Child of tofu!
Given to another.
There are those who give relief goods and above all of its contents instead of the common amount given by two or three kilos of rice, three sardines and three souvenirs.
The bag that we will know are increasing, with more rice, sardines, noodles and other additional benefits.
But these are lessen not only in order to increase the politicians but also for them to have their own styles.
That is why, instead of stopping the things that we give in relief goods, these are reduced.
Until the victims of the calamity complained that nothing was arrived at them.
Until the barangay.
The flow of help is from the high agency of the government like the department of Secretary Dinky Soliman.
Then, it will decrease in the provinces, city, municipality and barangay.
That's where the relief goods will be disturbing.
Sometimes, the way here is that, like the form of Social Welfare Department, but it usually goes on, while these are going down to the local government.
Hala Bira.
On patrol, some of the local government fell down and had a different word to other words.
In the part of the local government, local officials and employees first prioritize themselves before reaching the help to others.
It was fortunate that they did not even think about the mandate of them that their priority is to protect and serve the people.
The calamity is still time now.
Maybe, if they are the ones who lost their houses, we can understand them.
But if they are employees who have salary in local government, it is a different discussion. "
Young!
Politics, included in the town election, is a big reason why those that are from relief goods are being removed.
It is not common to everyone who are going to make the politicians are going to make a lot of people in the barangay, municipal hall, city and province.
"Is it that the mayor, captain, captain, and other officials of the low agency, are children of the governor.
Those who are in barangays are mayors, governor and others who are higher than them.
Those who are on the chin are sent out by the votes of those leading the election.
Day of payment.
That's why this election, the residents from those who are from the top have no money.
Those that are talking about relief goods are being sought by those who are on top of the lower ranks.
In front, the residents of barangays, municipal hall, city and province are sports in taking the relief goods in the DSWD.
Here, the Tuwid na Daan "that those that are from relief goods."
That is the one to decide on whom the relief goods will go.
The pity and concern is equal to the citizens who are victims of calamity, losing spirit or meaning.
Private.
Not only is the money that DSWD gives away but also from private companies and citizens.
We were able to make the relief goods from them.
There are officials who get angry at the straight path of private companies or citizens to the victims.
They are forcing that the local officials should pass through everything so that their help will be distributed.
There is a reason.
But many of the officials are claiming the help and has been made to look like all of these through the announcement that they are being monitored by undisciplined residents of the Bureau of .00. "
It is very difficult.
It is the child of seven canned goods, hopefully there are fraudsters that can be wriated in death, hunger and suffering of the victims of the calamity.
