New taxes.

I remember the promises of the candidates to run in different positions from councilor until the presidency last 2010 elections.
Their promises are almost the same and they will give comfort to the lives of the people especially those who are poor and they want to be united through giving them a job, house, education and free treatment.
From their good promise, you might think that you are in heaven that after the election because they will give a light and hope for the lives of the people, but like what is expected, you will not see the stubborn politicians.
And what's more painful is that they did not fulfill their promises, they even make the people know if they are in position.
One example is the promise of President Noynoy during the time of the campaign that he will not follow President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo who often travel outside the country.
But with the mercy of God, he has made a lot of trips that he did and the countries he went to since he was seated for two years have passed.
That's why he / she was worried about it in Malacanang that in Malacañang, they did not think that they will go to different countries but because of Noynoy, they have been going to go to different places.
And different countries will not just go through, but for free fare, it is said that there is a taste of the life of the people who are taking advantage of the taxes that Noynoy is spending to the taxes that Noynoy and his followers are doing.
That is why it is not surprising why the government is obliged to release and payment for new taxes.
I also remember that during the time of the campaign, Noynoy promised that he will not just support any proposed tax but just like other politicians, his promises will have broken its promises, and now, he is very serious to support the increase of human tax and others.
What's painful is that he has been released by regional Order Number 31 who ordered the government agencies to increase the taxes that the public is doing in different offices of the government.
It means that the people will pay more to the offices such as passports of the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA), the typical passenger from the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) and other documents from the Land Registration Authority LRA).
The price of license is also affected from the Department of Regulation Commission (PRC) and various documents from the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration (POEA), Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) and National Telecoxib and Commission (NTC).
Even license and other documents from the Land Transportation Office (LTO) and Land Transportation Office (LTO) and Land Transportation Office (LTO), of course, will also increase.
In simpler terms, although it was not approved, it is a form of 2,000 pesos or invasion that Noynoy did because they are expecting that the government will earn hundreds of pesos every year from additional bills.
We are really pitiful, we are really not able to fulfill promises because the politicians were tortured by the politicians with the leadership of Noynoy.
