Thirty-five thousand of the kidnapper are anxious, or they just say that the company is not yet in the company, which is why the company is not yet on the way that he is going to move in Germany just because there was a motorcycle.
Here.
We are in the seven days of Princess Zamboanga that is why, the child will continue, but he will not be the one to take care of the members of January Two; this was the last time there was a car last night.
After we see that it's quiet for a little child, it is quiet for a little, except for less, less.
I will be able to gather those who pass here last night, they are confident.
While helping, they were able to escape.
Aunt Weng's couple who survived after a Sunday morning.
It appears.
Able to give more dangerous.
Now.
Those who are confusing.
But the problem is still not over.
It's because in district the Baryo, you can see anything.
You are also ready to be ready.
You make sure that you are disapproves of the different colleagues two days, thirty-eight, and their eight-eight years.
The soldiers are carrying the bank that Nicole is also a few of them who is Nicole 'nephew's nephew, L HQ on January when they asked him about it, they can say if they were still alive.
According to him, it is said that he will be able to go to a Filipino Worker (MMFF) to be able to get the number of the footage taken by the authorities or reach the province just at six o'clock in the province.
What I mean is not what I want to say.
I am your friend there.
One!
Just a little bit more.
The people.
Four four years of Two soldiers are already out of the bullet that is left in November lot.
For the next to be hiding from those who are hiding.
On Wednesday, it was said that no one was asked for the opposition to have been paid by the soldiers in the barangay in Barbara, sometimes one of them is.
From the news of the residents who evacuated before, I do not know.
I am just the news of their house in Pag-asa and there are times when you are doing nothing.
The residents are taking care of them, which is why some soldiers should also be taken care of Carola, which is why there were some soldiers who should be watching in Carola for a few soldiers who were met inside the house by the cousin of the cousin of what I can see.
There are those who are just riding a job in walking on their bed at four o'clock.
He just sent it anymore.
Really.
Our Lady.
They will not arrest them.
But I will not be able to borrow money because you might just have changes in their countrymen.
Young men who were annoyed just went back to Manila together with two times in Zamboanga.
Because Lourdes was nephew of a signal here, there is one more thing that they will start on our situation with the T'boli, a woman Commander when we were caught in a month, that's why they just came out of the other month, that's why they are going to talk about it like a month.
When we looked at the end of five days, instead of going to the afternoon, I will be brought again to forty-two days only in your place, because there are still many who are really left alone in the same age, they say that there are many who are really left alone in the same age, because they say that there are many people who are really left behind in the same age, because they say that there are many people who are really left in the same age, because it is said that there are many people who have been left behind in the same age, because it is said that there are many people who have been left behind in the same age, because it is said that there are many people who have been left behind in the same age, because it is said that there are many people who have been left behind in the same age, because it is said that there are many people who have been left behind in the same age, because it is said that there are many people who have been left behind in the same age, because it is said that there are many people who have been left behind in the same age, because it is said that there are many people who have been left behind in the same age, because it is said that there are many people who have been left behind in the same age, because it is said that no one is left behind in the same age, because it is said that no one is left behind in the same age, because it is said that no one is left alone in the same age, two years.
Just initial investigation, that they gave as well with the respect and respect of the barangay, that maybe if you will say to Jessica, they will just be able to know if it would be said that they will not be carried away by the military, but after that, there are more men in my cousin that he mentioned.
Jessica is the name of the people.
When he was able to talk to the last two of my two children, she said there were an eight hundred years that he / she was with the Emelda's do, in the other side that he wanted to say that he still has a huge part of the straight path, it's a big part of the deacadet to say that he has not yet committed suicide by a thousand.
