"The school is also not safe.

As a parent, as well as other parents, I believe that aside from our home, the second safest place where I can leave my children is their school.
But what if in the school inside the school, a child experienced the mistreatment of a child and the managers of the school cannot do anything.
What is painful here is that there is no need for the leaders of the school, the police and other authorities do not do anything to take care of the peace of the school!
What I am referring to is the consecutive turmoil that happened in some schools in Makati City like an example of General Pio del Pilar High School which is a public school, and the famous architect de San Agustin inside the exclusive Dasmariñas Village.
For those who cannot understand, Pio del Pilar is beside the Makati City Hall, so the parents of the students will think that this is a safe place.
But the truth is, in spite of being just beside the city hall, the conflict and fight between the students and the fraternity is almost everyday.
In the latest incident, a poor student was almost killed after being jointly beaten up by the group of suspects who were standing near the school.
But despite the repeated incidents like this, it seems that the management of the school and even the police are not doing any steps.
What happened to Crown de San Agustin is also surprising because no one can think that those school are not safe.
The school is in a rich place, and all of them are studying and are leading it.
But it appears that the case was widespread and getting hurt by the students there and in one incident, the father of a student left and hit the gun of a student who was initially bullied by his fellow student.
It appears that the child pointed with a gun was put in the fight because he was frequently bullied by his co-worker until he defeated each other.
What hurts, when the victim lost his fight, he complained to his father who immediately rushed to school and knives, before the poor student pointed a gun.
The incident happened in front of the school guard and a teacher but they were not able to do anything in the war.
With these events, it is not hard to think that it seems that our country has a problem in peace and order.
It is also possible to think that our authorities do not do anything to give protection to our community, especially our schools where all the students should be safe.
That's why we are calling on Mayor Jun-jun Binay there in Makati and other leaders of our city who are giving attention to the safety of the students in their covered area.
