The train arrives in every corner.

Last January, Salas. Emilio Abaya announced by the Department of Traels that the government should focus on the plan to raise the fare of the MRT and LRT, first, but after the residents of Metro Manila, it is not right to pay more than the train, and it should be paid better for a better service.
The first reason, Senator Ralph Recto was once said to be given the taxes given to the country from Metro Manila so it can be said that there is no tax from the provinces that will be used by Aquino and Recto: The service that is given by Aquino and Recto: The service that is given by Aquino, an example or a person or a person, he should pay for the tax that he paid.
G. Sammy Malhes, Propaganda of the public (rails), should not pay the construction of public schools and hospitals in far places because it should not be enough for those who are paying tax from other parts of the country? "Should the government stop the construction of public schools from other parts of the country?" Should the government stop the construction of public schools from other parts of the country?
The second reason is that it is better to expose the belief that the belief that you need to pay for a better service is because there is no right to pay attention to the existing condition of the poor, that is why they have no right to pay a low value to the poor, and of the high value, of course, with rich people.
What is not in the scene in the outline of Aquino and Recto is the role of the government - or the role of the government, and the government is being monitored by the government, and the tax should be spent for their general welfare and interest to each other, the citizens, and lack of help for the needy.
In pushing for the interest of the large Lapian ng mga Bayani, and the most important explanation of this is what is called "tiktiks" or based on the approval of Nicole C. Curationist. "According to the ordinary citizens - from 1 percent, from 1 percent going to 99 percent.
Whatever it is, the first State of the Nation Address of Aquino has revealed a truth about the rules of MRT himself, "the government tried to maintain the political policies," it means that the fare of the MRT himself will be put under democratic logic that it may cause more anger in order to remove Arroyo from danger.
