I know Better "Alyas, meow!
Be the best to take care of your beauty!
By Jun Nardo, July 14, 2016 Luning, the different groups of fans of Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza of the grand reception of their movie IOS and Milan at SM Megamall in Tuesday.
Their happiness was too much because they did not only wish for one but only two times that what they wish to happen to the film of their idol in front of "Juliet" with Verona, Italy, which became stronger when Meng was hit in the scene.
From the scene "that until now, the two stars in each other will not be heard from each other until the last scene that they have entered the cinema is right because of the lack of noise of Alviar whom they have made to do for their idol in Kalyeserye.
Butig in Meng said to be the winner of the burial winner of his family as giddy, went to Italy to work and help his family, but her personal search for the man she will love forever was still there.
It is natural that the acting of the Phenomenal Bostar is natural and it is not hard for her to be cooked hard and when it comes to emotional scenes, he is just pretending.
Alden is very ill-tempered in the world because he failed to have a family who are convicted by her when he was still young.
It was ugly became the start when the path of Andrew and glared.
Even if their relationship was good, they did not insist on what they followed and just coming out, that when they stick the two, they look at each other, the hands, my hands, my supporters, are missing from themselves!
The scene of Alden and MNC while in the car is dead because of her Dublin, Queen of the Phenomenal Bostar!

Of course, we will no longer tell all sorts of things about the "Ubers which is really being taken by Andrew and gaping next to immediately because they already want them.
As long as now, there are already a great number of people, they are with Cai Cortez who are still good with Cai Said, 32, and Jasmine who were included in the very large amount.
In Iris and M, Direk Mike proved that he can also be in a comedy movie but he is also different when he talks, duh! It's because he's no longer with a love.
Everyone congratulated the entire team of Iris and M from the writer, director of photography which is owned by a romantic relationship at Lake Como and Verona, editing, music, and others.
It can be said that Iris and M be fought in taking care of all the award which was made up by an award.
The truth is, Premiere, which seems to have been fed up by people in the afternoon, are already in Megamall.
"It's just that, because of the number of people, he still entered the pickpocket because one of his colleagues in the media was cut off and one of them was almost near the right!
The judge who was able to watch out too much smile, which is shown in 197 that was given to 197 that was given as a board member who is part of the rating of MTRCB.
The urge to be felt while watching the IOS and M for many, he was satisfied with it!
