
Corruption in LTFRB (3)

Many were pleased when the Land Transportation and Chambers (LTFRB) led the leadership of Chairman Winston Ginez himself, who was released by the Don Mariano bus because at last, the agency realized that it is dangerous on the road the buses and drivers that are dangerous on the road.
However, it is clear that the Don Mariano bus is only one of the four companies owned by Melissa Lim, and like Don Mariano, the company of the Lim family, similar to Karangalan Village, Mencort, commuters, who are also famous because of its barbells.
It is also clear that corruption in the LTFRB and the agency who are leading our public vehicles like the Land Transportation Office (LTO) is still widespread and corruption in this agency is still widespread and the colleges of the said agency continues to continue the rotten trend in our public utility system.
Just like in the case of LTO, which according to our source, a high-ranking official in the said agency, Benico, who is a high official in the said agency, was being used by a high official in the said agency.
"That is the reason why in the ten buses that are traveling in EDSA, more than half of these are those who are traveling in EDSA that they let it pass because it is obvious that these will not pass through the dischallenge.
This is a Benico, who is the responsible for the gimmick of LTO to join again with the new vehicles that is the reason why it is very difficult and the process made by Registration Authority as the reason why many vehicles have no plate number until now.
Benico, who has the brains of their insurance instead of all his insurance to make sure that the corrupt officials who will go to him will go to him and other groups that are often involved in LTO.
But because he is a child of the new LTO chief, he is also strong at the Regional Director of NCR, it is not surprising why he has a strong feeling.
I already thought that maybe they also have a blessing from the cruelty of Benjo.
He / she was wearing.
For your suggestions and comment, you just send a email to gum.
