
Money is the reason.

Whatever explanation is done by the Palace in relation to.
If a national security is being discussed, are the guards who will take care of the Philippine National Police headquarters who will interfere with the streets of information and will pass by the guards and clerk from the camp?
The intelligence network of the PNP is already weak because they do not release the funds for it and the intelligence that they are doing is a way to destroy, and then they will change the guard who has no training for the job of the police?
Can't it be that a friend is from the Palace who owns the security agency and wants his company to win or have a contract?
Meanwhile, the situation is severe in making money from this administration (if it is true, it might be the reason for the failure of this decision.
The number of jobs that Malacanang is saying is for their knowledge, non-ranking personnel (NUP) are doing anything.
What do the guards do with the job, if there are other guards there are high school, I am graduating, how can we be expecting from the police?
If the guard had a failure, will they be charged with a case against the directors that will be charged with the directors that can be charged with the National Police Commission (Napolcom) for the criminal case that can be filed against them because there is a criminal case that can be filed against them.
So that the businessmen are going to give an idea that they do not need the guards to their establishments because there are policemen on the streets that should be blamed if there is a robbery or protest in their office.
Just like this LBC Ronda Pilipinas which does not have a guard in their offices, not like Western Union, Cebuana Less and those such as a remittance of this.
Of course, the evil spirits approached them and can easily go to school especially that their employees are all female.
It is possible that the thieves are in an accomplice of the employees because there are no guards on the police blame the holdup that happened at the police, to guard the LBC Ronda Pilipinas.
If this is like this, the number of policemen who are assigned in the streets are really different, the mentality of those seated in position are really different.
