On March, I will be able to finish the Sunday on his face that's why he / she's at the same day, that's why he / she grew up to each other.
You even studied a school because of a lot of students who had a cellphone.
You are right there, that is why we still don't avoid crowded places because they need it in the room.
Of course, it's because of course, it is the child's seat that is why he and the motorcycle they are carrying is a solution for this day.
My question is, what is the reason?
This place is DepEd's place and it is an effective agreement if this is the disease of the head like us.
To answer the and drinking friends that we will be with in the morning the resolution I know.
When it comes to the hospital of the department, you can say that you are already a good doctor, you said yes to many parents in order that we are watching the morning so that we are watching the morning so that they are watching the morning.
He is saying.
I am like that, what kind of life has increased, for a year, which is a year of S-M for a year, to address the big problem with the hard work that has no flow of rain, which is the five-year-old child.
In this place, she was pregnancy with the children like her.
They are not able to taste their jobs.
Like the early days that she is very lucky that it is hard for the children to be able to endure.
Maybe that is just looking at me, so an alternative?
They have no pictures at the age that the child needs to give.
After four years, they are graduating from taking a bath in the '70s because there is a high school school.
In some of what I thought about it, it's still good that you were able to do something in their own school, it can be recalled that later on a program, they can be able to send their parents to school.
It is also so that she has the right to teach himself what they have in their house for around seven o'clock in the evening, those who are working at around seven o'clock in the evening, that's why you already have the hardest for what they are.
We were able to go to school; but now, they already called for a high school captain, so they see each other, there are actions that see each other like the air in the grasses.
If he will be seen by his parents, they can see that there is a child with a child who just let them go, they can just go in contests in this day.
On how much was thinking of negative comments to do this, that was the last February two decades.
Those are like that.
Sometimes, it's only one year-year building of Pro-Friends that will transfer to, being reported yesterday.
That is what I said until ten years.
Here in us, we were able to look at each other, the plan of the couple to sit on where there is really a lot.
Together.
The child is a misunderstanding.
Who could have been under the ring that is why it's the priority of the students to go ahead.
"You, like party-party, that's why there's only one year-year-old child, because they are asking the child to be a high school, because the child said it was good to be able to go to school, which is why, of course, the people are in danger now, and of course, he was texting early.
They themselves.
They are.
What are they doing?
If an example, after that, I still have a job here, which is why there's nothing more than eight o'clock in the morning.
Ah, what else will I extend but now that we do not want to repeat, I do not want to believe that I do not want to do that, I am still going to study now that they are going to be a single.
It is the most best for the same month that they should be united; we should go to school; go to and ask to be sure.
On January.
They are the majority of those who are going to go there, a lot of problems are coming out, that is why there is no one he is applying for?
They will go with them, I said it's not too much, that we don't feel pity; we don't feel pity; we are also looking, that is why it's okay, that is why the trash can be forgotten; we might learn later.
You are not doing it in order to achieve your blessing from basketball who are struggling.
That is why it is needed to be.
Because of the speaker, you did not need to catch up that on the line of this, we are the same with us, both of us, both of us, Jules, without a text message in front of the store, a teacher who needs to go to a store in front of the store.
They all live with them.
Not only here in front of them.
Yes, isn't it that just a few years that I am watching over the food here, I have noticed that the problem is really just like that, as long as they do not have something to explain to the relationship that they want to be implemented, but they cannot believe what they want to be implemented in truth even more than a year already.
No.
Because is there a lot of young people like that.
Where do you have a good future in a public hospital?
Here, I said that this can be used for the successful place.
They were thin, right?
Pictures that are okay for beautiful but also beautiful.
It's also good if we also explain that, even if we really know that there are still many who are going to study; we really know that there are still no more hope for the noon so they are working as household help just this Saturday.
Moto i was able to catch up with the vendors, right, I thought you went to school so that we are going to talk to school, but we are seeing that our parents are in the office, so I know that there are people beside me, that is why I know that there are people beside me, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that's why I know that there are people beside us that's why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us, that is why I know that there are people beside us,
