Hacienda Luisita, "laboratory" of Oplan LS?

M.
The farmers strengthened their call for the pulled out of the military forces in Hacienda Luisita, after a fact that a fact that it was blocked by the severe impact of President Benigno Aquino III.
Also admitted by Maj. Enrico Gil Lubi, spokesperson of the 7th Infantry Division, the Oplan Galugad conducted in Hacienda Luisita, program against corrupt soldiers in the barangays of Balete Drive, Texas, Asturias, Caano, Cincinnati, CPRO, Lourdes, Muzon in Parang, Lourdes, Muay or Parang.
"At last, the government already admitted that the Hacienda Luisita," said Joseph Canlas, chairman of alliance with Magbufarm in the Middle Luzon (Sep. 24).
"Hacienda Luisita, seems to have a connection with the Northern Luzon Command," according to Rodelas Mesa, general secretary in the union of Manggagawa sa Pelikulang Pilipino (DOH) and former Filipino-farm in the hacienda.
In fact, in fact, it was led by the CHR, Deputy GL, Ammunition), Karylle, and Promotion of the farmers, Lito Bais, the chairman of the farmer and United Kingdom; and Francisco Dizon, spokesperson of Ambulong, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Ampunan, spokesperson of Am@@
It was also found out that the armed soldiers are regular at the hacienda, armed soldiers, who are spreading fear to farmers and residents of the hacienda.
Ambo denied the statement of Lampihan who was the captain of the 10 barangay who asked the burial of the military through a resolution which according to Renato Luna, captain of Brgy. Balete Drive, who is a known supporters of the Aquino family.
"Luna is known as a high-year-old official, he deceived the lot of Filipino workers, he made the land that we was farming in, and living in the area who was decided to be decided (by Coyo-co)," could be decided on.
APD and Rafael Mariano criticized the "laboratory" of the hacienda, according to Oplan Galugad conducted by the Armed Forces of the Philippines to cover up the harassment and violence of the farmers, that they will add up to more than 4,000 hectares of land.
Meanwhile, the spokesperson of President Aquino, Edwin Lacierda, said that it is not an issue "the presence of the military in the hacienda.
But according to Mariano, the massacre caused the massacre in Hacienda Luisita in 2004, this is also the cause of an extra-raising murder of the farmers and their supporters, Ricardo Ramos, Tarlac City Councilor Adolfo Saure, Tirso Cruz, and Marcelo Taduran.
