
The KP has one proof on the protest against the E-Martial Law of Aquino.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
October 4, 2012.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is supporting the revolutionary force of the country in the legislative chamber that can be released by the protest against cybercrime in the cybercrime law last September 12, which led to the Supreme Court last Tuesday the petition filed by the Supreme Court last Tuesday the petition filed by the Supreme Court last Tuesday.
"The Filipino people who live in the cybercrime law should be united and fight the law on the cybercrime law in the cybercrime law," said PKP, "in the launch of the law in the internet," said PKP, "in the launch of a strong movement in relation to their struggle to defend human rights to defend human rights."

"The law on cybercrime in the cybercrime law is a cruel move against Privacy of the internet, in freedom of speech and freedom of speech in the internet which may be used by those in power against critics and enemies in politics."

The recognition given by Aquino has no meaning to abuse the law on cybercrime in the cybercrime law, "said PKP," said PKP, "it seems that he is writing the outline of those who are writing to her supporters, those who are writing the opinion, activists and the entire community in the internet."

"In the relationship of libel to the activities that can be punished under the law on cybercrime, Aquino even added to his legal action on the internet, which shows his commentary on the internet, that is why his commentary on his Facebook account is not allowed on his Facebook account.

Our criticism and fight are cornered by the Marcos regime, scheduled to use the law on cybercrime in the cybercrime law for the filipinos who use the internet, close the website or stop the traits that should not be favorable to those who are going to work on the internet. "

"Because of the provisions of the law on cybercrime in the cybercrime law, there is a formal investigation by the police force and military of Aquino to allow the force of communication with cellphone, charitable and other traffic in the internet, which is legal, and there is no higher position for everyone who use internet and cellular phones," said the KP.

The PKP has acknowledged that even before the law has been implemented on cybercrime, the implementation of the military and police continues, that they collect illegal data and spite of the activities for criminals, but also to the enemies in politics who are seated in government budget.

The law on the cybercrime law in the cybercrime law is exactly on the hard work of the US government in the improvement of their data under the program LBC Ronda Pilipinas and other countries and this is against the acceptable Privacy Law in the whole world.
