
Back to Madam Noynoy, PFFFFJ!

"Here is the posture of G. Benigno Aquino III.
The reaction is about the reported more than 30 ships of the boat of China who came to the island that was discovered to be sent to our municipal hall in the north-Illegal Drugs Group.
In line with this is the saying that the country is forcing to defend China's bullying of China because it is already coming that the "ones who are going to repair the budget from America is coming.
But let us wait for it first, on July the former ship will be suspended because they insist that the waves will be submerged in the sea.
Daughter!
What can the two Philippine Navy dresses are doing, that is why those who are bigger and more than modern ships of China?
Mister Noynoy, do not let the Filipino people stay in the war games in your mind if that is not the solution.
Aquino will help our countrymen in carrying the real action in our jurisdiction of the island of Spratamak.
We have been writing this several times but the Malacanang is just the frying pan on why, only the mother of them knows that they know.
Mister Aquino, bring to our Armed Forces of the Philippines and the Philippine National Police (AFP-PNP) Engineering Battalion, riding a big ship, carry lots of cement, steel, hammer, hammer and similar things in building the house or building.
If you need to get a lot of personnel, you will make a wide and strict infrastructure.
For the airport, it is a close range and decent houses for our citizens and soldiers assigned there.
Tried to invite people who want to live there but they can also not like and want to bring them to jail the punishment.
This means, show China that we come into our own island.
Your "Mamondiong, the answer to bullying and threats of China is gay for some gay people, just laugh at you because they know the capacity of the military and police.
Your "Mamondiong, it will push to the Chinese people who don't want us to disrespect, especially your boastfulness, that's why we can fight them with the military forces.
"It is not a trend now to die because of you," G. Aquino!
If there is a small Taiwan, you cannot take care of it, in your face the lives of Filipinos?
Back Off, Noynoy!
