
Petilla, they should be kicked out!

What kind of government official is justice Secretary Jericho Petilla and we do not know, make it a habit.
You did not think, that we bought from his own offer to resign if he will not be able to return all the electricity on the passing of Yolanda in the places, but we are still removed from saying that there is no increase in electricity now.
Christmas is the deadline of the return of Petilla of the electricity on the blackout of Yolanda.
But when the National Press Club in Leyte led to the leadership of the president Benny Antiqua, they still have to provide the generator to make some places there.
Petilla resigned but PNoy did not accept it.
"That is a clear abuse or consolation for the target of the owner to the victims of calamity.
There are also those who are about to be able to get along with him, Petilla, when he handed it to PNoy.
PNoy was just horrified by his acceptance of the resignation of Petilla.
Those who are mad and addicted to 75 percent and Tx-ray.
Um!
Now, the abuse of Petilla continues to the people.
He said, there is no case or an effect of Malamping in the price of electricity.
What are you?
In other words, there is no increase in price of electricity, especially in the total of Luzon.
Because the whole country is cold, including Luzon is included in the months of December and January.
It means, the people and electric fan are not using the air conditioner and electric fan are not that small, which is why the electricity is just small that is why the electricity will not become expensive.
Petilla assured the belief of the law of supply for payment if the demand for transportation fare increase, the price of goods increase.
Anyway, Petilla is really arrogant about it.
He forgotten that the Electric Power Plant (law or law in the electricity that is used by the companies and electricity is used for the incessant increase in price of electricity.
There is no need for the demand for ERA 9165 because it gave the companies of power to increase the price when they want to earn.
One more thing, it is the content of all the news that there will be P8 per kilowatt hour that will add up to Meralco power because of Malhmm, he is still saying that the electricity will not love.
Hoy, Mister Petilla, do you want us to be the one who took you in position?
Just resign, useless!
