
No.

After winning the world of politics, many attended the world of politics, many joined and joined the goals of the past the secretary of the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH).
Even though former President Gloria Arroyo was not supported by former President Gloria Arroyo of the desire to join in the field of the United States, he still has not lost hope since he has not lost hope for her candidacy as president.
The military showed his support to him, police, companions, friends, friends, relatives and officials of DPWH.
But in the end, it was also because of the call of the desire to serve the country of our birth, back down in the funeral parlor Ebora ane and decided to run as the governor of Zambales.
Governor Ebora was not disappointed by his countrymen who won and as revenge, he served in Zambales those who gave their trust to his administration.
Last Monday, under the extreme heat of the sun, the feelings of those from Zambales became passionate in receiving their trees in the province of the State of the province Address (sofa) in Zambales Sports Complex.
Thousands of people have listened to his report and these are from different offices of the national and local government, schools, businesses.
Even friends, relatives and allies of Ebdane was rushed to the incident.
The former Philippine National Police (PNP) chief and former secretary of the National Defense (PNP) stated that since he led the province, the change and advancement of their province is gradually seen.
As a result, he thanked the citizens because he said that any project will not be successful if not for the trust and cooperation of them.
It was right that Ebora was right in their boat, which is why they sell it properly, which is why he will be able to prevent his province towards progress.
Before the sofa, Ebdane was given to the new level of 50-million Carael Road in Banak Island which will serve as hundreds of modern equipment in medicine at Ramon Magsaysay Provincial Hospital and 100 million Provincial Sports Complex.
It was also included in the millions of Bucao dike that started last December 2009, Ebdane was not yet paid for the elected governor, but the first payment for funds from his leadership.
There are still a lot of improvement of the dreams of Ebdane for his province and all of these are assigned in his Bakar 2020, wherein the primary goal is to pay attention by the administration of Ebdz, who wants to pay attention to the administration of Ebdane.
That is why, Zambales are not mistaken about his post as Ebdane was not wrong for his post which caused the advancement of its advancement and those who will benefit from the whole community.
