Corrupt and corrupt will be sent to Ebola virus.

Do we want to sell the corrupt and plunderer in the Philippines?
They will be sent to West Africa, especially in countries Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone, to escape Overseas Filipino Workers from "out of control of the Ebola virus.
390 was declared dead from January to this year because of the Ebola virus, and 90 percent was being taken by the Lord to the victims.
It seems that this is more intense, all of me, in the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) who killed 800 pesos from more than 8,000 pesos in Asia last 2002 in 2003.
Attempting to stab himself, delusion, the Ebola virus, according to the experts, was the one who called on 1346-50-50-old black penalty or bureaucracy.
There is no one who knew where the animals are from this illness but it is believed that it came from a bat, especially the fruit and rats.
The Ebola virus has different from HIV-AIDS that allegedly came from the monkeys and the person who came from the goats.
While HIV-AIDS is moving to the sex, even if there is a condom, the Ebola virus is moving through cough and sweat or other liquid.
Is the Ebola virus also moving to those who have sex because of sweat, saliva, and pork that's mixed in it?
Likely.
Now, my friend, because it was 90-percent, it was found dead on the victims of the virus, it would be better to bring 300 congressmen and 25 senators, who are involved in corruption and corruption.
Do not talk about the being thrown at them anywhere.
Let us erase their departure Order of them and bring them to the countries with Ebola virus.
If they save them from death, it means that they do not have any money or all the money that the people are receiving.
Or "they will not be the problem of Doña Conchita Morales-Carpio and Miss Leila de Lima.
All who were named by COA, Benhur Luy list, Janet Lim-Napoles list and Ping Lacson list were brought to the Ebola virus.
Also include the opening of PDAF and DAP in the impeachment of ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona to see if it is true that they are now walking in the Tuwid na Daan "hk, haunting and haunting!
King-mother, because of your actions, millions of people are dying, hungry, and in set up cities and evacuation centers.
