TV Patrol, June 30, 2012.

Anyone does not want to get tired who wants to change quick changes, there is a need to change his dealings with the changing time.

There are some who are narrow-minded and your mind is limited, even if you have not been confused, as long as you do not get annoyed, as long as you do not get annoyed, all things that you can see are just nonsense.

But after you clean and put it on, the truth will see you.

Every time I surrender to my brother-in-law's house to adjacent provinces, I understand that they are asking for help from those who are calling for you, but I understand that they are asking for a simple answer to ask for a simple answer, but in just a few moments of sweating or getting tired, it will be remedied in a few moments of sweating or tired.

This is also what many of us are in, it is very expected that the buying of expensive vegetables in markets may be expected, and even in the backyard there is no joke that many of us are not joking, especially in provinces who buy than plant.

There turns out that someone came out and published in the newspaper, "threw a broken bone outside the window and even if it fell, there is still truth that I can see that there is still truth in our country, but when I see that there is no truth in our country, there is still truth that all of these are wasted, all of these are wasted, all of these are a waste of food in our country.

Before, the province of Benguet is not known in the province of Benguet and nearby places, because it is hard for your neighbors to plant vegetables, rather, if you want to plant vegetables, and with each other then, there is still too much of vegetables, and there is an aels, and there is a low pressure, and sitting on it.

It is common to be horny, eggplant, eggplants, and people who get closer to each of the city of Baguio, it was quick to plant rocks from the city of Baguio, that it was quick to plant rocks from the market, and forget that the consulate of unique diseases and illness by the people will be fast.

Sometimes, it is possible that they will lead to the market, natural or native vegetables, small and colorful, many of the food and vegetables are usually being searched for because it is sure that this is safe from a disastrous chemical in America, which is why it is sure that it is safe from a disastrous chemical, anti-biological, which is destroying our bodies.

Whatever can be done, even if you can do something, you will be able to pay attention to those who are intelligent and dependable now instead of having a fresh, naturally, and without a chemical when coming from another country.

And in this attitude, there are a big change in our market and shopping malls, most of the food they are selling here are from China, especially in beauty, many are not allowed to eat or use their safety, especially in beauty, many are surrounded by mothers and foolishness.

Whatever you are thinking, it can create your truth and while you are expecting nothing, there will be no change in your fate, instead, the continuous decrease in the mud.

.

Just like cleaning the mirror, how long is the windows are clean, just like old age, we can see what we really want, but what we can see is like a mirror of what we want, and this is not what we see, and this is not what we see.

Until he is not affected or being involved, and not becoming a victim, there are also no complete change that will happen in our surroundings, and there is also no complete change that will explode in our front.

Whatever you are eating, it depends on your health and form a big part of the chemical that makes you happy, attitude, and sudden outbursts of heat in your head.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
