PNoy failed in the Ombudsman.

It seems that President Noynoy Aquino failed to want to change the bad trade there in the Office of the Ombudsman.
Morales is chosen by the president with the belief that the agency will be the form of the agency, but, it seems that the former Ombudsman Merceditas Gutierrez was not working in exchange.
The resolution of the cases is very slow, so the victims who filed a case were impatient and charged with the result of the Ombudsman who filed a case and filed a case against the Ombudsman, "according to the investigation conducted by the Ombudsman.
That's why it is probably right for the Islamic State of Infor-Laban (FOI) bill to take a peek at any development in the government of the government or politician, but isn't it right, even if the case was filed, especially in the Ombudsman because that is a public document.
What is happening here in the Ombudsman is painful because it is slow to be followed up or ask a question about the graft case that is difficult, which is why there is also a red tape "in the Ombudsman?
Even some government agencies who are coordinating with their personnel who have a case in the Ombudsman are ready to get development for example, what will happen to the management of the PNP to file a case against the Ombudsman and seems to have no interest to cooperate with?
How will President Aquino want the "straight path" to the government if there is no resolution for the anomalies against government employees?
We have an explanation for Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon as well-raising to who are officials and employees of BOC who are facing charges, he asked the Ombudsman to give them list or development but until now, the office of Morales does not have a response.
There are many personnel there in BOC who are facing a case in the Ombudsman but they continue to face the case in the Ombudsman but they continue to vote for them because they are just vacationing in the Bureau and hindrance to the president's desire to straighten it in AOIL.
Aside from this, there are also complaints against DENR Secretary Paje who is under the Ombudsman but until now he is sleeping.
In almost a year in position, he did not change, but the foolishness of the Ombudsman under the management of Ombudsman Morales is worsen.
PNoy failed in the current leadership of the Ombudsman, that is the truth.
