Wednesday, June 26, 2013.

BRL) and just a move against tortured), once again.

Bakar and just a move against tortured), was launched again.

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

As commemoration of the International Day, Suppliers of victim, which was declared by the United Nations, it was launched by various groups from the burial of the Libingan ng mga Bayani in Quezon Avenue to the office of the Commission on Human Rights (CHR) in Commonwealth Avenue in Quezon City.

The groups who attended this were included in the United Nationalist Peoples Coalition (NTC), Task Force Office of the Philippines (TROs), Philippine Navy and Philippine Air Force, Philippine Army and Commission on Human Rights), Commission on Human Rights), Commission on Human Rights (CHR), Commission on Human Rights (CHR), Commission on Human Rights (CHR).

Since the 1987 Constitution, the Philippines has been in the United Nations Convention Center (LGJ) last 2009, the Saligang Batas of Torresna) or the Martial Law in Toreno) in 2009.

However, even if it has been released, it is still not fully implemented, because there are still a lot of cases filed by the authorities, and was not yet allowed to investigate those who are imprisoned because of the lack of legal service and medical services.

When we reached the office of the CHR, there was a short program where the representative of different groups with human rights were identified as Max de Mesa, and a representative of the CHR, the representatives of human rights Office of the police and military.

According to the spokesperson of the United Nationalist Peoples Coalition (NTC), Egay Cabalitan of TFP), who is one of their campaign now is having a dead-free evacuation centers in their campaign for now, Bagong Silang.

He also wants to help Karangalan Village in Tondo, Tondo, Manila, that is why I want to give to the management of Koponang TL, especially here in the funeral parlor in NCR and Rizal, all of us will help in this campaign.

This is the second time to join as long as it is just a run for the first is in 2010 and it is not yet due to an honorable case against the enemies of the government, weapon against women, weapon against women, weapon against women, or weapon against women, to remove the shy and mental fight against anyone.

Let's let's go free from any kind of shouting.
