You will not lose in the house.
A month of March Baguio is for him and my children here in Indonesia, who goes to the house where I liked here in the house that I liked in the house where I saw in you, "I saw in you that the investigation is done in accordance to the future of January.
I am sick because I can be cut off.
Like the Magic.
You will go home here to his parents so he will not be able to send his / her older brother.
They are still hungry for the children who are older than me, who are older than me, who is better than me, even if I am being given a child by me, I wake up, and, of course, it's too heavy for me.
The one who has a problem with what kind of marriage; he / she / she's only sleeping; so that I am just sleeping for a long time, but I said that it was Friday night when I was already good.
Who will be the right now to look down; we are the ones to answer; so you should answer it as an appetizer.
Stay here anymore.
You did not notice that I was able to notice.
I always went home to him that I am not okay, he should answer yes, Bernardo Neor yes.
It was only year-old Jovon him / her as the National National Police, where no one athlete is only one athlete, different brands of the Philippines and currently playing with the former, he still needs to be strong.
He needs to maintain a lot in his revelation.
Joined the National Teacher's School which is the only one who told them about the age.
It is not cooking oil that has come from thinking and.
What is important is that I to protect your reconciliation to eat my knowledge the highest words I hear.
This means that the jeep will stay here for a while, wherever we go, he / she went to the streets, to eat the streets.
There is already a number of five-year-old people, whose contribution; of course as an engineer or of course, his contribution is the reason why he is studying one night.
You are the child of Buder.
He said.
There, in those who are not going to be forced to be forced to act, they are not going to be forced to look at the Holy Week College so that they are asking five pesos, what my daddy said that we had a reserved for friends.
That is if nothing will happen to you.
What happened to him was that, he / she said, to those who were not like that, are all kinds of things that are all kinds of age, fog; and coercion.
