
Unite and insist on all the crimes of a specialist US against the Filipino Philippines - PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
January 23, 2012.

The demand for justice for all the US Standard Lunch Program against the Filipino can be considered by the CPP-NPA.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is calling for all religions, progressive and under democratic governance, Philippines to insist not only the payment of the national sovereignty and even justice for all the crimes being done by the Pambansang Kamao in the Filipino people.

The PKP has appealed to those who are going to school, professor, Filipino Workers who are supporting the nature, Filipino workers, professionals, journalists and the personalities to lead the Pambansang Kamao in the US as well as the said friendship between the United States and the Filipino people. "

"Together with the entry of the warship of the US to the Tubbataha is the destruction of the flood and the directly show of weapons to the Philippines and the use of the Philippines and the use of the US and in the operation of the US and the operation to show power to the Philippines."

"The current generation of patriotism more, the current administration of the Marcos regime seems to have no idea of the approval of the military by the US in front of its direct translation of the US in choosing the Philippines of the US to use the Philippines as foreign contacts."

"It should have been a campaign to study the history of colorums in the jurisdiction of the US in the Philippines and expose the selfish interest of the Philippines from the republic of the Philippines since 1946," said the KP.

"We should be proud of the Israelites and proud of our heroes, from Bonifacio to Recto, how can we go back to the Filipino people with the murder of millions of Filipinos in the murder of millions of Filipinos in their crimes with millions of Filipinos.

"The Filipino people should insist on the amount of damage to the entry and destruction of the Tubbataha Management Council due to the destruction of the USS Guardian.

"It is more than this, the existing topic related to the Tubbataha is the existing provision that is included in the Saligang Batas of the Philippines in the past," said PKP, "said the PKP," said to respect the wild boars in Clark Air Act, according to him to respect the wild boar "of the American soldiers."

The PKP is insisting that the refusal of the US government to release where and some weapons from the US continues to take responsibility in the cleaning of a poisonous garbage that was responsible for the shooting of the farmer, Butig in Basilan, 2002.

The PKP has also encouraged the American soldier who was sentenced to rape a Filipina in Subic last 2005 when he escaped from the US in 2005 and involved in different cases of incessant shooting, beating, other attacks and harassment of various cases of harassment from the Filipino culture.
