
674M for barangays and SSS, PAG-IBIG, PhilHealth.

Mission action, I am only one of the abusive followers of Remate has heard that I have heard that in the province of Laguna, our governor, Governor ER Ejercito, gave funds to each captain of the whole province of Laguna.
As a matter of fact, each one million pesos was given to each captain of the province of Laguna that reached 674 in total, which is why the equivalent funds given is up to 674 million pesos, which according to what I found out is for the community project.
This is an example of the projects that eateries, which is why it's almost not enough if he is going to do this that is to make him look like this.
I salute Governor E.R. Ejercito and the truth that, he is the first one who gave that kind of system in Laguna and hopefully the barangays will be given a big fund for them not to attract the projects of these.
That's why we are hoping that the projects of Governor are hoping that we will be given this kind of projects and we are hoping that he will strengthen this goal.
Weak.
Really concerned.
Aksyon Ngayon, we hope to discuss the situation of construction workers in the Philippines because we are together and included in the workers who are offering rights upon arriving for the benefits.
I am a caress of a big construction companies that is based in Valenzuela, Metro Manila, but, when I was formerly in a big company, I was betrayed by the SSS, Magsingal and PhilHealth and when we were able to be transferred to me this is the big challenge for me and my companions.
"Isn't it right that I just want to take a hole on us because our salary is almost the same in the big company.
On the part of the household help, up to P4,000 pesos for their monthly salary will reach up to 500,000 pesos for every month, we have the longest salary, which is why our law is surprising in making a fair system.
I hope that we can give assistance from it because I know that the name will be given to the name "Conejero (CWS) who are pushing your goals to give protection to the type of workers in our country.
Weak.
Mr. Cayabyab.
As well, Laguna Governor E.Ejercito, sir, is it true that you have a project which is allocated for the town of projects, because one of the residents are asking that their project will not be completed, because the funds will surely be broken.
It would be good because according to your fellowmen, you are the only ones who have this kind of projects, sir, you need to get help from each barangay in the province of Laguna for sure that they will be able to catch up and give assistance to their salary when they get sick, they can be expecting that they will be watched.
