Zamboanga Hermosa, tonight, is the reason why he wants to know the age of these past, but it is really just two weeks that the noise will be put to sleep.
It has been two weeks since this has been heard in the city of Zamboanga.
Where is the one called Zamboanga Hermosa.
My Zamboanga Steve wrote to her.
The foreigners are all lies in the past with good own safety as well as the residents.
Anyway, we are not new in Zamboanga's sharp gazes and we will be cut down in the latest news, just to reach you the latest news about Australia which has happened in Babe, story.
"The number of living of the police that they are doing is a taxi of living there, do not even do what you want.
You will be extra careful.
It has been two years that has changed leadership and then.
Many residents are going to cook one of the teenagers to avoid their names like their safety as well.
In my situation, the government should not let his cousin look for us.
This is tomorrow when Zamboanga will meet again, that of your colleagues than those who have passed away instead of getting back in the city again.
"On Thursday, on Thursday at our house going to the grassy part, to four of my co-year-old person, just coming from that next week.
He was met by his family.
Her daddy is already coming from Saudi.
I am thankful that and when I feel pity that we get married, I still do not have to say something different from your house there, but I can't say that you are going home to a house that is just going home in the center where the family is together.
For what is the right thing?
Stay here in the 'house now.
We were able to look down; he / she and her daddy were able to sleep; and that's the time when the sound of the sound in the barangays, which is why the sound of the kid that happened in Barangay.
Already!
It is always military that we can always buy gasoline that is why the children cannot be able to buy even if it started to be a heavy traffic because they started the good that they left, which is why they left each other as well as their godchildren.
He is pleading to have money to buy cigarettes.
Look at what they are seeing, the residents of the lives of the lives like the former President are still finding out the story of the medicine but there is still no more near here.
This day, on Thursday, you are going to make a lot of people here in the barangay where there's still a pile of sleep in the barangay where there's a pile of sleep that happened, that's why it's just like that, there was a pile of sleep that happened, at the end, there was something that happened, at the end, the people were able to do that, at the end, the people were able to look like that.
Where will I share?
This is also the situation of a companies that also complained.
Okay.
You know that what happened is that I am too much angry maybe until now, you can still hear the next Sunday.
