It is a dark Christmas for government employees?

Employees of different government agencies have marched towards the foot of Malacanang in Mendiola to protest about the attack of the Aquino administration with their benefits and rights.
The ConFootball Federation of Transportation, Recruitment and Gaming Corporation of government that does not lend the employees from the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) towards Mendiola.

The employees said that it seems that their Christmas is going to be dark this year because of the suspension of the DBM in giving benefits to the employees and having cadmium Agreement (Con (Con Elections).
Many of them have been reported to have been released last bonus and 13th love for payment for debt.
"Fight IT led by Heide by Nony, the administration's campaign to dream which is allowed by the poor behind bars of Our Lady IGAPARK.
Galite said that the administration even removed the small amount that they have seen, such as the rice field, which is being sold, three evasion he was given, three evasion and Crib.
"In fact that he / she does not show that it is Charismatic or a financial help, even the Two Wives of the Salazole," RL-Illegal Drugs), "Galite," said Gaels.
Galite said that many of the employees are just buying more or less than P2,500 only for food, transportation, and other expenses for their families.

The employees are also complaining about the absence of the administration of the budget to send a 1.4 million employees in the year 2013, which is more than Php2-ABB) in the budget of the national government in 2013, which is higher than 100 percent in the budget of 2012.
Together with the employees from the National Disaster Authority, Department of Social Welfare and Development, National Food Authority, Department of Agrarian Reform of Department of Agriculture, Department of Transportation and National Disaster Risk Reduction and National Transformation Council.
The employees of Metro Manila Water and Sebuage System, National Historical Office, Senate of the Philippines, Sandiganbayan and others are getting good.
Gaels also said that the employees of the government in Bacolod City, Iloilo City, Cebu City, Davao City and Cagayan De Oro City also protested.
