A five-year-old child has a gift.
It has been five years old and there is a signal that they will discover that he will work cancer in the blood on this in Bulacan that we are going to be the next day.
Us.
Yes.
The receipt always keeps on taking advantage of it because the farmers are very fond of the nose, and there is always a lot of men, that is why they feel butterflies.
It has been seven years that I lived in the barangay afternoon and Zambales, all of us are near.
The number of people started by the barangay started.
It is slowly coming out in front of their house everyday which is why there is a signal that I have been for a long time when there is a signal, it is figured out that it is okay with what I said in China, which can be believed or believed by the Aquinos.
Some of the residents often take advantage because that is the election of our roads so that there is nothing in the river up to the lungs of others, why are you saying that you're calling the Philippine National Railways so that it can be said that the president can go wild without what I am talking about.
That does not matter their house to clean her.
Not going to Gotoc.
You used the closet before.
Later, I let him know how much would stop the people and I remember that I do not want to comeback here.
Week.
Okay.
Okay.
Ha ha ha ha.
They are listening to your relatives now.
Many who are annoying, like that.
!
She might get sick.
I still have no education, what I said, how many residents are affected by the health because of those who are first in front of good news on December, an hour of 10 pesos.
In the operation of the six companies in the province, it's because it's very good to keep the importance of cat poo after our house and after this is a hard work, to all people here.
The life of everyone is affected, no matter how many of these are, about this here in the school everyday, of course it is hard to walk on a hardworking path.
The roads are destroyed in the streets of Olongapo.
This is just here, because they do not want to pass the vehicle outside, so what will happen is they will be able to take care of each other in order to avoid leukemia.
We still do not have to go to school; we are not going to start too much but with the number of rain that will be given to the house of course the fare will be given to them the fare that they are still alive like in the afternoon.
Four are all big in Santa Cruz, where you are living now in his family who called for three weeks.
These are San Miguel Break, which is said to be a problem of Lopez to Sampaloc, five Corporation of the M Riyals of the M Riyals, we said that we are noisy in Industrial Subdivision in the Philippines but it is just a little bit in Cabanatuan because of the first time we are in our place.
The residents believe that they evacuated their area there are news on the other health highway, so it was first that we should just focus on the effect of the health of the people living around them.
