Tragedy entered the garbage mountain.

Three days before celebrate Earth Day, a huge news was revealed to us last April 19, four people were buried in a mountain of a garbage in Sitti, resident at Barangay San Isidro, Rodriguez, Rizal, around four o'clock in the afternoon.
Part of them is the backhoe of Gary Alejano and the former personnel, Pablito Esmilla, Rodriico, and Eddie Malipayon.
The corpse of Garry Domingo and his motorcycle he was riding was exhumed last Wednesday morning, Rodriico, and the lower part of the body of Eddie, is still continuing to search for the police from the police, military, local government and Int.

It was suspected that the landslides happened because it was estimated that it reached 100 feet high and the strong rainfall has been affected by two hours before the incident happened, there were also residents who said that they heard a strong explosion from the nearby provinces last April 19.
According to Marvin Madrid, Protective Rizal, "the continued and reckless explosion in the quarry near the Landfill."
At present, the investigation of the authorities on the true cause of the tragedy will still be slow.
Madrid added, instead of immediate action and giving help to the family who was left by the victims of the tragedy they themselves (government), they even managed to play blind to the tragedy that happened, they even tried to play blind to the tragedy that happened before they were able to take action. "
Investigation.
Task Force (WBC) led by the Association of Major religious group of the Philippines (TFC-INRSP) is a fact that a fact that the Solidum program in Sitio Victoria was small last April 24.
The writers have become part of the mission of environmentalist Rizal Park Institute of Philippines because it is also a part of the Protected Rizal, Kashacan, Promotion of Church People's veillance Response, Kalapati, Kabihasnan Street, Mankayan, and Atejano.
While the mission in the said place is getting nearer, a factory of sand and other materials for the construction is going to be used to pass through the mountains because it is an ordinary view towards the mountains because it is guaranteed that there is a common perspective in the mountains because of the chronic and widespread brownout.
The mission of a mission was pointed to the former river of Bambato, but all of sand were piled up, but since the year 2000, it was deep and speed in the river in the year 2000, they had no longer seen the river in the year 2000.

The guide also added that, almost everyday, it is suspected that it is suspected to be the cause of the quake of the land which caused the collapse of the nearby mountains of garbage.
On the information gathered by the mission, one of the operator was the mayor of Rodriguez, Mayor Cecilio, Elrick "Hernandez, captain of Barangay San Isidro, his son Dennis Hernandez.
It's difficult to enter.
Security was strict for those who are going to the "Landfill" a checkpoint that blocked the vehicle of GMA-7, when the mission happened.
Members of the mission was witnessed how they failed to enter, which is why the members of the mission was not mentioned when they were asked by the police, instead, they said that they were relatives and friends of one of the victims.
His mission was able to go to work, but a policeman will also lead to him again when he interviewed some of the residents in the community.
From the community's closest to the Landfill, the mission was decided to walk towards the place of the landslides to interview the families of the victims, which is why the vehicles cannot take advantage of the road.
The going up going up is more than 30 minutes, where in the top, you will see a picture of the rivers and mountains of Rodriguez, Rizal.

"Landfill" or a dump site?
There are still a lot of "Ipit Gang" and a foul smell while the members of the mission came closer to the mountain which collapsed.
It cannot be determined where the chest will be hidden while it seems that the chest will explode due to the severity of the garbage from the houses, at Shiro Food alliances, hospital, factories, school, and anywhere, it is worse than the clothes and skin.
It can't be considered the Landfill in a place when the trash can be eaten, the Landfill based on its definition and burying the land in the situation where it reaches up to 100 feet the height of garbage that reached almost 100 feet.
It will be more unclear who can be considered the sanitary wipes, which can be considered as the Republic Act Number 9003, or Egurt with Solid Waste Management Council of the Philippines, it is clear that this is a dump site that is prohibited by the said law.

It can be recalled that last September 2008, it was revealed that the disposal of Rodriguez "sanitary permits or a poisonous chemical in the river of Rizal was caused by a heavy violation of the said law and the CDO Water Act or RA 9275.
But the International Criminal IM is not the only one who should be responsible for the said crime rate, the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) who gave permission from the cities of Tanay, Purisima and the population in the municipality of Tanay, Purisima and the population of the municipality that reaches up to more than 20 kilometers per hour or 24,524 houses.
The town of Rodriguez or better known as Montalban is a colony of families from poor community in Metro Manila and Cavite.
During the time of former Eyebank Foundation and Natural Resources Secretary Lito Atienza, its implementation was allowed from 14 hectares of 19 hectares.
It is estimated that up to 3,000 tons of garbage are brought here from Metro Manila.
Last 2007, this became a reason for the disagreement between former Mayor Pedro Cuba and Governor Jun Nardo, III.
Long live and die in garbage.
It can be considered that four workers of the "Landfill" are buried in this horrible situation.
The drowned of the speeding garbage is one of the most important ways of death here in the Philippines, I cannot be able to think of how the body of Eddie, what is clear, the body of Eddie, which is clear, is not humane, the way of his death.
Also caught in a mission was exhumed by a backhoe of garbage that fell down from the garbage that fell on it, what else could the body of the driver Garry hairs stood on?
If their death is not humane, the way their future lives is not humane, some of the residents who entered this kind of work are forced to enter this kind of life, they are not enough for their health.
Included, for example, in his face, Pablito Esmilla, or better known in the area as Tikboy, who has been working for more than 11 years, is only earning more or less than 300 every day and his wife is pregnant.
There are 60 employees of the said "Landfill" sixty individuals who are living on garbage that can also be killed in their lives.

They are repeating ourselves.
It can be recalled that last July 2000, a part of a dump site in Payatas dump site in Quezon City was burned, more than 500 people died from the 70-foot mountain of garbage.
The mountain collapsed in Brgy. Irisan, Baguio last August 27, 2011, five people - two children were killed last September 29, 2011, a dump site Brgy. New Cabanza, Olongapo City, which killed two lives.
The tragic tragedy in the collapse of the dump truck is also a tragedy of seriousness of the government to solve the long time problem of garbage and instead, a source of income from some officials and businessmen.

Filipinos are insisting that the dump area is not needed or sanitary permits when every house and barangay will come from and serving the people, and according to the law of nature, and according to the law of nature, nothing is wasted and has benefits.
The problem of the garbage problem is part of a big picture of the garbage problem which is strictly connected to the rotten system of the government of big businessmen, one of the clear reasons why these problems cannot be resolved.
Meanwhile, while a few are being monitored by a few, their natural resources are being ironed out, the poor, those who suffer from poverty, will be the ones who suffer from poverty, the poor will always be more aggressive and become the primary victim.
