Selling the Philippine Orthopedic Hospital.

The Gin Kings are met by a protest at the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (NKovalev) in Quezon City last January 25.
BOC C is the very first public hospital who will conduct the bidding on the program of Private-dugo Gang (PPP) of the Aquino administration at the construction of the New People's administration at the construction of the private sector within 25 years.
First.
"It will surely increase in our hospitals in the entry of the private sector, they will do a business for the rights of the people because they will not benefit without them," according to PO 2 tablespoons of Health (OFW).
It needs P56,7 billion in order to build the 700-bed which is super-in-ray of this amount, P5.3-B is expected to come from the private sector.
An estimate of 500 pesos to 700 patients are out from the services of BOC C everyday, about 300 percent of the patient in the emergency room at dawn, around 90 percent of these are the poor, according to times.
"It is poor that most of our patients have been able to serve, we are getting along well for free," according to Sean Velocity, the chairman of the National Orthopedic Hospital, chairman of the National Orthopedic Hospital.

The question of Gloria Arellano, National Bureau of Kalapati, Kadamay), "if it is just now public service, many are already dead, how can we poor people who depend on service in public hospitals because of poverty?" Also joined in the movement of the poor in the nearby community in Quezon City.
There is also no assurance for what will be done to the workers of BOC C if the private sector is going to enter the private sector, according to Velocity.
"If it is really humane and for the Filipinos to enter the private sector, why is it that this includes the patients by the Ortho-Added Tax and to the citizens?" According to Dante Perez, second chairman of a NoWU-3618.
According to Perez, they would not want to repeat the Commission on NKovalev that even though the facilities are improved, people are afraid to enter because of the high bills.
"We, the employees are able to sacrifice, but we can endure this because we cannot endure this, we cannot endure that we can endure that our fellow countrymen are not able to endure that we cannot endure for our poor countrymen," Perez added.
The distribution, business during the time of crisis.
In the coming of President Aquino to the Davaoans, SMAS.
"But there are sectors that should not be given or put up because it has a direct need for the citizens," according to Padilla.

Bayan Muna Rep. Teddy Casino expressed their warning, what happened to MWage Order (Metropolitan Manila) under the private corporation, the price of electricity will decrease, but the price of electricity will decrease, this is what we want to happen to our public hospitals? "
BOC C is only one of the hospitals in the whole country who are scheduled to undergo this corporation, according to Dr. Geneve Rivera-Reyes, general-secretary of Health Organization (ALS) in Manila and the Personal Economic Cooperation-Tropical Convergence Zone in Muntinlupa.
"This is not the first action we do, it will surely be more intensified with the privatization of the privatization of our ranks because this is where the lives of millions of our fellowmen depending on public hospitals," said Reyes.
