For a leader who has doubts.

Your grades are gradually moving while you continue to fulfill your duty, sometimes you do not know what is the first time that you are getting sick because of your long time when you sleep for eight hours?
It is really hard to look for a quiet school or peaceful sleep during the time when society has no peace and peace, it is as if you are fighting for a lot of times to fight the sleepiness?
Because compared to others, it can be said that you are aware that your eyes are seeing the reality in the society while you know the truth inside and outside the university, you know the truth inside and outside the book but it is more important that you have learned from the books but it is more important that you can share to you.
In your conversation with a farmer, you know how hard to plant and live in the countryside, especially if you do not have their own land, even if you know that he has no own land, even if you know the actual thing that is happening in the factory.
Leading and the factory where you really need to go out of your university to know what is happening in our society, whatever you need to share to fellow students, any plans of your organization should be part of your desires in and outside the university.
There are some individuals who say that what you are doing is a big inconvenience for them, if you need to wait for the fight for the workers, farmers and other sectors of society, you need to wait for a limited activity that is not busy in a peaceful school anymore.
Based on this kind of joking and prudent, the time comes that you are tempted to take the easy path - a peaceful path, and not only with your work in the future, isn't it that your application will be affected if you will know that your application will be affected?
But for just a moment, the possible journey of this path is just a moment because you know that it is like traveling in the area of those who do not care about the fight of a student does not do anything, not end with the fight of a student, if you think about it, the youth do not choose any age to win.
Yes, you need to enter a class until you can make it because it is your duty as a student, but it is better for you to get high grades in a university, however, you should remember that your personality is not measured by your character or number.
If you think about it, you need to explain to other students every time you leave them in important campaign to achieve your ambition to get the high level of honor, where your ambition is to get the higher honor and honor for your personal life?
As a teacher, believe that high grades are good but it is not needed in the continuation of your struggle in fact, if you are able to finish college, what is important to them is that you are ready to serve in college.
It is normal for an individual to have doubts about the leader of the student like you, that it cannot be avoided, but also to your fellow students and even in the town, you continue to fight their own welfare, even if it means that many personal sacrifice will not be avoided, even if it means a lot of personal sacrifice, just once it means a lot of personal sacrifice.
Do not think that the people around you are taking a hole on your surroundings, and you should not pay attention to other leaders who have a unique belief and are blind to following those in power, they should not worry because of them, the spirit of true leader of students serving the country is not enough.
Even if you still have doubts, hopefully there is nothing else, I believe that it is slowly gone, especially since I have been worried about you the amount of what you are doing.
