
China in criticizing the $112.

On the reported bombing of the Chinese Coast Guard from the Spanish fishermen last January 27 in the Panatag Shoal / Bajo de Masinloc, a new case is being prepared by the Philippines government.
Additional documents to the coast guard who will be submitted to the Pambansang Kamao before the 25th of March 2014.
Even now, it is already being felt, "as they say, the Philippines is the winner in the legal aspect of the issue.
There are many experts in the law who were telling that: The Senior Supreme Court Associate Justice Antonio Carpio, Jr., Solicitor General Francis Jardeleza and Philippine Persist back to the United Nations, Cabacosta and other lessons in the International Law.
In the case that the Philippines is pushing against China, it is not the territory or land that was being thrown at the territorial dispute), but the one to be the one to be the one (WBC).
And with indie films, Up is said that all the contents of the sea and things under its jurisdiction of 200 square meters from the coast of a country owned by it is the reason why all of them are saying that the Philippines can achieve "legal term."
But at the end of the long process, the painful truth is that there is still no assurance that China will heed their decision - especially if that is in favor of the Philippines.
We have discussed many times in this column that is why we know that although martial law is happening in the case, the implementation of it will be a bigger aspect.
And we also said that if the Philippines will win in the case, the greatest treatment of the countries in the world against China (the adworld opinion) will only be the last card of the Philippines.
The hope is that if the countries will be treated in the world, China will be treated as a member of small countries using his weapons, which is part of the peace of the world; this is a country related to business and freedom in traveling; this might change the actions of China.
There are also some personalities from different parts of the world who expressed their opposition to what China is doing.
There are high-ranking leaders of the armed forces of America in the end, Hans-Gervacio are also calling the country to identify the power of the law to ensure a peaceful dialogue between the countries in order to ensure a peaceful dialogue between our country.
However, China seems deaf if they are not challenging or being stubborn in the middle of the initial decision of the Philippines or the desire to resolve the conflict between the Philippines or the desire to resolve the conflict between the Philippines or the desire to resolve the conflict between the country in Asia, China, especially the military muscles and China.
The end of the total of 112 billion dollars in the past year for the warship, China is still expecting that China will not allow America (who spent the US $30,000 pesos last year) for the military in 2030.
Meanwhile, the total of 12 percent is the expenses of the countries in Asia for the same reason.
What is the meaning of China?
The Philippines should not be erased from what the citizens continue to support their lawmakers who continue to support the modernization of the country, that they should continue to support the leaders of the country, which is needed to be firm against the leaders of the country, which needs to be firm in order to suppress the order and peace in the world.
(I wrote to the edevaluation of 90 centimeters.
