Kaligayahan, April 26th, 2013, Nunber by Philippine Collins.

Now that I am finished.

Kevin Mark Gomez.

"At last."
Within one day, the success of students, parents and university will be celebrated today in spite of the new generation of educated to add students from different parts of the university, in front of our parents, family and friends.
However, in the tone of the happiness, of the left banquets, drinking or celebration, it cannot be avoided - no matter how they refuse, to face the brimming of questions in every cave?
Nonstop.
This rainy season, the stories of success and happiness are overflowing with the success of politicians, famous personalities and TV stations for the "Gradates," like those close friends that we watched.
Make the number of accidents or comment on the picture of your friends and acquaintances who are intentionally being monitored for a moment when their conclusion to their end.
Even if I am in your own straight path, you could not hide his full of alcohol "if you think it's true," it seems that the people who will be wearing a foul odor, which is a sign of a legitimate university to be seen by a legitimate university in the country.
At noon, at night, and in the morning.
I will admit that it is still different and giddy, due to the end of college, it's not just like the past, there will be no next time, aside from the conclusion of a student in a higher level, in a higher level, in college, in the real world. "
That is why it is a ritual to think about it, from the speed of Clearance or fixing their honor, buying a foul and being waiting for the soldiers to go to the University Avenue, especially in UP who does not follow the trend, which is said to be progressive.
It is sad that a month before we pass, a flawless body was killed because of the high tuition in UP.
The contract of those who will be cut off the contract when they are leaving UP as a student, but not as a scholar of the Bayan of Great Britain in the cave, there is still a sign of debt that will continue the start of the Bayan and a better future.
"Do not refuse what I am looking for.
Kevin Mark R.
Is the Public Administration.
University of the Philippines.
If possible, this is the only thing that I want to keep in my CV, I think there are still many like me who are hoping to bring the name and the prestigious contest of the degree from the university, there is a bonus that is linked to Laude.
"I am just graduating," but I will just add to the bastions that we stay in, and take it back to the interview or just acting cute, I have also thought of going to the interview or not an actress to have money.
It is estimated that around 530,000 pesos in the cave I went to college this year until January 2013, 489,000 pesos to Filipinos who have no work, according to the latest Labor Law survey (LFS) by the Department of Labor Law (LFS).
However, there is more than half a million dreams that will face a bitter reality in the society: One of this is the food stall in our country with a good future for whoever has a high education.
With the number of people who are not at work, it looks like I need to be a member of even if will be a member of the "pahayagan."
How many years have been saved, or will I be delightful?
"I often take care of some friends with comments like" Welcome Rotter the population of the victims, "or according to the Sangguniang Partylist), that's why, in a few days, we will be part of the descent, who is known to be an enemy of, who is known to be an ally of, who is known to be an ally of, who is known to be an ally of,.
Every time someone asks for the job I want to enter, "I asked me to enter the cross of the bridge," lets just call him as a father-year-old child, and as long as he is not at work, his board-year-old man is free.
If there is still no plan but does not want to be included in those who do not have jobs, there are some ways to cheat for example, it can be said that you are not active in searching for a job, it is like you are not active in searching for a job, that is why, it is like a ghost that is annoying for the age of LFS. "To January 2013.
As the number of Filipinos who have work: 37.75 pesos.
Number of Filipinos who have no job: 2, 894,000.
Number of being detained at 7: 00 pesos.
"Do not try to ask and be suspicious.
There is no sufficient work in the country because there is no national industry, according to the approved group, meanwhile, the government is proud of the improvement of the economy last year, and it may lead to the gathering of their own crossroad.
But after a few years of studying UP, what are we learned?
Maybe some will go to big foreign companies, some will go to the government and there will also remain in a university which will end up in a university which will be given different meaning.
For now, I still do not have a good plan for the future, it seems that I need to go back to the constitution and I learned while in a university: How to serve and to whom?
Probably, the First Republic is holding the story, to have the meaning of the next chapter in my life outside the four corners of the university.
