
Every March, you are the one to pay for GMA!

"Up to March, you and me, pay former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo."
This is what G. Benigno Simeon Cojuangco Aquino III stated in his attendance to the Christian Conconference recently.
Is it like a shotgun attack anyone who criticized her and his administration - critics - his call.
Every fight for him is to pay former President and Pampanga Congresswoman Gloria Macapagal Arroyo (QCPD)!
"His challenge to critics," Immonen of "
You will not make your mind, Mister Aquino, in fact, you have pity for the lines of your words against your ex-upon-time a teacher Gloria.
As they say, it is good to eat a steak knife but if everyday, within three years, it's the same, and it also goes.
For the education, when the million was established, it started in social website.
Rich people who believe in your former ally or those who believe in you but your stomach upside down because of the simultaneous corruption in the administration.
It is not surprising and it is impossible for the million-March only to happen.
This is a proof that the first citizens who are just going to have been used by elements who are not in "epal." Will be "epal."
In spite of that, the people attack when it is organized, you might have learned from position!
Your accusations, Noynoy, is serious, for them to pay and live by Gloria from the accusation that we can go back and file a case against it now, just wait for it.
It is more than three years that in your position, anti-Gloria still goes out of your mouth?
Worried.
Anyway, I know that it is not good for you but to the pests that are connected to your ear because they are whispering among you that you are poor.
Just like what you said in your SONA, where do you get the thickness of MUKnapsack, so we will only be attending to your money?
From PDAF going to the Disbursement Acceleration Program, a billion peso is what you are taking, along with your followers in the Congress.
Are you not going crazy on your hairs even?
There are many who suffer from poverty because there are many victims of calamity, whether it is a typhoon or the action of the people.
You have not given help aside from each one who has a bag of rice, delata and noodles!
If we are involved in your aristocratic.
You said that you have done so many things, where do you say?
