Philippines and the Philippines as the name of the country.

If you will be asked to choose, what you want is the name of our country, Philippines or Philippines?
Let us think well that this is a resolution of a resolution to the Filipino language (KWF) on April 12 which aims to restore the use of the Philippines, "to stop the use of the" Philippines "in order to spread the officials and improvement of its country."
KWF can assure that the official name of the institution is going to change, "and to make sure that the said Philippines is going to be spread, the gradually change will be spread in the group of cells where the Philippines is going to spread to the Philippines" towards the Philippines. "
It has been a long call for some experts in the Filipino language, if the citizens of our country are going to believe this kind of Filipino in our country is the Philippines (P-3618), the word that is also being used to identify our language "according to the constitutional solution in 1973."
What is stated in the current Constitution which was ratified on the 1987 Constitution, in the 1987 Constitution, it was stated in the 1987 Constitution by the Philippines, but based on the 1987 Constitution, the Philippines and the citizens of our country, even if it is stated in Art-Xs, Salas.
Before we decided to believe the Constitution, we should know another event in the 1987 Constitution, we should know another event in the 1987 Constitution, according to the Saligang Batas of the Philippines in the alphabet right, aside from the legislative chamber that can make the letter in English, aside from the removal of the Spanish tourists. "
From the 20 alibis were made by Littleton, Santos in 1940 (A, B, K, E, R, P, C, C, R, B, Q, V, M, Q, V, X and Z.
And because it has been a lesson from the alphabet right, it is not surprising that KWF can implement last 1991 "compared to the Linmei," compared to the Linmei of language in the new agency, it is clear that this is a clear step to spread the right call to our national language.
But if we analyze the resolution of KWF last April, what is the right name of the country, what can be read in the website of KWF, the articles of our country, Doctor Virgilio Mendez, and this kind of name of our country on 12 June, 1898. "
We do not have a debate in data but we just need a short step to be examined.
First, it is clear in our history that even if we recognize the Spaniards, if we recognize that in the Philippines, this should only be used in history, but if it can be remembered, the Spaniards needs to be enforced from 1565 to 1898.
It is an apology to this kind of course, I do not only see the logic in the use of foreign nickname for the source of all parts of the country, including those who are not occupied by it.
Second, the title of the declaration of freedom last 1898. "Actor," Acting or Filipino.
There are also an argument pushed by Almario which is a thorough investigation, according to him, "what we say is a Filipino" while the country is "
Maybe this is only a difference with opinion as for me, it's not funny or different from having the filipino language, but the country and the people are the Philippines and the citizens, the people and the citizens are known by the people and the citizens, the people are recognized by many people to progress the own language.
In the increase in the increase of new words, it is clear that the 20 in the alphabet are not enough, even if an expert said that there is an expert in the language in different regions, this is a good start to see an ordinary citizen in the middle of the contents of the Pacific Ocean.
For the English Philippines and Filipinos, it is clear that this wouldn't be erased from the Spaniards, but compared to English Philippines, it can be said that we had their own identity, even though we want to have his own identity, even though we want to have his own identity, even if this is noticeable in the current past, there is still a wide acceptance of the present.
Even if it can be said that he has an opponent in the alphabet right, it does not mean that there is still a few words coming in this letter, and many of them are borrowed from foreign language, and many of them are borrowed from the old alphabet from the old alphabet from the old alphabet right at the 42 pages in the alphabet right.
This is about making the right teaching of the right construction in the right state of the proper group, "of now, there are two ways of writing in the name of the citizens in our country, we can avoid this problem in English and our Filipino" in English, etcetera, Manila, in English or native language. "
Even if it is true that this is easier from teaching, how do we think that we need to encourage the Filipinos to use the English language in some parts of our country, it is acceptable to encourage the citizens to use the English language in a few parts of our country.
The simple encouragement is clear in the change of name of the country, the issue here is not just the use of the modern alphabet but the interpretation of our colorums in the past, including the piled up at present.
