
Leaders in Malacanang.

It has a point of Senator Ralph Recto and former Sen. Ping Lacson to their observation about the failures of the personnel of President Aquino.
It seems that PNoy is being criticized by the criticisms due to the mistakes made by his man, and instead of going to make the attack, he will be the ones placed in the stove.
In the side of PNoy, I believe that his goal for the country is clean, but the problem is there are other agenda of the people who trust and what's worse is that if they are taking advantage of a miracle, it's PNoy that's being cut off.

They are members who continue to destroy the clean goal of our president.

It is full of shame because of the political advisers, Ronald Liscano, of Land Transportation Office Chief Virgie Torres), which is why he is already hit by a shame that is why he is already retiring) and former Immigration Chief Ricardo David.

Include those with Environment Secretary Ramon Paje, Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala and Executive Secretary Paquito Ochoa who are always in the middle of the controversies.

Do you also not forget the King of the lazy (HB) that Philippine National Police Chief, Director General Alan Purisima, who is too arrogant but did not do anything to slow down the crime in our country.

The problem is, instead of facing all the criticisms thrown at the President, they just let PNoy enter it.

He rushed to the sidewalks where he climbed up.

In the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) for example, some of our countrymen who are affected by the illegal black spirits, mining in different parts of the country, particularly in the province of Cagayan.

The syndicate of illegal mining and illegal activities in Mindanao would be vigilant, but Paje will just ignore it.

In the news of us, the people who are taking the small cart in Mindanao will rise even more, but they are run by big capitalists that they want to patrol to our laws in nature.

In the Department of Agriculture in spite of the embarrassment she was involved with Secretary Alcala, especially on the issue of corruption, it is said that you will contact the imported rice from Vietnam and it also got caught in the boils of the non-government official of Janet Lim-Napoles!

But instead of resigning from his position, hopefully the president can avoid criticisms, they will be able to spend more on their own positions.

I also did not count the times that Ochoa was caught in a scandal but he really does not want to resign from his position.

It's a good thing that our casino queen, Torres, is already with the spirit of shame that is why he is already retiring, it is said that he has already resigned from his position, which is why it is now a little way for him to run in the Bureau of Immigration (BI).

On the other hand, it is very easy for PNoy to just wait for me if what he wants is to have people who truly have concern for the country, the problem is still ongoing in him.

He / she was very weak.
For your suggestions and comment, you just send a email to gum.
