TV Patrol, January 30, 2012.

The planned resolution to the 2012.

Start to live with an inspiration today.

Even if you will be happy in this day, you will be happy and make sure that you will be happy and make sure that you are with your loved ones, you can be thankful to whatever you can do, calm, calm, praise and give importance to others.

Try these, and it will be easy to follow.

No one knows how you know, you will love him all the time and be a ritual in your life because this is the secret of a good relationship.

Life can be disconcerting, but the happiness that happens is very simple, we should not forget to bring a guide in our face, especially the main provisions that we need while traveling in the right path in life.

I feel ashamed that you can be amazed by those that are here.

Just go to a quiet place or at the side of your house and slowly read each other, read and lose a deep mind, read and think about what happens, and what will happen, if your mind and heart will be able to join and be open to this change.

To those who are worried, foolishness, grief and regret in life, we need to be a good direction to our face, and put under a new direction to your face, and put in a peaceful mind, and in a few moments, we need to be a peaceful mind, and in a few moments, you need to be a peaceful mind, and in a few moments you need it.

The expensive desire to look for your happiness, and... that it is part of others, the happiness is like the height of law that gives Pag-asa, faith, and love.

Express the people that you need to do, sometimes, the most good hand is helping is a good hand, and firm pushing and remain a corresponding reward for you.

Do not allow the power of trust to others.

The only thing that is becoming an obstacle between a person and what he wants in his life is the determination to try this, and the belief that this will happen, if there is no perseverance, there is no food.

Keep your small things, because in one day, it can be proven that it can be proven that these are big things.

Keep facing a bisexual day so you will not see the shadow.

Because the past is, especially since it is bitter, there is no need to digest. It is no longer needed for the present and you will be able to raise your future.

Serve others what they can't do for himself, this is a very beautiful payment for others, that there are no people who help others when he cannot help himself.

Look for the key to their hearts, each of us wants to give importance to each other and attention to your calm words, short and easy to fool, but those who will resound and have no end.

Change what you are thinking, I am being ignored, and doing it, and your world will voluntarily change, whatever you can make your fate.

Pay attention to your financial advice, make sure that you spend more than income, and allocate proper and strict budget to blame yourself, although you can use it as a motivation to remain in the right path and fineness of needs in life.

If you will not abuse you and you will fight for your right, you will easily be disturbed by anything because even if you are on the right path, you will be hit if you are just sitting and do not care.

The most important thing in life is not the material things.

The happiness is not in these, it is there in the depths of our hearts, things that cannot be seen but he feels the most important thing.

A former lover and imagination is the highest number of people who will be driven by a person if you do not have a dream, it seems like you're a habit of being carried by the raging water.

Change is always coming to you to make promises and like gifts, it is only in your compliance of what you are going to do.

And here it depends on your destiny to love your children, because they are going to love your children, because they are going to take care of you, love your mother, because this is the basis that you love them.

You will go forward to any activity that you are facing without being judgemental, start everything with vitality and everything will just be easy.

There is no doubt, the ability of accepting the ability to accept until the fact that there are those who are in the streets will voluntarily go down.

In choosing you, not for the chance, your fate will cause your fate.

Any situation or level is what you have now, all of these have happened from the fares to choose what is right for you.

There are no problems in life, instead of the challenge and opportunity to measure your ability if you have a right to succeed, because as long as you do not have a right, you will stay there!
Sometimes, if there is no change happening, we will not witness the right and true direction of our life if we seem to be caught in a bait and you are receiving whatever fate is given to us.

The most important sermon he gives, is not allowed to study one example if others can put it on or avoid you.

Relative, ------- a laughing and fun is important to me, I am very important for me to be happy, honest and trusted of things, I need to be honest when I have a honest friendship, I need to be honest friends with myself.

To be trusted, I need to trust others, if I want to love me, I need to love myself, because I could not give me anything that is not in me.

Now, you need to be one of what you want to happen to you.

If you want a love, be loving.
If you want peace, be peaceful.
If you want to be happy, be respectful.
If you want to become extraordinary, you might be different from the majority.
If you want to take a risk, remain open your mind.
If you want success, remain serving your fellowmen.
If you want happiness, you will worry about it from the depths of your heart.

.

Always remember that there are two kinds of people in this world who are realistic and you know that this is what you are thinking, and whatever you are thinking is coming from here, and whatever you feel, you should be sure that this is your feelings, because not all of your thoughts you should believe.

Those who want to succeed are to believe while others are suspecting.
Plan while playing and the others are in a hobby.
Study while others are sleeping.
Avoid decisions while others know something.
Prepare while others are dreaming.
Start while others keep silent.
Take a while waiting.
Save while others waste.
Listen while the person in front is speaking.
Smile while others are laughing.
Some criticized while criticizing the others.
Happy, while others were against them.
Love while others are angry.
Forgive while others are furious to revenge.

Help while someone is in need.
Be lively and happy because this is the key to success,... that it will have more strength and even truth, you will see that kind or burst of feelings.

Success is not the key to happiness and happiness is the key to success if you are friendly and happy with what you are doing or work, you are directly successful.

We are going to take advantage of the path of our relationship with peace... and it will be completely stopped and avoid violence and corruption, we should accept that we are siblings, and those who are dependent on our unity to clear community community.
