
Education for the profit.

The country.
March 7, 2012.
In the coming class (2012-2013), more than 300 private schools will increase their tuition in spite of the disconcerns of the students and their parents, up to 15 percent, the 324-15 percent will be increased to a candle-15 pesos and a university which was raised to a bird, P37 per hour.

In the study of the students of the Philippines, more than double the current amount of tuition in the Philippines compared to 2001.

There are still nothing among these kinds of cellular phones, some of the owners of the schools, expenses for the uniform, expenses for the uniform, expenses for the uniforms and other private parts were implemented by many private university.

Up to P120,000 pesos is the annual bill to Far Eastern University (WestMinCom) and the Philippine Women's Universities (NU), to P145,000 pesos in Ateneo de Manila University (ADMC), P160,000, Mapua Institute of technology and P198,000 in De La Salle University.

Included in those who will increase the tuition in 2012 were suspended (5 percent), University of Sto. Tomas (UST, 19 percent for the new students), Centro Escolta University (CEU, 3-5 percent), the university which has been high and money.

It takes the ashes of French protest, as well as other such a private university in the sale of the said quality of education, CEU, CEU, Roque and University of Perpetual Help, all included in the top 10 million pesos and the largest corporation in the Philippines.

In front of the continuous increase of education, the students would only request to the killing of the high tuition fee they are just right to review the price increase in the school which contains millions of pesos in the selling of a public service that the Filipino youth need to review.

It is also proper that the Marcos regime will be held accountable for his release of the private schools for the greed of the capitalists have.

Last February, the distress of the students will increase against a burden and not just a proper tuition fee launched by the National Union of Students, the Enhanced Defense Cooperation of the Philippines, the Priority Development Assistance Fund), which is expected to worsen the fight against the students this coming school.

In line with this, we should continue to fight the government's government budget for education and a few decades of gratitude for the public system of education is what caused the privatization of it.

It is not safe from this system even in public locations and college that the budget is small, which resulted in the high tuition and other bills in the University of the Philippines (PUP), from 2007, the price increase in the University of the Philippines (PUP) continues to sell the land in the University of the Philippines (PUP).

There was a success in the advancement of the youth and students last year against the Marcos regime was revealed in the budget of education that it was made to give alms from the country's budget, and a private sector was released by the private sector to profit from them.

While the fight is being pushed for the increase in tuition and for the country's increase in general, this should be exported in the fighting against a system for the citizens and are focused on the need of the company of the youth who will benefit from their very expensive education.
