
Lacierda, Valte, PCCO!

It is very intense for Malacañang to judge Edwin Lacierda recently in front of the media.
I think he is one of the anger that he is angry with in expressing his boss in giving money to the people's money, yes, taking advantage of our country's funds from the people that we pay for.
The last discussion about the pork barrel fund and the new directive of Budget Secretary Butch Abad the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) is trying to be led by the state of Benigno Aquino III.
For example, the release of Malacañang through DBM of P127 billion from DAP that is said to be illegal in any form and basis is what former Senator Joker Arroyo, former Budget Secretary Benjamin Diokno, former Budget Secretary Benjamin Diokno, former Budget Secretary Benjamin Diokno, and many other individuals, economists, local and foreigners.
The nose of Lacierda and Valte are erased and they are insisting that everything they did is legal, what really is, Kuyang?
I remember what I saw as a funny movie before about the wood which was alive and with a very beautiful man, Pinugay, io, whose nose is beside each other.
That is what is happening to Valte and Lacierda, that's why their boss is still no reaction, it is headed for the real thoughts of their boss, instead of helping Noynoy, they are the rust that destroy him.
The issue of DAP was not a joke, there are many cases filed against Butch Abad and Senate President Franklin Drilon and Senate President Franklin Drilon in the Supreme Court because they saw that Lacierda and Valte are trying to defend everything that they can defend everything that is why the palace is prohibited, right!
The married couple was also able to make a anger when they asked him about the funds of PNoy. Hey, you have not enough to shout about the funds of PNoy., "Aquino is holding the funds but is not even from the previous administration (PCGMA)!"
Hahaha, the princess was only one of the ATM card when it comes to those who need to clarify the issue.
Every time someone is harassing them, one of the direction of their script is one of the sin of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo!
