
Intensify the Filipino nation and celebrate big victory on the 25th of Andres Bonifacio.

The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
November 29, 2012.

Disbursement Acceleration Program.

The brightness of the war was competing to celebrate great contribution in the 150,000.00 of birthdates of Andres Bonifacio.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines is one of the Filipino people in commemoration of the 149 birthday of the Filipino workers at November 30, 2013 next year, as it looked at the 119th Independence Day on November 30, 2013 next year, and the brightness of the filipino nation in the whole country, and the red flag of the national nation in the whole country.

It is not that the filipino people will not be able to make it the importance of revolutionary movement and abuse of foreign companies, by their local government, by their local government, to the anticipated change and harassment of the filipino people with the horrible change and commerce at the armed fight and under democratic governance.

Their style of patriotism, "Andres Bonifacio and Katipunan, the Filipino people, under the flag of the national release to launch the Honor Code of the Pambansang Kamao, before it will be defeated by armed forces against the 1896-1898.

The history of the Filipino people is continuing to cross the disputed armed fight of colorums in the past four century, the armed group will fight back to fight the brutal suspension of their rights in order to fight the brutal suspension of their rights in order to fight the brutal suspension of their rights.

There is a part which is launched that is widespread and in the notice that the armed fight between the New People's Bayan (BHB) by the never ending history of the armed fight of the filipino country (PKP), and it will still be a bigger success in the armed revolution of the Philippines (PKP), and this will still be a bigger success in the next year.

The crisis is deep and worried that the Filipino people will go to the country a widespread lack of land, lack of abuse of oil and other basic commodities in the country, that they are supporting the US and private sector of the country, and they are supporting the citizens with no truth and being carried away by the citizens who have no hope and being carried away by the non-mindedness of the government and being carried away by the public service and lack of action.

However, there is no need for a few kinds of propaganda to become the condition of the abuse and abuse of the people, the farmers and Filipino workers who are oppressed by the land of foreign companies, students, students, poor workers, students, students who are oppressed and different types of the masses, bark and private sector.

In the countryside, the rise of Bagong Hala Bayan is continuing to increase in the ranks of youth workers, students, students and farmers, they have launched a more often and bigger criminal offensive to strengthen and widen the disputed armed fight of the people.

In the four proper strategy and tactic on what they are implementing, there is a clear understanding between the steps from small and strong, and it will be increased to the following year in the construction of the primary movement and harvest of the constricted streets of the citizens in different parts of the citizens in different field.

While the type of Filipino workers are preparing to meet the 80th year of the birth of Andres Bonifacio, the PKP is calling for all the basic commodities in the earth and to make sure that the filipino masses will continue to improve the reforms of the earth and we need to focus more than the citizens of the spirit of the Black Nazarene.

The celebration of Andres Bonifacio, we celebrated the anniversary of the heightened security of the whole country, the PKP, for the filipino youth to serve the filipino youth to serve the masses, and for the guidance of the masses, and for the guidance of the masses, and for the guidance of the masses.

The current generation of Filipino youth will likely be mistaken for the successful success of Filipino people for the Pambansang Kamao and in the opening of the new chapter with a specialist revolution and construction of a modern and appropriate system.
