
"There is a rally in Zamboanga Peninsula, unknown offensive against the MNLF.

By John Irvin, L. Salazza (Davao Toda).
September 18, 2013.

MNLF Davao Chair Rolando Oaving (Paving. Having, Ace R. Dandola.
The local leader of the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) in Davao City said that their colleagues in Zamboanga City will only plan to conduct a rally last week, not to attack like the fire between the troops of the government.
Rolando Olanes also said, the chairman of MNLF Davao, that the forces of MNLF in Zamboanga also gathered to consult the Bangsamoro Islamic Liberation Front in the city.
"I think they just want to conduct a consultation, but it's likely that they tried to fight them after the reaction of the authorities in their presence," said Older in Davao City.
Ricardo Dichoso, spokesperson of MNLF, and said that the chairman of MNLF chairman Nur Misuari wants to conduct a "peaceful rally in relation to his call for defense of Bangsamoro.
Fontanilla who said that the rebel group of MNLF who served as "prepaid party" of Misuari came back in the coastal range of Brgy. Sta. Catalina morning on Monday, September 9 when he was attacked by the troops of the government.
Oldan explained that the MNLF does not sell a war, but there is a desire to open the negotiation of the Comprehensive Final Agreement between this and the government that signed last 1996.
"Our siblings want to conduct a peaceful rally but they are not allowed to have a relationship with blood in order to hear our voice," said Older.
He said he is ready to face the arrest of Misuari if they will be charged with what happened.
Last October, Misuari declared a construction of a "Bangsamoro Islamic Liberation Front in Davao and Visayas.
The said leader of the MNLF, "the Philippine government of the Philippines is looking at the 1996 of the Philippines with the signature of the government and MNLF for the signature of the Bangsamoro Basic Agreement on the Bangsamoro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF).
Misuari is pushing him to open the discussion about the Comprehensive Final Peace Agreement that will serve as a violation to the United Nations.
Meanwhile, on September 9, Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte also criticized the peace panel of the government for not going to talk with different armed groups.
"When they asked the peace panel), I asked them to go with the peace talks), I told them not to coordinate with the MILF while it is not yet finished in the end," Duterte said.
Bayan Muna Rep. Carlos Zarate also said that the peace talks by President Aquino should not be divided and abandoned because this is not the right way to talk for peace in Mindanao, "said Zarate.
Last week after the original article went out, last September 16, former Pres. Fidel Ramos criticized the Aquino administration because the latter became negligent just because of the implementation of the agreement signed on his administration.
"Why don't you clean all that you have done because you are the one responsible for it?" Ramos said, in English, "we passed it in English."
Presidential Spokesman Edwin Lacierda said that Aquino should not be blamed for it because there was still a president who sat before the current president.
