
Durian Shake, politicking and bribe of money.

Anywhere, there is a calamity in my beloved Philippines.
And not only calamity is happening with the number of deaths, wounded and losing houses, livelihood and future.
Because of the intensity of the calamity in the consecutive typhoons, mixed with earthquake and war, the government itself is calling anyone to help anyone.
Even if the government is saying that there are several billion pesos worth of aid to the victims, this is still not enough for the shortcomings of local government to address the needs of the victims.
And because of the wide and number of calamities, it is scary to think that the citizens are losing their help.
Especially those who give victims are also victims of calamity to their respective areas.
DOR Fullido.
With the number of the victims of the calamities that almost no one can go through, this will show fatigue to those with good hearts to give whatever help they have.
Yes, the ones who helped do not worry because it is really weak but to those who need to help, there is a mixture of abuse and stealing in their help.
Even if they are saying that they are not thinking about anything but the welfare of the citizens, especially during the time of election and they are having a hard time to find the votes of the people for them to be in position in the government.
We are referring to, Bro, politicians and other officials of the government that have nothing to do but to get rich in position.
He / she was able to make a letter first.
In those hours of calamity, people should take care of it.
Of course, there are conditions in order to reach them and help them and this is the most given attention by the authorities.
Included in the conditions are the infrastructure such as bridge, road, electricity, communication and others.
These policies are good but there are not a good picture here due to the back of this project, those who take advantage were the ones who take care of it.
There is no.
The lack of interest of the authorities is clearly seen after they earn and make said infrastructure.
"Is it possible that we forget about what they are saying that the citizens need the capital to get up again and have a normal life.
There is no fund for the investment of the citizens.
If there is a fund, just for them, like the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Disbursement Acceleration Program.
The debt of the Social Security System, government Service for PAG-IBIG is not enough for the citizens to be destroyed.
Especially if many of the victims think about it, it is not the members of this agency of the government.
Travel to LIDs.
Something hurts now.
It is as if politicking is being implemented and involved is the calamity in the coming election.
"It's as if the national government will allegedly give help if they will give assistance to the members of those who are taking the party now, even if their personnel are in position or not in the calamity area.
Look like the enemies of those in power and those who give relief goods or any help to the victims are going to be charged by the latter in the coming election.
It is the child of tofu, hopefully you should think that what you need to think is from the taxes of the people who are victims and not by typhoons, earthquake, war and others.
They are just going to be famous, but for the money they are going to catch them, they will give them money.
PDAF and DAP.
We will suffer if PDAF becomes tangled and DAP that wherever you look at is the issue of money.
The lawmakers and the people from Malacanang are very fast in releasing these if they have their own land in the form of bribes and damages.
Where are the voices and actions of these in order to pour the PDAF and DAP for all the foolishness, flooded, of earthquake and war?
We heard nothing from them, Bro.
If there is something, you will carry it all.
It is said that the people are looking for them.
Children of seven canned goods, no matter how bad the minds of these are from the minds of these.
Give way!
Now is the time to give importance to the money that you are doing.
The principle should be applied when money comes from the country, all of these should return to them, even during calamity.
Whichever politician is the one who should lift up the money that you are going to create or will prove it even if the citizens are eating it.
If in the past three years it is true that all the people's money are true and not only the politicians and it is time for the politicians and it is time to give assistance to the citizens in time of lack of calamity.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.
