In real life.

Mary Anne G. Vitug.

Many are focused on the return of Pritil, Princess Aryana and the Two-time request for Maja Salvador at the arrival of 8: 30 in the evening, friends felt weak from the beautiful lines of Cherry Pie Picache and Janice de Belen.
Mother, brother, son of the latest call of ABS-CBN Pragerness, she is following the gigantic story of a child who is separated from her parents and took a vacation in Manila to go to UP and one day to rise from poverty.
Said television series is very hot, especially since UP is one of the primary observation of many in the next scenes, the mother, who is the owner of UP continue to cover-up a few reality, which is true to be held in a case.
Borrowed money.
As a known university, a lot of fingers of UP are in the consciousness of the Filipinos - students are smart, and other more than the gambling of ABS-CBN to make the possibility of trying to be determined.
But in the first episodes of Ina, brother, son, it is noticeable that a few small things that are not realistic from the experience of Isko Hall, for example, are usually the usual scenes such as a long line that takes a long line up to buy a student who cares and save.
The weakness of the foul smell was revealed that this is a total effect of the television series that seems to be far from the experience of Isko Moreno who is far from the experience of Isko Moreno who are waiting for the result of STS.
The television series of militants have no idea that there is no simple driving on the collision of the political belief that the students have shown in life, which is why the students, and students are separated from the crisis being experienced by the country, and they are separated from the crisis being experienced by the country.
If there is one thing that was carried away by mother, brother, son, she is slowly getting the education of the education of UP.
Fight over wealth.
Because the noblest television series, an important element of mother, sibling, is the son of a relationship with family members, one of those who has decided on how to run the story; if there is no family, it seems that the character of one character is not complete.
All the typical relationship and style of the family will be submitted to mother, sibling, son of the family's life, the family of MargX-x - the family of Margretchenbarretto) is rich, that is why his family is rich with the poorest economic crisis in society who are becoming used in adding or for the sake of wealth and power.
It also appears in the television series that are rich and poor, but just like in other series, there is no need to spread the soap operation that is not poor, and there is no space to question the root of this.
Now and ever.
Despite all, mother, brother, son of the viewer would still be popular since it is shown on October, always to the 20 percent of his story, that although there is no new theme because the story fails, that is why the Filipinos are still being endorsed by the Filipinos.
Many of the usual forwarded to the story of our television series now are the root of the Moro-Moro, comedy and watermelon seeds, which is very popular during the time of the Spanish-budol gang, it can be said that the viewers or readers are familiar.
Because the viewer would keep repeating the sensibility of the viewers, their parents and riches of a poor staff, it is easier for them to understand the story, and for the people who can understand the story, and for the poor production of ideas that will give way to the faster production of ideas.
But due to the repeated use of the forwarded to the using of people who do not look into the course of the story, "what the story has no more effective way to escape, or glitter, the television series.
If you think about it, it is not the duty of a television series to be realistic because it is still not imagined that the ability of being creative, and being critical of the chosen theme, will continue to be wasted, and it will continue to raise the culture and minds of the Filipinos who continue to patronize it.
