
You shameless!

By Rolando B.
February 19, 2012.

Record of Adelbert and Bruno le Mars.
"Hor" in the Philippines, it is not good that a good meaning: A year-being emotional, a bit of clothing was not good, a heavy and burden.
But the beginning of 2000 was the Pop (popular and expulsion.
There is a total amount for a billion worth of methamphetamine on YouTube.

("Jony"

("Grenade".

("Joneal."
Adelbert) was born in 1988) is a successful singer from Britain, if Mars grew up to Hawaii and when he went to Los Angeles to be a record for a mother and wife, "Adelusion, the video of Adelusion.

("Salas."

("Rolfather, of Deo"

(Sep. 24-September.
YouTube that will lead their country and the contents of the hands of two Palestinians on Mars: 00 in the air that can be done to Mars: "I'll be a man between Mars as if it's a man caused by laziness and going to attend to Mars.
According to Adelusion, it is focused on the suspicion that the suspicion will be focused on, and to leave, "Wish," I, "I," I am referring to us, "I," I am full of emotions, which is not similar to Mars, which is not similar to Mars, there are several kinds of emotions, that will rise up and come up.
For the two Palestinians, it should be done by the topic of politics and Melody, all regarding the huge impact of the business and the government, to accept the great stroke due to the value of the public to the people, instead of giving attention on the most personal and full issue of self-to-mindedness of the public.
The race that is being emotional with is a problem, why there is a person who created the letter and the art of general, the arts of his desires, love and tragedy, in your own life and tragedy, in your own suffering and care.
It is guaranteed that the boy is fed up, and with a low kind of boils of the world, the emotions, even if the two creatures still have an ally, is also a member of Adelbert or Mars), which is why the two creatures have no idea how to hold-up with others but those who belong to the industry of music.
We are selling or because of its view on its view, it seems to be an excuse in the eye of the horse so that the animal's eye is complicated, but it is based on its view that can be watched and used to pick up; if not, move on for more important tasks in our society.
There is no direct effect on the ring or the most powerful country in the area, but it is not only one of those who are able to attend to the coldness of the system, which is being implemented, just because of the actual and bitter experience that uttered, this is the only important and honest experience that uttered, this is the only important and decision.
