

20 points are Production.

Greg stars Jr.

As activists, propaganda is very important in the advancement of our strict goals so that we have identified some ingredients that can help in newspaper or salt, all of us have identified some ingredients that can help our propaganda, and all of these are starting in letter.

1's theme (BTAC) - the total theme of a propaganda, it is a fluster, news or mockery, one of salt, courage, and others.

2's feature (Commission (BTAC) - who is the one included in propaganda, any personality and what is the issue.

3 - the news is true, is there truth in the news, where the news came from, who will prove the received news or information, what is the basis?

4 - arguments (BTAC) - there is a arguments, who are going to be arguments, and how we are going to reveal the insinuations that are used to be used in our propaganda, we should know the people behind the issue.

5-Laban (APEC)) - how much is the guts from the Pandola to reveal what he needs to reveal, to expose the rottenness of the system, and fight against opponent.

6-tempered) - the theme, featured on theme, looked at and arguing, how will this be sharp?

7.

8-target (target) - who are the target audience of propaganda and who is in favor of the propaganda.

9 billion pesos (attack) - did the target of propaganda, on how way it is.

10 - severe is the impact of propaganda in the political issues and economists, what is the amount of propaganda in the movement of making and how these affected the course of the society.

11's courage (BTAC) - the propaganda are going to be shown in spite of the threats to the life of the businessman.

12-Card.

13 - title (title (title) - how can the readers give attention to the title of the author as a fluster of insult.

14 - focused on Elections) - how can we continue the issue of propaganda to focus on this issue?

15-November. 19) what takes the feelings to people around you, and what will capture the readers.

Sharp gazes (WHO) - we are able to peek at the right way with the people in our propaganda, because they are a liar and suffering to our readers, as a sign of our loyalty to our readers.

17-year-faithful) - how big is the boils of his craft or art of writing or a propaganda, and how he is in front of his readers.

18).

19) hidden and confused) what should be hidden by the Pambansang Kamao that he should not release because of his research, the opportunity to release, or there is still a problem that needs to be taken out, that is why the father still needs to be released.

20.

These ingredients may be increased but for now, we should consider this ingredients in order to make sure that there are important things that will be left behind by the readers, for sure, we should act on our statements, so that one day they should act towards our questionable goals.

If these ingredients are memorized, especially those who have been fed up, especially those who have been broken into propaganda, this is a big help to them to be successful in their tasks, and continue to promote the goals of the workers towards change in society.
