The form of Aksyon or mga Artista sa Pelikulang Pilipino against corruption is from corruption.

In the launch of the second-year-March against the holiest part of the pork barrel in Ayala Avenue in Makati City, it is once said that the management of mga Artista sa Pelikulang Pilipino in Makati City has once again insisted that one of the actors in the town, Doctor Bienvenido Meca, National Police of Sining in Pantukan or in English, is the National actress in Little and in English.
Not only Nora Aunor, Dingdong Dantes, Amalia Fuentes, Christopher de Leon, Aiza Seguerra, Kim Chiu, Tom Rodriguez, Kim Chiu, Tom Santos, Mister Bienvenido also, who is a popular or not.
The actors are part of the duck made.
And it can be considered that the ducks are also showbiz as well because majority of the branches of the butt are also like music, paint, transfer of music, arts, television, movie, and dancing.
That's why whoever needs to be members of Aksyon but the painter, actor-minute, actor and an actor and other actor, will not want, are narrow-minded, director and other things related to the arts that is the yard and house of an artist.
That's why for the number of the medical exam to the second MPM, it is proof that artists from the problems of the country and how they can help to solve these problems.

On stage and around this Friday in Ayala, Lolita Carbon with former group, Carlito Carbon and Bayang Barrios came out of the former ABS-Illegal Drugs Board (Bayang Barrios which is one of his followers, who are going crazy and his other caretakers because until now, they are alone.
Now there is already three years if Lolita will be recognized as Lolita, Bayang Luma and Calaguas, and tried to catch the Tres Marias.
Monroque which is also in the height of Monanglement, Joweelyn Jumilla, Dino Manji, Dino Manolo which is also known in the call of Juana Veron and a lot of other hand, a comedian and other people in showbiz.
I do not know if those mentioned are members of Aksyon but if it is not yet too late, it is not too late, and somehow, they will not catch the fight for freedom, justice, peace of an artist.
If it will raise it well, because we still do not fully put an ally in Aksyon - it is also an alternative group that is also similar to the concerned Sultanate of the Philippines.
Didn't Bien Mberate a member of Aksyon and CAAP?

It will be an addition for the actors meddling with the issues and issues of society namely Monroar, Lolita, Cangie, Bayang Luma and others in Ayala but we were not seen on the first million New Year in Luneta on the 25th of August, 2013.
We thought that this will be very commendable of the presence of stars who look like Mae Cornes, Bianca Gonzales, Mylene Dizon, Gloria Diaz, Robin Padilla, Dennis Padilla, Rafael Bosano,, Perry Dizon, Jess Evardone and many others.
No matter how higher or allowed in between their consciousness to those involved in the political issues, they are also citizens and artists who should rule the responsibility that they belong to as a person in society.
If there are high or huge standard being used in one meddling and they do not even reach the first grade 1, there are other days that they can increase or go past more than what they are hoping for to correct.

If Wilson is indeed, since he is a part of Rebanal Abcede, Philippines, which is often an part of Rebanal Abcede, Philippines, which is usually received by his own company and television series, which was launched by "Vampire and ice cream which was launched by" Vampire and ice cream which led to her own views.
He was militants and he was able to have six to his heart and mind the focus on the process of change that will start the lower part.
Now, the voice of Monroque is stronger against the understanding system and complicated branches.
These are the importance of tension and arguments of Wilson in his contribution as a woman, tomboy, person, actress, friend, friend, friends, friends, co-worker, co-worker, co-mannered and other crossroad to improve the lives of the Philippines.
It is possible that even if you achieve the paradise of life, those who go to hell with people, things and institutions including those seen and cannot be seen by Wilson will have enough treatment to the pain.

Aside from Monerque, it will be added to the actors of the country today, Daragang Magy, Pakpak, or - two voices of the comedians and since the protest against the Priority Development Assistance Fund or PDAF in EDSA Shrine, along with the birthday of the dictator Ferdinand E. Marcos together with the birthday of the dictator Ferdinand E. Marcos.
Whoever has a widespread movement, "that may have nothing to do or do not know anything or not know the people like us by Darryl and Sheryll Mundo or the true spirit of participation of fellow Filipinos, we are in our hearts and mind.
It probably can be easy to see Shama, if he is just using or signing any kind of things that is pretending to be accompanied by those who are oppressed.
This society is a very complicated situation that is why it is not easy to pass judgement or put it on who and the big forces of the goodness that they will use for their own sake.
However, Juana Pilipa was also in EDSA Shrine and will fight back and he will be against Mae if she is on the first use of those who would like that or maybe he will just be sent by him.

Some of the indigenous people are very entertained - aside from Wilson - in the time of opposition of the people on the pork barrel in Luneta and in Mendiola in spite of the declaration of Marcos's declaration of Martial Law, 25th of September, 2013, they were able to hear their problems due to the presence of the society through the suspension of the society through the approval of the opposition.
And although the students who joined by Cristine Reyes are separated against the pork barrel, the sexy actress has no meaning of fighting against corruption because he is being affected.
Cristine also joined a day of Friday in the city of Quezon on the cities of Quezon in the city of Quezon on the city of Quezon on the city of Quezon.
Judy Ann was also worried on the tax that he paid and according to him, they will get into trouble, file a case in paying taxes when they follow the law.
According to Santos, tired, sweat, blood, blood, and talent is the capital of an artist like him to earn money and to pay taxes but the people who voted for the country are only included in the case.
Jumarito said he does not mention any names, it is clear on the rays of the sun that he is still with the two senators who have been seen with Ramon "Bong" Revilla, Jr. and Jinggoy Estrada.
Whether those in showbiz are becoming patriotic or not, what is important is that they are dependent on what is happening in their surroundings and the world is very entertained because it is the world of the people.
