Even Pacquiao.

It is noticeable that the political dynasty are increasing, under the current Aquino administration.
Aside from the derogatory and known for political dynasty are just like robots in Cebu, Singson and Marcos in Ilocos, Dy, Isabela and others, there are still many new political ambition.
Even here in Metro Manila, political dynasty are our political dynasty, like the Binay in Makati, Echiverri and Caloocan City, Estrada in San Juan, Belmonte in Quezon City and sanitation.
In truth, the fight in politics now is a political life against the rival political life.
If not political dynasty are the so many actors who have no capital but their popularity.
They want to get elected even if they know that it is the real responsibility in real life and not a movie and just a film that they will enter.
In all these events, it is clear that this is a reflection of the kind of leadership that the current administration has.
It is enough for the leaders to get a high rating of surveys even if they know that they do not have anything good for the country.
What hurts more is that there are still many new Sibol, who also wanted to build their aunt like boxer Manny Pacquiao.
Aside from Manny, his wife Jinkee's wife, which looks like she got tired of the loved ones like her Hermes bag and Louis Vangton, might got tired.
That's why he is going to run as vice governor of Sarangani except for Jinkee Pacquiao to run for the youngest sibling of Manny as congressman in South Cotabato to fight for another political administration, Representative Pedro Asukal on Jr.
There is a news that Manny's sibling, Bobby, is facing the current mayor of General Santos City, Darlene Gemino.
It seems that our country's condition is really bad, from the Senate until you are in the corners of their places in our country, the voters do not choose what to do but the repeated candidates and their relatives.
The problem is, instead of lessen the political ambition, this is just like the Pacquiao family.
Dolphy said, there is nothing wrong to run, but what if they win, what will they do?
It turns out that I forgot to mention that his cousin, Bam Aquino, and his aunt, Tsinoy Cojuangco.
Fine!
