People's initiative, armor of the public against pork barrel.

The fight against pork barrel is not yet done.
This is what the different groups and personalities who are against the pork barrel in a national anchovies are saying about any kind of large lump sum of the Supreme Court last November that the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) and some parts of the Supreme Court last November declared the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) and some parts of the Supreme Court last November.

And of course, the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) is still there, which is one of the type of large percentage which is under the control of President Aquino.
"We have a reason to be happy because the Supreme Court will be guarded by PDAF, Thon-Victory Village, the former Supreme Court Chief Justice Reynato Puno, who gave to the first" National Railways for the first "National Railways for the first" National Railways for the first "National Railways for the first" National Railways for the first "National Railways for the first" National Railways for the first "National Railways for the first" National Railways for the first "National Railways for the first" National Railways for the first "National Police.

Number of Abangtze River cannot agree, that he will be responsible for the campaign against pork barrel in different form of the group, that it needs to continue the fight against pork barrel in different form of the group, which is still needed in the budget for the next year as the pork barrel which is in the control of President Aquino.
The group and bullets are also waiting for the decision of former Chief Justice Puno to the decision of the current Supreme Court about the decision of the Supreme Court regarding the Saligang Batas and not in the Constitution) of DAP.
In the said astwitch, Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares also stated that the proposed bill will be given the law that will lead the system of pork barrel in the government.
Colmenares said that the targets of the said bill to remove from the government is a huge sum of huge funds for the government without a clear responsibility because it comes back to the constitution and personal decision of the President like what Aquino is doing under the DAP.

Included in number of Abangenos that the group of changes, concerned citizens; Civilian Volunteers Organization (Izzy Canillo), Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, Private Facademics, Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, and Sandra), and the priest of arts, Monet cetera.
The same with this is Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), in the said different alliance against pork barrel, and even others, to prepare for a bigger fight against DAP, and the so-called pork barrel of Aquino next year.
