Delia that does not want to go back to school.

Dorina Pentrante, Renren Sta. Ana (Pilipino Star Ngayon), PO 2 4A; UPP-May 1, 2014 - 12: 00.

Manila, Philippines - It was reported that one of the dreams of Kathryn Bernardo was fulfilled just recently, he was with his mother, who according to her, the young actress said that according to her mother, the young actress said that when they were taking a vacation in her mother, the young actress said that she was going to face any social media on Monday noon.
He also could not help but ask what happened to him in the said Scuon if she really misses his partner, she said she did not say anything, he did not want to buy, he did not want to buy when he could not use, "said the actress.
She said she will be able to give it a text message because, she said, he / she could never lose in his birthday, he added.
He also mentioned that he was alone in the concert of DJ Masculados Dos in Araneta Coliseum.
It is also being talked about by the possibility that he made its release because he is still asking what he wants to do to go to waste songs.
Kathryn also wanted to enter the house of Kuya or a Filipino, Brother House (PBB) when she found out that one of her former Co who was with Jane Oyo, was also surprised that she really wanted to go to PBB house, and I really want to go to the PBB house, and I really want to go to the PBB house.

PSN (Article. Rec), around 1: 1, to go to 1: 1.

Because of his consecutive times, Kathryn was still studying if she will return to school when she has tried a sabotage of her studies and acting, "I tried to die," told Kathryn.
"He is afraid to make a mistake because in just a little movement, I could only want to be a burden to other people." To me, I am really happy because the people accepted what I am really. "
Kathryn is also grateful because of the successive increase of his condo unit, according to him, he doesn't want to ruin them, "I want to show them that I am going to endorse."
He added to the youth that he will go back to school to use the things where they are comfortable, like a bag so that he will be asked to ask his / her bag.
