
Free but not?

By Campos.
July 29, 2012.

For a long time those introducing themselves as defense of political "Mon Casiple, the truth is, according to those who have been activists, he's allies of Akbayan as allies of Pres. Noynoy Aquino, it is clear that the evidences gathered by Mrs. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo in the hospital arrest is clear.
"That is okay," like, in general, his posture of Casiple, according to him, was not able to escape the country, and continues to escape the government's illness or possible death of Arroyo, but the former President has not yet been free.
Casiple, Casiple, could not be able to go out and have no proof that he is still in the country, and why is there a proof that he has been in the country's illness, and why is there so many officials who avoid responsibility for being hurt.
Casiple, which is not filed with a sabotage of the elections in 2007, to protect Arroyo, his purpose is to stop his escape from the country - and why it ended up to his escape but for more than a year in position, there is still no case filed against Arroyo.
Arroyo's salary weakened and the Aquino administration got stronger, he should be imprisoned and not allowed to be imprisoned and not allowed to be imprisoned and not free for two days after the State of the Nation Address. Guitionist.
Casiple also does not worry because of the posture of his governance, which is why their candidate, Aquino, did not win in the issue of corruption and abuse of power, isn't it that the traditional politicians are like that?
Music in the hearing of the Aquino administration is the other statement of Casiple, it is not enough for the "campaign against corruption and politicians' suspension of the reality, but it is not a gold medal for the reality, but it is not the active ban on the reality, but it is not the active ban on the reality, he wants to weaken the protest against Aquino's release to Arroyo.
In his SONA, Aquino has an announcement about the "industry of criticisms against him, the type of the industry of criticism of Akbayan as well as long as they have the rent and principle of those who pay for politics.
