I know: Jennylyn, the fight is still in the fight of "Double Fantasy Women!
By Jun Nardo, June 13, 2016 that Jennylyn Mercado is still asking for the remaining rainy season when he received the beauty in a beach resort in Cebu City.
Jen was still too many of her infertility was the comment of her employer, "Yan, a beauty and most of all who has a sex appeal," Perelegant, "Perelegant," Perelegant, "Perelegant," Perelegant, "said one another.
"
Well, the fans of Jen are still fighting until now, that even if there are number 1 in 2016 FHM for two days, to vote, that is why there is still hope for their idol.
Ryza, in this show.
Ryza Cenon and Heart Evangelista rose up with Solenn Heussaff and Heart Evangelista because she discovered that she also has a talent in painting, the Kapuso actress was able to make it to him, she can help him because she will be able to donate to the Kapuso Foundation Law.
.
"We should look at the streets," what he gave to me, so that I will be able to give me a lot of issues in the life of General and even in his personal interests, "I am the one who is based on my feelings.
"This is because Ryza is now in a good condition after his short relationship with a mission, when it comes to work, she is set to be a part of the new GMA 7 who is a liar.

Einstein said, "jealousy of Christian!
Starting this morning, the new leader, Calle Siete Picorro.

Emanuel Valdez and Ryzza Mae Dizon purchased a program again.
"I am very entertained by the child" that's why I really want to destroy her ear! Okay!

Okay, "Einstein said in his last interview with the press who visited the set.
Even if she is only a young actress Ryzza Mae who is a good actor, "it's just that, she has not been with her husband Rocky Salomy with her with the offer of Princess in the Palace, Christian Vasquez again with his partner.
Didn't Rocky get jealous of Christian?
"Oh, huh!
Anyway, aside from Eve, Ryza and Christian, also included in the cast of Gloria Sevilla, Renzo, Rihanna, Patricia Mae, Jocelyn Mercado, Kenneth Taraya, Jocelyn Mercado, Kenneth yesterday and others.
