Martial law!

There are many things that are coming out if the poor people are fighting in the demolition, and for all of waste time, they have to make sure that there is a violation of the law, but the legends are like a dentist or dermatologist like narrow-mindedness of their profession.
It's because the law is different for justice, but it is not always like what is happening, but it is not just like that what is happening is that it is easy to see the law, which is not just an example, the law that's served as a law in these kinds of laws, but not just an example, the law that's served as the laws of the Spanish colonizers.
But who will tell if a law is not just right, not only the Supreme Court's answer, and it is contrary to the law that the citizens who are working on for eight hours, and the laws that are supporting the colonialism.
It is not dangerous to leave the citizens the author as well as law and which is not, especially if compared to the prohibition of the law, but it does not mean that it is not right to follow the law, but it does not mean that it is not right to eat the rotten mango as well.
As to where the election is, the mechanism of the Philippine Marines to be replaced by the law, but not just a justifiable law, can be blamed by all the administration and many local government that can be blamed?
Again, the residents of Sitio San Roque has fought the demolition just last July 1.
Their fight is just for many of them, they will be able to stay there because of the demolition and lack of work in other places or hunger, and they do not have a way to find sufficient work, and they do not have a way for the sake of the government, where justice can be taken away from them.
It will be more acceptable to the government to fight against Sitio San Roque because it happened in a thorough investigation, or a campaign to remove the poor from calamities, or to save the evacuation from the flood, or to save their evacuation from the typhoon, or to save their evacuation from the typhoon, or to save the evacuation from the flood and pipe.
In this community, a picture of violation of the law - is the word "lack of law, especially the poor, especially the poor people, especially those in the middle of the law, especially those who are in the middle of the law, especially those who are in the middle of the law, they are fighting and fighting for justice.
The toll fee in different issues might be placed in different issues, but they are very conservative, they don't believe that the laws are being referred to, not just in the future, even if the law is being discussed, not just in the future.
