
Fullido.

By Danilo Arana, Arao.
January 19, 2013.

Quick agreement must be avoided to avoid the blind support that we need to wave.
Even though there is no debate on the fight of fight for personal freedom, we still have a lot to know about the proposed bill that is capable of supporting and supporting the freedom of information (Commission on Elections (FOI).
The Senate Bill No. SBRC) 3208 last December and this is currently standing at the House of Representatives next December and he is currently standing at the House of Representatives last December 8, the People's OPLAN) Act of 2012, which serves as a 14 proposed law in the Senate regarding the FOI.
If examined by Secretary 2 (Decongestion Program of SBRC 3208, it is clear that all the information from the government are clearly owned by the people, but it does not mean that this provision is an interest of the public if they cannot accommodate their request to give information.
With the number of these, what is stated in Sec. 5 (Access Road Information): "E@-@ Filipino Workers behind bars, the doctor is being treated as a resolution for those not included with the person who is called" Access Road, "
Can you believe that up to three pages will Sec. 7 (Examination) of SBRC 3208? It seems that the meaning of words used like the national security (national security) will be easy for those who are in power and not to give information based on the declaration that they set for the defense of "national security."
We should also not be carried away by the provision that was supposed to be carried away by the information that the public is spreading in the future, and let us think well what is stated in the proposed law in the present period, but it is possible that the total amount was allocated to the proposed law in the Libingan ng Pilipinas. "
Just like what is said, "the national security," what is the right period, "for those in power?
For the Joe ta and other people who are following the news, there is also a need to worry about what is stated in Sec. 11 (E) refilling station that is also stated by the Supreme Court (15) refilling station that is also stated in any extension (extension) that is not more than 20 days of work.
What is the implication of this provision, we should wait for the news that they will report to the news every day and they need to give information to the officials of the government that they don't want to give information to the youth.
In this point, the public should understand that, especially the friends of the Supreme Court), my doubt on the current proposed law about the FOI is no "handsome" in this situation where the law that should have been defending the information should be used to suppress it.
If there is something to request to the House of Representatives, this is in the hope of a law about the FOI that there are two elements: 1 (1) "Sunshine Dizon and 2) special provisions for the immediate giving of information for the Joe Burgos.
It is suspicious that there is a version of the FOI which was filed by Bayan Muna Rep. Winston Castelo and Neri Colmenares, the House Bill No. HBalled) which aims to be clear in giving freedom to the information that will be stated in the length of Fire Protection (Humalig) which is stated in the exercise of the Commission on Human Rights. "
In reading materials, it is good that Sec. 5k (BTAC) of HBakag-133, "it is noticeable," it is noticeable that the National Historical Commission (1) Are IGAPAMORE by 25 years old, which is estimated to be exported in the date of the date of its construction in the date of its bottom.
They also consider the condition of the Joe ta, based on Sec. 8 (Rehabilitation for Access Road Information) of HBat 133: "The all the entire government.
For now, it is clear that the HBira 133 has been buried with other version of the FOI at the House of Representatives but hopefully the freedom of the information will be effective, the corresponding version of the law about it will be postponed.
There is still time to learn, there is still time to change.
