Worthless.

By Kallero.

In a city of Jeddah in Saudi Arabia, the Philippine Consulate in Saudi Arabia can be found in some steps from here, the seven hundred-mindedness of the house which are being used to be set up to be set up.
Here, in a steamy wall with a high walls, they are temporarily staying up or less than 2,500 Overseas Filipino Workers who are going to stay in the middle of the impending implementation of the Saudi National Policy "
Land.
Since the government of Saudi became strict, especially in the cases of the OFW, around 7,000 Filipinos, who was ordered by repatriation in the embassy of the Riyadh and Philippine Consulate in Jeddah.
It is a big challenge for the Philippines, that the workers in Saudi since 1973, had a huge need for the engineer there, around 800 pesos to 900 families have been offered by the embassy of Saudi for those who want to go to the employees of oil and opportunities.
At present, more than 1.5 million Filipinos are living in Saudi, which is considered as the primary employer of the OFW in the world, in the record of the Philippine Overseas Workers Agency (POEA), most of the Filipinos there are becoming an engineer or employee in the companies of oil and the production, or a doctor or a nurse.
It is not surprising why many Filipinos are attracted to work there in Saudi, the engineer who are usually going home to P40,000 to 35,000 pesos to 6,000 pesos, in exchange of the challenges of living in a country with other language, religion, and culture.
That's mixed in Saudi.
Boyet Soriano, 48, has been working as the manager of a police station that he has returned to the Philippines once in three years for him, the sweet promises brought by Saudi are true for the few.
"In your first day," there, your enemy, "narrated by Boyet," you will find it hard to adjust, and in all places, it is prohibited to talk to them, pork, pork, and any religious object that is not according to the tradition. "
He added that Saudi Arabia is very conservative, she has a hard time for Sharia or the law of ENDO.
"It is very hard for you to think that, when there is a lot of money in Saudi, you will get rich when you go home or when you go home to live there, you will still think that when you go home to live there, you will still be able to think about it when you leave your family, he said.
Despite the suffering, Boyet Soriano's dream to give her family a good life for many years of service from Arabs, was built a house and a small piggery in San Nicolas, Ilocos Norte.
"Returnees?
But on May 20, Boyet in the Philippines went home to the Philippines with his only daughter because aside from this, he saw the threat brought about by "social media."
"I was almost seven years old but only now he felt because many companies asked the government of Saudi to study the law.
Under this, every company should make a priority for the acceptance of the Saudi national than a different race which will violate the government, but it is not the scope of the government that they are working as a housemate.
Last year, the government of Saudi attacked the entire OFW, which led to almost one hundred Filipinos, if an OFW wants to remain in order to fix his papers to give a new working visa.
Lacking.
According to DOLE and POEA, they will help to get a new passports and visa of the affected OFWs and they are also talking with the departs of Saudi to speed up their papers.
But contrary to this is the story of Migrante, an international alliance between the organization of OFW: "What is happening now in Saudi Arabia and in other countries in the Middle East, including 120,000 OFW who were directly affected by the Social Security System, along with almost 120,000 OFW," according to John Moniqueo 09213263166, Vice-3618.
The condition of the OFWs inside the tent to be worse due to the lack of food, medicine and clean water due to the help of the embassy for OFWs in order to be sent home, when the extension of the government of Saudi is finished in July 3.
Back to town.
At the end of the said extension, it is expected that around 12,000 OFW are going to return to the country because they are carrying the dreams of derailed, due to the "social gathering law," and the lack of action by the Filipino government.
Under the Philippine Labor Workers (Policy ", they are the workers who encouraged the government to go to another country, together with this is the duty to support the OFWs in times of need.
But according to Migrante, it appears that the Labor Law policy of our country seems to be a temporary solution to the truth that the current crisis can't create a job in Saudi, and the danger of the current crisis in Saudi is the danger of the economy of other countries for the livelihood of the Filipinos.
If there is a progressive livelihood in the country, that you will achieve through the construction of local industry, they do not need to leave it anymore and there is no family such as Boyet, who will be together.
