1 of 2 jeepneys in UP arrived, not past the inspection.

Jul Mar?
It's been a long line for the jeep that was greeted by French protest by the student of UP, after almost half of the public utility jeep traveling to UP Diliman (UPP).
On the 314 jeep in the Usahay, 158 were not given a permit by the Office of Community Precinct (OCR) that the said jeep was held by the commission of March until the end of May.
The people who are not wearing a jeep will be put again! Or a jeep that was held on the 25th of June until the 25th of June, but there is still no certain date on how to release the said inspection.
Members of the two policemen were launched by two policemen from the UPP Police (UPDP), who was scrutinizing the general condition of the jeep, and a mechanic came from Supsupin.
The inspection was implemented after it was put in the mandate of the CR in June 2011 at the start of the term of Ubay Chambers (Usahay, Cincinnati.
According to the CR, the rules being implemented by the CR was first studied, like the inspection of jeep which had a consultation to the jeepneys they took and took their recommendation at the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the legislative chamber.
"Even if the date of the jeepney is a result of communication with scalawag cops... each decision is related to this, consult the appropriate sectors," added Magistrado.
Even though some of the drivers and operators of the jeep complained due to the damage brought by the vehicles, others are happy because the quality of jeepneys they will increase will increase.
"" Roy Lacson, "to the drivers of the village who have undergone the inspection," says Lacson, who has been driving for eight years for eight years.
At present, there are only 28 passenger jeep, which is why lunch and dinner is also delayed for the time of lunch and dinner for the work of those who are not wearing a pillow, or a jeep, explained by Lacson.
"It can't be blamed in the CR that it is really because of the jeep that cannot be caught up by a 1-month extension, hopefully it will be a lesson, because it is also for the safety of passengers.
The Supreme Court went to the CR to receive a complaint about the long queue at the jeep and the speculation of those who are taking the jeep and will open the Ubers which is being done near the College of Fine Arts, which was denied by the CR.
The OCR and the SC is currently working in order to explain the situation of the students, while the OCR is trying to explain the process of the inspection, "according to the order of the university," according to the order of the university, "says Erry Isabel Yague, UPP-SC Regional Office.
"Those who will greet the inspection is what they need to review, which is part of the quality of transportation in the university and in the end, it is also for the safety of the students and the people," said Magistrado.
