
Is your solution?

There is a reason why the "pork barrel" in the politicians are important because of what they are calling "
We admire the statement of the new Pope, Pope Francis regarding the issue of birthcontrol "and for gay people.
Why it seems that the decision of other officials of the church is very fast if the issue is about being gay, tomboy or transgender.
Especially for the issue of "one responsible" or controlling the gave birth, it is as if you have no chance in heaven if you are a gay, tomboy.
That if you don't believe that your parents should be given importance to the difference of their plea, it is just enough to tell you that you are followers of Satan!
Pope Francis is right that it is not right to be the price, lesson or belief of the church will serve as an obstacle to happen the unity of God's blessing.
Because what is happening here to us is that it's as if the church is looking for a way on how to raise the ta from this belief.
So, there are already many who went away from being a Catholic.
Hopefully, the bishops and scrutinize this have become aware of the statement of the Pope.
Hopefully, let us just allow the "Reproductive Health Law."
Hopefully, they will let each parents have their own freedom to plan their families and the type of the economic Planning because it will be used.
Hopefully they use the church and his lessons to fully achieve unity and not disunity.
And hopefully, hopefully, it would be better to stop being a hypocrite of the bishops and scrutinize it!
Hopefully.
Entice the President.
.
The mastermind was identified as "Danny Itlog" is continuously being boastful so that he cannot stop his illegal activities until Colonel Rafael's Army in Cavite.
The said illegal gambling of "Itlog" is clear which is contrary to the statement of treacherous ways of Regional Director C / Supt. Jesus Gatchalian that it is said to be a success of the "number" policy "was supposedly successful in the entire Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Rizal and Quezon.
What can you say, General Gatchalian, is it involved with the PD or the stove in "Danny Itlog"?
Or fuck, hak, hmmmp!
The money for the dead, baptisms, fare, capital, business, basketball uniform, boxing, and others.
It is not a small money, "later on it.
For example, the contributions are P15.every dead, wherein 20 are dead in a month of P120,000 pesos in a month.
Still with my birthday, baptism, marriage, and others.
But it is not the job of congressman "that, their work is done by the law.
But the truth in our election's system, there is no use even if a congressman made a law if he does not have anything wrong with the money that we have mentioned.
To win a candidate who is a politician, the most respectful of friends, godchildren and grandchildren are needed.
Because politics is very popular here in the Philippines.
And as a proof of what is happening in the world of our politics now, the system that we are doing is bad and needs to be changed so that the use of the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) and even other fund where the politicians are coming from will be successful.
There is a suggestion to put money in government agencies.
But there is no corruption in the government agencies that are like that?
The complaint of the people, if in the agencies that will be put in money, is the hard time to ask for help, there are many reasons for them to get oil and not like if there is a politician who will be given funds.
Financial help can be easily solved because the politician is easy to approach.
Congressman is giving money to the country, which is why he can't experience a debt of gratitude if people do not want to.
On the part of the politicians, it is not true that if you are given help, you will surely vote for you.
There is no idea that the system is still taking care of the voters because this is what you are used to and what you did not help are anger towards you.
That is why the removal of PDAF is the solution to our current problems in corruption and theft of funds of the country?
