PPP: The plan for PNoy.

Because the people have a bigger problem under the three years of Pres. Benigno Aquino III, there is no reason to expect that the plans of the administration will cause progress in the remaining term of his term.
In the coming State of the Nation Address (SONA), of course, PNoy will try to convince the people to convince the people to improve the experience of the majority, or they chose to make it to the economy that does not have anything to do with the real progress of the country.
For example, it is only due to the very big expenses that the politicians are proud of through the campaign during the election, the number of those who do not have jobs to ask for the amount of those who have no jobs to ask for the burial rate in 7.5 percent this April, is the highest under the administration.
The economists of PNoy are thinking a lot of things to say that it is only temporary for the lack of work and poverty experienced by many, that it seems that this is just a problem, and it is said that there will be a problem during rainy season, it is also a heavy work for the citizens.
Like the first administration, PNoy does not want to know the real cause of lack of work: The lack of real reform in the land, the lack of national industry, the loss of the national industry, the loss of the national industry, the lack of kidnapping of the citizens.
Instead, he is trying hard to go and pretend that there is only one progress if the country is leaning on the natural resources of the country, water, housing, education, and health of the capitalists have, and not the real progress of the country, and not the real progress of the country.
Big local and foreign countries are the ones being implemented and the source of many from the economic team of PNoy is that they are the ones who earned funds for the campaign, but even from their ranks, the politicians who won in the election are the politicians who won last election.
In the coming SONA, it is expected that the president will reveal more of the public funds of Private Consortium (PPP), he will not mention that those who are in position are going to be driven by the farmers, instead, he will not mention that those who are going to be driven by the farmers are going to be driven by the farmers.
But until the thousands of Filipino workers continue to go to other countries because of lack of work, until the price of high goods and services are up and above, the people will have no own land, and the people will find it hard to believe him.
It is more believable that the PUPP is more believable that PNoy has plans for PNoy to fight and stop.
