Sunday, May 9, 2012.

Change your thoughts.

The continuous attitude and not thinking if one thing is wrong.

It is given to giving more sweet words.

This is really right.

Effective treatment brought to the success of 5-May, common signs and practical boat are waiting for transportation; the temple, reason and practical fares.

Your temple is like books that is accustomed to it, and you have experienced that it is right and good to follow, if the path is right and needed to follow, if it is easy to follow, it is important that it is right and not in the time, it is important that it will be lost and changed.

What is the meaning of Senyang?

In my grass hand; it is the common use of view on things, events, and fares that can be felt by many people: Effective and guide also, based on the studies, you learned, and experience.

What is the meaning of practical means to make sure that the capacity to use the temple of the temple, most better, and you will forget it to be good and honest in your service, but instead of forcing it to be right, you should not forget and bring it right to all of our ability.

While the continuing to do is still being done, it is better to get the results of the results as well, if the way you are going out is good, if not only one person is stupid, instead, they are really stupid.

Because of a mistake, if he reiterated it, it is not a mistake, this is stupidity, and if for the third time, he still did it again, that is why he continues to make it because if he does not do anything from it, why does he continue to do it?

Our brains seems to be a pro-nosed and drinks anything, just like the colleges, even if it is too heavy, even if it is too heavy, even if we are full, the temple, and practical is not working.

The mind of lack of lack of lack of love is always running for each other and they would like to be brave, there is no hunger from hunger, which is caused by greed and full grief.

Narrow-minded and not practical is what's happening.

Appeal and practical appearance to the life is what we need but I still do not have a person seen with a rock and praise about it on his head that's why it's just repetitive the repeated results.

The masses of the people have promised to visit the quiet life of a sharp life, rather than the moments that we were not able to support the whole of things, instead of being able to pay for simple things, instead of being able to pay attention to the whole things, rather, these kinds of experiences in life, instead of conversations and sources of actions.

Always busy and cannot be talked to.

I am confused and accepted; that the success is just for those who are in a hurry, to end the project, to make the projects, who are supposed to lead to a successful success, should be forgotten; and most of the right time to go.

And if you reach the study, you will not be happy.

Only a simple question is, "how can you maintain the psychological status of your mind despite the many inconvenience happening in the modern life?" A simple answer is also needed at the temple, a simple answer.

Many are able to lead to what is right in the right path, the symptoms of worry are not used in the house, the escape from work, extreme pain, vomiting, lack of hope that this kind of living has no freedom and full of suffering.

We salute each other.

She cannot complain and negative of all things.

They are all personal reasons and blame.

Being abused and annoyed by emotion which is filled with happiness.

Full of memory, suspicious, suspicious and no certainty.

Being fond of competition and too much politicking.

You are anxious in the end of the changing love.

Being selfish, no feeling and care.

To escape the truth and always make a sound.

To be very busy and busy in your own world by those who have been built.
The lack of ability and doubt on the traits of the traits.

The arguments and disagreements in family and relationships at work will be fixed.

Full of lack of lack of difficulty in money.

A crave lies, carrying the integrity and integrity.

Uncharming and pointing a mistake to others, that is why they do not follow the plans, order or whether they do not follow the plans, order or cows, if they are in making a good and rational thinking, if you want to be in the right path, if you want to be in the right path.

If the temple of the temple will prevail on the justification; the the people who will criticize him, will be put under the bureaucracy.

Practical is positive.

Whatever you are doing, or to do, there will be someone who's going to ask, those who have nothing to do, do not worry, only those who do not want to rise and change your life, and do not worry about it until it is right and reasonable.

Until you are alive, you can prove the damage of wrong thoughts, this is the most important thing that we do not have anything to do, and sometimes, you will not be able to avoid what is happening between you and whatever you are in your feelings, this is what you will use and be able to follow your actions.

Until you are not sure with your bad and understanding, it will be better to study it first, because if you do not understand anything about what you are doing, it is not practical to continue something that has no certainty, and can cause damage to yourself and even to others.

Whatever you do is always on top of your personality, therefore, you need to study your dignity (values that they treat each other, and good care of leaving them.

How should the temple force be used and can make a good and practical action?

The answer is only in seven simple principles.

Don't hurt 1.

2 to do good.

Respect the others.

Be careful.

5-Laging.

Serve 6-serve.

7-CBN for our Great God.

Ask because there is a need to avoid mistakes.

And according to us, he will not be tempted to give, but bring us from evil: Because I am the kingdom, and the power, and the power to share, Amen, Mateo 6: 13 KJV.

It is free for you to be free prison bars and your life is going to be a balance in the right use of the temple of the temple, you will also succeed - you will be successful because there will be no freedom, and there will be no freedom of grief waiting.

Do you want this to happen to you?

"The best question in life is no matter how much the time is left in our lives?" The important question is, "will we be practical and practical action to do this?"

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
