
4Ps, Mayor, Ginger and Hong Kong and Pastor Vista, priest in the election.

For the Commission on Elections, the past town election is in order.
But for many, it did not be fixed.
Because, said election was filled with phenomenon.
And cheating and meddling of high officials of the government in the said election is severe.
It will be a source of a lot of lessons and it is obvious that the negligence of the Commission on Elections is clearly seen.
She intervened.
In the complaint of our Ubers, many meddle in the election.
For example, these are the pouring of big amount for their pet candidates.
There was a mayor who gave 2,000 pesos for every voters.
One thing is, the candidate of the mayor lost.
And there is only one candidate who was the elected leader of the captain, the incumbent.
Collected by Mayor.
There is also a mayor who used the programs of Many Dinky Soliman to avoid eating the votes for his incumbent chairman and Celectoral ist.
The 4Ps, Bro, is the Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program.
All the beneficiary of the 4Ps is given help and grocery and said chairman who came from the mayor because he is strong here.
Chairman was still failed and even his candidate members were affected.
His party led to the new opponents not to use other bait to avoid eating the votes.
P1500,000 pesos in one, P20.
There is also a mayor who led to politics the former chairman to run against the incumbent barangay captain.
Ex-chairman boasted that he is a candidate of mayor and he is behind the mayor.
That is why the color of the mayor in politics is yellow that is also color of ex-chairman and his party.
The mayor gave a help to 20,000 pesos.
When the election was finished, there are a lot of gossipers or even lower down.
The mayor gave 100,000 pesos to his opponent.
So ex-chairman did not lose and over fear that it is happening now.
She intervened.
There are mayors who meddle in the town election.
One of the actions of a governor is walking so that the incumbent chairman would make a candidate for a candidate.
The pastor was not able to do anything but give Gumba.
Hit, a pastor.
But his companions who are members, even if they have chosen a lot of politicians who are unlucky.
The word of the priest was stronger than a pastor.
Because of this, a lot of people are going to go with the Santa Quiteria, and the decision of Father is going to be a decision than the four members of a different sect, hehehe!
Don't become partisan.
Maybe it is possible to erase what Mister Sixto Brillantes is saying that the election is partisan.
In the actions of the mayor, governor and congressman, who had children and members of the previous election, the barangay officials should not remain neutral or in politics by the higher officials of the country.
Mayor, GROs and congressmen paid their debt of gratitude when they won last election and held it by their pet barangay official in Barangay election.
The meddling of higher officials in barangay officials and Barangay election is too much and the hands of those who are in the power of those who are on top of them are tied up.
What will Mang Sixto did to do here?
Time to fight.
"You should tell me how much and I can do it, not just a candidate but many said in the midst of the campaign.
And it is true that many oppose money.
There in the gnomes, Bro, the one who gave a bigger amount was won.
Residents do not want to sell the fake candidates.
If only now there is nothing or only a few who can be given, "it will be better if the service they will give is more or few.
What is this, Mang Sixto Brillantes?
It is just a pile of case that happens when the shopping and selling of votes?
Maybe this is the case that you should watch over because it became rampant.
Killing is killings?
We have something to give attention by the COMELEC.
And that was the cause of the murder that happened.
Does there really be one of them, Mang Sixto did this case?
Or did they just leave the hands of the police and the National Bureau of Investigation?
Or is there nothing in the hands of the COMELEC with the murder case?
