Tragedy happened.

By Priscilla Mireilles?
March 16, 2013.

A telomere shortens for the students of UP Manila who killed his own life after being able to pay the tuition fee (Instagram account of Carl Marc Logan.
The story of crystal-Tetuan, 16 years old, student of the university of the Philippines in Manila (UP Manila), is the son of a taxi driver, who is smart, full of hope.
It was the first year in college, second Holy Week, it was difficult to pay their tuition, not allowed by UP Manila to spend more than three months of studying, but it did not reach to pay, that they could no longer go to school, but they did not let them leave and leave him.
According to a few reports, the mother even tried to send a mother in front of UP Manila Chademia if it is really not possible, according to UP Manila, because it is the policy of the university which needs to pay in order to study.
It spread on social media, and eventually to the media, the taking of crystal meth in his own life is clear, maybe because of desperation, he still pleaded with his teacher, maybe because of desperation, he might not be annoyed with the classes.
He wants to learn what he wants to enter, whatever is the motivation of taking of crystal meth in his own life, we know that they will have a big amount of payment, but one of his best students, he was met by a university, he was met with snacks or: "When he was left to school."
It is not surprising that the high value of people like crystal meth and his family in education is not surprising, through the whole system of education, the life that is only in the end of the education is the life of education, education is the solution to poverty.
So it is not surprising that many poor families are going to make all the money and the course they can risk for education, for the sake of the family because he is the one with the biggest chance to help the family after college and to get a good job.
Probably, the family who was able to go to the town of UP Diliman, he boasted to all the relatives and neighbors, at last, they have hope.
But UP started to change due to the consecutive administrations of the government to make sure that the tuition fee is gradually restored, from P40 per hour in 1989 until now, the high tuition fee is gradually destroyed, things (rape?
According to him, he said, "she was extremely embarrassed of her classmates last week when she entered.
He / she was wearing.
It is being crushed, because there is no clear example in his example, which is a justifiable system of education that is implemented now in the country.
No matter how washing the hands of the Commission on Higher Education, that because they have their own decision to set a decision in relation to the tuition fee, it cannot be denied that they have responsibility for the quality of education - the entry of the market of education - the entry of the market of education - the entry of the market of education - the entry of the market.
Isn't it that he led the implementation of the plan of based on various public service, from some agencies of the government like the National Food Authority, up to public hospitals like the Philippine Constabulary Center?
It is not difficult to say that the national administration of Aquino has a responsibility for what happened to crystal.
It is as if the government is pushing every poor youth in the situation of crystal meth: The whole life, it is believed that only education will come up in poverty, but they are brutally killed in it when they are close to them.
He / she was wearing.
It is said that the driver of the taxi driver has a taxi driver now, how much is the driver of the taxi who is earning a taxi now in every day of work, perhaps, he may not be able to withstand the amount of P1,500 every day, but it is definite that he will not be able to do anything but it is not five (five siblings of crystal meth).
The government is also a government's enemy, especially with the increase in the price of oil and the increase in the price of oil and oil that is why there is no power in the incessant price of oil and oil that should be done in the non-raising price of oil if there is a basis for the price of oil if there is a basis for the price of oil.
Meanwhile, Meralco already announced that they will increase in electricity supply and Manila Water as well as the fare in LRT and MRT), which is why the LRT and MRT), which is why it's likely that he rode the LRT going to UP Manila.
The price of oil and goods will increase, based on the services such as education and health - it is clear that these issues are related to the tragedy of a young student like crystal.
At the end, another true story, as proof at this point.
One friend is riding a taxi one morning last month.
He asked what is the problem of the driver because he was just coming from the hospital when his neighbor called him to a public hospital because his wife and her two children were on a tricycle, going to school.
His youngest child is dead-on-arrival after his wife and another child said to him that there is no time that she needs to be paid, that is why there is no time that she needs to be paid, that is why there is no time that she needs to be paid, which is why there is no time for the income to earn.
He is trying to stop tears while she is talking about it and it is hard to drive if your eyes are full of tears.
The majority of us have a tragedy so we need to do something.
There is a report by P2,500.
