
TV Patrol of Alonte, they are fixing.
Alden, will build a Foundation to share to.
By Allan Dimatulak, July 28, 2016.
Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza.
"Hopefully," the only answer to us by Miss Gigi Santiago-Lara, as the manager of Alden Richards in GMA artist Center, when we asked if it is true that Alden does not really need to make the Kapuso network a TV series.
On the other hand, Together "of the Pambansang Bae, for insects press, there were also a plan of Alden about this and his answer is that the former team and management of Maine Mendoza about the thing he is saying is already a plan.
Thea is not yet given details but he said, the Fight will be done by Hooters Restaurant, to the year-year-old man, there was already news here because of the Works and with a possible television series with Maine.

Altareros was able to breathe easier because it seems that the former lover of GMA and Jennylyn Mercado has been paying for a long time, "My Mama, My Dr. Love, of the Star.
When the news made sure that the reaction of Alden and Maine fans are violent, and they are against everyone who will be a partner in the other hottest of the Kapuso actress.
Tell also said that he and Meng went to an octopus at SMAS.
They have an apology before. "When they come out, Alden is always carrying Maine because that is the only way that they are going to earn.
About the box in the office that was held at the box office which was hit by the movie Ibuine and Me, Alden does not know how much was the profit from the movie and "Producers will just ask him.
He / she was wearing.
With the fame that Alden is experiencing, it cannot be avoided that she still has bashers and offer him even more who love and supported him.
He has been used to something like that because there is something that people can say.
At first, she is having a hard time with all sorts of things that she is saying about her bashers on social media, but she says she does not have a loss to whatever the things that they are saying against her.
Her reason, and the end of the Philippines is still him "and the people whom he loves and loved is the one who knows her character.
"In just one day, the fans of Alden will only get through with Alden during the age of Aunt Cristy Fermin.
It will be recalled that it will be put especially by Maine's supporters because she often has to live in her column.
The Kapuso actor explained, he did not take his head on why he went there.

"The area of Aunt Cristy, who has a free time, so he was the one who gave a call on him and gave the B of Giovanni Lozano.
One more thing is for him to be given to him because he is already 5 years old in showbiz and he has not yet known him personally.
"I do not have a motive on why I am thinking about it, and what they think is, we should understand, we are here (in showbiz) and aunt Cristy is a" in-R, "calm and hide Alden.
She was asked to ask his reaction to what she said Maine said that she did not need the press (that instead of our knowledge, Maine) did not say something like that.
Alden is casually defended, if it was said by Maine on social media post, it is because Meng is known who is not really showbiz.
Maybe he might be respected in whatever his opinion is.
He / she was wearing.
The Pambansang Bae also mentioned that he is planning Tindan's year or a medical Year to build his own Foundation in order for his help to those who are in need.
"Because I believe, I believe that this is the reason why I have given this type, to share to others, not to keep it to it and use your personal life.
"Because, I feel," the amount is, "the difference in the coming blessing is a blessing when I be able to share it," just to me, but to me.
"He is lacking."
He / she was wearing.
Tv is already doing the Second World pageant after 7X-INTEL. Wish I released its release.
The year-year-old Year was that he had a meeting with the US and Canada before his show in London in October 2.
Along with Alden and Alden are not along well because she was still in a raffle where his weight was flooded.
He has nothing more to blame, after he talks with him so that he can still be able to get back with a hidden talent.
So, he wasn't able to do anything if he looked at Tita Cristy, to stop the attacks on Maine on the newspaper and if it is true that he will do Maki gay for the movie for 2017.
There is a big star of Alden, who has a security guard in the surrounding, which is slowly being taken out of the house because if not, no one will be called to just laugh and selfie-selfie.
