Ruffy Biazon, who should be brought with the LP in exchange.

It is just right for the Liberal Party (LP) to be brought by the Liberal Party (LP) is the former senator and now Cong. Ruffy Biazon for the 2013 election because this is one of the biggest chances to win in the United States because of its terrain and principle for the welfare of the country.
This is what should be considered by the Liberal Party because Mister ApolBiazon will consider the traits of a servant of the country to push through "straight path," President Noynoy Aquino.
Even the old Biazon, now needs the country and Senate now, because it is not unknown to everyone that the lawmaker is now a good general and chief of staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.
With the current events in the West Philippine Sea or in Scarborough Shoal, the manual voting is needed now because it is accustomed to the reforms that the country needs especially in the struggle, even the opposing foreigners.
Even his record in the Senate is invaluable, because it is like the higher position of the Congress was invaluable, since there is no show of words against the issues being faced by the country.
It's because Mister Molina is known to have a strong statement especially that the country is related to an important issue of the country who is going up in the level of the Senate as a safe from whoever is seated in Malacanang.
Aaron Biazon also proved herself to the past hearing hearing in the Senate especially that it is more than the anomalies in the society who are severely affected by the country.
It cannot be denied that the truth is that the name Biazon will be clean because even when he has not been involved in any anomaly in the state, even if it was in the Senate he was still in the Senate.
What the Senate now needs and resolve is what the Senate needs and that is why the people are looking for the current member of the former general who has complete decisions especially when we are talking about the welfare of the people and people.
