Call for responsibility.

Lies and lack of assurance is the response of the government for the call of the people for the greater responsibility.
President Benigno Aquino III has not yet done three years in the position but he has completely forgotten about his promises during the time of the campaign period, like many of his opposing parties, the passing of the Islamic Freedom Fighters (FOI) Bill 4144.
It was clear that the message of his administration is clear to the primary actions of his administration for the sake of the people's rights to ask and use information in the government.
And in taking the FOI is the implementation of the administration of the administration this past week, after the center of the promised change of Aquino is worse, the center of his platform, it appears that he does not have any difference to officials who are afraid of the opening of the government on the opening of the government.
It is also not surprising that Aquino is not worried about the noisy support of the people in the FOI, for more than two years of service, there are already a lot of secrets that he wants to remain buried in a dark kind of white vinegar.
No matter how much the Marcos regime is clean, it appears that it could not be swept up by a report by the Commission on Audit last October, it appears that up to P11.816 billion in the national budget in 2011, it appears that the people are still widespread because of corruption, proof that corruption in the government is still widespread.
As well, in the national budget for the next year, the construction of big sum from the department and programs being held by the allies of the Liberal Party has been suspicious, while the action of the allies of the Liberal Party is being suspicious, while there is a continuing exchange of action of high service such as education and health.
Just a few months before the election in May, they still have a suspicious implementation of P31708 pesos "Special Action Force" and P11708 pesos "
In this situation the FOI is most meaningful and most important that this is the record of the government, and this is being focused on how the government needs our tax, but also on how the government is using our power, but also on how the government officials are using our powers to them.
Through the implementation of the FOI, the documents that are presently in the annual reports of wealth by the highest officials of the country are in the annual report of wealth by the highest officials of the country, the documents connected in the expenses of every agency, department, and other documents related to the interest of the people.
However, instead of Aquino hug the principle of tomorrow and honest service, he has been used to put it down, he chose to pour the jewelries that you have been taking care of, getting involved, and quickly got up.
Just a few months have passed, Aquino passed the blessing of the two laws which led to the limited space of free journalism, which aims to end a higher punishment for libel, and Data Privacy Law, which aims to be punished with information gathered by the government.
In the exchange of freedom to the ordinary citizens, it is also the government who introduced themselves as proper and four in the situation will be filed against Marcos until the removal of Estrada - the citizens have the ability to collect and get up, especially in front of too much exhaustion.
In the continuing to leave the lies of the Marcos regime, it is only right for every Filipino to be vigilant, and the time of the time is to show off the right strength to restore the rights denied by the government.
