Gerald, has a love again with Bea!
Bird, AshRagin Ali, together with Gerald!
Dondon's curious is June 16, 2016 when Gerald Anderson Silva will love with Bea Alonzo on the first time that she was in a love for a young lady, but he did not continue to court, and it ended with friendship.
And now that they are together everyday because of the shooting of their movie, Gerald admitted that she had a love again with Bea but she said she cannot say that her love from Bea is because she did not lose.
Anyway, because of the love of Gerald with his fans, they were able to be with his co-year-old child, which was true in the whole day that he became a soldier, the company of Anderson Boys Camp Crame, a fan of the military station, "fan of the military station, the fan of the military station, the fan of the military unit.
The Team Army is composed of AshRenzo (Sagandola, the Team Coast Guard chief of the Supammam, Team Air Force Police of the Solid Khanaels, Team Marines, of Khanaeg, Los Angeles City.
His supporters, which was laid down by the bark in the company, with Gerald's fans, also picked up with Gerald's fans, she was on the length of the Toyota Innova with the Joe Vargas case that's why he / she was the one who became a pot session for the games of the games.
Made by the ball Rolbirth, the supporters First Class Sevidal-cheater will be taken out of Mabalaca, Sagala Bables (Team Army) chose to First Prize.
Accore of Gerald, he.
"My mom, my mom, was able to go back to the span of a 10-year-old," Gerald Anderson.
In the boils of Camp Crame, the name of Gerald's, Tristan (Peso NJ, Mabalaca, Buyers Limited, Challero, Buyers Limited, Tallero, Buyat, Rallonza-Hay, Catch and I, Rollin, "

After the snails-mannered family, Gerald Angelina's Super Friends (Team Coast Guard (Team Coast Guard) - First Republic is in place of the trophy.
"That is" the number one Factor because, as a person who is in a position for me to be my inspiration, "those whom I want to be my inspiration," he said, "he said.
After the point of Gerald's little time to chat with their supporters, her supporters, of the boils of Camp Aguinaldo, had to go to him and the boils of the boils of the boils of the opponent.
Gerald's year-year-old man, which was being observed by the Help of the Office of the Pacific Ocean, Cosain, Hamping and Belle and Belarse, Having and Belle Iris and Gaming Corporation).
