However, the situation is dangerous with no opposition.
By Ellen Toribio, June 15, 2016, Senator Chiz Escudero and Antonio Trillanes IV, the one who was left behind in the Senate, all of the super majority of Senator Aquilino "Koko" Pimentel III, the party of the next president, Rodrigo Duterte.
In the House of Representatives, 15 people were left not in the super majority of Davao del Norte Representative Pantaleon Alvarez.
Because of the super majority of the Senate and in the House of Representatives, the entire Congress is also holding a big responsibility now in the shoulders of the members of the senate, which is part of the Congress, is an institution with the office of the President and the Humalig).
It is good that somehow the three members of the Senate who will enter the Senate are Senator Ping Lacson, Leila de Lima and Risa Hontiveros, he should not investigate on his campaign against crime.

We, so to be a fight, I will be the one to go to do, as long as the Fight IT led by the catholic. "
Because many are worried about the iron way of Duterte.

Duterte is angry with what those who are stopping him to respect the rights of people, whether an unidentified criminal is guilty or not.
Lacson said he will do what is right as a senator, he will call him in investigation, and even if the president of the Philippines did not resist him, "Lacson said that the President should not defend him." Said Lacson.
We will see how this is being implemented by the super majority which included different parties, if you are in the majority of it, you will push for the program of the majority of how, Pimentel's party of Duterte will push forward.
What if the task of Duterte himself is wrong.
In the suspension of the super majority, Pimentel said that he respects Duterte on who should be held accountable by these.

They are still fixing what will happen to Alan Cayetano, who will not be given by Duterte, because according to Duterte, it is hard to see the Senate President Duterte, and the legislative chamber that included the Supreme Court and the legislative chamber that included the Supreme Court and all the court, and all the court.
We are calling the separation pay of powers to be effective to monitor every institution because it is dangerous to be in danger.
As of now, it's only right that it has not been controlled by Jerrick Lee, his ally, but he is slowly going to face his allies if they would resign.
The people are important to be alert with what the government is doing if it is right to support them if it is wrong, criticized.
