What is the difference between Masaya and happy?

Those with a happy mind had a miserable mind that was planted and cooked in order for many to be harvested by many.

There is a big difference between two words; however, it is often used as if there is only one meaning and they're both feeling the same.

Despite the emotion that they are pushing for the happiness of the heart as positive and desirable, these will be liver hard for a fervent prayer and long feelings.

A happy (OFW) or a party (OFW) will only be short.

This is the happiness of good fortune or if you are lucky in life, you are happy with the success you have received, and for the things you receive, and now that you are experiencing a lot of gifts, and now that you are celebrating your previous situation, and now that you want to go back again.

The happiness (joy) or happiness (joy) may take longer the happiness that you are coming from your heart as a priority of your emotions, this is the only one who has the ability to feel this kind of heart, which is always bothering your feelings every time you are worried about it.

There are those who do not wake up and remain in deep consciousness, that's why it's not surprising that they are looking for the things and situation that is always looking for them, so that they are losing interest and are looking for more than a meaningful day.

It does not reach their minds how they will find them from the depths of their hearts and maintain the feeling.

Here is the good upbringing: If you have seen a old man who want to cross the road and you have done it to your heart, what you have seen is a new and more beautiful than this, the loneliness will come back to you.

But you can be able to be happy, if you will understand all the things that we see and this is only a limit, and it is only time that it is not seen and only that it is what is important and what is the most important and making your heart the most important and making you happy.

Are you happy or happy now?
