
The broken history will not bring peace to insisting the penalty to Enrile and others from the abuse of the law, Poverty.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
October 2, 2012.

Um ation of the Sevidal.

The current will of the history to pay for the demand for Iglesia ni Cristo of the martial law by the CPP-martial law.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines encouraged the Filipino people to dismiss the crooked history of Juan Ponce Enrile, who wants to give the 14-year-old architect of the law of the Marcos regime in 1972 because of the incessant violation of human rights and workers and in the national architect.

The KP has released this statement regarding the several times of the biological life of Enrile, which is currently the president of the Supreme Court, he served as a member of the law of Imelda Marcos, who served as a critic of the law, he served as a critic of the law, he served as a critic of the law, he served as a critic of the law, he served as a critic of the law. "

"Before it was said that even before Juan Ponce Enrile, there was one of Juan Ponce Enrile," said PKP, "from 1972 until the downfall of the military troop in the military and police, more than 120,000 farmers and other common people, one of them did not taste the physical and sharp beard."

Habana, the hands of Enrile had a blood of blood with almost 4,000 people that have been hit by Marcos, "added PKP," said PKP, "said the general military like Fidel Ramos and Fabian Ver, who should be responsible for the serious abuse of human rights under the burial of Marcos dictatorship."



In addition to the politics and economists that was held by Cagayan, Enrile got the 95,000 hectares of their session in the islands being implemented by Enrile, which is one of the worst violation of the international law under the international law under the international law which caused the military's interest to protect the military.

"In his new book, Enrile was laid before being a liar so he insisted that there was no reason for him to do the 'exported bus last 1972 when he stated that it was as an opportunity to do that in the declaration of martial law," said the KP.

"The disconcerting of Enrile in history is an intense disgusting things that can be led by the Filipino people, especially the current administration of the filipino youth, especially the current administration of the filipino youth, that's the socket of wrong information about the law," said the KP.

"As one of the voters, and most of the followers of the United States, the biography of the US, which aims to make the role of the US government," said the constitution of the 1987 Constitution, "said the Saligang Batas of the 1987 Constitution," said the Saligang Batas of the 1987 Constitution, "said the Saligang Batas of the 1987 policy against foreign investment and trade."

"The Filipino people, who serving in his own lying biography," said PKP, "said PKP," said PKP, "said the citizens in history, to maintain the citizens in history and they will not be defeated.

However, for the history that those who are oppressed and being raped by the webs made by Enrile and his own type, it is going down and claim their paper on the path of the filipino masses while they are pointing their paper from writing the new chapter with modern equipment. "
