
The PKP has again let the ceasefire last January 15 after the declaration of the announcement of Gotoc.

The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
January 3, 2012.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (CPP-CPP-Chinese national, on January 15 after Cated and Philippine.

The Land Transportation Office of the Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) made the declaration of the ceasefire, until January 15 after the burial of the Marcos regime yesterday on the suspension of the military operations.

The declaration of the PKP has followed.

The Central Committee of the Liberal Party of the Philippines' Office of the Philippines' Office (NPA) is the units of the New People's Army (NPA) by the Philippine National People's Army (NPA) that will be held by the CPP-Illegal Drugs Act of January 15.
The Office of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) was held by the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) President Benigno Aquino III, the police operations of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) and the Philippine National Police (AFP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP).

According to the KP, it is not easy to focus on the passport extension of the first suspension of the implemented military and police officers from the copy of the document connected to the mandate of the Ombudsman and a few hours after the PKP has publicized their order when the KP has publicized their order.

In the past two weeks, the representative of GPhilippine Army did not respond to a few messages which can be washed from the lower ceasefire from December 20 to January 15, the message of Nezahuacoyotl dam.

The PKP is hoping that the confiscations of ceasefire are going to help in the progress of peace talks between the GSU-NDFP) and the release of more than 400 prisoners who are in accordance with the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights) and the release of more than 400 prisoners who are in line with the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights. "

However, the KP has criticized the ongoing operation of the AFP in spite of the mandate of Aquino in the ceasefire, "the mandate of the AFP against the citizens and the revolutionary forces in different parts of the country," said the KP.
