
Filipina contractor is Filipina in Brunei.

The child of a common jeepney driver in the Philippines is a successful businessman in Brunei.
"That is Aling Precy, the businessman who found the sweet success in the country of Brunei.
Despite the various issues that are happening now in our country, especially in the government about the pork barrel and abuse from the public funds, perhaps many of us are losing trust and hope.
We are thinking that it seems that we save water in a hole in a hole, because despite our tired and hard work, it seems that nothing is happening, because of the abuses done.
In these times, I thought about the story of the life of Precy, the Filipinization of what I met in Brunei.
Aling Precy is a simple woman, if you can see her clothing, actions and words, no one will think about millions worth of money.
In the province of Ilocos, Precy grew up, a simple jeepney driver from Ilocos Norte, while his mother was from Cagayan.
He was able to finish the study at Polytechnic University of the Philippines because of being a working student.
After finishing, she immediately went to a relative, who learned that she learned and grew up his knowledge in business.
He was built a small business, before he was given a chance to fly and live in Brunei.
When he arrived in Brunei, perseverance, perseverance and hope that every day, the people with him will succeed.
In the field of construction, he found his own business, which is different kind, kind and style of the company that they gave for their client.
It is noticeable that almost all of his personnel are all Filipinos.
From afar, a carpenter and engineer are Filipinos who were imported from the Philippines.
According to Precy, he did this because aside from our Filipinos' action, he also wants to help us not only to our countrymen but also in our country.
The success of Precy is a result of his hard work and hope that the time will come and he will fulfill it.
To the issues being faced by our country at present, it is only right for us to remain not only to unite but also our hope that the time will come that our country will come to end up a new and more beautiful morning.
