
In the interview of Davao Toi.

The asked for apology and payment of the NDFP members is one of the refusal of the responsibility of the Armed Forces of the Philippines in the massacre of Hacienda Luisita last November 2004, and in the murder of nine-year-old Gymnasium in Karangalan Village, Compostela Valley last March 10: 00 p.m.
The administrators, NDFP Neor in our panel.

Marilou Aguirre-Tuburan Municipal.
The managing chief, daving.
Read the king 3 o'clock in Davao Tosay: "Mamondiong, the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office's" Mamondiong, "

The Davao Tosaid, one man was followed by a briefing in the internet, the incident of the explosion last September 1 in Fatima Village, Police District, Davao City.

We were there when the third Liberal Party has helped in paying the 5,000 pesos damage to the victims of the explosion.
As the reaction of the said incident, Alexander Padilla released a statement, chairman of the Peace Process of the republic of the Philippines (GPhilippine), who came out in the website of OPAPP last September 21.

1.

Luis Jalandoni (LJ) - the damage of the BHB) along with this is an excuse to ask for forgiveness and based on the principles and policies of the revolutionary movement, he respects the international law, he respects the international law.

Alex Padilla has an attempt to raise the ashes in the national international law on the construction of the military forces with the rebel community, it will cause trouble to the community whose movement and spreading terrorism through the frequent violation of human rights to the civilians.

The Regional Council (NDFP) is very clear in Southern Mindanao last September 18, causing the destruction of damage according to the revolutionary movement and policies, which is not appropriate for the accusation of GST Queen, Padilla, who is not appropriate in his decision as the chairman of the Philippine National panel.

Asking for forgiveness and paying the damage of the NDFP members is one different from the refusal of the AFP to the massacre of Hacienda Luisita, one of the cases of the military and their respective families because there are still many similar cases of the military and other similar cases of the AFP, according to the AFP, there are still many similar cases.

2.

LJ: Again, the statement of Padilla said that he should straighten out the data before being talkative on those who have reported incidents in exchange of the damage caused by the revolutionary movement, according to the revolutionary movement, according to the revolutionary movement of its principle.

There are many victims of consecutive programs against the insurgency of GRP / Golovkin, what the government budget of the US can do, it can't be blamed in the fight of the citizens who stole the international law and the undiplomatic remarks of its principle.

In the attempt to blame the citizens of their justifiable fight against the abuse and abuse, he also defended the martial law of the Marcos regime that there is a hundreds of cases of violation of human rights in 14, he also defended the Marcos regime with a corresponding record for the Pambansang Kamao in the Pambansang Kamao.

3.

LJ: There is no benefit from the division of the law under the division of the law under the Ethics Committee (GRP) and in more than 200 cases of attempted murder under the Marcos regime, including the killing of human rights particularly during the time of the Marcos regime, including former President Benigno Aquino III.

Contrary to what is called by the law of the administration of the government fund which is based on the principle of justice that is based on the principle of the workers, farmers, and other sectors of the workers, farmers and other sectors of the workers, farmers and other sectors of the country.

4.

5.

LJ: The owner of the rights and other organization of human rights in the Philippines, even in other countries, that the big number of victims of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), of the Philippine National Police (PNP) and by the Philippine National Police (PNP), of the Philippine National Police (PNP) and by the Philippine National Police (PNP).

6.

LJ Reyes, it was proven that the PKP has only used the command-up-up-up-up, which is not rolled over by the said inhumane weapon against the AFP with no legitimate weapon against the AFP who was incessant in arresting the houses and the community of civilians.

The accusations that are using young warriors are using the PKP, it turns out that this opportunity is approved by the United Nations Development Assistance Fund (Unicef of the United Nations Development Assistance Fund (Izzy Canillo) and it was published last 2007.

7.

LJ: We talked with each other and the NDFP members have added that there is already a two agreement that will be held at the LRP), including The Humalig) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo).

But the United Nations and its obligation went back together with this agreement and did not show fares to continue the negotiation of the ceasefire, and the OPAPP (Office of the Presidential Adviser on the Peace Process (Office of the Presidential Adviser on the Peace Process (Office of the Presidential Adviser on the SEA Games.
