Research in creative.

By Tomas, Santos - June 24, 2014.

Don't be swayed by research on a foundation of any decision, even in creative mind.
This is what Jun Cruz Reyes said, a popular writer, on the operation conducted by a good research in creative, on the 25th of May at the Ninoy Aquino Learteries Center of the Philippines.
According to him, like other study, there is a need to conduct a research on the creative author so that it will be strengthened and met by the readers.
"The search for the problem is the primary problem of a writers in writing this season (creative writing), this will be the cause of the meaning of the researchers to give a solution to the author as a solution.
There are two kinds of research - research of creative mind and research in academy.
He clarified that it is not like writing to acklings on where it is technical and a way that will be tainted and a way to be touched or made to be touched on a creative mind.
Reyes stressed that it is hard to take a glimpse of the culture where it can be seen the source of the author as he is holding the story.
"This is where it can be seen by the writers, why did he write an topic when he has not been touched yet if he has been found a big hole in his decision, he said.
There is also something that should be implemented or arguments that should be resolved today.
"As long as you do not know how to make a problem, you can't do anything but at the end of your research, you will prove you," he said.
In academic, there will be a whole answer if the data of data is complete, for creative mind, the problem will start after getting information.
"Which of these data is what you need and take care of?
He asserted that having questions and criticism of problems in the investigation conducted is important so that the author would be better to understand.
"If you are not asking, you will have the conventional way, you will have the conventional way, if the people are talking about nothing, he said.
If there are higher education that are using formal language, Reyes said that it is better to use the "language of time" in writing to a creative decision to make the readers study and understand the readers.
If the researchers are enough, the readers are not going to rest from the author because the mentioned information has basis and there is a new reason to be added to the world.
Reyes believes that the research of a creative decision is important because it is given the sensibility of the simple topic and this is what he can explain.
On the theme, Reyes gave an example to his decision on "Ang last year, Bukid," about a town who did not want their corruption because he also mentioned the author of Alfonso, a famous writer, "let's go to our village."
According to him, Santiago grew up in Manila and once did not experience living in a village but because of his research, he had a possible writing about it.
Reyes said that if there is no research, they will not explain why things are happening and the author is lacking in the information.
