
TV Patrol, February 3, 2012.

This is the statement of Kovalev.

Congress for unity of the poor people.
National Capital Region-Rizal (KimXi.


Press Sungala.
From Ka Allan dela Cruz, President of Klarisse de Oro.
February 3, 2012.


Condemned for being harassed by the guards of global warming.


There is an encounter today by twenty members of the Congress of the city of Pagkakaisa ng Masang Pilipino) to protest in front of the Department of LPG (DOE) to protest the continuous increase in the price of LPG at 781,000 pesos, 70.50 pesos, 75.8-75.8, 75.8, 75.8, 75.8-10408.


In spite of the successful protest in front of the DOE, the poor were felt like martial law in Global City in Taguig City, while one of his companions were arrested in front of the coast guard which was said to have been caught in front of the guard's gate when they arrived at around 10: 30 to 11: 30 in the morning.


The guard also asked if there is a permit for the poor, if the guards do not have a permit, are the guards of the 1987 Constitution by the Philippines, and the Department of energy department, and not private, it seems that this person is not included in the increase in price of goods.


Almost all the poor say, especially the women who are fond of speaking to release their anger towards the genders who blocked the "high price of LPG, why are we the poor, that's why our government has become aware of it.

These traditions will also be the ones who will benefit from the price of LPG. "


After our program, they went back to the jeep, but they were not able to get back immediately because the driver didn't want to get their license, so in front of the Korean, the poor was said to have been shot by a guard who was shot at around 1: 00 in the morning.

The poor were able to return to their area at around 3: 00 in the afternoon.


Oil Deregal Law, dismiss!
The price of LPG is increase, suffering for the masses!
Protest about, fight the increase in price of LPG!
Guards, should be disciplined!
