
Aquino is going to file a case against the continue to be held accountable for Arroyo.

Editorial Department.
The country.
March 7, 2012.
The trust of the Filipino people with the Marcos regime is consumed with the huge cases of violation of human rights and inhumane laws, cases of corruption and other big crimes in the country.

Last night, they made the urge to stop the hearing in the Senate hearing of Chief Justice Renato Corona to prove that he is the staff of Aquino in the Supreme Court to prove that he is the staff of Aquino in the Supreme Court.

In the just to show that, it is possible that Aquino will just ride the wide sentiments of the people so that Arroyo will weaken and punished Arroyo to get their support from his steps in order to oust Corona from the Supreme Court.

It is even clearer that Aquino's oldest, in this case, will be controlled by the Supreme Court to withdraw the initial order given by Aquino, it is clearer than the people that Aquino shows that he will be involved with the objective that Arroyo will be held accountable.

The hearing of Corona is a big show up for almost every day, Aquino criticized Corona, but in spite of the doubt he gives to the wake of Arroyo, he did not object to the wake of his brother-in-law, he did not agree with the burial of his brother-in-law, the harassment done by the criminal case that is facing a criminal case.

It is also clearer than the eyes of the people that the Marcos regime does not have any plans to conduct a criminal case in spite of the brutal murder of the country, which is responsible for the brutal murder of the country, which is responsible for the brutal murder of human rights and inhumane cases of the country, which is responsible for the non-governmental organization of the citizens under the graft case of the country.

There is also no decision for Aquino to be held liable in the big crimes such as corruption in the cases of receiving bribes from the contract of PCSO, OWWA, and some other cases that have been filed against ZTE, OWWA, and some of the few lawyers were made to easily lose in court.

Not less than seven complaints of corruption are filed by different individuals and organization against Arroyo, but even if Aquino has been buried in his staff as Ombudsman, the case has been filed against Arroyo in spite of the direct case of corruption and graft case against Arroyo.

It is clear in the people that the incessant criticism of Aquino against Arroyo was all noise and it is not new in the history of the Philippines, similar to the use of Corazon Aquino to Marcos and the country's continuing poverty and corruption under their ballots.

However, in the past 60 years under the republic of the republic, it has not been punished with huge abuses from the country, which is why based on the declaration of Aquino's action, it's likely that Gloria Arroyo will not be punished even in spite of the conflict that he has grown in against the people.

They are going to make out that the personalities who are taking advantage of this kind of good attitude is to forgive and forget about the past, but they are just being used to give importance to the leaders of the filipino people, but all of them are united in the development of the Filipino people while they are picking up or from the flag of our country.

The Filipino people cried and punished President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo and punished all the criminals who are accomplices of domination and corruption.
They should continue and improve the hard work that Arroyo will be held accountable, but he should be charged and held accountable by the Aquinos who stole the funds of the country and made it hard for the government to pass the road to stop his crimes against the country.

They can use the rules of the institution and legal process that will be used in the outline of the system to push the goal of the military, the personnel of the AFP and other minds that they can push to file a case of corruption and even if the suspension of the policies of the country can be restored.

They should take advantage of the disagreement and doors of those who have heard each other in order to promote their own styles, however, they should not be an illusion that they have an illusion that they have an assurance that they will be able to answer to Arroyo, especially in the fight or process.

It is more important that, if possible, will further strengthen and strengthen the current field of the masses and the armed movement in order to push through and strengthen their own system and government budget for the country to worsen and be punished the owners of the country.
