Napoles, fully denied the Senate.

The whole country waited for the face of Janet Lim-Napoles at the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee of the Senate for continuing the investigation of the called P10-billion pork barrel scam last November 7.
And like what many are expecting, Napoles can deny all of those who ask him for the senators to ask him that is why the Senate is almost immobile.
Even Senator Miriam Santiago, failed to convince Napoles to get information on who are behind the pork barrel scam even if he said that the life of Napoles can be in danger.

Although many are disappointed, if it will be examined well, the truth will be seen between the testimony of the victim, Benhur Luy, Geralde, Luy, Stanly Marina, and Erich Gonzales, according to Senator Migs Zubiri III.
According to the lawyer that was involved in the pork barrel scam, about 28 lawmakers were involved in the pork barrel scam from the senate and Congress which have happened within 10 years or a fake non-government units (WBC), which was said to have been built by Napoles to take advantage of the funds of pork barrel.
It was not only Napoles.
According to Bayan Muna Rep. Carlos Zarate, although the senators did not have information to get information from Napoles, it should be clear to the citizens that Napoles should not only be the center of investigation, in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
"He should not focus on Napoles.
Zarate insisted that if the citizens will not be observant, it will only be observant and the issue of Napoles can be vigilant and to be given to the other form of pork barrel such as the Pampton fund, which is estimated to be at the P1 million peso amount.
It is said that Napoles would not only want the truth but he tried to stay at President Noynoy Aquino from all scandal on the pork barrel, according to the National Football Federation of the Philippines.
It is clear according to Kilusang Mayo Uno (equivalent) that the Marcos regime is allegedly conducting a fight for those involved in the pork barrel scam, the regime wants to just remain the blame for the politicians.
According to Guingona, the investigation of the Senate can still last for the "give birth" or more, it appears that there is a need to investigate like other non-PDAF, projects, and also to be called by other involved in said scandal.
Protest!
Despite the expected continuation of the investigation of the Senate, it is called out for a bigger fight from the citizens to finally expose and separate the system of pork barrel in the country in all of its form.
Zarate also added that although the filing of Congress is still ongoing for the proposed law like House Bill 1535 that aims to dismiss the pork barrel, it is said that there is a need to blow up from the actions of the citizens from different sectors so it will finally be exported.
It is called out to act on the 19th of Andres Bonifacio on November 30.
