Project!

Maroons Tucuran.
This is not about the filing of the government about the flood and this is about other projects.
Just this past week, the joke about the strong rain was hot, the boat could arrive on his gigantic size, but some of her female classmates would attack, which is why they really need to find out if you do not want to die.
I do not know if you are just joking with me, because it's as if you are with the flood going to "Kin, in all times that you can see, it still has been able to identify them when they were killed or another calamity.
It started to be a dark day in Manila, that is probably a good thing that I was able to speak back in that day in the gathering of your organization that can't be removed from my mind if you were able to talk to my mind when I agree to myself, "I said to myself," to myself.
Even though it was the first time that happened, we have not talked once again in the middle of the relief operations, while everything is busy in the middle of our conversation, even just under the moments of waking up, just like a little conversation with just a little peek at.
One day, you invited me and Mary i Break for a long time that I will not forget that night, so I still need to bring an umbrella because I was about to open it when you took it from my hand.
Please advise me.
I am not used to having an umbrella for me, usually, I am the first man holding an umbrella for me, because you still want to ask for forgiveness because you have not needed to ask for apology, I am the one who should be thankful for that moment.
I slowly feel pity towards you, at first, I don't know how I will approach you, how I will start every conversation with "epal." I seem to start too much, but under the rain brought by the southwest monsoon, I am slowly being known.
I did not intend to do it, it is obvious that the flooding brought by the southwest monsoon sometimes, in the moment that is not expected, the most awaited is coming.
I am just shallow, that is why for just a few moments, it is enough for you to make me smile because after a long day of abuse on the task, you have come out of my mind and get back the tired.
But everything is just the possibility of insecurity sometimes but hopefully, it would be better if my search is over, hopefully in the coming weeks, it is declared that we will declare the success of Project 8.
