What the government of the Philippines is doing is right now and you are mistaken for free cellphone to continue the peace of the truth that the truth can be seen here is that it is only for someone who will replace us, Mindanao and Mindanao will be able to stop from him.
The help that we are applying for is for the free call of call.
In Quezon City.
On the first day of returning to the topic of peace on the discussion on peace of the topic of course, of course, their voice is made up at around ten o'clock in the evening when we went to us last October.
Tody was calling on you to leave because of the Philippines who took care of the Philippines, many of the people who are going to go to the face of the government, are they still need to talk to each other, which is why they have not cancelled what kind of medicine that they have passed, that's why they have not cancelled the amount that you have passed for five days.
Text message.
Meanwhile, four o'clock.
He / she grew up; he / she was distressed as to why he introduced himself.
P-B!
Covetous, fur.
Eight people were killed.
Two Wives are almost four.
Both sides will be filled with both sides.
Possible.
Covetous, deport; but not.
Very short; he / she was deacadic; he / she grew up; he / she was eight years old.
Two Zailon and Two Wives are five.
Two persons after two were five years old when I got five in their trip and military, five of your employers have five things in just almost nine of the barangay, I am only dead in Tagaytay Cotabato, two soldiers, who are dead, Sultan Kudarat, Cotabato City, are dead.
In our military, there are Two Section four million that's why he's taking care of the corner of men.
According to you, they went there after the new owners of the law what the position is doing to the law, he knows that the operation was done for a long time.
Did I continue to play the video?
I am going to do something that we are going to do, that's why I am being teased.
Possible.
You can still have two children.
But you can also say that according to them, this is my plea to the side of a jeep on what is the one being made to start on Wednesday out of the new word yes.
That's why we are stupid; as well as the bosses, they are the ones who are pointing at each other; they are only one-six-five-six-six-six-six-six-six-five-six-five-five-five-old; it would be better if it can lessen the cision, Anna.
Maybe it is not here inside the trip.
They have forgiven each other in YUC.
Now that there are many people who are fearless for you.
Meanwhile, my priority is to suffer from your voice, starting from the house of a job, that is also starting from work, that is why it has been said that she has been talking with a license for five-years, which is why we have mentioned how many Bill which is why you are going to talk about it.
What was cut off from those who have been cut off from the debt of both of those who sold the positions they have been saying that they were saying that the result of the news that they are going to talk about it at around twelve o'clock in the evening, that I am going to talk to each other at around twelve o'clock in the evening.
How to you?
