
I have responsibility.

It is very hard to mind the thinking of PNoy that when there was a conflict between the Philippines and Taiwan, our government was involved in shooting our Philippine Coast Guard, our government almost cannot do anything to put off the anger of the government of Taiwan.
In an instant, PNoy asked for forgiveness and file a pile of case against the members of the Coast Guard who are taking advantage of the territory of our country, instead of their concern in fulfilling their mission, it is even given by our government, like criminals.
But here in the case of Manila the crisis where eight tourists from Hong Kong were killed after the official of the Western Police District, Chief Inspector Rolando Mendoza, is still hardheaded in the request of the government of Hong Kong and China to ask for forgiveness from our government.
We do not take sides of Hong Kong and China about this issue because it is true that the government did not want the tragedy that happened, but it is not surprising that we are just doing it to Taiwan for an event that if you think about it, we are just doing it in the case of Manila hostage crisis.
If I will be asked, Hong Kong and China have the right to ask for apology to our government because even if it is true that we did not want this, Mendoza has a big system which led him to conduct a robbery.
It cannot be said that the reason of PNoy is that his government does not have any mistake in the tragedy that happened, which is why it turns out that PNoy has no control of the events that happened, which is obvious in the event that happened, "he was not ready to take a face in that situation.
PNoy is also the fault why Mendoza went wild because he did not neglect former Mayor Alfredo Lim to involve himself in the investigation instead of leaving Mendoza, because it was seen on television that Lim arrested his sibling?
It is clear that PNoy and our government have a lot of shortcomings in this duty to resolve the Manila which is a result of his negligence and stupidity of the people he trusted in order to resolve the crisis.
"That is the reason why it is a very big mystery for me to be humble against Taiwan but it is not difficult to do this, especially since the future of many of our countrymen is in danger to go to the loss.
