
Us Partylist Aaahhmmmp!

It was headed by the son of Mindanao (US) Partylist for the thorough preparation of the residents of ARMM) on the coming July 9-18, 2013 after the national list including Lanao del Sur, Maguindanao, Tawi-Tawi, Basilan and Sulu.
The Congress initially released the Congress for the Commission on Elections and encouraged the Commission on Elections to implement this according to electoral Reforms of PNoy in ARMM).
According to Tom Delorino, President of us, they have a house-in-house in different parts of ARNC to explain to the residents the importance of delusion.
Delorino also identified the control of politicians in the past elections, just like the influx of Flying V, will be resolved through the direct abuse of the voters of the rights of each of the right age.
In order to avoid this, it should continue to launch the political education program of the US Partylist, Deleña clarified.
"It should be considered that one of the barangays is a propaganda of propaganda that will ruin electoral campaign," Delorino, added.
OIC and RMM Regional Training and Hataman are the former representative of the US Partylist within three term before he was assigned in his position by PNoy.
If it can be remembered, supreme electoral Summit was complained inside ARNC Complex in the past February, 2012 where COMELEC chairman Sixto Brillantes and Commissioner Elias Yusoph's guest had become guest.
Discussed in the said Summit is the immediate cleaning of the international list of ARMM, who is said to be full of Flying V, which is coming from the nearby areas of ARMM.
But wait for a meantime, isn't there a lot of partylist from Mindanao, particularly ARMM, but these might not be a bridge to give treatment to the different problems that the residents of ARMM came from.
It is hard to mention one by one but hopefully the voters will be observant to prevent the pointing of finger in order to avoid the pointing of fingers after seeing the finger in response to the problems of different sectors.
This is just a extension of some political dynasty are the winning or the leadership of the partylist.
If one partylist can get enough votes, he will sit in Congress the chosen leader with the power and influence of a district, but only for the speaker, they will not work.
That's why when examined, some of those who are seated as party representative are from the clan of politicians.
Although there are some basic commodities for a positive action of some while sitting in the legislative chamber, hopefully it should not make it as SOP to the majority of partylist.
