You (in-law).

Kevin Mark R.

It is irritating for the long leaves of the trees in Victoria, Laguna.
According to his calm voice and calm speech, it will not be determined that Father Nestor has not learned a companion in the provinces of Bicol, Cagayan Valley, Quezon and Aurora, to attack the office of the National Anti-Poverty Commission on January 31, which led to violence in the same side of the police and farmers.
From the report of big media on the incident, it seems it is easy to blame the violence of farmers, and set aside the primary issues that pushed them from their respective areas - the plea to give them a special tax imposed by the Marcos family to small coconut farmers.
More than four decades have passed since a relationship has been a relationship for Coco, but the justifiable fight of the coconut farmers for the funds forcefully taken from their work is ongoing.
He felt weak.
In Kalayaan, Laguna, from the family of the farmers, Father Nestor has came from the family of the farmers, including his family for an estimated 3.5 million coconut farmers in the whole country, according to the agency Philippine Charity Sweepstakes (PCA).
June 1971 was the first payment for the government of Coco, from the coconut farmers through Republic Act 6260 or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, which aims to improve the coconut industry for 10 years, which aims to improve the coconut industry for 10 years.
The deductions of Bangsamoro Basic Law, which of Cocoy of Cocoy), Philippine Charity Sweepstakes ers Federation, Incorporated (COCOFW), and Philippine Charity Sweepstakes), and the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes), would be sent to the CA.
According to Mang Nestor, they did not notice that their fellow farmers were not able to notice that the coconut farmers who were given a receipt or other products, through different kinds of abuse such as low price or invasion.
After two years, the government released a new tax on the small coconut farmers by the Presidential Dec.272 who formed the Jemaah Islamiyah (272 at the start of August 1973, causing the 15 kilos of dried copra or equivalent of petroleum products, in every first sale.
The charge for 100 pesos per kilo of copra has increased again, which lasted nine years up to August 1982, according to the national tourist Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP).
The coconut farmers started cut off when it was noticeable in their livelihood, Mang Nestor has been noticeable in their livelihood, Mang Nestor has been asked for several years, they said that they did not feel how to progress their livelihood, and instead, it worsened.
Although the Philippines is known because of its product of coconut wine, the usual coconut farmers of P30,000 are only earning 30,000 pesos every year, according to the report of Radaa City for Sambitu National Intelligence Coordinating Council (PHAPI).
It is brightened up.
Instead of being used for the good of the coconut farmers, it is believed that it is used for his personal interest to President Marcos.
"The three institutions that they have" asked to have the "traslacion" or directly hit and led by the cravors of Marcos in the leadership of SPO 2 Juan Ponce Enrile and the former Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile and the former Senate President Benigno Juan Ponce Enrile and the former Senate President.
Aside from the failure of the coconut farmers from poverty, the coconut industry is also in danger to finally die here, the livelihood of a fifth population or almost 20 million Filipinos, according to Cenes, report of April 2012.
It is clear that the industry of the coconut industry is very clear, because there are many trees which have been cut off, there are also a lot of oil which closed down, "Mang Nestor has been considered by" old "and no ability to result.
Despite this, the coconut and corn are still cut off in the main products they are with the rice, sugar, and corn, which is estimated to earn $760 million every year from petroleum products.
As a result of the fight.
The case is currently on the Sandiganbayan on the issue of Coco Yy (Sandiganbayan Civil Case Number 33), to be divided into the eight cases involving different groups and personalities in the Sandiganbayan Associate Canding Cojuangco, Jr. who was allegedly used by the 51-graft case in the company of San Miguel Corporation (SMC).
In a separate trial, the Supreme Court was sent to the 4 million pesos and 24 billion pesos to be filed (from the former 27 year signed, however, the 20 dollars have been signed to Cojuangco.
This October 5, 2012, the 24-year-old company that is owned by the government for the amount of P53.5 billion is currently in the Bureau of treasury which can be used by the government of President Benigno Aquino III.
Through Poverty Reduction Roadic for the Red Coconut Resort, the Aquino government wants to use the fake lawyers so for its programs like Condleweight championship and Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of extension.
We want the money to be returned to our coconut farmers who are truly owned by Coco, and no one official of the government is the one who can take action from the House Bill 3443 or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2010 by the Asibars as the basis of the distribution.
Instead of the government to use, the councils of small coconut farmers in every branch of the country will form and decide on how the funds that they took from the coconut farmers will be used.
It has been a few decades for the prosecution of the farmers and other farmers to recover what is right for them, they continue to force their rights until the results of their work, and daily efforts.
