The youth are calling to stop the high tuition fee.

The group of youth in the leadership of the Sangguniang Party-list of the Supreme Court to ask the rise of the implementation of the high tuition in 354 college and university in the whole country.
Because of this, the said group protested in different places in the country, to express their approval of the public and some of their students who also criticized the Aquino administration who has given reason for the increase in tuition fee.
According to the evidence for a certification of the owner, pickpocket was dismissed by different groups under the constitution last May 29, they asked the Supreme Court to dismiss the high tuition fee because it is allegedly against the PXIV Section 4 of the Saligang Batas of the 1987 Constitution.
It is stated in the said articles that the regulations and management of the administration (Commission Regulations (NGO) should be put under the "high tuition in the country.
Liberal Party-list representative-elect Terry Ridon, who is also a lawyer, they are questioning, the legality of Bangar 42, the Commission on Higher Education (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission)
Part of the responsibility was filed by the Commission on Higher Education, as well as the protest that will increase their tuition in the coming Holy Week.
In Mindanao, included in the college and university who will increase their tuition in Davao, Davao, Zamboanga del Norte, La Union College, Misamis Oriental, Davao del Norte, Misamis Oriental, Misamis Oriental, Misamis Oriental, Misamis Oriental, Misamis Oriental, Misamis Oriental, Misamis Occidental, Zamboanga del Norte, Misamis Oriental, Zamboanga del Norte, Misamis Oriental, Zamboanga del Norte, and other others.
"He is always in front of the fight against the high tuition fee in the country, we are still determined to stop at the end of the high tuition fee through all ways - the legal tuition fee, or the legal tuition fee," said Naing.
Diokno also said that it has been considered by the government for a long time, or they do not have control on the tuition in college that will only continue until the youth and the citizens will continue to declare martial law and regulations which are against the high tuition fee.
"The constitutional process said, and it should be allowed to eradicate the policies, which are just serving as an increase in the approval of the high tuition and no power to control the actual tuition in the country," said Naing.
Criticisms against Bam
Because of this, Ondoy National Chairperson Vencer Crisostomo is Senator-elect Bam Aquino, who according to him, "patrons of the budget," from accepting his support for the high tuition in the whole country.
Crisostomo was criticized by the newly-elected senator after Aquino said in a program on the television two weeks ago which was said to be avoided, "(IED), and needs to be given reason.
"Now, we have Aquino who said that the high tuition fee cannot be avoided? He became a senator if he does not have any use to protect our interest?" Asked Crisostomo.
Crisostomo's explanation, in front of the sufficient salary of the workers and the increasing prices of basic goods, there is no right increase in tuition fee.
Commission on Higher Education said that up to 40 pesos per liter, or 8.3 percent is the slow tuition in college and university this year.
Just a more than two months have passed when a student of the University of the Philippines (UP) has passed away from his post in Manila the one who committed suicide because his parents could not bear the tuition in said public university.
Filled with elementary school.
Along with this, the Department of Education (DepEd) approved the high tuition fee of 260 private schools in the entire country.
Groups of youth also criticized the approval of DepEd because he will be raised to the situation of a high education in the country. "
"Along with the implementation of the program K-12, he will be raised by a new high tuition in elementary and the crisis in education in the country," said Naing.
To avoid the lack of public education, many families were cut off and put in the private parts of their children.
Because of the high tuition fee, Macatangay said that the students might force to go back to public schools, or will they just be able to study if schools in elementary and damp to increase the high tuition fee.
"Education is the right that should not be removed from the youth just because of poverty in the country, but because of the continuous control of the government to the private or dad to refuse the youth in fighting for human rights," said Naing.
