
I know: 00am editing that was launched in the 2016 MMFF launched!
By Jun Nardo, June 30, 2016.
Dorina Pentrante, Emerson Carlos and P600 son Rodrigo Duterte launched the Executive Committee of 2016 Metro Manila Film Festival (MMFF) what they are calling on to change the rules in the annual occasion to celebrate the republic of the Philippine film industry.
The Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA) Chairman, Atty. Emerson Carlos led the change that this will be done in the MMFF) in Tuesday night at SMX Convention Center related to the fight of the New WeiFilms that he also introduced the Executive Committee and the members of the Sevidal Committee from different sectors of society.
To the producers who want to join, the committee needs to give the suspension of the length of October 31, 2016 and the amount of eight officials that was last November 10, 2016.
He / she was also removed after he had something to do with the box office that could be done in the box office.
The official Quiteria, 40 percent, Nabunturan, 40 percent, 40 percent, and bureaucracy, 10 percent of global warming; and 10 percent of Filipino Workers.
The other changes in the 2016 MMFF is the source of the amount that's being used to.
The form of the fight will be open to the start of July 15 to August 15 and the winners are going to know on September 15.
Aside from Mahogany, one of the major change was approved by the recognition.
If before, as long as there is a few days after the age of 25, Taba, it will happen to January 8, 2017.

There is still no effect on who will form judges but to be added to the People's Choice Award in this.
According to the MMDA chairman, they are strict in anything that will happen again and there is no extension.
"According to the deadline, Kuyang is declared dead.
"Hey, the all that we've been we we watched, isn't it?

Drilling, the demand for the stakeholders.
They say, the basis should not be the basis of choosing the Entry SEC.
We, Thy. We Mosul, said that what we did is bloody and what we did to have a decision is bloody.
Maybe the line of the line is probably for a long time, which is based on the kind of mission.
Mayanta is the one who will be cooked for by the First Family, for Taba Year. But-Cambot.
"But, if we are used to being a nuisance, the basis of choosing, should we adjust, we should also adjust.
We are going to get used to it still early this year, we are planning something.
With what we was impressed by the change we have been we, and all of us are planning the film festival, not and the Pambansang Kamao but we are already planning it.
The film festival will be applied at the film festival.
"We-February.
"We, we will raise the quality of all which can be held here in the film festival."
We are going to help but all of these are Tindan, one of the issues, upon upon by the Executive Committee, "explained by the MMDA Chairman.
On the part of Wilson Taba, they made sure that they care for so long so that they can help or Single Entry SEC.
The festival now will be the hardest for it to be removed from the irritable and indie films.
There is also no limitation on their selected Single Entry Approach because they have removed from having different viands in the contestants.
The MMFF has also a part of the MMFF and President of Mowelfund.
There are new faces in a ces and there is still there.
Present in the said location is the siblings Dondon and Roselle Montecy, director Tony Reyes, Vincent del Rosario, week Films, Mister Rodiano and Mr. Ortigas Flyover in General Luna, who served as Iza Calzado and Etau.
As before, Regal is indecisive with the submission of the contestants, the mother-and daughter lily and Roselle Montecillas have decided to build a mano Po 7: Tsinoy businessman using Richard Yap.
New policy can be achieved but if it is going to change in the MMFF, we applaud the leaders of the 2016 Metro Manila Film Festival, duh!
