There are a number of reports about "

By Priscilla Mireilles?
February 13, 2013.

"Do you hear, that the tone of the public is," revolutionary taxes in Paris, France last 1832, a scene in the movie "Lay Gold Rhum."
1 - the Europe is very important now in Europe, 1810: The severe crisis in the economy, along with the widespread protest and successful protests in the last part of the 25th anniversary, but the huge protests happened, from the countries like Greece until the said France.
It is the time of 1810 to be held at the cinemas in Europe and America, and even in the Philippines - the character of a ex-convict), and even in the Philippines - the character of a ex-convict, was followed by the novels of my ex-convict, and even went to the height of the failed fight in Paris, France last June, 32.
It is not difficult to say that there is something to do with the splashes of the ashes of capitalist products and the Europe built by the current Europe and the Europe built in the box office in the box office, but it can't be denied that the movies in the cinema will not be denied.
2 - the debate focused on the poorest Filipinos, debate if there is value or things used by capitalist products like Les MG that reaches the vast number of people in order to make them clean the repeated change.
There are also particularly those who are progressive in the actual content of the said check as an example of this, others say that it is not enough to send the whole story, which is sure that some of the people in singing were not familiar to the common Filipinos.
It is also not happy that other progressive people are progressive and uncharming, and not the citizens who are talking about what they are talking about, and what is the reason why they were able to give them a clear enemy, and what is the reason why they were able to make the reasons why they are talking about it.
Planning to fight the scene in the movie "Larang Tantangan."
3 - they have a point, of course, this is not far away from the criticism of Lay MG that should be annoyed and angry at Larang Taba "and to EpiPen."
4 - in spite of the novels of the suffering and love of France, why is it that he is not the one who wrote the psychic, Karl Marx and Langaban, but he is not the only one who wrote about the revolution and endorsement of France, from French Revolution to Paris, but why are they not writing the novels of Marx-Tropas.
It is clear that Scholastica, and Bambil, or even if they have the sympathy of the two in Vietnam, it seems that the character of the two in Vietnam are very conservative, even if the bosses who have fought back then are very conservative, in their fight against the Spanish American soldiers.
But in Les Ms, in the novels of Hugo and the mausoleum, it is clear that the sympathies of the majority of the government is clear, and it is not yet known as the majority of the majority whom the majority wants to restore the rotten society the revolution.
It has also once said that the mausoleum of the victim, Cameres and Macabog, had told the novels of Humalig) and the story of taking care of the country, and the stories of taking care of the country, and the stories of taking advantage of many society, and can be able to see their own history in the story of Valmocena.
Fathers (Anne Hathers) and Jean Valmocena was (Hambh Wahab), in the movie "Lay Gold Rhum."
5 - it is expected that Hugo, Catholic, and the attitude he has shown to the Libigan ng Masang Pilipino at the sky is not seen to be considered wrong with the armed forces of the Black Nazarene, the flag of the nearest church in Humalig), the flag of the Kapisanan ng Masang Pilipino Star, "and the pro-Tropas.
6.
The Libigan ng Pelikulang Pilipino can be solved but any defamation of art is possible to be used for the first intention of those who have violated it until it is effective, according to those who want to achieve progressive, nothing should stop them to use it.
7.
And at the end of the movie, even the stranglers came out, Hugo, "said that they do not know how it turns out that Marx and Lovels came out after the revolution.
