
Help, worry and condemn.

By Danilo Arana, Arao November 16, 2013.

I am in Manila but my mind is in Manila, like many Filipinos, I do not have a normal work even if I admit that I have no interest in going to work.

Let us look at the official data from the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) about the effect of typhoon Yolanda.

It is possible that the number of those who died will be higher if the data of the United Nations Office of the CoCs) Chief Superintendent Elmer Wia, last November 9, was reported by President Noynoy Aquino in CNN that the number of casualties has been reported to 2,000 up to 2,500 only.

Thank you to the blessed report of the took place, the Philippines and the whole world saw the image of the tragedy, especially the face behind the who, who is known to be an ally.

There are news of heroism in the middle of the tragedy, there are news that bring different emotion - it is disheartening, he can cry.

I will not enumerate the news that got affected with me and I tried to be calm, just like a lot of people, I am going through the grief of some loved ones in Tacloban, until now I still don't know what happened to other friends and acquaintances.

In every face of food in the past few days, it is heavy for us to think that many of our countrymen are hungry and even just a simple image of our countrymen who are trying to sleep anywhere because even the evacuation centers are included in those affected.

I want to think that it is natural for many people to help in times of need, but also in different parts of the Philippines, but also in different parts of the Philippines, but also in different parts of the world, but also in different parts of the community, particularly in general, in general, no one is left behind!

Many are really ready to help because our past are fresh in our memory, especially if we also get through what many of our countrymen are experiencing now in some parts of Luzon and Visayas.

The tragedy happened at the middle of the tragedy, we hope that we should remember that there is a direct responsibility for the government agencies to address the needs of all those affected, but it is clear that this is not enough for the government's statements, but it is clear that their administration has no shortcomings in the tragedy that happened.

If I will be asked, all of us have a big responsibility for the tragedy that happened, but it is not enough to help those in need but we also need to help those in need to show themselves to show our numerous mishaps.

There is a reason to feel pity and sadness but there is a deeper reason to get angry and to correct the tears of our eyes, it is time to go out of our house to cooperate with the events that will happen.
