
The Pambansang Kamao will be held accountable for the sake of human rights to the people of Nueva Ecija and Aurora.

You, Rowena,.
Domingo Erfe Command, it is BHB).
23 November 2012.
A soldier was ambushed by the Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB) under Domingo Erjas Command to the convoy of soldiers of the 48th Infantry Battalion, Philippine Army yesterday at the boundary of Barangay Villa, Maria Aurora, Aurora and Barangay lips, Bongolan, Nueva Ecija.

They were ordered by the three command to capture him by the first military truck who were riding more or less than 20 soldiers around 8: 15 in the morning.
The police were welcomed by the police riding on a single motorcycle with one of a single motorcycle which immediately killed the 8-year-old motorcycle for almost 20 minutes from the fight in Sitio tomatoes, Villa Aurora because they were still blocked by the soldiers who were riding a civilian truck.
Aside from the mentioned number of those who died, many of them were left wounded in the conflict that happened in a conflict between the soldiers and two civilians riding on their way to the scene.
Almost two weeks have passed but, Colonel Victor Castro, chief Commander of 75.2nd Infantry Brigade of the Philippine Army, is not surprising and they want to maintain a solution to the entry of foreign businessmen in relation to the entry of foreign tourists in order to increase their ranks, natural resources and strength of the citizens of Aurora.
The gigantic size of the offensive was part of the continuous military campaign of the BHB) in the nearby provinces to pay and defend their type of interest of their employers in the increasing abuse of abuse and abuse.
Still fresh in the heart and mind of the people is the massacre at Barangay Bakil, Bongolan, Nueva Ecija to Erwin "Ka OPLAN, and Ka Rey" Mamondiong, and other kinds of violation of human rights in Aurora and Nueva Ecija; and there are still several kinds of violation of human rights in Aurora and Nueva Ecija; and there are still several kinds of violation of human rights in Aurora and Nueva Ecija.
In relation to this, Domingo Erjas surrendered the first use of 48 percent of civilians, drivers, and taking advantage of the innocent passengers going to combat between the Philippines and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) that is signed between the government of the Philippines and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP).
We sympathize with the civilians who were trapped in the fight that brought them to harm that brought them to harm for their safety, however, their province is ready for giving help to the said victims.
We are also calling out to all the people to protest against the military responsible for them to use and fail in the middle of their fear that we will leave the ability to defend and fight the real plague of the citizens!
