Two friends should be removed from the children here in the Philippines coming out that you will comeback here with different sectors.
The four.
An estimation of Two Americans were not able to go down from the military rebels after a three-year-old lady, but he was able to change the Filipinos who are undergoing five-six months but it's just about two months that I don't want to see each other for more than two months but it's not just for two months that Christmas shouldn't leave, just to support his blessings called by us.
Blocked it.
Just the four years of working in the house here is watching over her life for four years now, but I still want to feel a sense of feeling with her former live-in-law; we still want to end one five-four-one that we need to be.
Fur.
He / she was wearing a lot.
I have a big contribution; he / she is very beautiful; so that it would be good for me.
Their problem has bruises on the price hike.
What of the Subic Metropolitan C-B-M), you already called that you are the people who are planning to live by those from where they live with no American, and he is imprisoned by our pictures inside the former military evening at around four o'clock.
He is around seven o'clock.
Full of suffering!
!
Meanwhile, it cannot be denied that until now, there is still a big part of the Americans in this scene where the owner of a lot of people here is still a big part, just like the owner of many people here in the Philippines, so that the one he stayed in the Philippines together with his child with her child in a Philippines.
Four.
Four.
He was eight years old.
Four o'clock.
Two.
Now that we look at the visit of the troops, maybe we are over and I want us to have gone to America for the abusive workers who do not have a critical condition.
If they go back to a big part of his life, some of our government will benefit from the good relationship of the Philippines, but that is nothing until now.
And there is nothing else that we heard from the things that I have received, the door was said to have been open to send to between former friends with two friends with two friends with four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four sons.
In the end, to the owner of our leaders, there is an agreement that nothing is gone and I do not have Paulo or the fare will agree.
Military operations.
I asked that we are not going to sleep with Two people.
