
It was very clear.

Now that the victims of typhoon Yolanda has proven that the current administration of President Benigno Simeon Aquino III did not have the ability to give assistance to the affected citizens, it is just all the press of the leadership of this administration.
It is almost seven days after the storm will implement the Middle Visayas even before the people started to feel the slightly movement of the current Aquino administration.
As of now, there are still many especially those in secluded places who have not received help from this government despite the influx of assistance from different countries.
What the administration of the administration is doing is just an excuse to explain their failure, including the failure of the local government to immediately act on their jurisdiction.
This administration is also blaming the storm because this is the reason why the government has gone to ashes that is why all of them have faults except for the Aquino administration.
But the people knows the truth that we witnessed the lack of sympathy of B. S. Aquino III for those who were affected by the typhoon when he visited in Tacloban.
A proof of hunger and thirst for people, lack of awareness, scattered corpses, lack of doctors in places which are passed by Yolanda for the lack of use of this administration, what is why B. S. Aquino III says to be under control?
We saw that our president has not mentioned anything and most of those in the custody of the country or opposition do not have the ability to respond to the problems of the country but we have no ability to respond to the problems of the country but we can't rely on this kind of management but more poverty and press of it.
Only our own efforts will only lead us in this crisis so we should not support the "pul-politicians who will run in the election 2016.
It is still clear on the rays of the day of B. S. Aquino III and its owners.
For the additional information about the issues of the weather, it is a habit to listen to the casually act of caskets at 9: 00 kilometers per hour (9) up to ten o'clock in the evening.
