Election is on the right time and wrong.

If examined by the candidates running under the Team PNoy, they are taking the "hundreds of righteous path," for the candidates of United Nationalist Alliance (UNA), what they are able to support is the "good path."
Is there a difference on the right way and good thing, if we are to think that the Team PNoy and UNA are going to think that, even if they are ready to criticized President Noynoy Aquino, even if they are ready to criticize anyone's interest in this way, they explain their being "radeship."
If it can be remembered, the agreement was first used "in the right way" in 2010 when he became a candidate under the Liberal Party (LP), if Noynoy had a clean path that made it to the President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
It can be said that the opposite of the two reasons, who was elected President Aquino, second, is elected as President, one thing which is being taken advantage today by the campaign of Team PNoy, is an attempt of the candidate who rode the popularity of the current president.
It cannot be denied that the high rating of Aquino is currently being denied, although it was noticeable in the continuous decrease while it was long in service, the current popularity of Aquino will explain why he was careful with the leaders and candidates of UNA, who are directly criticized by Aquino.
But how will the high rating of Aquino pass through, let us remember that what he is followed is Arroyo, one President, after the survey of the Social Weather Stations (SWS), that if the survey results of the Social Weather Stations (SWS), it is not surprising that the survey of the Social Weather Stations (SWS), it is not surprising that this situation comes from Macapagal-Arroyo, which is not surprising that the revelation of the Social Weather Stations (SWS), it is not surprising that this situation comes from Macapagal-Arroyo.
It is clear that the administration of Cory Aquino and Noynoy Aquino: If his mother became president after the administration of a dictator, Noynoy Aquino is currently working after he followed, those in power are using the sins of the previous administration.
If "
And what is the truth behind the worst? Like the popularity of President Aquino, the demolition of human rights like the kidnapping and murder, the demolition of human rights similar to the kidnapping and murder, the demolition of human rights such as cybercrime law, and many others.
It is not enough for the officials of the government to give them enough time to fulfill their promises when they start serving in 2010 and if there is a change, they should feel that this is already being felt in the present.
The increase in price of petroleum products, for example, will be able to solve the suspension of the Value-Added Tax which can be met with the current administration's current administration who has an attempt to listen to the arguments, and study the possibility of implementation it?
If there is something to happen in the coming election, this is the fact that the popularity of the current president will be examined and the examination of the righteous path. "
There are many who should ask for the candidates of Team PNoy and UNA: Straight and the road is beautiful but where is it going to?
