3-year anniversary of the massacre at the Ampatuan: No liability or stalling, still everywhere.

Protest was the way to commemorate the relatives, took a nap and different sectors on the third anniversary of the tragic massacre in Ampatuan, Maguindanao last November 23, 2009.
They were pointing out from Welcome Rotonda in Quezon City going to Mendiola, Manila, the organization was paraded around 153: 00 at the 19th of the coffin - a symbol of justice for the murdered journalists from 1986 and up to the present.
In the massacre in Maguindanao, included in the 58-year-old victim was killed by the murder of the clan of the Ampatuan family.
In their statement, the group gave birth to President Benigno Aquino III for the seemingly lack of interest to resolve the case of the massacre, as well as the continuation of responsibility for journalists and other sectors of the society.
"President Aquino promised the five important reforms to speed up what we can achieve justice," the group said that Malou is reading the justice for the victims of an alleged killing and attack of the men who took a nap.
Aquino's promise in 2010 is the improvement of the witness protection program; to form the case of murder of journalists; will be quick to investigate the case of murder of journalists; will be quick to investigate the trial on the cases and effects of the Rules of court to prevent the abuse and abuse of the cases.
But according to the group, despite of the promise to protect the press of press, Aquino shows the movement and movement of the proposals to suppress the rights in speech.
The group gave an example not to take a check-up!
That is why the relatives of the victims are losing trust, according to the message they read in the program.
"We are saddened, because the progress of the case is very slow," said Editha Tiamzon, wife of one of the victims who are all in the Ampatuan family, only two of those who are in the Ampatuan family, are only two of those who are not arrested.
"When we talked to Undersecretary Francisco Baranga of the Department of Justice, he said that the accused would expect that the accused are talkative before three years and now it's too sad," Tiamzon in Filipino Weeker.
The relatives are also disappointed with the decision of the Supreme Court to prohibit the live despite of a few areas for live in the hearing.
"What's difficult now is that, we are from Davao.
Aside from the slow movement of the case, some of the witnesses were killed and were suspected to have been related to the massacre against their relatives, what was happening to the massacre, the group of relatives and supporters of the victims of human rights violations.
Different sectors also launched protests in different places in the country, even inside the Pacific Ocean, to commemorate the massacre and insist on justice for the victims and the people.
