
Impeachment.

During the New Year, there is a threat to the leadership of Benigno Simeon Aquino III (Bira 3) that it is not impossible, this will happen to the impeachment against him, for sure, waiting.
But the individuals or groups should be on alert because of the legal removal of Baba 3, if you need to get up with Atty. Oliver Lozano in fact, I will have no bad bread with Atty. Lozano. In fact, I might be forced to get to him the moment he will file a impeachment against Noynoy!
If it is not "epal" "" "" epal "" maybe it is true that he has an accomplice in Malacañang to protect PNoy and the real case that will file a impeachment against the president who is said to be negligent, eroding and has no ability to lead and be safe from our countrymen who have a problem.
It is possible that in the arrival of the year, a lot of groups will surely file a case against Noynoy, as they say, it is an impeachment challenge for him, the year 2014 because of his own mistakes and shortcomings, and those kinds of finances of the country - the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF (DAP).
Being negligent of past typhoons, calamities and trouble such in Luneta and China.
Despite of his shortcomings in all aspects, he blames the past administrations, especially to his teacher, former President and Pampanga Congresswoman Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo (PCGMA).
He was also caught on the issue of pork barrel, although he has denied it back at first, his person, Budget Chief Butch Abad said, that the Supreme Court said, illegal PDAF, and even his studies are illegal.
This is the last, his negligence is even tainted by intrigues in the appointed typhoon "Yolanda or Yolanda, instead of helping immediately, it seems that the local officials of the provinces and towns in East Visayas which are destroyed by Yolanda are still charged.
It is just a few of those who gather and detailed events against PNoy, it's true, there will be something coming in 2014 - IMPEACH, whom we sympathize with PNoy!
Oliver, do not do a job!
