It is a temporary step to guard the case in college.

By P2,500.
February 10, 2012.

(Right band Representative Raymond Palalino, from consultation to the legislative chamber about the regulations on tuition and other bills in university.
It is needed to end the time of not able to stop and have no consultation to high tuition or bills from the university.
This is the posture of the leaders of students, in the series of consultation to high tuition in restaurants this February which complained the Supreme Court on Higher Education, this is the very first consultative dialogue in the Legislative Chamber for the regulations of tuition and other bills.
"In the span of ten years, the tuition and other bills were increased by no strict regulations when it is time to stop this type of quality of education for the youth," said inauguration Representative Raymond Palino.
Palatino explained that the national low tuition and other bills in the past decades could have been very expensive worth of bills from school is an important aspects of the increase of drop of increase and lack of ability of the High School which can reach college.
Meanwhile, the Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education were able to make a new guidelines in consultation to all the bills in the university who are not included in the current Constitutional Commission or Order Number 13 (Cutud, 13).
On CMO 13, it is not included with the bills that can be broken into consultation, which is why the university is becoming creative, and most of its price, according to Isabelle Baguiran, general secretary of National Union of Students, the Philippine Army of Students, the Philippine Army of Students.
"Almost half or 40 percent of the bills of the students are from the form of human cellular phones," Baguiran, said that they are not raising the tuition in other university but they get back at the questionable NG Os.
However, according to Vencer Crisostomo of Ondoy, it was sad that the said new chapter in 2013 will be implemented and not this year, while the Commission on Elections) has been implemented, every year, the Commission on Human Rights is not doing every year to stop these increase.
"If that will not be implemented this year, we will be facing a lot of drop," Crisostomo insisted.
He announced that the lawyer needs to have a huge tuition fee and increase in tuition in order to stop the anomalous bills while the issue is severe because the issue and problem is already severe.
"Even if in the filing of complaints, every year we are waiting, even if we look at the media, and this should not be acted upon once again, all of these are legitimate and not only practical questions.
Included in the said new chapter on Higher Education are the father of different bills from consultation and together with the contribution of the application of the schools that will not be next for those who will be increased and to the new bills.
He can also file charges for administrative and Criminal charges against corrupt places and those responsible officials.
Leaders of students in different university, together with the authors of the House Committee on Higher Education and some officials of the Commission on Higher Education (PPET).
Wrong?
Even if there is a positive response to having a new opportunity, the consultation to different places in the increase of tuition and other bills was still tainted with a problem.
The World Party-list explained that it is often connected to information and not consultation to the increase in tuition and additional bills that is why they are not allowed to increase, it seems that the request for additional increase and not clear to set aside from consultation.
"There will still be a boils in consultation even if these are included in consultation because of the lack of transparency," Crisostomo explained.
According to the Kapisanan ng Sandali, president of the University Bureau of the Middle East, many students are worried when there is a consultation because of the skill in technicality and authorities in the university which should be certain if there is a certain policy for the consultation of the Partido Demokratiko ng Masang Pilipino who should be sure in the participation of the students.
By Loreno Tiqui, president of the Central Bank of the University of Santo Tomas (UST), the impending increase in tuition in the next year in UST which aims to implement 19 percent increase in tuition and other bills for the students who are on the second until fourth year.
John Mark Villanueva said that the University council Council of Lyceum University of the Philippines also said that how the university is using a university to prevent himself in any form of appropriate tuition and other bills.
However, according to Julaton olo of Commission on Higher Education, the jurisdiction of all the academic, those who will be invited to set aside even if it is in Pahiram ng Pilipinas.
According to the students, there are pieces of consultation that does not have a financial status or are not able to get any financial support and not just being shown by the administration's data about the consequence of income from the price hike.
"We have the ability and capacity to study the financial status, which is why we are inside our university," according to Baguiran, when it is said that the students are not ready or have no ability to study them.
The fight will continue.
According to Palhino, they still need to take the said guidelines and give it to the most schools possible for the benefits of the students and parents who also gave emphasis to the importance of immediate implementation for the year 2012.
"This is not just the fight of the students, the interest of the students and teachers who are also parents in this issue or every time we welcome the bills," according to Baguilat.
He also said that the increase in different expenses is ongoing while the salary of the workers and the legislative chamber will continue to scrutinize and put off the wage increase in order and find out if the salary of the teachers, or if there is progress in facilities or service, will continue.
"How can you go away (their university), while every year, and no one has been paying the" $1,000 pesos, "this university is not yet included here, they are not included in it.
According to Palerino, the plea to attract three-year-old lawyer is set to give time to consultation and give immediate comfort to the economists of the students.
It is more than expected to set aside the Commission on Audit, the Saligang Batas-list is being pushed by the Saligang Batas-list as the leader of the House Bill 37 08 or a "-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-law enforcers. "
