The program K + 12 is additional burden.

By hectares, Quijano, and P2,500.
June 6, 2012.

The 6-year-old grandchild of Fe Ramirez, resident of Batasan Hills in Quezon City.
But according to Mother Fe, even in the past year, which is known to have been on "tanim-bala" which is known to have been under the K + 12, and up to now, we have no explanation to them what is the K + 12, "we heard in the news of course, we are rushing because there is an additional two years since we have additional two years.
But the meaning of K + 12: Additional expenses is simple and because there is no appropriate support for the government, they are doubting the quality of education for the additional two years in school.
"If they want to increase the quality education, why do they not add to the drawings made up and teachers, I think, the government is just avoiding him in responsibility to education, and will just leave up to our mothers," according to Mother Fe.
According to Corazon C. Aquino Elementary School, even if the enrollment is not yet finished, there are almost trees in the first day of school, according to Paulino Medrano Jr., principal of school, up to 60 to 80 students in a class.

"That is the number of our problem: Lack of establishments and teachers, that is why I do not know how to implement the K + 12 if there is no additional budget," he said, in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
According to Medrano, last week, teachers from the Department of Education are used to the new generation of K + 12, but he did not know the content of the principal of the principal, "because it was not planned about its implementation."
As narrated by a teacher in grade 1 who refused to identify themselves, there are still many lacking in training of DepEd, aside from the end it was done, "a example, we still don't know how," he said.
More than 500 were able to enroll for grade 1 in the said school, more than 400 during the past years of Medrano, this will increase in the next few days because there are a lot of roads going on.
Nanay Fe said, the chairs were not enough, which is why according to him he is forced to sit on the cement with just one ear because when they left their chair, he returned there was someone who was seated here, he said.
It seems like this is the condition of many schools in elementary and open school in the country: A lack of facilities in public schools, they have not yet sold the additional year in the studies of the children.
There will be a solution in the crisis of education.
According to the group of youth and teachers, it seems that the K + 12 of the Aquino administration can still worry every year of education.
"It does not mean that this new boss does not mean that this should not be focused on the academic, one Factor, who should be given to the academic," is only one Factor who needs to help in the academic issues, "he is surrounded by constitution Representative Raymond Palhino, in a press conference in the legislative chamber.
Adona, Representative Antonio Tinio stressed that after the two years of the Aquino administration, there is no lack of things in education for public schools on 2012, there is a lack of 6,9483 teacher in public schools, there is also a lack of 6,9483 teachers and 15.8 pesos, according to Tinio.

Palhino and Tinio said that President Aquino does not want to allocate enough budget for the K + 12 in the 2012 national budget.
According to Palerino, in the previous committee hearing in the legislative chamber for the program K + 12, the Department of Education said that it needs more than 100 billion pesos for the implementation of the government department to fund the said additional budget that is needed.
"We still have no assurance that they will be implemented properly, according to Tinio.
The Aquino administration provided two 38.8-B for DepEd in the year 2012, if the recommendation of the United Nations is enough, if the government of the United Nations should have a basis that the government of the 6 percent of Great domestic helpers, according to Palhino.
"We do not understand why it became the administration of the administration, while not for support," he added.
Paladino also said that there should be a need to address the main problem so that the K + 12 will be successful, like the lack of teachers, the keys and facilities, which are key to the conductors.
It became a hot topic of training for the teachers for the implementation of K + 12, according to an implementation of the K + 12, according to the reports of their members who are not yet ready for the whole year, of course, even the explore have not yet been ready.
A protector, who is the ones who will be able to instruct so that they will be given 2,000 pesos to 6,000 pesos every month, this is the most low salary of an employee in the government, Tinio's explanation.
"There are three who are fed up in dergarten because of the lack of cellular phones, it is also expected that the decrease of the standard for the teachers, (it is also expected that they are receiving the Volunteers Organization to teach," Tinio.

Also complained by the teachers and parents of the students are the problem of the implementation of "Hambdy Program" which is a pusher of lack of lack of lack of establishments and teachers.
In this program, classes of students are only on Saturday and becomes a priority, "an elderly and a particular attention of need.
Price increase.
The militant youth are also worried about the increase in number of deaths because of K + 12, only now, according to Pagasa, half of the population of the filipino youth with an age of 11-15-old is out of 80 percent that will be taken out of the youth, according to Pagasa.
"He added that the increase in tuition and lack of feeling is being experienced by the parents and students," Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
According to Crisostomo, the tuition in private schools has increased because of the failure of the government that they will be treated.
"What kind of education is, how can we be able to go to school, while many cannot stay in school because there is still a basis for the problems?" Added Palapal ino.
In a study of ACT, it is found out that a student of damp to be exported in a year is needed to undergo 80,000.
"The stupid policy in the education of Aquino is causing more problems to the sectors of education in the right way, education went straight to the ravine," Crisostomo stated.
Action against K + 12.
In different schools, the militant groups sympathize for the first day of school and first implementation of K + 12.
The group of women from Gabriela who built "Bantay K + 12, to receive complaints from the mothers who are affected by this program.
"The problem is, DepEd is rushed to the implementation of K + 12, even at the point that our children will conduct an experiment," said Joms Salvador, second general secretary of Gabriela.
The group announced that the Aquino administration is persistent to go after the arrest of the Aquino administration to increase his ratings and will be able to save the foreign banks and institutions for the country.
Salvador added, "it is said that it will be said that no work will end up in six-years of high school, but what has no assurance, that if the jobs are not increasing, they will be the one to win?"
"Nanay Fe," in our opinion, we think that our children will not get tired even if in a high school.
Gabriela who should stop the K + 12 ") should stop it,) while the K + 12 has no damage to the children."
"The additional expenses for additional two years will not be a joke," Salvador said that it is just right for the government to raise the budget for education, "this is just right for the children to work on K + 12," the end of Salvador.
