That is where I am known to be together with the former here that is why it is now a prosperous way.
They usually live this morning, but we are just not here in Navotas to show to you the beauty of their father, that is why we know that it is one of the biggest fish paste which is one of these, and this is one of their relationship with one of six people.
Rosario paid that, but there is a protest that is not ugly with the protest, I don't know that if we are blind to the barangay, there are many problems that we have to fight back to the barangay to call him, "we know that this is the same thing before it is like that.
After the brown sugar, that is only one in Barangay Navotas Philip Manayes; they are proud of the religions, most of how many men say that the Americans might have a man to school, my sister, Joan, i'll stay here in Barangay Navotas.
Philip's flawless; we are proud that they are proud that they are proud that the bottle is very sweet; I am thinking that we have talked to a bottle while we have talked to that in the barangay, who are the payment of such a short-page; that's why it's not in the barangay.
Hala.
The one is five pesos.
Pesos is good here in the barangay noon, Tantos; later at the same age, whose legs are pitiful.
But they can do something that's why he / she can do things.
Is it right that we still have their own styles, which can be seen in Barangay San Roque, and here in Barangay San Roque, this is where our good life will be found.
We have a bottle that takes care of us; always pay attention to you.
Okay, after this in the barangay, do we have a kind of job as a kind of job; we can see that we can see each other; we can see each other.
It's good that this is this.
It's good that much.
What kind of person is five pesos.
Maybe later we will see each other, we are going to see each other; I am busy with this because I am just a lot of people here in the barangay Felipa.
We are very pitiful; we were able to look like that, what we are doing is what we are doing.
Then, it's over.
Week after this.
Amazing.
They also thank you so much.
