
Too much.

It is clear now that President Benigno Simeon Aquino III is not in favor in spite of his flattery during the time of the Presidential election 2010, that he will push for the suspension of the Bangsamoro Basic Law if he will be buried in power.
It is clear now that the administration does not want to know the transactions allowed by the officials of the government that is why it is the reason why two pro-PIO members of the Legislative Chamber wants to sabotage the hearing of the FOI this past Tuesday?
According to the information I received, he was stopped by no reasonable reason of Eastern Samar Rep. Ben Evardone in the election to pass the FOI.
Evardone, a former caretaker of the news, is near the adversary of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo during the time of his regime, but now he is an honest soldier "in the legislative chamber of the administration of President B. S. Aquino.
Despite being a four-year-old, it was certain that the implementation of the FOI is intentional, he intentionally pushed the voting in spite of the request of those from supporting the proposed law.
This event is shameful and is a sign that even if it is said to be the return of Martial Law, there are some of the government who do not believe in the goodness of a free society.
One of those who is alleged to sabotage the FOI is Nueva Ecija Representative Rodolfo Culino, he said that he already wants to add the right to answer (Commission of responded) in the FOI even if it is not related to the controversial proposal.
The FOI is getting stronger because through this, the people will give the documents and information that are related to the governance of the society, which is estimated to be reduced because of the FOI, corruption in the government will reduce the corruption in the government which is the meaning of President B. S. Aquino.
But since he was caught, the President was very cold in pushing the FOI, according to some of our acquaintances who are close to him, he fell to push the FOI because even now, the media's strength is too much. "
The President is allegedly worried that the media will get stronger if there is a FOI.
It is sad because the victory of President B. S. Aquino can be said as a result of the free journalism, it can be remembered that despite the domination of the Marcos dictatorship from the '80s, and 80 percent of the past century, the true events here in our world are on the whole world.
Because of the free reports that exploded in the world and in our country, the spirit of the filipino masses was woke up that he was made a grin in the EDSA People's Power Revolution.
