
Lawmakers: The Aquino government, can't do something to stop OPLAN?

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
March 14, 2012.

Town Muna Rep. Teddy Casino, the solution to the increase in the price of oil, in the New People's story of lightning and Forum on Oil its price hike (MG Narciso) volunteered.
The lawmakers believe that the Aquino government can do something to stop the successive price increase of oil.
In the People's story of lightning and Forum on Elections (OPLAN) that was held at the House of Representatives earlier, supported by some lawmakers about the suspension of the Value-Added Tax (E-budol) in the petroleum products, one step that could not be done by President Aquino.
As well, the lawmaker is urging the Committee on energy to make the hearing on the proposed bill when he reviewed for Oil Derna Law (ODL).
Removing the patient.
"Many, Are-worth of oil price," according to Minority Leader Quezon Rep. Danilo Suarez, one of those who can be done by Malacanang is the immediate suspension of the price of petroleum products to reach a level of petroleum products.
The price of gasoline has reached 60 pesos per liter, its price during the worsening crisis in oil last 2008, from January, the price of petroleum products has increased.
In-ups, Bayan Muna Rep. Teddy Casino expressed that up to P26 million worth of tax will be expected to be reached for P26 million pesos, which is expected to be taken by the government from the higher price of Dubai or this year, if the government should release it, it is obvious that this is the excessive poverty of the Filipinos, "he said.
It is estimated that the price of diesel and P7 per liter in the price of gasoline should be reduced by 6 per liter.
Batangas Representative Herdando is also emphasized that a "Ipit Gang" will be treated as a "tanim-bala" which led to the majority of the people who are poor.
The lawmaker also said that there is something wrong with the derailing of the oil industry, because it is contrary to the concept, "the government should take care of his citizens."
Meanwhile, Zambales Representative Mitos Magsaysay said that "
Quezon City Representative Winnie Castelo also agreed that this caused the ODL.
Different solutions.
Consequently, Casiño was made to sell the proposals for a long-term solution for the increase in price of oil, which is included in the proposed law of Discipline Office (WBC) Act, only one of 14 similar proposed law that does not progress in Congress.
The construction of the Petroleum Regulatory Council is in the proposal to control the price of oil, and having a broken fund for the privatization of the price.
The sudden abuse of the government of oil is also different for the needs of the country, through the National Football Corporation, through the proposal of buying the government in Petron to be influenced by the price of oil, and the local governments of oil.
According to Magsaysay, if there is an amount of tax from the rich, it is time to use it for the vote of the government of their own reserved oil. "Womb of the government of oil container," he said.
In the said disease, Ibon Foundation also ordered their studies to show up to 20 percent, the movement of oil price in the local market compared to the international market, estimated to reach 20 pesos per liter of diesel and P15.68 pesos per liter of gasoline.
But Sonny Africa, head head of Ibon, which is possible to have a higher position because the local company of oil is not open to their book, even in government agencies like the National Development Authority.
The people's reaction.
The Alliance of the concerned truck owners are encouraged to participate in the widespread protests if the increase in price of oil will continue tomorrow, March 15, and a safe town of various sectors.
"The issue of OPLAN should not only increase in fare, but the price of all the businesses that take advantage of the citizens," according to Ricky Papa, chairman of ACXL.
According to him, Lana, general secretary of Gabriela, he stated that it is not using LPG which is not used by LPG because of the high price of commodities which is also caused by the increase of oil price, "he said.
Together with its low pressure, the implementation of the Congress is going to be a contest in front of the Congress to lead the protest tomorrow, including the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan.
