TIDs Maroons, are out of Red Cross, 62 years old.

Of Ka Christian Marty.
UP Fathy Maroons gave their courage and bark but it is not enough to identify the University of the East (Roque) Red Warriors, 62 years old in the encounter for the University Athola, 62 years of July at the Smart Araneta Coliseum.
Two tablespoons of Maroons was able to decision on the last minute of the game, wherein 8-wheeler truck crashed into the score of a 57-58; while at a disadvantage with a 57-58 percent left outside the line of the court Jason Ligation, ten seconds after the score of 57-60 in favor of the Warriors.
The 6 "8-8" Red Marinas Charles Mamie Kallahal who was on top of his post so they will save 6 points and carry the Warriors, 17-10, in the first period.
The Warriors guard will have started with Lord Casaje, who will immediately take four points for the start of the second fourth period to fulfill their biggest lead, 21-10 and lead in the end of the fourth period, 29-20.
The members of the town got up from being buried despite a score of 35-24 due to the score of-up, Warriors, John Raniel.
The Maroons guard will last with two three three three three three three o'clock in the three of Maroons. Samuel Maroons.
It appears that the fight between the two team on the fourth period where the score of 49-49 died from three o'clock in the 12-49 due to three o'clock in Ginger Consignation.
Maroons is still preparing and the fight, 62 years old, had been stopped when four of his six-bust operation, Warriors guard Roi Sumang in the last minute of the game.
"We, it is already working hard for We that's why he / she has been proud of my team. We Taw," according to Maroons Center, Andre Paras, according to Maroons coach Ricky Dukhovnaia, they made a few study in their game and he saw this by his team.
Maroons Medical Center is Soque which is estimated 10 points and 11 rebounds for his third speed of double-double-free 10 points for Maroons.
The wins of UP ended up to 0-7 while the capture of Roque, 4-3, had their third consecutive wins for the first round of season.
