Why did I join even if I will be joined.

Shama E.
A close friend said, that is why the people will last for a long time because there are those who are lacking in their lives which can be met by the newspaper.
I have been able to go there for a long time because I have a love relationship with even if I will be able to go back), the chances that I stay here are coming, which is the reason why my stay here is coming.
One reason, of course, I have a close friend, even if I will be joined even if it is still early, you will die early to find other friends.
But I do not regret this, because you will not just be able to support one of your co-law, but you understand that it is not personal to help the newspaper so that you can see that it is not personal.
My colleagues have agreed to even if we are to be with their own culture and they have been used to it by some words, I don't understand each other, but I am being used to it when there is a SONA "and who is the president of UP."
That is another reason - when you are from a disadvantage, there are new people around you, there are new people around you, but in truth, it can't be considered negative, even if it will be more negative, for me, the words to be better.
It is true that the awareness of those who will be buried are increasing while they stay in writing to the newspaper or taking advantage of the picture on the newspaper.
If before you will be defeated, it is possible that you will not weaken or be afraid of the editions of your chief; it is possible that you are not enough for the standard of newspaper, but there are also times when you will be deceived by the members - sometimes you're to be with integrity, "of your companions.
Later on, it will be natural for choosing the planned words and improvement of details in articles and you cannot be avoided that every time you hear this for a higher level, you analyze it for a higher level, and with the course you are used to.
It is really right that even if you will be famous, even if you are eating the time, it is becoming a cause of relationship with the family, as well as if I do not think of what would be my life in college if I do not join them.
