
Rude and proud of the LRT.

Let's see if it is Secretary Joseph Emilio Abaya of the Department of Transportation and communication regarding a boastfulness, being rude and rude drivers of the Light Rail Transit) in Baclaran station, who was identified as Richard Labor.
It is just right that we directly went straight to our colleague Mary Sapico and Vice President of Camanava, in the office of Camanava, in the office of Secretary Abaya, because he is sure that there is no favorable action from LRTA management.
Now, if they will say that your servant is wrong, "they should show that they are also conducting a separate investigation when they know what kind of person he uses and cursing to Miss Sapico in front of many passengers.
On his complaint against the DOTC, who was accepted by Pro-Secretary for Legal Affairs Gerard Chan, it is also diligent in taking up Miss Sapico last September 8, at around 11: 30 in the morning to buy a ticket to Monumento.
Because the payment for Miss Sapico did not hesitate to fall down from the ticket, Labor and made a noise about it from the rude teller, he got hit.
That's why I did not hesitate to borrow the ticket to Miss Sapico and gave birth to Miss Sapico and was not given color, because he said he was in a hurry and he doesn't want to be busy with other passengers.
When he was about to have to pass the ticket, Ms. Sapico suddenly came out when Labor Law suddenly came out, called the box guard and handed it to him.
In the thought that he is not the one to talk with and questioned, he ignored it until you approached him up until you approached him, right? "You said," what you want, "what you want," your mother! "
Just as a day of Sunday when the disgusting truth has happened, Ms. Sapico made up the case to file a case against him because according to him he did not neglect him because he will surely do it and it will surely be done and he will do it to other people.
Just like what is expected, it appears that those with the LRT administration have no idea about the LRT administration especially in Baclaran station such as Miss Myrna del Rosario, who seems to have no information about the rude drivers!
It is straight and it is a good official Secretary Abaya, it is certain that he will not take the obscenity of the Labor Law.
Even if the shortcomings is already in a passenger, the personnel of the government should be firm and calm, including the Labor laws, they are not like animals!
What if it's just what he did for an ordinary citizen, how can we go to Miss Maligaya, all the support of Camanava for the National Press Club and the National Press Club.
