COMELEC spokesperson who is one of the pro-media.

COMELEC Spokesperson Attorney James Jimenez is grateful for the issues involved in the agency particularly those who were disqualified by the agency, particularly those who were disqualified by the agency, particularly those who were disqualified by the agency particularly in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports Center in Quezon City Sports
With the number of issues being thrown by Pro-media modernization director Senior Insp. Jovie Espenido and the questions of the armed witnesses here with Atty. Jimenez, I have not heard any concrete answer especially the issue of the Pambansang Kamao and the partylist.
It cannot be accepted by the doctors to tell her answer, Atty. Jimenez, on the question why up to now they still do not have any ID's ID when they are still in 2004.
That because they are out of time, there are many people who take advantage of whatever is no matter of useless answer.
Why is the DFA, LTO, SSS, thousands also get passports, license and SSS number but only a few days have been given to him.
Why is the Comelec that VangID was delayed when he is a national ID.
The COMELEC spokesperson also cannot answer the question regarding the alleged's millions that the agency is asking for the candidates or party ist who are like us.
The spokesperson of the COMELEC continues to leave and promised that he will go back to November 27, including the COMELEC chairman Sixto Brillantes.
There will be more hot-mindedness of PRO-media Forum when the two representatives of the Transport group, George, San Mateo, and Ka Lowell Martin and Ka Orena Drilon of the DA.
The leader of the United States, Mr. Geometry, San Mateo, because the group of Second Division, meanwhile, the opposite was the image of Ka OMartin for the result of their petition.
In the statement of PRO-media Forum, he revealed that Ka Freddie Martin is the reason why he was disqualified by their group as one of the representatives of Transportation.
According to the leader of a Pacu DA, one of the reasons for their removal from the list of Liberal Party is the nominated chairman of former President Ferdinand Topacio, who is the lawyer of former President GMA.
That is why, hopefully, this should be a lesson to all those who are planning to run and run as President PNoy, do not get an ally or allies of former President GMA so that you will not be politics like a or a Filipino.
In the coming Tuesday, Kia will be a guest of PRO-media practitioners from DENR Secretary Ramon Paje, wherein the issue about mining will be discussed.
