"Harry Potol," Tantangan, "and other famous novels, works in the filipino language.

By Tomas, Santos - February 28, 2014.

The Spanish readers are better to understand the famous "pul-Kidnapping Group (IED)" of the novels which are in English through the filipino language.
Last 2012, the local version of Tv Corporation (PPC) was initially published which have been placed under the novels of the known novels which are common about the stories of the said book placed by Arvin Rhea Mendoza, one of the writers of the company.
In the pen of Stephen Mayanta, the story came out from the public in 2005 when the story came out about the love of Bella Split, a person, and Edward Culp, a certain film that brought the story in the celebration of the author of Mayer.
Before long, PPC was also published the local translation of New Jersey, second in the novels of Mayer, who was sent to the New Year.
According to seconds Matik Jr., President of the PPC, the company thought that they have been placed under books for two years, but the popularity of books written to the company, which pushed the company of Tantangan and New York.
"
Meanwhile, some of the novels were also released by the Filipino language such as The Hanger games, one more popular series, when Suzanne Collins.
This series, served as a movie later on, is about Katsidis in 18 years old, to win in the competition, the local governments of two consecutive books in the series of Collins, and Catalibis were also released.
Aside from this, the company of other novels were also released by the filipino language such as the famous author of Czar Swift, Danielle; Leonida Benedicto, Nora Roguts and Sidiran, of the important thing.
It is most new in the released transfer of the Harry Potol, the first book in the series of J. Kid's Day, the first book in the series of J. KRoño, which is allowed to travel the journey of the young Zard, Harry Potol, a giant protest that is teaching the 16th storm.
Those taken from books are being sold in almost half of the original books in English to the stores of books.
According to Romer Baquiran, chairman of the Philippines Institute of Fire Protection Program and one of the writers, those who were left used by "Pop Star Ngayon" in the "traslacion" of the said books are being endorsed by the youth readers.
The Pop Star Ngayon is the use of the filipino language, a level of language that is usually used in the filipino language in order to understand the readers.
"The young man, who is a loved one, was not enough to buy a bit cheap and beautiful product," says Baquiran, "said that it was also said that there were some stories about the stories of Tantangan and (chickenty Go of Ginger Conejero.
Matik said that he can also receive praises from the buyers, because they understand books that will only be bought in English but it is not losing critics, especially in social communications.
"There are critics, yes, but I do not pay attention to them until we reach the quality of books," said Matik.
According to Baquiran, even if there are some mistakes in using a few kinds of foolishness, "according to him, he is not worried that the local ducks are busy with the jobs he works at.
"The local ducks are taking advantage of the foreign games because the businessmen are taking care of their production of books based on the style of the local budget, based on the style of the local budget, it means that they are taking care of the readers," says Baquiran.
"It can't be allowed to enter if the former president has a huge loss of writing and those who are similar to be able to go back to the direction of writing and those who are similar to be able to go back to the rules, which is the reason for their training in the book.
The Spaniards.
Aside from the popular books, some of the books were brought to the Spaniards.
One of these is the Libigan Water for someone who loves, with the novels of with Esmilla.
The first symptom of Mexico in 1992 and was sent through Como Aguino to someone who loves, the novels, the youngest child might get married because they are the ones who should take care of their mother until he died.
The novels of Esmundo in 1995 was made in English, and pushed for a movie in 1992.
But this is not the end of the novels of the novels, according to Matirez St., they were also published in the next month the One Direction of Solsona, Soledad) and The House of the Shuler (La CDO).
