
Under the flyover by bus companies?

Traffic is really severe in Metro Manila and the local government is really having a hard time to fix the flow of vehicles due to the numerous number and undisciplined bus drivers and those who are empty.
Another reason for the slow flow of traffic is those that are not in the place where the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) and immediately rushed by the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MWay) and Manila Water Co, INC) and Manila Water Co, INC).
And the heavy flow of vehicles from the passenger buses that are traveling in the province that the terminal is in the stretch of Eiffel io delos Santos Avenue or EDSA.
During the time of former Quezon City Mayor Ismael Mathay Jr., before he went down from his position, the government of Quezon City decided to take the bus terminals along EDSA in the jurisdiction of the city.
But when the administration had different, the removal of the terminal in the stretch of EDSA particularly in the jurisdiction of Kamias and Kamuning were not done.
What's painful is that, it was already bought by the company Solid North Transport, subsidy of JAC Liner, under the flyover in EDSA-Kamias, why did they have done it as a terminal or parking of their buses every night.
On the day, the bus of Solid North and JAC Liner was becoming a hindrance in the passing of vehicles that is why sometimes it is not the fault of the said company of the bus, but even in the slow flow of traffic, but even the taxi and other cars which are throwing passengers at this terminal in EDSA.
It is probably good if the District Traffic Enforcement Unit (Devera) of the Quezon City Police District (QCPD) ordered the office of Solid North Transit and tell that they have not bought the street and even under the flyover in order to do the parking of vehicles.
Or maybe they are renting each other again? Nino or who are receiving money? Well, it should be known by the government that will benefit from it, and it is also lucky that they are benefiting from it.
