According to the M-B, we agreed to talk about it about the Boso-Boso that would be the reason why much of how much his eyes are, I am distressed as well.
We really heard that this is one of the number of cases that they are saying, which is why many customers have a sickness from the ears.
At first one o'clock at first, I did not let it happen to us who are John Rey but when she started to school, we have started so much to school when she had a lot of things from me and what is the reason why she will have a heart disease from the ears.
Zailon.
On Thursday, he / she was almost four o'clock.
Probably, according to him he needs to join the hundreds of hundreds of hundreds when he was just a moment.
This is one of the things that are in the act as it can only be as a source of a house which may be destroyed until it comes to the family.
I said I was still early to the doctor.
There is no rain.
The biggest person here in our school is the most early for the death of his / her body that there is no bacteria from my heart to drink the words that we have entered to me, not the words that the body needs to eat at me.
This is what I am worried about, but she said that he is getting his brother going through a pipe until you go here, where I use for the decision.
My father, you should give up any fellow Filipinos but the pain in the ears.
I gave cancer there in the Philippines.
A lot of people are complaining; as early as now, it's the Philippines' position that there are many cases, who know that there are many people who die, from the illness of September one hundred cases were the problem of September one thousand, which is the problem of September one hundred cases.
Four applicants, Two people, whose child's son, had a strong ice color which is why he might have a hard ice cream because it's really a few months that he / she was really a few months old; he / she was just a few months.
"Is it not a voice of Oliver that is why there are a few illnesses in the ears that is common here in the Philippines, which is very low; we go to books; don't you want to go home in Negros.
Most of them are in the Philippines after they are going to eat because it is pitiful for the food to vote, we will pass here to the heart and it is really the blood of the real use, which is why we got it.
While.
Get the pain in the night to drink alcohol in using the place and time.
I also had hope.
I was pregnant for him.
It is really in a deep sleep that there are still no commercial drivers, who are always hungry; we feel pity; we are feeling weak; we are having a big lot.
I am not just wearing a B; it is quick for the food to eat black, that is why the eye is clear.
Because there is something.
What I am referring to is the program where he will command a long and become a businessman that he wants as his sibling that he still has.
I was able to go home to the death of his sibling without any kind of life without their life, the siblings live here just because they found out that they were positive.
Dead.
Yes, of course.
It seems that we cannot accept that we are in the trip of the people here and we have been able to take it back despite the end of the end of your brother who is still living in the act of fighting her.
According to him the revelation of a positive one will be taught aside from his father who was removed last year.
Last Sunday, we went to their wedding.
Which now we do not have evidence.
In different okay.
They are on the motor now.
For a thousands of nine-nine people, the friends of Jordan were cut off to six-six but to make sure that it will not spread there in his time that the doctor immediately underwent surgery.
It's as if there are six people that need to be more than four businesses just to live.
So?
I really sent her brave so, of course, I can't fool me; I am the only feelings if you are really good now.
You really need to live.
To avoid sickness from the ears, of course, there will be a protest to avoid their barrios that will be easy if you will drink alcohol until it can be avoided that it depends on the land that would be already dead.
Before you drink a doctor, avoid spending too much.
Because what is the financial support for the fear of food.
If there is a family, there is a family.
Especially now.
To avoid having a hard time, Pio is a debt of gratitude that's why he / she has a debt.
I am fond of school when we look at school, they are important to maintain a check-up with the doctor what is needed.
Romero is one of the family who should be on the Holy Week which is important to have a kind of illness due to the severe importance of the body to avoid in the importance of the body and then you will get his money from the province that your family is showing yourself from the province.
