AiAi was so happy, hearing aid with anger / crying!
Dondon's curious is June 25, 2016, who is tired of Instagram account, AiAi delas Alas will be able to go back in Instagram account, she is already tired, getting the hair, which seems to have been having a hard time, and looks like it came from the fight and crying.
Well, according to the Comedy Queen, her pictures "was caught after a scene in Area, which was led by Louie Ignacio, Taba, she was extremely difficult with what she had done to him by Director Louie.
Thank you, he has a hard time to be a prostitute in the movie? "It seems that I was not able to find a prostitute, okay, okay!
"But, for sure, I am still a bit International Airport from the movie, it is also difficult to say.
"Direk Louie, acting, is acting acting as if she is not acting." That is what he said. "
"It's as if I feel acting as if Jaclyn Jose is thinking about the pictures that you have seen, I came from a wild and crying about that.
"The beauty of the Scene of those" like that is indeed, "that's why my energy is almost gone, my beauty is consumed! Okay!

Okay!
"Oh no, I hope that I can give this industry for an honor, even just an international award," AiAi delas Alas will be in.
AiAi was not yet sure, but he has a feeling that he might have two films for being able to join the Metro Manila Film Festival in Quiapo, although it is only on September 29.

"But in Area, what I know is that this is really for the different international film festival now, perhaps at the Tokyo International Film Festival, the route, in Toronto, which is why the shooting is almost everyday.
"
Barbie and Thea, the fight continues!
A race against TV series before, but they are friends in real life, and this night, their friendship with a serious fight will be tested.
Barbie Forid za and Thea is going to go through the Symposium on Batal Philippines, and who knows, the protagonist looks like a villain, okay!
On the first round, Thea is going to try to catch Barbie and with Her X-M for Hala which is the villain of "villain" virginity "Barbie will be the funeral parlor along with a Pop, Camping.
And of course, in the third round, all of them had their own lives, "Thea said, even if she is a very shy in real life, it is a big surprise that she showed Thea, so he will make sure that he will lose Barbie.
Of course, Barbie would not agree, he / she could not agree to him, so he can do this way back to his back at night, wherein he said that he has been leading the whole world in the whole world.
So, it is just focused on this point of Barbie and Thea is only focused on the evening, and Pepito Manatal.
