
Salve V. Napoles will be related to Senator Bam

In the held last week, in relation to the scandal received by the billions of PDAF, the senators have their own power over the interrogation of "Double ce person who is there.
In the desire that the problem can be turned out, almost all of them will ask the possible connection of Napoles or to his used NGO).
But we noticed that Senator Bam Aquino is the only thing that he is not able to mention any kind of name Napoles.
Even just once!
Brought by electricity, we tried to ask some friends on the possible cause of Senator Bam Aquino to mention the words that Napoles can mention, "ehek, ehek!
This is what we have learned from the height of the presidential candidates for the 2013 elections, the help of the media to be a big thing for the candidacy of Bam Aquino.
He was tortured, as a crook, in Samar, Leyte and nearby provinces is to be the influence of only one daily expenses which is "Leyte Samar Daily Express" (LSalas).
In fact, a lot of years have already passed since we have been kidnapped here in the said English chemical being owned by Mister Daligasao, Masinloc.
Gulps, they are asking about it, Sir Masinloc?
Let us go back to Senator Bam Aquino.
November 24, 2012 or in the height of the campaign, he became a guest in the said location, a few friends who were coordinating with the police and editing in LSalas.
And the next day, Mayor Lim Napoles, who is the son of the owner of JLlagas on Facebook, was posted on Facebook by the pictures of Bam Aquino while he was in the office of LSalas.
Along with this is the gratitude of Junjun Lim Napoles to Barangay Dalnay, according to the hot acceptance of now is Senator Bam Aquino.
Paroy was not going to be left before by Bam Aquino in the office of LSalas or any help of the said newspaper.
Just in case there is also wonder why Senator Bam would avoid saying that it is important for Senator Bam to mention the famous candidate Napoles, this is why one of the reasons?
Does Senator Bam also know the son of Janet Lim-Napoles, Junjun Napoles?
Do you want to just let him be tortured, hk, hak, hmmmp!
In addition to this, JLo or Junjun Napoles can't be able to attend the campaign fund of Bam Aquino?
