Angara International Airport is cruel.

The Supreme Court is cruel but that is the law.
Will the father and son Edgardo G. Angara, and his son Sonny Angara, are also cruel?
They are the two to be called cylinder tube in the House of Representatives and in the Senate.
The father is the former president of the Senate and president of the University of the Philippines and candidate for the governor of Aurora (former jurisdiction of Quezon).
The son is currently the congressman and candidate for senator.
The wife of Senator Angara, who was the former school teacher and the president of the Culp Center of the Philippines, was also going to run as congresswoman in the lone district of Aurora.
Does these three are cruel, but Senator Angara is from the support of free speech, press despite the acklers of UP, which is why he has changed?
Mrs. Gloria Angara is a teacher whose goal is to teach the children of good manners and good example to the youth.
They are going to face the country in the coming mid-term, election to ask for our votes.
Will we vote for the three Angara?
Others said, it is not because the father and son is the author of cylinder law which prohibits those with computers to talk with a drinking session, a politician or a person or to clubs.
That is because of the Dugong martial law, carrying any word that is not appropriate and selfish as a senator, congressman, as vice mayor, as vice mayor, as vice president, is the barangay captain.
But who will decide if you're appropriate or broken by a word or words?
Sorry, Justice Secretary Leila de Lima said that I do not want to declare martial law because of its violation on libel, but that is the law and he needs to implement it.
De Lima is the former chairwoman of the Commission on Human Rights, however, the internet, or a citizen (entangdz) is very angry because he is anti-human rights.
The law is cruel, but the law that we are holding, signed, signed, signed.
President Noy Aquino.
"I, what can I say in the Dugong martial law?
Good thing, we can see each other in the election and who will we vote for?
