
Politicians should be held accountable.

Hopefully the Philippines will suffer in Indonesia and Singapore - two countries are serious about the campaign against corruption in the government.
The Pambansang Kamao (KPK) or corruption Eradversary, 6 degrees east of Indonesia was able to bart at 68 pesos, 6 degrees north, 8; 8 Tala, 8 million bank governor, and 4 judges from 2004, 2012. "That is according to Facebook post of Bernardo Bernardo.
In Singapore, 142 corrupt and officials were picked and arrested in a day in 1982 when they implemented the information because there was something written in Singapore but there was no tax that the people in Singapore but there was really an amount of tax to 20 percent.
But, what I want to be blamed is the importance of the government to hold those who are guilty or anyone else.
It's a waste for the chance to be exported back at the end of the government, what is happening now to us, the spirit of Filipinos against corruption and corruption.
The petition of Dinya Dayao's petition to ask for officials of the government to ask for government officials is for a month so that they will experience the daily poverty that we pass through, which is why they personally experience the suffering that they experienced will be solved.
And why is it that not?
They also need to experience the suffering of their voters that they need to taste and sweat the length of the line at the MRT and LRT every week when they need to celebrate in the chase so that they will get caught in jeepney and bus.
"That is the only way, for Dinya, so our officials would take it first to complete the government for the good of the majority of citizens.
There are also "the call of Ito Rapisora, Peacosta and Peacademic, 4-year-year-March to Luneta, he is the only one who is taking care of the date when the proposal of IeRapisora, which she has an idea about what he has written on Facebook will be held.
All that change are caused by social media so it is difficult to be fooled by the pitiful Filipinos.
You said that maybe later, the call of the country will be strengthened even more than Inday Espina-Varona, who will be able to ish the Congress!
