Sevidal is still being monitored in Hacienda Luisita.

When the Department of Agrarian Reform of DAR) Skakel. Virgilio Reyes confirmed the list of beneficiary of the land in Hacienda Luisita, full of anger, instead of joy, what welcomed him was.
Because of this, the farmers were not able to push through but when the farmers did not push through, when the farmers started to leave the vehicle, de los Reyes and the personnel of DAR and before it came back to the vehicles that took the release of the list.
Lito Bais, the chairman of the United Luisita, Union (ULU), they want to talk first of DAR, before they insist on their request for the free distribution of land, and he also does not want to listen to us, "he said.
Rafael Marquez has a reason to get angry, 59, resident of Brgy. Banica's, she was born in the hacienda and started to work here in 1970.
Even if he was interviewed by the personnel of DAR, "they still did not put me on the list," he said it was sad.
Rebecca Santos was also got into tears, 46, when he saw that his name was not on the list, he was included in 1989 the distribution of beneficiary of beneficiary and to prove it, as a native of his ancestors.
"I am not getting sick with me," those who do not have on the list have no case, there is no case that we should not fight for while we have been fighting for, nothing, "he added.

Beware of favorable list.
The farmers are looking for the list of DAR and based on the list of the alleged tribe of Hacienda Luisita, Incorporated.
According to Mayantao, they are based on their list of masters list, documents submitted by farmers, and record of HLi in the Social Security System (SSS).
But according to ULU and Ambullets, HLi stopped the payment from SSS from 1985 to 1990. "Where the additional 1,000 names came from?" They said.
However, the group of eight people known to the eight people who are known to have been known by the eight people who are known by the supervisor and "Walis" of Humalig), Noel Mallari, Julio Swift, Eldie Pingol, of Barangay Bucayab Sotto and Barangay Captain Edgardo Lantoc, and Barangay Captain Edgardo Priscilla Mireilles).
Bais explained that it is as if they will not fight with their ranks (like the desire for the editing), they let the other included in the list of DAR and staff of HLi, like the house-helpers of Cojuangco.
But the farmers are still not able to stop the list of determining who they think is not the true beneficiary of Cojuangco, "said one, together with a name.
The UWU and Ambullets also tried to be included in the list were the SEA Games that were not included in the initial list of DAR last October, 2012, but even one of the 16 who were put in order for the funeral, he did not take hold of DAR.
It took long.
The Veloso family is saying that "they are respecting the decision of the Supreme Court, while they are saying that he is doing everything to implement the decision.

But this is contrary to what they are doing, according to farmers.
In a meeting of Trevor Ariza and Hala of HLi, the company of ILWU and Ambullets last February 21 of Max's Restaurant, Luisita, said that he will not allow the land to be exported until they are not being paid by the government.
One of the most remaining issues in the distribution of the land in Hacienda Luisita, which was left by the Supreme Court in the decision of DAR and according to the farmers, it should be harvested from the value of land in 1989, while the HLi must go there for a higher value of land in 2004.
This is the only meaning of Cojuangco, the uncle of President Aquino: "That it will take time for course, until he is not able to raise the land, as long as he is not able to raise the land, it will not be brought out by the Cowboy (Cerge of Land OPLAN)," according to Bais.
But most of the farmers interviewed by Filipino seafarers were not identified, their names were just seen on the list, or even if they can be given CampA.
"Maybe I will not be happy until there is still no need to give the land," according to Remedios Vivero, 59.
Vivero was one of many farmers who are forced to sell the land to those who are planting a pipe, because of the lack of lack of distribution of the government, most of the owners of the government are members of the company in order to maintain control of the hacienda.
"But I do not want to renew the contract (for the rent)," he said, the feelings about the list of DAR is not enough.
It was still different.

But the Veloso family was not able to run out anymore, by de los Reyes recently, the number of land that was given to the farmers by public land such as road and canals in the irrigation.
"He / she (de los Reyes) said that it was agreed to undergo inspection last February 14 but it was not true that he was there (Cojuangco) that's why we didn't go there (PCG)," says Bais.
The Pastor was given to the editorial Department of HRO that is set by the elecoxib and standard for choosing more than 500 hectares of land in the hacienda, which was ordered by the court to return to the farmers.
"Bugnay," why did they run for the author, is for us to have money? "
The UWU and Ambala 'qualifications are already filed by the qualifications prevail in Bakag and Co, who were said to have been working in the Sinai and Co, Philippines, who are said to be working in Sinai and Co, Philippines.
Free!
The farmers are still insisted on the free distribution of land, this is the only way to ensure that the land would not be restored in the hands of Cojuangco.
In their worry, if the P1 million per kilo of compensation the land would be fulfilled, under the Comprehensive Tax Reform Program Extension with Reforms (Carper), it will be a business that it will be paid by the farmers for P700,000.
"Under Carper, it is only 30 percent of its subsidy for almost 50 percent, where the farmers are going to get half a million?," said Bastes.

He added, "it is lucky that Cojuangco said that this land was released last 1957, the payment for the government, now, the government will return to us, they will pay their luck!"
It was also stated in Carine that it can be taken back by the CampA if it has been three years since the farmers have not been able to recover the privatization of the farmers, even now, there are already a lot of farmers who were sold or put under land to 10,000 pesos to 10,000 pesos only because of poverty.
"While there is Carine's" that, "that, the true reform in the land would not be fulfilled," said Bais.
That is why the farmers of Hacienda Luisita continue to hold the "crispy stove in or being piled up the ground, a form of their properties.
Since Marquez joined the crispy stove in 2005, he is having a hard time because he has no support of the government, he is happy with planting the land that was treated more than a week because I have been working on each other for two times, "he said.
Even though he is not in the list of DAR, he believes that his companions will not neglect him for a long time so that the land would be returned to them.
