He looked like Paralibis.

Dimatulak, ah Sayog.

Sitting on the middle of the room was surrounded by actors who have a role and harmony connected to each line of the face and body of the teenagers to make the shape of the eyes and the length of his hair to make their needs, cheek and shape of the body.
It can be discerned in the upcoming light of the Liberal Party, the form of whom he chose to push through but the vision of MG that is very quiet and a peaceful model, was given by the microphone and to a glimpse of his story.
Ms and actors are actors.
It is not just an ordinary person in front of the artists that afternoon at that afternoon, with an ordinary session, not moving, not talking, but this time, the painter didn't have a hard time to catch the image, and noisy, and noisy with the model, Nunal, Gabas, son of a political leader and young activists.
Nishida has been invited to be the model of the pot session of Adolfo Saure, a annual gathering of artists and Filipino workers which started last 2009.
In front of more or less than 50 actors and Filipino culture, Nido insisted on his story and to his parents who were filed by the authorities as a known leader of Nunal, Quezon.
While listening to Nikki Coseteng, actors tried to gather and give a form to the belief of the portrait of Filipinos, according to the interpretation of the portrait of the citizens, and the challenge to the actors to be involved in the violence, and the challenge to those who get involved in the violence.
The people are anxious.
As Milan, Nihonggo are being instruments in expressing the material things that was about to be about the box office, and his presence was served as a "mystery object.
The concept of MG as an inspiration is assigned to the dream of the GROs at art of arts that will be focused on the writers, Grets and painter, and help them to make sure that the people will help to forget their problems.
But in the issue that was about to be held at AOIL Tantos, it is not a bird who was about to be accustomed to by artists, "says Emmanuel Garbo, which is common to be detained in the cunning and improvement of the ability from painting.
"It's a big role in the speech of Ni to change this kind of connotation."
And also, the artists, compared to the cadmium and programs where the victims are talking about political, should not only be a simple acceptance of the information what the actors are talking about, "it's not just a simple acceptance of the information done by the artists.
In this kind of action, the conversation between Nido, and the artists doing the wall that was surrounding the actor and Milan.
"The arts skill is good to see the social media, and see what can be contagious for people for everyone," I think.
Most of all, it was published!
Art and struggle.
History, society and important agencies that are taking advantage of the imagined arts of what happened to AOIL Tantos, you can see how the challenges of the living room of the society might be seen, which should be seen for art of the reality in the society, "according to the recognition that should be held for arts," said IJ.
It is true that the arts of violence is truly effective in spite of the beheading, the father of NJ, and his co-workers in order to fight the reforms and political issues in the country, and the majority of those opposing democracy in the country.
This is the inspiration left by the mausoleum in the artists, the art of arts who are talking in the minds and feelings of the people, and after long, the arts of the people who aspire for change will continue and be free.
