It is out of Order (a lot of treacherous ways in Manila.
By Alfredo Lim, Raymond B. June 17, 2016.
President Joseph "Erap" Estrada is not wondering why he was just ahead by 2,685 which is the most strict opponent of former Manila Mayor Alfredo Lim, Erap defeated Lim in 2013 elections for more than 30,000 votes.
A few days before the May 9 elections, Erap is confirmed that some of his allies are the treacherous and transfer of Lim in the hopes that Estrada will lose in their meeting again.
It's not only Erap who experienced being defeated by Cong. Amado Bagatsing, who ran for the mayor, Lim Atienza, who will transfer to the camp of Lim as Vice Mayor Benjamin "Mamondiong because of his long-time friend and fellow residents of Tondo, Lim himself.
Erap is very decent to name those who are annoying for him but he knows the entire City Hall in Manila that he is left by his former vice mayor who ran for senator, Isko Moreno.
I do not know the source of the quarrel between Erap and Isko but I found out that Erap was running away by the senator, one by them were removed from his opponents in the City Hall because of their failures in making money in Manila.
The logic is simple as to why it became a victim of Erap and Erap's running mate of Erap, who is only more than 100,000 of votes were only given to Ali Atienza, while Erap was only 2,685 only.
It is known in Manila that Isko and former Vice Mayor Danny Lacampuenga, who has no doubt that Erap has his own campaign for Erap to see there is a possibility that Erap will lose in Lim.
That's why when he was able to interview Erap in a month after the elections this May 9, he said the most important lesson he learned from the election is that he should not be confident especially for the allies of personal political freedom.
What's good about Erap is that he is not making anger in case he has sinned against him once again, which is why they accepted it again in 2003 and walk to be part of the model of FPJ in 2004.

Last 2007, Erap also supported Lim in his candidacy as Manila mayor where he defeated Ali Atienza whom he ran for as mayor, Lito Atienza, who is the former enemy of Lim.
Because Erap has forgiven Lim for one time, he is unlikely to get along again with a big question if Erap is ready to forgive Isko Moreno if he asked forgiveness from him because of what he has done in the past election.
