TV Patrol, September 17, 2012.

Intensify your trust.

So that you should not give up his head, it will always rise up in the world and even us, you are an extraordinary and no one can walk on top of the world like you.

All of us experienced the obstacles and suffering for the struggle in life.

We are not always in the garden, and seems to be strolling in the park where we usually keep on the challenge and they are trying to be strong and firm.

The experience that makes us experience is what makes us persevere and do everything he can.

The question, how will you remain positive in your perspective if extreme challenges comes to your ability, and to problems which seem to have no end?

One strength is being faced with no doubt and there is a solution for everyone to have a solution on the key which is focused on the key so it will not result to an analysis and blame the problem even before it can be harmful to it.

Here are good proposals to maintain the positive outlook in life even whatever is happening in your surroundings.

1 if you notice that it is all negative and worrying you, you should avoid or get away from them, people who are negative and angry at the world are looking for the people involved in the world.

Because if you persevere, your prosperity and difference is, a proof of their negligence and laziness, and there is an attitude, does not have a statue or monument what was built on them.

2, avoid sitting in front of the television for many hours, in reading the anticipated news on the internet or magazines, consult on the telephone and having an inspiration, meaningful hobby, and passion in the environment of our world.

3 - a golden time for the family and loved ones, all of a few moments, because this will not return to its memories, the quality and faith of each other will serve as total law in the quality and faith of each other.

4-Magistrado.

Improvement is what will be done for the whole day, this is important to avoid confusion and it will only be your time there to the things that will improve you, and if you finish your task, a corresponding reward will be gained in fulfilling this.

5-doing things that you do not usually do is that you are used to start a new hobby or sports, and tasks that you don't dream of giving a new risk and is expanding your mind.

6-in front of the bad situation, face him with an effective intention but there are things that do not agree with what we want, but if we are expecting that it is not difficult to enter.

7 to use information on the whole afternoon to plant in mind the trust, healthy emotion, and positive outlook, it is giving your faith that you can fulfill whatever you want to happen.

Wait for a moment that you are going to have a long time happy and do something that you are trying hard to do and do not need guidance or increase, things that make you happiness and cause more happiness.

9-minded and something bothering you, watch or read a joke and have an inspiration, listen to the favorite songs and music, and return to memory the good events in your life.

It is only 10: Remember that everything will be finished but not just short in whatever you see now; only in the span of more than five years, all will be lost.

It will be replaced with a new generation that, and now, there is a change happening between you, even if you do not notice that your appearance is changed, right, and thinking that it will be good, right, and peaceful.

If you are direct with your dreams in your dreams.

If you do not give importance and justifiable trust to your ability, you will not succeed or be happy.

An important key to success is your own trust and this is an effective way to do a justifiable trust in self is the preparation and improvement of what you want to achieve your life, and start saving what you want to achieve your life.

What are you waiting for?

Start, and everything is easy.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
