INC during the time of Fight IT.

The first birthday of Bro, Eduardo Villanueva Manalo this October 31.
Because of his birthday, many are going to pay attention to "Ka Edwards."
Just like when it was a very big news that was appointed by the whole of Iglesia ni Cristo (INC).
Ka Erdy was able to take the child and their followers of the INC, Felix Manalo, said to be a member of the INC), according to the exhibition of INC, according to the original owner of the INC, according to the original owner of the INC, according to the original image of the INC.
It has been a long time for the history of INC and the deeper the strength of Ka Felix ordered the INC as a religion in 1914.
And now, it is already 2012, and this time of the internet and the so-called global warming, this October is the birthday of Ka Edwards oy and proven that the kind of system has been made in different kinds of time, wherein the leaders have also tried for modern and appropriate leadership.
The important connection of this is due to this time, the INC is headed by a person who is still an expert in the technology.
This is admirable than the INC, because of the INC, for their services in the brows, it is sure that they have a high level of governance and can go with quick movement and improvement of different kinds of consciousness in the whole world.
Do you know that even back then I was active in the field of communication with Ka Edwards.
Perhaps, in his stubbornness and playing, he found out that the world is going to a time when the new technology of communication is heading to one time.
Even before, it was not yet known or not yet known by the internet here in us, a local radio program, Ka Edam, which is why he is considered as an expert.
One of the very popular er or those who led to use the internet in the Philippines.
That's why all of the time to be focused on the importance of Fight IT led to the INC is under a thorough guidance of Ka Edwards.
It came from.
Long live with a happy birthday, Ka Edwards!
