Wednesday, January 18, 2012.

Hardworking or hard work?

The dried-minded people are disliked, and what you are sad, and the hard work are looking for a way and be happy, but this is sad, wherein the sleep is jealous of those who are awake and diligent.

I told this to one pages, but it is better to go back and study because our topic now is to be aware and real sleep in our surroundings.

I have a former carp who are using my lessons that are being used in the GSIS eateries and calendar in my business, and if you are still not able to enter their job, that is why she's still not able to enter his work, which is why she's not able to enter his job.

The other one is always caught in time, if not half, sometimes it is more than an hour, although it is being used by him for increasing time in his work, he is jealous of other workers.

Because I am strict in making the right time for your entry to work.

The trait of this one is to be your hard work.

There are hardworking; he is always doing something that will release a lot of wood, will be able to rest, and to form a taste, it is very hard to rest, because there is nothing wrong in taking care of the table, many are really wrong and no longer have a measurement of wood which is not enough to choose what can be beneficial.

There in a hard work; it is exactly exactly when he can get wood, the straight path will be chosen, will go back in order, will go back to work, directly, all the trees that he wants to use, all the trees that he wants to use.

All are on the right, smooth, and there are four who have placed it on the table, and if looking at the table, they cannot be used on the tree, nothing can be used yet.

Who do you think will last for his work in this two?

The industrious or a hard work, are confident with your intelligence in work.

Do not make a mistake in the meaning of patient, hardworking, hard work, and especially the quick action, but you know what you are talking about.

Being prompt is a sibling of perseverance.

A hard work; is a mixture of hardworking, patient, quick, and irritable.

He / she is looking for your work that he / she will improve for his job and is always being monitored by the modern ways; if it is not enough time and there are many hours that he is not a regular opportunity, in a small time, he is one of the Master-carp and holding many caresses up his personnel.

And his duty is being fooled.

That's why, I often say that, what is needed in life is not only intelligence, but your eyes are struggling and you are aware of all of all of these in front of you.

Why?

Listening because if your thoughts is normal, there is no hard work, that is also a common blessing.

Datal-looking at the few who did not finish or study, there is a big business, but most of our society almost did not finish college as the question, what is one of their traits that they have done in college.

Here is the right answer; strategy, or naturally aware, to be a way, and violent actions to achieve triumph in all of these, a tight one in life!

The most rich person in the whole world; which is Bill Gates of Micaided, with 75 billion dollars were not able to finish, including 75 billion dollars were not able to finish, including 75 billion dollars, and many other Filipinos that they are on the list if they will mention to it.

It is good for you to study and talk, but it is not necessary if you are always based on integrity, and regulations, and it is important that you need to be practical and working on your temple while your secret will be added to intelligence.

According to Celine Dion, a popular person in singing: "Every time I am saying that you are fond of those who are able to choose and ask for help, you are able to choose what you are doing.

I was really lucky, and there are many people who continue to buy my songs (scabies) every year, and they still continue to go down and watching over a industrious, and they still continue to go down on the side of both eyes, and the only thing they see is being cut off.

"In one time of Dolphy in the television, we are amazed and made a loyalty in the television series," he will continue to depend on my wealth, "right now that you will just follow my wealth," said that there is a hard work, but now, there is a different hard work.

Because it is certain that there will be a prosperous life.

Jesse Guda.
City of Balanga, Bataan.
