Students of the Pambansang Kamao, "admin," is being picked on because of what they insisted.

It is in danger now that Amang "Rodriquez is in danger of removing the five leaders of students who were suspended for 15 years after 15 others were suspended in the series of protests against the P1,000 development which is said to be being sold for students.
Philip Bautista (president), Teddy James Angeles (vice-president) and Alyssa Mae Balisacan, of the Institute of Katipunan) and Ram Carlo Bautista) and Ram Carlo Bautista) and Ram Carlo Bautista) and the dismissal of Business Administration (MTPB)) for those who are facing the dismissal.
The suspension has been faced for five days after the dismissal of 15 other students.
According to Bautista, they were expecting that they were able to expect from the Office of of Students, on January 17 of a horseshoe, which is indication of their dismissal and suspension of it because they had violated a student who is a handsomeness.
But Bautista insisted that they are legitimate and their rights are their right action against the said illegal bills.
The adleen shared.
There is a big belief of the students who are being picked on by the administration of the Pambansang Kamao in relation to them what they say is the "illegal immigrants that they collect for the students of the First and New Year.
In the protest movement last November 26, it was released by the 5,000 students who poured out from their classes, the leaders of students said that they are still continuing to collect development.

According to him, this is contrary to the agreement of the administration and the leaders of the students that they are not going to file a case against the students, but it was only replaced by the adversary, which became the construction of New People's toll fee in 2nd Avenue, according to Pilo'clock in the interview by Filipino Weeker.
"We passed a long time for the term of Events which is based on Elections (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education) about the state of meeting which is indication that there should be no development for the year 2013 on 2014 but it should only be replaced by the name," according to Pilipenko.
Pilo'clock added, they received four pieces of dollars from the admin promises to explain the said protest.
"We do not need to explain to Womb of our rights to protest and attack what we know is wrong that they collect the students," according to Bautista.
They first received the said condo unit after a huge sum of students out on November 26, this January 22, they received a 72 hours to answer, if they could not answer, the dismissal and suspension of them would continue.
Bautista said that last November 17, it was said that they have received documents that proves that the price hike on November. 19) their motion is still there to remove it, which is why they ended up in action last November 26.
It is very clear.
Militant groups of the youth condemned the administration of the Pambansang Kamao in the domination of 20 students and continued high blood pressure inside its bottom.

"We condemned the removal of students in school as an act of politicians who are in the act of politicians who are in the act of buying politicians in their desired freedom and to save," Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
For Bautista, it is a wrong decision what the administration showed to the students to put them down; it is said that the students showed their desperation.
"In my four-year-in-law, there are many protests happening here, but now we think, we are afraid of the number of those who were taken to the students.
He added that the students will not agree with their legitimate fight against development and will be the one who will leave the Pambansang Kamao.
"We are not able to go to school to get to the students the construction of any building in the duty of the Pambansang Kamao in order to send their students to school and we should accompany us to call for a higher budget for education," according to Bautista.
The said students came closer to the Sangguniang Party-list so that they can help them in their fight and is scheduled to be transferred to the administration of the Pambansang Kamao regarding this, according to Bautista.
Filipino Weeker tried to get the side of the municipality's administrator, but up to the call of articles, they were not able to investigate the call on the telephone of the writers.
