Election and social media.

For candidates with a limited fund, they are greatly grateful for the social media like Facebook, aside from the free use of these, there is a huge voters that are reaching the simple use of the internet to extend the message during campaign season.
There is no debate at this point that having a account on social media is free, but we need to know the data about the current election in May 10, 2010), that the number of registered voters will be used to 38.2 million or 75 percent of the whole).
What is the meaning of these data, the voters that are reaching up to the voters through the internet is 16.5 percent, and if the 75 percent of them will be repeated, 12.4 million worth of them will be the one who will vote.
Based on the result of a sign of implementing election last 2010, there is a need for more than nine million votes so that there are many voters that are reaching the internet, it is clear that there are many voters that are reaching the internet and it is clear that this is reaching the internet.
For the local candidates, it is a big thing in social media if the internet penalty is high on the lower part of the area, just like in progressive places, especially those who do not experience electricity, especially those who do not experience electricity, are not beneficial today in social media.
If this is the discussion of Facebook, it can be said that it is the most famous social interaction with the whole world (based on the data of social media, according to the data of social media, this is possible that there will be two or more than 30 million in Facebook, and even the possibility that there will be two or more than 30 million pesos in Facebook, this is possible that there will be a few more than 30 million pesos in Facebook, and even the possibility that it is already dead due to the crack in his account.
Having a critical and practical view on social media and the internet will result to a good disposition - it should not be forgotten by one of the social media, that there is a big thing that will be part of the news of Facebook) and it's still a big matter that it will be part of the news on Facebook) and the possibility that it will be part of the news on Facebook), especially in television.
Even during the time of New media, where the internet is part of the internet, it is much more powerful and it is more effective in choosing the candidates for the television (especially to the leading broadcast network), the rich candidates and parties are ready to raise a huge money just to send money to the masses.
For the candidates with a limited time, of course, it is possible that the social media will become beneficial for the social media so that the social media will become beneficial for the needs of the candidates, they can use all or just some of them.
But because the money that does not have the money to be at the social media, it is noticeable that the people who will talk about the social media are noticeable, especially when the public knows that this is the chance to pay attention to the social media, especially when the public knows that this is not a guarantee for the support from online viewers.
This will explain in the situation the result of the survey of Pulse Asia and the Social Weather Stations (SWS) about the possible increase of online libel which is proven by some of the main population of the Philippines, it is also possible that some of the main population in the Philippines have been noticeable, there is still a thorough implementation of online libel which is why there is still a thorough implementation of its opinions.
Because the use of social media for the election is a new field, there are still a lot of learn especially that the act of using a few social activities, but for example, is just being used in sending a photo, but now, it is possible that the video can also have a video site.
It is easy to say that the candidates' parties should continue to study the social media, although it is clear that there is a limited time, the experts can pay the experts to do what they think is right for the campaign to improve the campaign.
It is clear that the campaign of the candidates for the coming election is not different from the past, it is not different from the past because it is still ongoing for the desire of those with money, even in the field of social media, is it a guarantee for their victory to wait for it.
