The youth, protested against the price of oil, the impending tuition fee.

By P2,500.
January 26, 2012.

The youth are trying to express their protest against oil price increase and increase in tuition in the next school year (PPETion.
Militant groups marched in the foot of Mendiola Bridge in Manila to condemn the consecutive price increase of oil and the impending price increase in university.
The Sangguniang Party-list was led by Liberal Party-list Anakbayan, League of filipinos and College of the Philippines and College of the Philippines and College of the Philippines, which is a symbol of making noise to the people similar to the citizens, similar to the citizens such as covetousness, and agriculture.
"We were met by a new year of successive oil price, and the bad news like the implementation of K + 12 program and under some occasions in college.
On the statement of Mark LubuAquino of the Sangguniang Kabataan, the big corporation of oil is taking advantage of the impeachment trial in order to increase the price, the Aquino administration is an accomplice.
The Chinese New Year with the Chinese New Year with that the militant youth brought it as a dragon in Mendiola to allegedly end off the unlucky "increase in price of oil, goods and tuition fee (PPHP.
The price of oil has increased once this month in line with the impeachment trial of Chief Justice Renato Corona who according to Crisostomo, the height of the oil companies that reaches up to P2.70 which shows the abuse and damages done by the oil companies.
"The citizens cannot eat the impeachment, it should also be given attention to stop the increase in price of oil, tuition and goods.
According to PAULINaella Ilaga, the second general secretary of the College was Edominic Estilles of the Philippines, it appears that the Aquino administration cannot address the turmoil in the midst of the increase in price hike.
"What the administration is doing is to silence the citizens through wigs and very well thirsty for change in implementing popular policy," according to Estella.
Along with the increase of basic commodities, the youth warned about the impending price increase this year, estimated up to 400 private institutions in college are expected to increase their tuition fee up to 15 percent, according to the groups.
According to Isabel Baguiran, national general secretary of the National Union of Students, the Philippines, just like the outline of the economy, the tuition fee is not safe because of the increase of goods, the price of commodities will only be safe from the administrator of the university, he added.
"The government of Aquino promised to release the increase in tuition and other questionable bills last year, but like his other promises, nothing is happening, according to Crisostomo.
The youth are preparing for a bigger national action in the coming weeks and I am calling the citizens who are sweating and protest against real change.
"This should not only happen in the New Year, but a revolution... there is a big change in society," the end of Crisostomo.
