Revolution.

Patrick Alonte.

It seems that the historical revolution ignited the Actor in Onok Island in UP Diliman.
The image of the men wearing white cloth is scattered and with a red cloth made to block the neck, daring books, which is why the courageous children of the town - the abomination.
In the midst of different kinds of image, it was hit by a gentleman who took off his face, but it seems like it's very popular, you will see the very popular father of the Philippine Revolution, Andres Bonifacio.
A word of words, which seems to have been removed from our society - the revolution.
Gunding grew up late.
The word revolution ignited the social media so that it means that, it means a change in any relationship with infrastructure, councilors or material things.
As a part of the 80th birthday of Bonifacio, the project "Revolution was sentenced in the Center for Art, New Jersey, the Susanjoe) and giving tribute to the image of the revolution and as well as the direction of the revolution.
On the other hand, there is the traditional image of the revolutionaries, taking advantage of the approaching war, cry, and ready to be tempted.
In spite of it, you are trying hard to sail at the current time as well as the white cloth that is located and on top of a white sheet at the neck, it seems like a al-worker?
He dressed up as a Street, wearing a red-shirt he was wearing, low-shirt and high color of the Philippine flag, and served as the possibility of an elderly Bonifacio, seems to be more fiery even to the armed ban.
Bonifacio was also raped as the carabao, allegedly a symbol of hard work in filing the revolution, and as an OFW who was called as a new hero in our generation.
But with all the interpretation of the interpretation of you and the revolution, they still lost the interpretation, they were trapped in the spirit that seems to be more fiery but careful in the advancement of anti-colorums.
Even if there is something that will affect the thoughts of those who have seen him, it is more than the intention to get hurt even if it would be better if we understand this bad intentions, especially that what we think is right?
Due to the loose use of the word revolution, all of these from a "shouldn't be felt by the disaster, and instead of fulfilling the spirit, it will be killed because of the deviate use of the revolution.
Now it will not avoid passing by our mind the question: This is the solution we want?
Gunding should be called by Linmei.
According to the history of the filipino history of an insult, Ligation, those who tried to insist and stop the importance of a revolution, have given importance to the importance of a revolution, and there are those who reveal the bad controversy.
But all of these are allowed to weaken then that we can't make a particular lesson to those who are taught to us before even the poison in our minds until now.
It is not noticed that the history being pointed at us is covered with weakness, the corresponding solution was showed as a tremendous incident, and instead, the Pambansang Kamao called the national hero of the Filipinos - Jose Rizal.
"According to" Vanglement, Renato Constantino was sent away by Renato Constantino was laid down by the reasons of Rizal's medical explanation, Rizal was the most important personality to maintain the order of the Filipino people because he did not even support and supported the bloody solution.
It can be recalled that Rizal has the characteristics of these in the industrialized countries, which is why he is not campaigning for defense, but instead, the fair rights of colorums will not push for, but instead of the ruling of other militants and the highest heroes such as Bonifacio.
In addition to this, Rizal took office as the national hero, based on the data of the United States, there was a number of information gathered by General Assembly in the Philippine Commision in 1901.
The Spanish colonizers are now able to rest well in order to recover the unity of the Filipino people because of this, we are expecting a culture of choosing who will be favored as a hero and their characteristics, Rizal or Bonifacio?
Although in fact, our heroes became a victim in the violent history of colorums, the pure idea and the objective that they have accepted it as the truth, even our themselves have been victims of it.
The slave looked out.
We have been captured by colorums in mind, even if what we think is a new "image of the revolution, this is still a symptoms of colorums in a successful belief that this serves as a successful competition of the heroes that serves as an effective history.
Instead of trying to identify the enemy of the people and the prosperous country of the Filipino society, we were left to disunited and will not be trusted by one who strongly believes in history to have a real tragedy that will serve as the wick of the revolutionary spirit.
If the Spanish colonizers are still in power to guide the fate of our country, the criticisms and advancement of an anti-colorums are aware and the advancement of the advancement of our generation will surface, in fighting with the Filipino people, in fighting with the Filipino people.
At all the end of all, it is clear that the solution done by Bonifacio. Their memory is not yet done in their memories which will serve as the end of our history, this will serve as an end of All Soul's Day, and will be moved to a step towards real freedom.
