That was the first year of the administration of UP President Alfredo Pascual.

Joan C. Cordero.

It was first met by the vehicles from the university that the statue was built, or Oblation, at its back, it can be seen that he has a wide forehead, like UP President Alfredo Pascual, the 45th president of the university of the Philippines.
It was 10: 00 in the last year when Pascual was appointed as President of UP.
It can be recalled that in this year, the Aquino administration supported the fight of various sectors of UP, just like the budget of students, and despite this, Pascual continues to push through with the rules of the rules and to be exposed to the rules of the sectors.
First!
Pascual did not have a hard time for the first days of his being a president, because the teacher helped her being a teacher, and an official of the bank before. "IT's, which was just a running an organization, which was just a public sector," he said.
His administration was able to pay more attention to the programs about the "operations happening at the" operations of UP when they were not able to make the transaction of UP upon finishing the transactions such as Valeriana, and others.
One of the primary attention of the President is for the status of "academic," of UP through giving gifts to the students of Pad, PMC, and topography in other countries, broadcasings, and enrichment of the programs Philipines.
All of these are in need of greater budget, so aside from donations, the administration also joined the call to increase the government for education.
"What we are doing for is for the person that we are doing for the network that we have been telling to the national development," he said.
On your side and posture.
"Compared to the previous administration, Sir Pascual is more able to talk to, that he is more handsome," the former Student Regis Eve.
"However, it needs to be made into the institution that could be made into the institution that's why they will surely hear their side," said EpiPen.
Pascual fulfilled his promise to the workers of the university which was stated in his international paper, the Aquino administration passed the time to set an additional benefit from the members who will retire.
The President is also supporting the campaign of the students for their rights as they are calling the people who are allegedly kidnapped by military in 2006, on December, he was able to capture the military who protested for a higher budget for education.
"It was clearly brought by the Aquino administration in the Congress and the Senate to the importance of additional subsidy for UP as a national university in the hearing related to the 2012 national budget," says Atty. Judy Taguiwalo, former caretaker.
Even if the president doesn't take care of the agricultural sector, it is a big obstacle to the administration of Pascual for a long time of stay in the private sector.
The President admits that his legal team is not worthy of the distress of the administrative cases of an public institution such as UP.
And also, for other sectors in the community of UP, the support of Pascual was not totally complete, and he is not taking the initiative to lead the campaign.
But there are times when the two parties did not understand each other, an example, the tension between the President and the ranks of the students when Pascual could not consult with the new Crime Operatives) where Bracademy, or 1, 500 pesos from those who entered UP last 2011.
Under Pascual, the process of application going to STS.
It can be recalled that one of the issues against former UP President Francois Hollande is one of the increase based on a university from P300 million pesos, 10: 00, when examined, the restriction of the Aquino administration in STS.
"Even if they do not say that there is no increase in debt, and there is no increase in any increase, and there is no increase, because it was immediately raised by the students, which is why it's better for the students to lose this," said EpiPen.
Challenge of time.
However, although the President is working hard to address the needs of the students, he is still investigating the necessities of the private companies in the university to profit from its properties.
It is said that the president of UP should be guarded, and the whole community of UP will increase the unity for the budget of UP.
In one year of President Pascual, he is challenged by the sectors to make the entry of students in UP, which is said to be the one who stated in the international paper of Pascual, "Top Rank Promotions to the funeral parlor of Pascual," Top Rank.
Although the Aquino administration is noticeable from the sectors inside UP, he is still not sure that the majority of UP will give quality education in the end, this will only be achieved by the employees, teachers, and religious groups.
