According to the farmers, inspect, the law violated the distribution of Hacienda Luisita.

Frank Christian D. Ampuan.
The Department of Agrarian Reform has violated the rules of the reforms that are happening now on the distribution of the land in Hacienda Luisita, according to a group connected to the anomaly revealed to them by farmers in the hacienda.
According to the group of Hacienda Luisita 11 (HL11), the scheduled resolution of the land was placed under interrogation of the land, where the land can be taken to the farmers in the land that they are facing.
Tarlac City Police arrested the HL11, and nine of them were charged, while their group was conducting their investigation on the 19th of September.
"We, which was being taken by the Cojuangco-Aquino Family, to the company of the Pambansang Kamao," says Ermson Acosta, one of HL11 and former DH in-chief of Cologne.
Also included in those arrested were AOIL Partylist Representative Fernando Hala and the chairman of the alliance with Filipino Bukid in the hacienda (Ammunition), Florida.
"Anomaly" in the legislative chamber.
Instead of putting up the 6,000 services of the farmers, the land that they are facing are being forced to raise the distribution of Land Allowance (PEC) on the system of her hair.
According to the report of HL11, there was allegedly a name of C before he brought her hair on her hair that was intentional to make the farmers in their farm.
The farmers resisted this kind of system because it is contrary to the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Reform Program (WBC) Committee (ALNAR), it is stated that it is possible that the one who has been built by the farmers to inherit the land is free.
DAR also insisted that the land that will be distributed by farmers are still in the jurisdiction of the barangays where they are helping each other and who are the farmers who want to sit next to the land, said Anthony Parkinson,, Undersecretary for Legal Affairs of DAR.
According to the farmers, they are forcefully asked to sign the Fisheries Code of Purisima on the Fisheries Code (AFPU), one of Humalig), one of HL11, allegedly being threatened by the military and the police are allegedly being threatened by the military and police.
"" We refused to sign Mr. FU, "Ada said," we suddenly received a letter from us from the land, "they were allegedly given a extension until September 30 to signed," if not, we will have no more land, "he said.
Ada added, it is also stated in reality that the land that the land should be paid for them is that they need to pay the form of amnesty ation, the annual bill, based on the value of the land, "will be given to them.
"" The Supreme Court did not say anything that they should pay the amnesty ation, "says HE."
Meanwhile, according to Paradise, it is said that the farmers will pay the privatization of the cancellation of the presence of the police and military who were said to be a part of the preparation and preparation of DAR.
Distribution of DAR and distribution of title to the farmers from September 30, said Parkinson.
Meanwhile, Ammessier asked the Supreme Court to identify which of the land to identify which of the soil, which resulted in the investigation of HL11, farm, and according to DAR, the said land was not included in the said land because they allegedly did not make it alive.
"He will be arrested" in the anomaly.
The nine-Illegal Drugs Group is currently facing the plunder case and was laid down on the case that Ada, Acosta, was the wife of Kerala Acosta, Danilo Ramos, Asibars, Ronald dela Cruz, Luz Versola, Angelina Quinto and Karl Mae San Juan.
According to the police, those who were charged by the guards of Tadeco were allegedly destroyed by Tadeco, on the initial land, but their lawyer was temporarily locked up, but they advised them not to give comments about the case.
They were not charged with Had and Patricia X-x, a nun, because they were not included in those assigned by the guard post by Tadeco, said Senior Superintendent Alfred Romualdez, director of the police of Tarlac.
But according to Hala, there is no basis for the cases filed against them because the Supreme Court has decided not to owned by Tadeco, the land which was built by Tadeco, the police who went there and robbed by a person. "
It is planned to file a case of illegal arrest and although the police who caught them are against illegal arrest, and a case filed against them, and a case filed against them by Tadeco, because of the owners of the land, Jobert Rapid, lawyer of Humalig).
The nine-year of November of November in Tarlac Municipal Regional Trial Court is set to be declared.
