Because he is playing basketball, we will just be playing basketball, wherever we have arrived in our school, that is why we call to look at our school.
For one time I will go to the 'game, where are you friends with your friends?
You are together or sure how much is going to you fare, just how much is the fare on the way that you have a one.
Ah, what is the only thing I am in the game.
It's okay to have companions when we get angry that's why it's okay with just a little okay.
Both my five-five-five-five-five were their payment.
Yes, you went home, tomorrow, when you said that we are close with me, I am the only one of course, "of course.
I will not be gone, that is just tomorrow.
What will you say in basketball?
"You are a card that's why, as long as we have two children, that is why sometimes, there are two yes to the order, because my co-workers are the ones who are with my co-budol gang, right?
Maybe it's as if I am not still strong with us, I still have a strong case, but I am tired from being tired; I am tired that I am tired, but I don't have a game on basketball at a high school school.
Bro, what?
I said, why don't you look down; we are only five years old; we are only five o'clock in the same age, so I am not right, "he said," he said, "he said," he / she said, "he / she said," he / she said that he / she didn't fool me, "he said," he / she said that he / she didn't fool me, "he said," he / she said that he / she didn't fool me, "he said," he / she said that he / she didn't fool me, "he said," he / she said that he / she didn't fool me, "he said," he / she said that he / she didn't fool me, "he said," he / she said that he / she didn't fool me, "he said," he / she said that he / she didn't
"You are also young, at the same age, I can go to basketball; we are going to go to basketball, so that he will go to basketball player.
Sometimes, even if I do not have breakfast, I am just playing basketball when I called me to look at me.
There are many people there, who are very angry; and then say that at noon, it should not be very hot last night, and even we are still playing that night in Tondo last night, that is why we were able to go to the very hot day, right?
That is why we are just playing with you and anything.
No.
