What is happening in Zamboanga has been happening in Zamboanga City because if the operation of the military is in the military to make sure that there is a signal from the military that happens at Santa Maria, Bulacan together with the authorities about the news that cannot be left.
What at Bulos, I am with my grandmother, there is no one o'clock in the afternoon.
It was good yesterday when I was a survey again, we always talk and suddenly asked permission.
Him.
I cannot take care of them.
You here with Bea Bea.
They were texting that around two o'clock in the o'clock in the o'clock in the o'clock in the o'clock in the morning; we were able to go to your parents especially that they are not able to go back to their parents especially that they are not able to stop it, and that's why it's obvious that it's not seen, right time.
To the victims of the school, they are saying that, in the place they are saying that, he is not able to stop the fat person in the office so that your parents who are living in the office are getting clean; we are always rich; we can only see that we are rich or poor.
Already at the end.
This is the government's decision to make the decision of a very big sleep that is currently a part of the barangay news in Palacio which is still part of our fellow countrymen who are really not going to go near, that is what they are saying.
There is an explosion that identified as Alejandro Contact Policy "so that they are having a source of fire here in Makati City Zero, Two others, we still see each other, we still see each other in what they are saying.
Taking care of Baguio's resentment.
.
Also the authorities.
Calling.
Joel went near almost nine o'clock in the evening.
In the area, that's why in the area, we are very proud; we are proud to look at the other side, I said that the Philippines of the Philippines, which is being done by the Philippines, is being done by the Philippines.
Who would be the ones to make them think of sulking because it is still far.
Covetous, fur.
In that place, therefore, we cannot stop there we have to wait for a sad thing here and let us go to the security guards.
This was a lieutenant.
It is said that Brigada Eskwela will be held in the morning so that they can go ahead, but what would it be.
I continue to allow the government to swim in them and happiness to our fellow citizens who continue to stay here under a good surprise and will not agree.
