
Amazing!

As time goes by, I was impressed how the former National Bureau of Investigation Director Nonnatus Rojas maintained his resignation from the position despite the "expensive" of President Benigno Simeon Aquino III and smell.
The President is not easy to refuse, especially if he himself will speak to a favor but Mister Rojas did it because of his principle that his decision not to return to his position is the root of his decision not to go back to his position.
It is because of B. S. Aquino's attitude to humiliate the public government employees especially if there is an occasion, it should be based on the data, result of initial investigation, and not to whispers that should be done in the right place and time.
It can be called by a briefing in an ordinary day and there is only one criticism that should be put in the proper order to gather things because not all employees of institutions that are asking have no shame, plague to the country or negligent.
But it looks like this is not what happened when B. S. Aquino is not like this, he said in one statement that Rojas cannot be trusted in relation to the cases of the NBI officials who cannot be trusted by the employees of the NBI who cannot be ignored by the employees of the NBI that could not be ignored, all of them were picked up by the wedding.
Well, if there is still an investigation, if there is an investigation, B. S. Aquino should not speak yet against the NBI.
It is clear that B. S. Aquino and Justice Secretary Leila de Lima is clear so they tried to encourage him to stay in position because in the next statement, they insisted that they have complete trust in him.
It is said that he has complete trust but does not even told Rojas to surrender or surrender to the Malacanang the primary relation to the Philippine National Police in spite of the truth that the NBI will be blamed for the NBI.
All of this looks like B. S. Aquino has no trust, not only to Rojas but to all the employees of the NBI.
Maybe ordinary employees of NBI should follow what Rojas did as a protest against the neglect of B. Aquino in their honest service to the country, it can also go with the resignation of those who are shameless and abusive employees of the NBI.
