It depends on the proliferation and release of illegal immigrants?

The mind in America-or in other countries will help one: 00 in the other countries, more opportunities that continue to embrace the Filipinos in the diversion or widespread brownout.
The group Migrante International Airport expressed their minds regarding the fresh and experience of Carlos Buliran, and his acceptance of the current situation of the Filipinos during the university of the Philippines Diliman, guest who were held in the university of the Philippines Diliman, guest who was held at the university of the Philippines Diliman, guest who were based in the United States.
It wasn't poisonous to the mind.
Many of the generation who did not know Carlos Buliran, leader of the workers and writers, who are one of the first to sell illegal immigrants in America, but this generation are benefiting from the gruesome mentality that has been implemented by Bulletin.
According to San Juan, Buliran, alive together with the historical movement in the advancement of human rights in America, especially to the tourist spots in America, especially the Filipinos, including the Filipinos.
"It cannot be recalled that the Philippines' minds," he said, was the cause of widespread brownout in the time of colorums in the country's sector, according to San Juan, but the Philippines became a part of the military and the economy of the US, ", especially when it has been expulsion."
The action of Buliran, as part of the association.
America, in the heart, "the rays of the novels I wrote to, Bulabog, Buliran, and being harassed by the Americans.
San Juan was also saddened by the part of Buliran, of the forces Lefts at the Hollywood last year "30, until he became a victim of Tikling ism or anti-communists in the decades of" 40 and "50.
"Buliran, in the Philippines," according to San Juan, said that, according to San Juan, it means that Bulletin of his self from the root of their human rights, which is part of their human rights, "he added.

Through the revelation of Buliran, the Filipinos who are in America are allegedly recognized by the Filipino in America, the noblest Filipino in America and America, and the Filipino-American War is also part of the movement of society, "said San Juan.
"Connect to the society!
Meanwhile, Delia Aguilar started the discussion on the current condition of the Fil-Am in the New York due to the vice-Tropas that the Filipinos there were a citizen or the citizens of America, who was a fellow citizen of America, "said to be a Catholic Church," according to Aguilar, "according to Aguilar.
But this is allegedly one illusion, because the majority are being raped by the workers like Buliran, especially the women, who are looking for the US but in the entire world, "Overseas Filipino Workers or Tristan (NJ,"
In spite of being a good workers (those who are going to talk to each other everyday, more than 4,000 Filipinos leave the country every day, because according to Aguilar, he is very important in the characteristics of the filipino masses, however, because of a conservative state and lack of sadness in the white-colonialism.
It is said that this is the cause of the alleged real condition of illegal immigrants, especially by women, "We Benhub, Arinoli, who is an enemy of one of each one to connect to the society and to remove the cheating of individuals.
Until the Philippines is not free.
According to Garry Martinez, chairman of MARE, "the life of Carlos (Buliran) in the United States, his discrimination currently experienced, there is no difference between the 15 million Filipinos scattered at the 234 years old, that if you are a machine, you should be treated," he said.
Agerico DeVilla stressed, the professor in philosophy in UP Diliman, the need of mind to stay in their own town, as one of his family who is left in the Philippines, he needs a regret on the intelligence of the Filipinos who are left in the Philippines, "he still needs a regret on the sake of the Filipinos who are going to school."
The Fil-Am believes and know at Buliran, especially those who have been able to get important lessons from his life and struggle, the Filipinos will be chosen not to live, but protest against their own country.
However, every Filipino has a potential and duty, inside or outside the country, as long as the Philippines cannot be seen, we should not see the real value of Filipinos before we free our country. "
