PO 3 44; who is "pork barrel King"?

"Our allies in fighting corruption."
This is how President Aquino described the people during the pork barrel last August 26, but despite his statements and House Speaker Feliciano Belmonte Jr. who took the Priority Development Assistance Center or PDAF in the 2014 budget, he still remained to take a lump sum up to the lawmakers.
The worst is, a big part - more than half of the budget, if he will be asked by the Sangguniang Party-list - the national budget is allocated to a lump sum of the Office of the President.
King of pork?
In the hearing in the legislative chamber, in relation to the proposed budget of the Office of the President on September 9, Executive Secretary Paquito Ochoa that there is no "pork barrel scam," we did not see this (Special Purisima Assistance Fund) as pork barrel scam, "we were not seen under Congress," Ochoa said.
But if it is the basis of the SPED and other funds under Aquino, it is clear that large sum of money is clear, or the budget that has no direct control of the president, these are in the direct control of the President.
In the study of the Sangguniang Kabataan, the Presidential pork barrel, it is clear that it can be considered as the pork barrel scam, especially (2) public funds that can be seen in the national budget but it is just being used by the government agencies, especially the Executive (MILF), that is why there is no financial inconvenience (Commission on Audit), that is why there is no financial inconvenience (Commission on Audit).
Based on this point, the SPF of Aquino is going to pass through almost Php 450 billion pesos, which is under its budget for the local government units, calamity that would be a part of the national budget that costs Php 1,000 pesos.

But aside from this, the Office of the President.
Aquino himself said he still defended the pork barrel in his budget, "in its traits, there are funds that cannot be given," Aquino said.
In his column on the newspaper Philippine Star, it seems that former senator Ernesto Maceda agreed to the Constitution in relation to the Office of PDAF), what is the difference between the President to release the declaration of PDAF (infrastructure) for the agency approved by the President, "said Maceda, in English language.
Payment for debt, funds for spite.
Aside from this, the budget allocated for debts has a part of the national budget.
Under the Asibars, the mother of the current president approved the government to pay the government to pay their debt in different foreign corporation (LRT, Bataan Nuclear Power Plant, etc.
Included in the every year that the government pay for the interest of the debt of pet PhP352-B, the promised income of foreign companies that joined the government, and many others.
If the debt of debt will be included, that up to PhP700-B, and even the intelligence that is allocated for the president, up to the PhP1-governmental organization and Ph1.5-T, the pork barrel of Aquino.
According to him, Leonor Briones, professor in the university of the Philippines and former National Capital Regional Trial Court, he said, part of the pork barrel of the President is not only a part of pork barrel of the President, not only a lump sum of the approval of the President, to the discretion of the President's agency.
The pork barrel of Aquino will reach more than PP1-T if everything will go, according to Briones.
Sauteed pig.

In the budget hearing, Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares, ACT, representative Antonio Tino, and other congressmen, about the funds that the Office of the President is asking for.
Colmenares made the refusal of Ochoa to answer the questions in relation to the implementation of funds for the discretion, the President under the 2014 national budget.
Along with this, last September 10, the Supreme Court released a temporary restraining order in the release of PDAF when he brought the funds from the project to be a vampire.
"We, in Bayan Muna, this is happy with the new pork barrel which has shown the TRO of the fund of Malampton, which is why they have nothing to talk with PDAF, which is why they have nothing to talk to PDAF, which is why they have nothing to talk to PDAF, which is why the President stated, Colmenares, explained.
Colmenares is asked to implement the policies of the organization to immediately allocate said funds directly to social activities like public schools and hospitals.
Meanwhile, Maceda insisted that in his column, those who are needy will still investigate the previous questionable use of the President on pork barrel.
"
