Set for a week.

Isagani dela Cruz!
Bus terminal at 6PM. Friday.
"
House at 80s, Saturday.
"My child, you gained weight and whatever you are doing, you are okay, you have no one to get sick?"
Apartment, 5pm.
"
Flaris, 10PM, Saturday.
"With what we have changed, I heard more or more than a year, but it seems that there is a very long time and it seems that there is already been strangers in me by a new job, new marriage, new school, new taste of music, a new taste of music, a new experience in life."
Former favorite actor who got farther and place at 8PM. Week.
"Macabog, a Kamias, thank you, Serna, thank Seal, for the rest of the rest of the rest of a rest of the country," Vor Nanjoe), "People's Army, I bought in Vietnam."
Former university, 9AM.
"There are more people who are rich, especially in the parking area of Masangtze River.
TV Patrol, Raya Capulong, Monday.
"Maritez-ish," our former live-in-law, started the mall in spite of it, but it is still fresh, I still want to go to you, "I also want to go to you."
Facebook, 8PM.
"Uy, you are here in the house?" La Union) here in Qatar which is why I am not yet done by my mother, but I am really being called by my mother, "he is also being asked by my mother in Agusan del"
Cinemas, Nunber 12th.
Thank you, to the catholic Church, which is being asked by the film to be a taste of the film fest, it's a waste, for those who are not able to attend the French Revolution, maybe they will not be able to lead the score of the ABS-Illegal Drugs Act, "
Road, 2AM, Wednesday.
"It's just the US's debt, isn't it that the house and lot of the house and lot are more expensive compared to the amount that they will pay to the Philippines for the sake of our debts.
Bus terminal. 44M last Wednesday.
"It's only now that I have received a piece of letter from him and for a letter for him / her.
OMG you know: 3AM, Thursday.
"There are many who have changed but it seems that all of the same reasons why we go back and the flow of the flow of our rotten life is that we don't choose to see each other, but for those who are there in the city, but for those who are there in the city, and also for those who are there in the city, and also for those who are there in the city.
