Thorough in choosing PNoy.

On the other hand President Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino III defeated the next president of CJ Serano from the-list submitted to him by the Judicial and Bar Council (JBC).
There is no need to remember all the cadets because even if they have talked to the President, one of the nominated films that Marvic Leonen is strong, according to the Palace, everyone will be given the chance to hear their opinions if they can choose as an associate.
This November 22 is the set day to meet the said vacant position or 90 hours since it is available.
The president was clearly seen with the determination that will be able to sit as an associate of justice, which is why they chose to allocate time to interview the nominated films.
On the other hand, if Leonen is trying to choose, it can't be harmful to the SC because it is clear that he can address the responsibility to raise his responsibility for almost a few decades of disagreement of MILF and the present of the past regime, at last and concluded it.
It seems that the current administration is not moved in the accusation of sports Factor that he is the right to do in these kinds of situation because this will only affect their duty to perform their duties.
No matter what kind of person or leader, not all people will be happy with this.
It cannot be avoided that there are still others that will come to destroy you and look for a hole.
What's good about this is that the palace is going to continue all of its use and he also does not avoid the criticisms but instead, they are brave to answer and save it.
In the reforms and changes in the government which are brought by the current administration, the government officials will become open to the public that is a good sign of change in the government.
If we make a business associate, it will surely pass through the hole of the needle before he sat in the position that is why the seven (7) nominated.
Also included in the arson were De La Salle University law dean Jose Manuel Diokno, Court of Police Officer Justice Andres Reyes Jr., CA Associate Justice Roselle Street, CA Committee Noel Tiaong, and Jose Reyes Jr.
