
We are aware of the martial law.

By Danilo Arana, Arao, September 21, 2013.

I was born in the middle of the silence that I was pretending to keep peace and I grew up during the actual chaos.

September 21, 1968.

My general thinking is still like this when I am ready to wear a uniform from books and notebook in spite of poverty, I study not just to public but in private school, and because it is being removed by the priest, there is a reminder to go through a young mind.

It is irritating to my brain that you should be obedient to the elderly but to one of the people who know what I am doing, he should also be afraid of what you are doing, and will be scared, will build a huge punishment, and will just build a way to clean salt, and if you will just be beaten to a corner to think of it well, will take a way to clean it.

If Mother will believe, I am just quiet when I am still quiet because I still want to go alone to look like I was playing with my favorite ball, and to look like I was playing with my favorite ball, and to look like I was playing with my favorite ball, and to look like I was playing with my favorite ball.

I really want to give much importance to personal space because I have brought being a "ater" in my studies in elementary and damp. "Because it means you are good but because they are obedient to the teacher, I need to follow the rules.

In the year 1982, because I was good for my studies, I got a lot of additional honor for my conclusion to my conclusion to our society, it can be said that I do not care in politics and economy of the country.

Positive for me is the blind following me of my fear for the elderly and the recognized as the primary trait of my character.

Martial law is martial law, I know that, based on the "official" the information reported by the took place, and taught the teachers to support the Marcos dictatorship.

I believed that in the goodness of undisciplined residents and soldiers, especially the police and soldiers, they said that it was the reason why President Ferdinand Marcos was forced to declare martial law on the fourth birthday last September 21, 1972.

And because the martial law was caught in my birthday, many of my classmates said that I should follow the footsteps of Marcos so that she should be smart and one of the news that I have promised to support her in the second year in the fifth month of August 21, 1993.

Victim: Ninoy Aquino, the former senator.

"The" official "said that the information received by the gunman was not enough, why was he killed by Rolando Galano? Is it true that Galano was the one who killed him or he was also a victim?

If Galano was not, who killed Aquino?, why did he need to kill her enemies?

From the interrogation, I learned to find an answer, but I learned how to interact with the yellow party, but because I have already learned how to interact with the yellow party, but because I have already seen my political ambition in the yellow and red, I still saw that my political ambition is right, and I feel that my political life was lost, and I feel that my political life was lost, and I felt like a simple color.

Yes, I grew up at the time many people became blind to the truth.

But like others, I have been aware of the real trend of society.

They are taking peace, the actual conflict is that our surrounding is really a big illusion that is why there is a need to analyze all the events.

And in the research of the past and the present, it is more important to attract social activities.
