The internet and Facebook of the OFW.

If our OFWs now have a bonus now, this is having a more quick response to the internet in order to complain and immediately inform their relatives about their status in overseas.
The time has been finished for almost a month before the letter reached by our OFW, and before it can be given and read by a relative here in the Philippines, there are already many new events in our country, which is why there are many new things happening in our country, which is why there are almost a lot of things happening in our country, which is why there's almost a hurry to catch both sides in our country.
There are also times when our fellow countrymen are just contented in sending their voices through reaching up, but now, there are so many ways to reach the message of our countrymen for a faster way such as text, Skype and social communications.
Our OFWs even mentioned that, you are very noisy now because of the very big help of the new technology.
Abusive employers.
Last August 21, 2012, you received a message on Facebook, where, meow, siblings of the OFW in Oman, who became the sister of the OFW in Oman, who became the employer of the three (3) who became her employer, just like a knot with his hand and almost no food.
When Aziza was in the third employer, she felt weak until he fell and hit his head with a hard object after she was currently in the principal of Al Shukri al elle in Oman so that she would be able to go home together.
We was hesitant to act here and we were able to talk to Corazon Eustaquio, General Manager of the local agencies of the Asian Career Solsolution, Incorporated (FACI), she promised to come home immediately while they are waiting to go out from the employer.
And the good news, on September 11, 2012, Raquel arrived in the Philippines together with Euphrasia Etau.
After Atty. Dante Mercado's National Bureau of the Philippines (IBP), Almeda is now in Bicol, to take a rest after the bad experience, Bantay, Bantay, for any complaints against the agency of the Asian Games.
Mrs. Ladja was cruel.
Massaging, strangling and being thrown by Madame Miriam de Leon, who is in Dubai, UAE said, he has not yet been paid, and is also advised to use an emergency room in Bantay, and is also advised to have been coordinating with the kingdom of Mary Cyrus and Philippine Consulate in Dubai.
And the good news has already been returned to the country, whose cousin, who is the cousin and cousin in Bombo Inquirer's back at 90 AM to give thanks.
