
Celebrate the campaign of DOC, BIR (2)

From the past of the holy Week, we have written the shameless amount that is wrong by the Department of Finance and the Bureau of Internal Revenue (DOC-BIR), not only TMPC), not only TMPC) but almost all of the car that has been registered, forty, all of them are registered.
According to the Senate to be the DOC-BIR, because of boastfulness of their campaign coming out this week in the newspapers, if you have read, you will greet the agency of DOC Secretary Cesar Purisima and BIR Commissioner Kim Henares in the straight path!
But how can Purisima and Henares express the cheating that is cheating in a Toyota Hilux, Nissan, Honda, Ford Explorer than the expensive vehicles - A Cul, Incorporated, CASETC), Incorporated, Isuzu cargo truck and many others?
The Toyota Innova with the taxes that we will leave from taxes is together with the ad of tax which is far from the Value Added Tax which is far from the payments from the Value Added Tax which should be paid for more than P5 billion taxes that should be paid, only the DOC-BIR only.
The Mitsubishi Montero in Philippines is pushing us by the P24.364 billion pesos.
Is it that the accountant does not seem to have an accountant and is going to be an opposition of the DOC-BIR?
President Benigno Aquino III is very angry at the thief and he said, "there is no poor if there is no corrupt" related to it from the previous administration, but what can you say, Mister Aquino, about 100 percent of corruption in the DOC-BIR, maybe it's almost 100 percent of corruption in the DOC-BIR?
We believe, especially now, in the report of the United Nations, World Bank, International Monetary Fund which is high on the economy of the country today in the regime of Noynoy, but the corruption and corruption is severe compared to the past three administration (FVR-Eat GMA)!
And is it not mad that Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago is very angry on the case?, he even shot the car being shown based in the Cagayan Economic Cooperation (CEZA) then because of his personal anger at Senate Minority Juan Ponce Enrile.
The CEZA-Illegal Drugs-Illegal Drugs Group is only able to catch up P410.395 million but the taxes that the government paid is more than P120 million or 29.45 per cent!
Meanwhile, a Toyota Rav 4 percent, Nissan - 1.75 percent, Nissan - 1.08 percent, 35.23 percent, and others even though their sales are higher than the giant rat.
With the cheating of the car that is being revealed now, how it will be frugal to the country?
