Acknowledging the successful Filipino anyone else.

"The career of an artist did not have a limit," this is the word written in my mind when I was able to interview the known anyone else, Gerry Garcia.
With the number of those who have joined and interviewed in different countries, I was lucky because I met and talked to someone else, Gerry Garcia.
From his skill and skill, even the honor that he gave to our country and the things he caused when he was still alive, who would be the one who will not ruin the Filipino you can do or do this?
Gerry was identified as one of the pillars of the filipino masses, he is the one who made the first carp on the television which is being a first carelf the television which is as well as the first filipino who is full of foolishness.
Gerry said in New York, some details of his life and success as a very popular thing to make or be recognized as not only in the Philippines but also in other countries.
It is only in the Philippines that Gerry was working in the world of anything, and he is being independent or doing other things that can be seen in a movie, television and commercial vehicles.
Although he can be considered successful and known in his lines in the Philippines, in 1998, he decided to go to America, together with his family, so that they can live there and work.
It seems like a start of his career is what happened to her, that is the only strength of his feelings, he applied for work in different companies there.
Because of those who have been seen from work and skill, he immediately got a job, wherein he became aware of the modern equipment that they are using and things through high-high equipment.
It is natural for Gerry to have a habit of gift as an artist, which is why his work in New York has not done anything else in New York.
He was able to show the foreigners to become the potential of the Filipinos?
His actions were admired and was identified as well as other countries because everything he did was chosen by Japan in order to count the Asian Games.
It was also published and identified by some famous magazine as his masterpieces.
The successful story of the life of Gerry Garcia is to continue to be an inspiration and challenge to every person who know him and his actions as someone else, especially those who work hard to be successful in this field.
