TV Patrol, February 2, 2013.

We need to compromise.

Whatever I give, I have something that I spent, I earned money.

And whatever I hide, it is not for me and you will lose.

In all the loving dog that can be seen in the world, there is no more than much love shown by a child when this is given a thing.

No matter how big the small thing that he was able to get through, the happiness that you received are extreme happiness.

The child is giving all your heart and similar to his whole world, there will be no doubt and any condition that you will be able to read because when this gift you will find it from a innocent child, it will enter your heart and remain in a long time.

No one can talk like the giving of a child, instead, she does not have the ability to give, because he has not fully understand that he was able to let him find a sigh of joy.

Kawfierce is the happiness brought by a mother from the smile of her baby but it will not be replaced and no equivalent value.

You can give you any love, but you can't be able to love without giving anything.

Sometimes, we need to act as a child to do the things without any doubt that we have their own efforts and are not waiting for anything in exchange.

Do not look at and waiting, act and make sure that there is an old man who wants to cross the road, and even a person who wants to cross the road, that is why many of us will not wait for it to be the next victim.

If you have noticed something that needs to be done, do it immediately and do not delay what you have needs, you will immediately meet and be better if you can do this in a way that you do not know that you have done this.

From yourself, to your loved ones, to your friends, and community community, all of these are related.

Only the only wind in and out of our bodies is the pain that our body felt when we do not care if we do not care, we are part of wrong events.

Like these, there is no amount of amount that is alone because it will only be importance if you unite and be used to unite and use unity, and this will start if you have a heart of generous.
