"Double Barrel" in Tubbataha: Cruel to fishermen, loose in the Americans.

It has been completely removed from the US Navy, the USS Guardian that it crashed to the national wealth of the Philippines which is needed to return, but aside from the ruined part of the Philippines that was needed to return, the sovereignty and rights of the citizens of the US should have been recovered: Sovereignty and right of the armed forces of the US.
It was announced by the Aquino administration that they formed a group of experts in exchange for the destruction of the Tubbataha.
But in the initial fact that a new mission of groups in nature, led by the National Lakas ng mga Artista sa Kaunlaran Foundation), it was found out that the livelihood of many fishermen now in Palawan was in danger because of the destruction of not less than 4,500 square meters in the right part of the Tubbataha is that they are weak.
In the interview by experts and groups who joined the said mission, it was also discovered that it is said to be a double release of law in the said Visiting Forces Agreement (Filipino fishermen and soldiers of the US to pass and go to the area of Tubbataha and Palawan.
Because of a double signal number, the warship of the US Navy said that they should respect the laws of the Philippines because it led to the destruction of the Tubbataha Management Council to be investigated by the USS Guardian.
Different treatment.
In fact, a medical mission, which is called "Severe Actor," last March 11-13, 2013, the contestants were able to speak with the mission of the fishermen who expressed their resentment in the said double reward.

It is a "tanim-governmental organization (TRP P) which prohibits the entry of fishermen and non-worthy fund.
According to some fishermen, they have experienced their boat and file a case against them because many of them have cases on trial in court, they have not returned their boat and they still need to be fine with their capacity just to be imprisoned.
"There is no consideration for the Tubbataha Management Council (management even if we are just ended up without a motorcycle or because of the bad weather," said one fisherman who refused to testify.
But with the effects of the Philippine Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA), the Philippine government let the Philippines allow the 79-ranking officials of the USS Guardian of the said warship of the said warship, instead of aura and livelihood of the small fishermen.
It's a big loss.

In the official study of the Philippines-Visayas last 2010, it was stated that the Tubbataha Management Council is huge for the production of fish in the ocean of Visayas and even in nearby countries like Malaysia and Indonesia.
It is estimated that it will be an estimation of five times that there will be more fish in the Tubbataha compared to other huge garbage that reaches up to 200 tons every day, according to P4,500 square kilometers per day or P17,75.10 kilometers per day or P17,728.00 per day.
While the rehabilitation of the damaged garbage may reach to 250 years, it depends on the kind of electricity, temperature, and other particularly on the location of the flood.
To carefully study the size of the destruction, effect, needed rehabilitation, and proposals to take care of the Tubbataha is the key to having a direct investigation on the said condition of the experts and stakeholders about it, according to Pac.
Pac believes that among those who should be considered by the fishermen, they are more than tourists who are the primary ones who will be affected by the destruction of our diets.
But it is said that they don't have any basis, and also an information, to any events in the Tubbataha Management Council, aside from this, they will only allow the removal of 500 meters in the area of the incident and also prohibited to take a photo, according to the Philippine Coast Guard.
Proposal in the government.
In a letter from Palawan Governor Migz Villafuerte who passed on March 13, the mission of the proposals and request of the local government of Palawan was filed in the said letter the alleged request of the citizens of Palawan to have a open dialogue and distribution of information about the Tubbataha's condition.
The group was also complained to double the increase in violation of small fishermen and in favor of the ships of the US like the USS Guardian.
The group Mitra decided to stand up for the release of quick action, effective and safe from removing the moaning at USS Guardian.
Those who joined a mission was also made to file a mission against the national court versus the national court against the culprits, they have also needed any concrete steps to avoid the immediate prohibition of vehicles and American soldiers in the territory of the country and annulment of VFA.
Aside from this, the mission of the local government of Palawan was ordered by the cases against the fishermen caught on Audit, they needed to bring back the boat that they were carrying, which is needed to take a stand in Palawan for the livelihood and rights of the fishermen.
Included in those who attended the mission was the fishermen in Puerto Princesa, Paing-list, Miss World Trade Center (FFF), Fisheries Code of the Philippines (CEluvathingal), World Football Federation of South Philippines (CEye Movement (CEye Movement (CEye Movement (FFF), Palawan, Regional Trial Court (FFF).
