Even your souls will increase.

By Lanie B.

It is often that it seems that the new leaders who are former United Kingdom (UK) Prime Minister Marayet'll be noted to the news the deceased leaders who are former United Kingdom (UK) Prime Minister MarayChavez, most of those who want to be funny with the tweets about them.
"I am sorry for Tristan (Tindan, hoping that it can be recalled," said an icepick about the only female Prime Minister of UK so it rained a joke about the name of Hala Chavez, like "Walis"! "
There are those who have sympathized with each other, there are those who celebrated the road when the lives of the two in the most controversial national leaders have finished, they will surely continue the topic of jokes, beauty, or real world.
Just hand.
Tindan is known as one of the best leaders in the history of the politics of Europe that is why inside the 11-year leadership in the UK, from 1979 of 1990, he was identified as "Iriberri." As a sign that he cannot get back to any criticisms that he will throw against him in his jurisdiction.
There are a lot of new laws implemented by TNT Katidtuan in the UK before, like the privatization of the primary services and derailing of the industry, the earnings of the workers, and spread of interest to the Filipino people.
Despite of this, there is still trying to spread - and continue to be spread - the media, which is said to be spread by the social media, said that the media tried to fight the criticism of the filipino masses in the lack of state of the community in their lives.
But even through a popular culture, it can be considered as a popular culture for Telecoxib and "Traet" of The Bistansos and "Trailbo" in The Bakar and "Trailbo" who was called "Miss Maligaya."
Just recently, there was a signal number one in the UK turned in the UK which is also known as Dong The Witty "from WILLIE of Oz, after a state-year-old media like a British national anjoe) that will be seen on social media, will be seen on social media.
"In the eve of the British media of TNT Katropa bench, they'll be considered as a canatings which is being taken to TIDs," says Morticio, even for a British millionaire who does not directly go back under the leadership of Tantangan.
It can also be treated as a success of the arts and culture so it is better to get to know that even if the media can make it a successful and strong female leader, the flow of songs are holding the songs and lit it.
The masses will follow.
This is contrary to the situation of Tapay who was held by the media to Chavez who is a specialist leader in Latin America, based on the news he was conducting about him by the western countries, his name is always working with the words, "dictator" and "brutal."
When Chavez was killed by cancer last March 5, it was noticeable that most of her names were noticeable from his name, most of the tweets that came out compared to his desire, it can be said that there was no acquaintance with Chavez and the kind of defamation he fought against Chavez.
There are many possible reasons why Chavez was not popular for a lot of people like Margaret, because it is still not weak at the social media's fans, which is also on top of the western media, which is also on top of the news spreading in the whole world.
One of the The Legal ist is one in English which is in English, with other popular newspaper such as The New York Times Street, who attacks salt as the race of Chavez, and the barism that he is making.
Chavez was the one who directly answered to the lack of the field of Tantangan, instead of the approval of the citizens here, it can be said that APEC was able to step down from the said country, and if the Poverty rate in the said country is comfortable, it can be said that the Poverty rate in the said country is comfortable, and if the Poverty rate in the said country is comfortable.
Stain at sea.
Meanwhile, a huge events in their respective countries were the burial of Telecoxib and Chavez, and while it was reported by the social media, it was quiet on the grand campaign of Tantangan, this is quiet for his jurisdiction, and also to the leaders of other countries.
There is also his own acceptance of the social media for the burial of the two of them and of course, there is a popular joke about the security atrapos and the 21 gun shots at the coffin of Trefaldighets, or "Chavez" when his entire name would be touched.
If compared to the social media, it can be said that the social media seemed to be just at the bottom of the social media as it seems like a new infant, who has a potential to be a pet dog or bothers which is composed of a powerful propaganda.
It can be said that the space of social media on his own account, and it might be said that there is no initial statement that he / she is experiencing, which is why there is no initial decision that he is experiencing, and is free to share the pain.
But it can be said that not all the opportunities are beneficial, the higher space of the internet is beneficial for the message of the internet and opinion that it could not express their support or criticism to Telecoxib and Chavez and to their own kinds of leadership, an example, when they are not able to study the complexity of its leadership.
Even if social media is very commendable, it is also dangerous for the ability to remove the crack in the SEA Games because it is also dangerous to increase the needs of examination and the end of deep pieces of course, inside and outside the coldness of the world.
