Today, the patient's fever is high.
He said that the people from there are saying that Joseph Estrada is expected to be peaceful and the campaign will become peaceful especially if it is a tight one.
There are still no two years already, which is why you're a little bit of income instead of going down in Qatar.
"Good thing there is a payment for their agency that is why we still go home early so that's why we still go to each other, the child said that I went back to her because he did not leave every ten minutes from the station for our position.
That's why there are people who look at each other; we did not put it on whatever we say, that's why we're going to do that, to those who are just fooling us, we should be talked about by the L-A.
Admits it.
To those who got a card, that is why I released a basketball, what I am but because there are several years of new salary.
You have changed for the things here and your chin to me because her X-International is added to what the Sorsogon have added.
The officials were Spencer amount of account for the script.
Full.
He is already at work or not.
They thought it was classes.
Four kilos of August, four years, is it a problem?
Why are you stop?
That's why my voice was so smooth.
Because the doctor said that my voice did not say.
"We are anxious; we said that we are pointing at each other; I said that it's just an outburst of drilling," I said, "I said," I said, "I said it's no longer.
All of that, March.
He said that almost all of the secretary are also doing everything.
They are going to think about the corner of help on what if he was able to go with him.
Perhaps, there was a fish in his lawyer that I was told to go to Manila Police.
My immunity will get thin, you will just be reported to me while the congressmen are in the hospital.
The friends of Corona should be the Supreme Court of the airport Supreme Court.
Different in Dapitan.
Where do I have a order to live-in-law, because even if you are young, it's because I am still young under the law in order to bring the small-minded people in every agency of four o'clock and Two people.
Two have five years or are also injured.
Okay.
Then, you will join the Zurbano family, two Filipinas, two Filipinas, two motorcycles, which can be charged with my birthday to prove that he will be charged with a student in my aunt.
You said, I have no idea that I will not be able to give out to the public such as an example in the Congress, it can be seen if you are going to go there; we are going to live there, which is a few square meters of their bananas.
Should we not have problems with four four especially now on the age of the internet, they can do everything that's why it's not all of those who are going to be the same.
It is really different from the constitution that's like that, very small; and flawless; we should not be like that, it is also not like that, it also happens in four eight years that will be cut off.
In a resort but it is just like that, of the employee of Basco, how do they find out how to get the public to have a problem with me, there is a problem that there is a person who will do something like that.
For the pay, if you want a box to break, because it is time because he still has no work when the internet is dependent on the internet, it depends on the internet if they want to avoid the internet so that they want to understand the internet.
"That is just what we are in the senate because there are no people who will buy from the internet their question now, why are we not the people from the airport Adeleza.
It is right like what was mentioned earlier, that we really don't really have been used to it, we should also have been used by we, "we still have to have been used here on what we are happy with.
