Courage!

Patrick Alonte.

There was no vacant chair inside the Mall of Asia Arena in the finals of 2013 FIBA Asia Cup.
The ocean is restless when the viewers, who seemed to be a wave at the last 30 minutes of the game, was shocked when the entire team in Gilas Pilipinas (Gilas well-dugo Gang, which is as if the entire team in Gilas Pilipinas (Gilas well, seemed to have been beaten-off in the remaining time of the game against team in South Korea.
Jayson Castro moved to a basket near a basket with the Koreans, but the strategy of the latter was quick to stop the ball and haunt from the victory of Gilas an 86-79.
Andoy asked to go to the child to go to the child inside the court.
In those moments, the whole country was rescued by the full celebration of the whole country.
Philippines and above!
Even though the Philippines did not get the golden trophy for the championship against Iran, its victory is historical against South Korea at the midst of it, the Filipinos who joined the World hip in International 2013 are also historical.
It seems to be a long time for a Filipino to be able to go back again for the presidency - because the teams will have a fervent prayer to lose other race in the field of international sports and for a few years now, Gilas Philippines is ready for that moment.
The Gilas well as a historic mental national basketball team was launched by Smart communication and Samahang Basketbol ng Pilipinas as well as the best players from different local team like Talk "'Text Tropang Texters, GlobalPort Batang Pier, Barangay Ginebra, he got three 1st place in different parts of the whole world.
The local competition will be no offense to serve as representatives of the country to serve as a representative of the country, only one team, only one race, only one race, only one race, but it is clear that there is a direct role that can be dependent on the international airport. "
Gilbert was able to get the heart of the people during the moment they throw the Filipinos who are together to defend "dignity of the country, which is just like in the field of the Philippines, which is just like in the field of international competition, the freedom of an international events depends on the said honor of the country.
It was planned to lead this kind of appreciation of the consciousness of the Filipinos who experience more deep percentage in their town - in the entry of foreign military, to open the economy of big corporation that can be given protection, and ruin the economy of our country.
The constitution should only be simple and the possibility that the Philippines will pour into the international competition in our minds that there are only foreigners who are opposing but not only the foreigners.
Heart!
This sentiment was successful in few words in social media.
There are no nutrients that those who are supporters of Gilas Ubers are totally complete like number of those who get up and above.
Concrete systems in the rainy season are the hardest part of the lives of the people who use it, however, the people who are using it, are not different from the streets, the country, and not a box to a few activities which will pass through every day.
However, there is also giving strength to the ability of Filipinos who endorse and be useful for a believed goal.
But, no matter how much the potential of the intensified campaign in Gilas well, this kind of boasts in the lower part of the support being taken by Team Gilas, which is said to have been sold as a copy of the support being taken by Team Gilas, which is said to be sold as a condominium in the form of your affectionate support.
Even though it is going to make a bet, this kind of horseshoe is going to be a box in just a curved road.
This is not far away from the widespread use of widespread use in the market, such as patriotic organizations which are similar to the image of Rizal or the "Ipit Gang, and now, the vote of Rizal's against Pacquiao - and now, the vote of those who are making a good fortune in order to earn money.
No matter how much our cry and walk, it seems that the person who did not depend on supporting the national team because we remain in front of the national team because we remain to witnesses and recognition, not only in the field of drilling national or political, economists, even in this issue.
Fight against the Philippines!
For a country who is running out of a strong and strong program in sports, the victory of a few filipino athletes is down to the international competition, it is not surprising that the government is not able to pay attention on the field of sports like this situation because it is not surprising that our low rating of the competition just like the Asian, SEA Games.
Even the National teams are hoping for the help of the private sector, that they are usually being sold using the theme of patriotic organizations that can earn.
However, the possibility to prevail in progressive countries in every win over the competition in the incoming 2014 FIBA World Cup, which will be tested, our unity as a country in the possible face of the Philippines and Spain.
But in a positive aspect, the heat in line of the fat land was exported.
It can't be denied that the ability to maintain the mind, thoughts and feelings of every Filipino in the same call - it is a major schism to have a sharp form to any competition in any competition.
A certain person who has a real concern for the honor of the country is focused on the honor of the country and is focused on a prosperous country's problem.
A surprise that you did not only have a hobby or following the trend, but there is a real heart to find the lose of two Filipinos.
