
Lumad in Davao del Norte, the attack of the military again.

By Niel Brila.
April 7, 2014.

Up to 1,000 residents from Tutok-asa, Davao del Norte were evacuated to their community because of the severe destruction of Quiti Kill.
More than 1,000 residents are evacuated from Tabag-asa, Davao del Norte to evacuate due to the huge presence of the military for their old inheritance (ancestral Land) this March 28.
Carrying their things and animals, indigenous people leave, including the children and elderly, in fear of being able to see the military and be the direct target.
In a few weeks of searching for a safe place, the Lumad are finally evacuated by the Lumad by the Tanim-asa, Davao del Norte and went to Davao City to reach the plea to leave the troops of the soldiers under the 60th anniversary of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP).
According to Datu Dandy Pacu, spokesperson of Salazongan, "Taba,"
According to the group of human rights, they are rampant.
Bombing.
The children are some of the most affected in the violation of the military for human rights.
Datu Durolfo revealed that on March 20, the military had a bomb in their fields for a few hours; when they went to their farm, they were destroyed.
Dawking asserted that the old Lumad are the soldiers who were forcefully taken by the soldiers and they tied their hands and feet.
"There are many violations against our rights that we are experiencing, since the soldiers went to our rights and care from the government, because we the Lumad are the ones who are always victims of the lack of education and care from the government," said by Isidro Indao, spokesperson of Pascol, a group of masses of the Lumad in their area.
The participants of the Lumad are continuing to protect the Pantabangan range from huge mining and destroying of forests due to the destruction of wood.
In 1994, they already declared a "person who does not want to" or Tribunal will fight against Alson companies to protect the land given, this is also the first time to evacuate the Lumad in their community.
Their group is calling on the local government and to the people to support them and finally exterminate the soldiers in their area.
