
He Sineneng is the political agenda.

By Rolando Nana, February 26, 2012.

On the record of Manila on the nails of the light and the Orationist.

The two films of Bira are unique because this is where he became critical in the society and the history of his movie, which is being considered as the most popular director of his movie, causing the opening of the story, which is expected to have a color of his movie, which is expected to have color in the movie, which is expected to have color.

The location of the actual personality is that Babe, you, a country girl who is looking for a description of the city, and the sanctity of the indigenous people, that the only weakness is true to himself (1968), to love, fight and fight it).

Because of the declaration of the law of Marcos in 1972, it is still not enough to release to the minds in terms of the minds that Bira will repeat, that it is still dark when Julio does not want to see the said perpetrator of the death of his loved one.

Julio was going to chase after an ordinary Filipino man until it crashed on an escalator in the movie, Julio is going to become an obstacle to her life while the men were not able to finish his life, and after the boy was abandoned by his loved one.

The political commentary of Bira will be the possible violence caused by the state and order of the state where there was only a different condition, that if Julio was able to go abroad, he would not have been victimized by a white slavery, or the investigation of the police for the anomaly in his death.

But according to Bira, especially under the law, there is no chance to progress and the majority of the people are going to progress and this morning, like the reopening of the scenes of the movie, it seems that there is a new image of the movie, but it seems that there is a new image of the face which is under the state of the state.

The part of the scene in the Ortho-Tropas is to be the victim to be the privatization of the murder of vigilantes while their gun is on the backhoe of EDSA 1: An operation of the military, the Middle East and religious groups who were showered with power, and others.

In the movie the actual corruption of human rights during the time of Marcos and Cory Aquino will end up in ending movies, Eexplosives, and shot by the leader, and shot him, along with other kidnapped them.

His former wife (Phillip Salvador) was outside the said location that was killed by the murdered while the boy was hugged by his son with EpiPen, and slowly headed inside the church.

The last scene is from the room of the boy, looking back to the room of a boy, looking back to the room, calling on the telephone and will give the new government agency that uttered the movie (Aquino) to be different from Marcos, even if Bira will give his commissioners.

This is almost the most brave case in the state of the Filipino film, that there is no one going through the implementation of the system but in the launch of the armed movement, that's why Bira will remain sharp and his political branch is no joke, now, and in the future.
