Because of TESDA (INTECAYETANO!

"Are you tired of becoming Juan?" A question, because most of our Filipinos are tired, because of the hardship of life in our country, but in education, I am tired only because of TESDA (technical and Development Authority), "and Development Authority)," Juan!

"We?
Do you read the next things I will say for you to know?

With TESDA (Agham at Teknolohiya) - Juan! Director Joel Villanueva is the TESDA representative Leeighty Center.
Fight with TESDA website.

Maybe you will just tell this that is why I pay attention to it, but if it is true that he is not able to finish it or not, it would be better if he / she was not able to finish and without work, but I think that he / she hasn't been able to finish, that is why he / she wasn't able to finish you anymore, right?

It is time to dream and that you will not get tired because of TESDA (Pang-Tropas that you are going to be a fittish, corned beef, Camotes Island, welder, soy sauce, soy sauce, diesel.

It's not only that, the TESDA of Foreign scholarship is also included in the year 2007, along with this program, a short time, a non-degree which was given to different countries.

Are the members of Juan with TESDA) "Humalig), hence, his actual ability and aside from his end, he still has a chance to get a job with local or in other countries.

It's not only there, because it was only last February 2012 when what you need is the internet, and at first they will learn just like Jonathan Lozano who is one of the online training program and passing through the online training program and passing through the online training program and passing through the online training program. "

"If there are many reasons, but if there is a lot of ways," that is one of the most famous where it is not a Filipino and maybe we are not going to say that we are going to say that we will not give their education.

As of now, there are four online libel which is TESDA: Computers and MNC II, Room Sering, Guesing, Guesing, Gueset, and a cellphone Serna ing.

I am just lazy to end up at present or if not, there is a heavy reason for you to finish studies.

"What is that?

Oh, why are you still there?
