In the school year, the teachers asserted, supported by the youth.

What welcomed the students on the first day of school is the previous problems in school like the lack of classrooms, chairs, books, and teachers.
In this instance, the teachers were met under the Alliance of a concerned Lord (ACT), the first day of class of a protest that was insisted by the Aquino administration to increase the salary of the teachers and increase the budget of education.
The leaders of Avisado also said that there is nothing new in the situation of the crisis in the sector of education, they denied the statements of the Aquino administration that the government has given the enough time and facilities for students and public schools.
By the foot of the palace.
The teachers and students attacked Malacañang in order to file a case against the Aquino administration under the Abaya sector. "
In an instant, the teachers held Gate 7 of Malacanang this June 2 for their plea to add to the salary that the administration who continues to deny.
"Spite of this is the anger of the teachers from our call for the salary of their salary since he took office (Benigno Aquino Aquino III, no matter what the teachers heard from him about our call," says Benjamin Valbuena, chairman of ACT party.

The call of ACT is call to raise the salary of teachers from P185.49 and P15,000 for the employees.
They also criticized the administration due to an attempt to get away from the teachers who protested in Malacanang, according to them not to make a program, they were violent, and even the female teachers were hurt.
"We are trying to push us even if we are women who are also not able to ask the police," according to Jocelyn Martinez, one of the teachers who were hurt.
The teachers also recognized in different parts of the Philippines the protest for additional wages and additional budget for education.
Meanwhile, students have marched towards the foot of Mendiola in Manila to request the suspension of the program K + 12 (calderogatory ten years), the rise of tuition, and additional budget for education.
Problem.
The first day of school is ACT, representative Antonio Tinio on the first day of school year.
According to Tinio, the problem in public schools is still limited despite the statement of Malacanang and Department of Education (DepEd) that they are allegedly going to meet the shortage of education sector.
"We can see that the previous problems are still there every school year, students are still crowded because their classrooms are not enough but the schools are not enough," says Tinio.
Tinio also said that it is four of ten youth at the age of 13 to 19 years old and have not even reached 5,000 pesos.
Aquino has given a lower part of the students, instead of giving the education sector, this is more worried by the policy of the administration.
"On the first day of classes, the amount given by the youth to President Aquino will go to a lower part of the facilities, fall down to the curriculum and to answer the low price of tuition," stated by constitution Representative Ansaruddin Adiong.

Included in the policies are the K + 12, an additional two-year-old child in studying and the government unit of Students, a resident of Private Education (EAMC) for public schools.
According to League of Filipino Students (LFS), aside from the additional expenses of K + 12, it is also not suitable for the needs of the country but for the capitalists and foreign countries who needs to be cheap.
"What the Aquino administration is doing is to sell his youth," according to Charlotte Velasco, spokesperson of LFS.
According to ACT, they rushed the training for the teachers and still remains lacking in K + 12.
It is said that the government is not able to solve the issue due to lack of facilities and teachers in fact, the government will be imposed on the private sector instead of giving funds to the public schools, according to Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
"The policy of the Aquino administration is worried about the crisis in the system of education not to be a business and privileges as a few of those who have money for the pork barrel scam, but not for our schools and teachers," according to our school and teachers.
According to Valbuena, it is good that the Aquino administration will cover the crisis in the sector of education for the danger of teachers and students.
A warning.
The teachers warned a widespread mass leave if the wage increase for the teachers will remain in the budget for the 2015.
The students are with each other in this fight which also threatened widespread protests and Strike.
"The abuses done by Aquino is needed to match the protest, if the teachers will be able to leave the mass, they will support the youth of widespread Strike.," according to Crisostomo.
