A human rights will be contradicted by the Aquino administration with the UN.

It is contrary to what is happening in the country to report the representative of the Aquino administration in Universities (Personal Economic Cooperation (UPR) in the United Nations (UN) next week.
This is what the group of human rights are saying, when they go to Geneva, Severe Acerland, along with the government of the Philippines in the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) on May 29.
In UP R, scrutinize the record of the Aquino administration in implementing human rights to the country.
In a press conference before going to Geneva, the group of UP Diliman were told, that the true event in the country is contrary to the report.
"In spite of the statement of the government about human rights, he still continues to have an immediate murder and the poverty started during the last time of the delegation of the Philippines last 2008," Father Rex Reyes, with the leader of the delegation and general secretary of the National Council of Chuang, in the Philippines (NCCP).
The delegation of UNHRC also submitted their alternative reports that the government's obligation to its obligation to a human rights violations against human rights are also included in the report that the government continues to violation, political, economy and political rights.
Reyes also said that within four years from the first UP R in 2008, there is no change in the situation of human rights in the Philippines, and the IDPs will continue to exist or lack of responsibility.
"The whole world knows the failure of the Aquino administration to arrest and punished with Jovito Palparan and other High School which will be filed," said Reyes.
There is also a very small percentage of conviction for cases of human rights along with "slow hearing on this case, Reyes added.
"" We should be proud of the government in the national community, "said Reyes.
Contrary to an alternative report by the group is the widespread demolition of the community of the poor, like the bloody demolition of Silverio Compound in Paranaque where one resident died.
The group will also emphasize the low salary of the workers, lack of sufficient work and the number of those who are unemployed, also with violation of the rights of the indigenous people in their own decision because of the entry of big foreign mining.
"It is an important part of human rights to human rights and the Philippines, the government needs to be held at the Convention Center of Social Weather Stations or poverty," Renato Reyes, general secretary of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) and one of the delegates of UP Diliman (Bayan).
According to the leader of the Bayan, the government is used to implement this report that it is aggressive in implementing, acknowledging the rights of the citizens as well as the rights of the citizens as well as the giving solution to the poverty experienced.
But for the group, the programs of the government are only creations and other projects which have not yet clear the implementation.
Aside from this, the 76 cases were featured in their report as a number of cases of killings and hundreds of cases of human rights under Aquino.
Just a few of the cases to be filed against Fernando Baldomero, Doctor Leonard Co, Father Fausto was a few years old, Jimmy Liscano, and the child Sunshine Jilian.
As well, the group will prove that through their alternative reports, the condition of the indigenous people who have been suspended because of the appointed projects like the dancers of former President Arroyo and the continued monitoring of the young victims of a violation of the young victims of the violation of young warriors are devastated.
"On the report of the government, it is good in the role that it seems like the indigenous people just look up to the truth that there is a bad condition of human rights in the country, to the truth, the report of the government is a bad condition," said Marie Hao-Enriquez, the chairman of Karylle and one of the leaders of a stethoscope.
Included in those who cannot be enforced by the delegation of Dilawan, Nenita, Bayan, Ibon Foundation, Moro-Christian People's Alliance, Migrante and others.
