
It's good.

In the middle of the scandal about corruption, there was a war in Mindanao, a typhoon that destroyed many wealth in the country especially in agriculture, now is the earthquake.
A lot of speculation is coming out in this time since the situation of the world up to religion.
We often hear the hopes that God has a pity, God will take care of us.
The number of christians by most of our countrymen prevail during tragedy and disaster.
It is very beautiful to have a deep faith in God.
But being christians should prevail over the hope of God, but also for helping others.
"Isn't it right," Jesus said, the help to the small people, those who are weak and those who really need to be in need.
This is the holy to help people who have no ability to pay for the help you are receiving.
And with the reaction of our countrymen, here in the Philippines and in other countries, in helping the victims of earthquake in Bohol and Cebu, losing hope that despite all challenges, there will be people who will help each other and help each other.
A country who is ready to defend himself in the midst of the bitter lashing of nature.
That is why many cannot believe that there are people like Janet Lim Napoles and his accomplices, if the accusations against them are true.
What they did is not a task of a true christians.
The effect of robbery in the country is worse than the effect of war, typhoon and earthquake, if all accusations are true because those affected are not just a town or a pro-tandem but in the whole country.
And it is not only a long time but long-lasting effect because the funds for the Bangsamoro Basic Law of the people will steal.
Now, it is already an issue if the government's money should have been direct on the Priority Development Assistance Fund led to the Priority Development Assistance Fund) against the victims of the earthquake, this is an issue because the people have doubts.
It's a waste to christians by Filipinos who are tainted with doubt because of the wrong attitude of politicians.
