Why, Risa Hontiveros did not lose?

By Campos.
June 2, 2013.

There are many reasons why Risa Hontiveros did not lose in the campaign to become a senator in the recent elections, because he was described by the group Akbayan Partylist who is an alternative candidate for the middle of the elections, and there were also a lot of candidates for the upcoming elections, and there was still a strong candidate today.
According to Hontiveros, his camp is happy in the result of the upcoming elections this year, he has been preparing for 13 in the actual ranks of the television and radio, even before the time of the campaign period on the election this year, he could not expect that he has been asking the candidates from the television and radio, he is already preparing for a lot of money from the campaign period on the election this year.
But there's a bigger defeat for Hontiveros.
The problem is, many of the recurring research of Hontiveros did not give the strength to them, and to build, an illusion about the election, or however, it is as if the real cause of loss is being kept secret from the public.
(1) said by Senator Franklin Drilon, the reason why Hontiveros did not have enough votes to defeat the "kristo" which is as if he persisted to be attractive in the eyes of the poor people who won as "Atong" like what they think is "worth it" for their votes. "
It is hiding and makes it good in the election in the country, particularly the ability of powerful candidates - especially the ability of the powerful candidates - especially those who are going to buy votes, and in the end to cheat, and in the end, the candidacy of Drilon will depend on their candidacy for those who won.
Although Hontiveros did not end up, it seems that he is not included among the most big ones who will reach the election even if it is not included in the said group that won't be included in the Senate even if it is not included in the said group that's why he is not included in the said group.
The election of those who took the form of those who will get the form to remove the wealth and power that will be achieved by the government, the Aquino administration knows that it is not part of its candidate for being a senator but this will still be honest in the regime until death.
Akbayan also continues to gather a solution for those who will be placed, "and" progressive, "by the current system and of the Marcos regime, but they themselves have a compromise and made sure that they will weaken and make sure that they are centered on the repeated resolve and everything.
(2), Sen. Serge Osmeña said, that the use of the candidate for the image of becoming more fiery, just like what he gave as the professor in the image of Hontiveros, she said, the use of no certainty in their tactic, which is a weakness, which is a weakness.
In relation to the image of being horny, the former opponent Production.
This kind of domination in the election is very funny because it seems that there is nothing involved with any concrete posture in the issues of politics, there might be truth to many of the politicians who see each other, but not Hontiveros, for the election this year.
There was not mentioned in these kinds of statement: The paper, and featured role of the RH bill, it is clear that a candidate is pushing for the RH bill, but it is difficult for a candidate to serve the RH Law, but it is hard to urge the public to cure the RH bill from his campaign against the Catholic Church.
That's why from being aggressive in 2010, the image of Hontiveros has to be soft this 2013, but even if former Hong Kong Mitos Magsaysay has been the aim of the campaign of the Catholic Church, Hontiveros.
Because of the RH bill, the image of Hontiveros did not change from being aggressive in 2010 for being soft this 2013 when he is leading the President seated; he is being the one of the mayors who are seated, only said that he pushed the institution that was seated.
Being "activists" Hontiveros did not go away, and in spite of other candidates, he tied the self from the issue that there is still a powerful group of the country, that a powerful group in the country has gone to a lot of votes.
(3) the camp of Hontiveros did not have too much trust on himself, even if it was only 18, he thought that it was only 18 years old when he said that he should win last 2010, which is why he should vote for him because he can win.
But it is confident to be tied to the Aquino administration because even when his campaign has changed, and even during the hot issue, this was not direct in the stomach of the Aquino administration, so even during the hot issue, the camp of Aquino did not respond if there was no corrupt, no poor. "
During the campaign, other politicians, even those who came from each other, don't stop talking about work, salary, price, livelihood, because you think they are leaders of Kilusang Mayo Uno or Asibars as if they think they are leaders of Kilusang Mayo Uno or Asibars as if they think it is a bad dog like Aquino at the point that it is bad for its own good.
(4) also included, instead of having fun with Nancy Binay's challenge and fighting against Nancy Binay, it's still hidden, Nancy has not directly challenged Nancy, but it is easy to see the truth.
According to the pro-Aquino-Aquino, G. Manuel Buencesino: "He should have attempted on the other candidates of the UNA that will make her record for human rights, anti-corruption and public service, he even looked like the villain in the eyes of the masses.
Why is Nancy's supposed to be charged? He does not have any experience, but many of those running, the rich experiences are evil in the town, why is it that JV Estrada or Gringo Honasan, those who are supporters like women, are those who supported by many women against female sentiments.
Buyo-ino said that I would wait for him to shoot the strategy of his campaign but it is more happy if the strategy of Akbayan also had a responsibility, but the entire Akbayan Rep. Nancy avoided the strongest candidate in Team P-Noy and monitor the strongest candidates of the UNA party.
(5) there will be an additional offer to him by G. Eyebank Foundation III, the signs that Hontiveros, who is not for the masses, but also the rich, who both spoke to Sonny Angara and Nancy Binay, who both spoke to Sonny Angara, Sebuora, and the form of the form, became proud.
Hontiveros did not notice, Loren Legarda, for example, had a good ability to look straight at the ability to look as an actor, but it is probably one of those behind the former who are weak from power.
Salik, which is said to have been free from his votes, was said to be a number of votes of the administration for Hontiveros, the disconcerting of the Philippine Daily Inquirer's released news to make it look at the 12-elected senator that was made to be held in the entire day of work, and others.
