
Close range of sports in the US exported back to the US expulsion.

By Rolando B. Tolentino, September 23, 2012.

It's because of the cision, Como'clock in 2012 (Mall of Asia Arena, 22, 2012.

It is a new thing that cheerness to be a new trend, along with the Chambers (NAP) in fact, that it is a very first chance to start a pair of ticket, "it is not surprising because the host is the National University held by Henry Sy (60 percent of OPLAN), which is also the owner of the GAA Arena.

The US brought a sports in the country, of the shortage of education and capitalists have been remembered in the annual field we experienced in elementary.

We don't have a sports in the spare tire and whatever agreement was done, that there is a baton or more than a high school, which is why all kinds of classes for the uniform of the basketball team was published.

"Cheerish is very funny with the high prestigious contest of the youth at a noodle chore," how a cheerness will just think that it is just a sports or cheerness, and because there are a lot of men who are gay or cheeres, this is clear that a legitimate UV Expresses will be clear.

On the early morning, many youth for the ticket were lined up at dawn, and crowded in the faro'clock in the arena, I didn't know if I was getting old, but I was able to answer for four hours to witness and know the result of the six-minute suspension of the United P. PEP Squad.

And it is true that it can make it get better to make it make it get to make it get to make it get to make it get to make it pass through the broadcast media for half of the actual documentary on the actual architect of Humalig), Noni), Noni), Noni), Noni), Noni), Noni), Noni), Noni), Noni), Nihonggo.

Galindez could increase for those who won with them, which is why they are always talking to them, even as a celebrity, who will be able to understand his personality, which is one of the golden retriever in OAP, even in his own graveCard group.

The lower part of the corporation in OAP) is not separated from the first National Bureau of cheerness, last 1997 of sports cable Channel which is an estimated 1.5 million contestants that still have 1.5 million participants in the US.

What's funny, is the First-year-old university in Metro Manila and the country), the members of the OAP), who seemed to be deployed in the age of Mesmari and Universities (State Colleges and Universities (FAP), and the age of the highest tuition in private university.

In the suspension of the team in cheerness, he is still having a difficulty in making sports in any local or national anjoe), even in 2012, there is a huge attempt by the University of Santo Tomas, pork barrel scam in the University of Santo Tomas, and comedy at the University of the East.

If you will think about it, it is possible that there is a local official who is able to go straight and with the most prominent actions of the rape, and the holiest action of the rape, social media, and other social responsibility, social media and others.

On the issue of a noodle of education, this is also the copy of the division of the country, and the preparedness of the youth - as well as their parents - including their parents, including their parents - this is where their parents are able to raise his studies, including their parents - to be able to make the experience of a sports program.

I have succeeded, even in my opinion, it is still limited even if it is in line with him, the United P. PEP) is still limited, but it is not the Pambansang Kamao which has expected to be given importance and giving importance to gold to a gold medal? "
