The progress of the impeachment trial, noticed.

By P2,500.
January 31, 2012.

Town Muna Representative Neri Colmenares (the left), member of the House Committee, and Marikina Representative Miro Quimbo, one of the spokesperson of the House Committee (PPETion.
"Progress is slow.
This is the beginning of Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares, member of the House Committee solution solution, the impeachment trial of Chief Justice Renato Corona.
Colmenares is part of Colmenares, included in Marikina Representative Miro Quimbo, who is one of the spokesperson of the House Prosavors of Team, of some critics in the said hearing, in a short-mannered administration of the Philippines (Bayan) in the College of the country of the Philippines-Diliman last January 28.
"The impeachment trial is running like a case of the Maguindanao massacre because of the slow verification of a lot.
He also said that they are going berserk on legality and the legal mechanism can pass by the trial, but Colmenares said, the citizens will not understand this technicality, even one of the cases being faced by Corona may be the source of public trust or infidelity to the public's trust.
"In this way," the people are at a disadvantage, and "the camp of the defense will talk about it."
"It is always part of the people, aside from the issues being used, the legal and administrative cases are still there, how can the public understand what is happening, how will they make a impeachment trial to become part of the public," according to Quimbo,
Quimbo, the importance and difference of trial to Chief Justice that is not like the executive and other elected officials who stayed in the position of six-years, the Barangay magistrates, said that he remains until the time of his retirement.
"If the citizens of the Supreme Court lost faith, the citizens will put the law in their hands," says Quimbo, in English language.
Representative Colmenares, the people are still the ones who will be defeated by the impeachment trial against Corona.
Colmenares and Quimbo, the hardship being experienced by the prosecution to the first week of the trial, most of them are not active lawyers because they are not like former Associate Justice Serafin Calaguas, which is being released by the congressmen who will borrow money from the constitution.
According to him, they said, the decision making by the Senate is not giving or for them for a few moments, that's why it needed to adjust to the contents of the impeachment of the impeachment.
"Even though it is difficult and became slow, we were able to release a few more evidence," according to Colmenares.
Filipino people.
Meanwhile, the support of different groups in the prosecution's support was heated due to the opening of the program for those who attended the said amount.
"We are happy with the hot support of the public in our campaign against Corona from his position and will be held accountable for Gloria Arroyo in the Senate, but according to father. Joe Burgos, one of the followers of the Gloria candidate should be held accountable!
The importance of orders of former President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo and monitoring on the steps made by President Aquino to be controlled by the Supreme Court if he lost his post in his position.
"We are monitoring the impeachment trial for the change of society and we are not expecting that the fight will end against Corona," according to Gary Martinez, chairman of Migrante International.
Martinez added, the citizens should be on alert for having a Supreme Court who has a head of the current president.
Meanwhile, according to former Representative Liza Maza, the impeachment trial, the impeachment trial does not fight against the prosecution and defense.
Maza said that the issue on corruption is not finished in the trial.
"We saw the political system that we need to face and the limitation on this impeachment trial and the majority of the citizens do not understand their interest," Maza said in an interview with Filipino Weeker.
Challenge to the prosecution.
"The prosecution needs to lessen what they are doing so that they can get the trust and support of the public because there is a lack of public transport treatment on the impeachment trial," says Sonny Africa of Ibon Foundation, in an interview with Filipino Weeker.
According to Africa, there is a big change that the citizens are far from the impeachment trial if it will last long.
It is also noticeable that the Malacanang is taking advantage of the impeachment trial to cover the other important issues especially in the economy the country has the country.
"If it will be noticed, almost half of the approval of Malacanang is about the impeachment trial," according to Africa.
Even if it was hard for the prosecution to be the first two weeks, he still left the side of the prosecution.
This is announced by the Gloria Anti-ukay because of their announcement on the impeachment trial and the citizens will be useful to ensure that Corona and other accomplices of Arroyo will be held accountable for multiple crimes and cases against the Filipino people.
"It is possible for them to have a best lawyer to their side, but the truth is with us - we are together," the end of Colmenares.
