
For the All Soul's Day!

There is a princess from a distant kingdom, the princess is beautiful, intelligent and nice, which is living in the kingdom of his family and friends.
But despite this, I felt a deep loneliness that you really need a person who will love her as a person who will love her as a person who will love her as if she is a person who will love her as if she is a person who will love him / her, and not because of the one who is the princess.
It was found out by the princess that you need to be the one of the prince.
And the search of the princess was started.
Of course, "of course," it can't be known who even the prince of you have a lot of standard.
First is the Disbursement Acceleration Program and the prince of the prince who is a pro-God should be trusted, nice, with concern for others, and with principles.
Second is the cio-civic missions that even if not rich, as long as you are hardworking and have dreams. "The type who can live there, and their future children will live there.
And what's most important to all is that they are going to wait for no more handsome, as long as the type, "you didn't want to close your parents, who, and other people.
The days have passed, the days have passed since the months have passed and there were still no bruises in the edge of the princess.
The princess was jailed in his room and pray that in God, she asked me to show to the Lord to show her the man she will look for.
"His prayer was not finished when he heard a knocking.
When the princess opened the door, I smiled at what he saw at the back of the door, the answer was standing in her prayer, the princess was standing, she noticed that the man she will look for was just beside him.
The man who is in front of us is the one who ran away from the time of need, the man who is in front of me, the man who is in front of me, is the man in front of me, the person who's in front of me, the person who is in front of me, is his father.
God did not give the princess of one of the prince who was given a king by God.
Last year, I stood up in front of you, not to give birth to his father, but to worry about the children, how they are a man in their lives who were taking advantage of all the things that the princess was given to.
Our father.
Of the characters, Flying V, "didn't they even bring us back to the Lord?
In Angio-civic missions, A. "sometimes, they did not let us go from being hungry or lose their needs.
And for the immediate implementation, the winner.
The story of the princess is reminding all, men or women, that sometimes in our search for honor and fame, we are forgetting a important man in our life without our countrymen.
