
Alliance with the privatization of the illegal vices in the water.

By P2,500.
There is 29, 2012.

Different water supply in the whole country were united against the whole country against the public service based on the Senate Bill 3297 or Water sector of 2012, the proposed law of Senator Edgardo Angara.
They announced this in the spread of the Water System Act of Water System Act of Moneleven or Water, a derailing of the employees of the water supply and other water pipes in the country, which was held at the National Council of Chuang, in the Philippines in Quezon City.
It is estimated that more than 500 pesos in the whole country will shoulder this law which will possibly affect the 30,000 workers, according to Water.
"He said that this is our country and it is no longer service for this business," it is emphasis by Eric Avanado, vice president for Luzon and Water.
Along with the purpose of the service to the water which is a drug pusher's program in the Public Works and Private Consignation of the Aquino administration, the increase in water supply is feared.
According to Water, the Metro Rail Transit in Manila experienced high level of water in Manila after the Manila Water Sebuage System last 1997.
This is the time, the price of water has increased under Maynilad (449 percent) and Manila Water (845 percent) from the MWalis.
"As those who are in service of the water, the shortage of water supply is exposed to the workers, especially in the operation of the people, even in the operation of more than 500 water level in the country, instead of allocate funds for the water in the whole country, the approval of the government is due to the privatization of the government.
The Water Station also announced the additional wage to the water to the water and even its subsidy to improve the current facilities.
They are also calling their support to small water services, Iers and improvement of the capacity of the current water to send salt on their services in the connection of water, those who joined the water, and have service to each house especially those who are poor.
