
Love your real and full workers.

Tomorrow, May 1, 2012, the historical day of the laborers.
What will the government offer for the will of the country?
Of course, if the workers are not there, the country will collapse.
Farmer.
Included in the workers are those who helped them and plant rice to eat.
If there are no farmers or will plant, we are dead because we are dead because we are dead from the lack of our stomach.
What now is if there is money who has money, if there is no food that is tainted by the sweat of the farmers or will plant?
Rice, vegetables, fruits.
Thank God, thank you for the grace of the farmers.
That is why the farmers are just like that.
Fishermen.
The fishermen are suffering from the cold so that we will have all viand, especially in protein like we need to maintain the big and full of our bodies.
They are also the count of omega-3 that we need against different diseases like heart disease, stroke and high blood pressure due to fish, insults, shrimp, Shell, newspaper and others in our dining table.
There will be no movement, salads, roasted fish, rice, corn, corn or iced tea if they do not want to rise from an avers, river, lake and river.
Noon.
It is also important, Bro, those who take care of animals which are source of protein like protein.
But you will complain if you have too much fat from the skin of chicken, fat of pork and beef.
But if they are not there, we do not have a chicken, ducks, ducks, pork and beef.
Workers in the factory.
These workers in the factory are because of the value of farmers, fishermen and taking advantage.
If they do not have the house, we can do anything because they are the ones making galvanized iron sheets, cement, hammer, hammer, hammer, machine of petroleum products and others.
The fish, meat, meat and others are also not affected if they do not have any can.
We will also be naked like Adam and Eve if they do not have any clothes.
We also do not have medicines, whose identities are on the height of operation, properties and wheelchair if they do not have anything.
We also do not ride a tricycle, jeepney, bus, taxi, train, airplane, ship and others if there are no workers in the factory.
We also do not want to go through the roads, bridge, rails of the train and we do not feel any of the pier and airport if they do not have anything.
There is also no coming out of computers, laptop, cellphone, diologists, television and radio if they do not have anything.
Can you be able to make it if you do not have a carpenter, welder, electrician, mechanic, operator of machine, technician, electronic politics and others?
And we will not be red from malls, motel, hotel and others if they do not have anything.
Driver, helper, escaped.
Nothing will happen if we are full of carabao, maybe the horse will bring us to our countrymen.
There is also nothing to happen to our products and service if the drivers, tomatoes, helper, mechanic, and canvas, and many others are running for transportation.
We need those who are holding the steering wheel, tricycle, jeepney, jeepney, taxi, jeepney, jeepney, train, cargo trucks and trailer truck.
Of course, the captain of the ship and his companions, the pilot, stewardess and other people running the boat, ships and airplane.
Just a question here: Is it possible to run or be surrounded by one family, an example, the thousands of taxis, buses, ships and airplane?
That is how the value of workers in transportation is.
Vendors, vendors.
Our businesses or livelihood will never improve if we do not have a partner in selling products and services.
That is why vendors, vendors, and vendor, account or any call for them are very important.
New Heroes.
If there are no Overseas Filipino Workers, the economy of my beloved Philippines has long been crashed.
They were ordered by the dollars and other foreign money that the government needs for its transactions in other countries.
If the government is not around 15 billion dollars, maybe the government can't get any money for the foreigners to pay for the colonizers.
A nurse, doctor.
What do you think, if we do not have a nurse, doctor, she took a nap, engineer, patient, weather, and a lot of people like them?
We will not be able to fix the life if these are not here, Bro.
What are the projects for the laborers?
Let us go back to the question: What will the government offer to the workers this May 1?
It is said that the KKK of PNoy are thinking about something but can be guarded, loved by the president, if the orders of those KKK and not the support of those KKK to the laborers.
For us, they should love your real and full force.
