
PCSO scam!

The Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (PCSO) chairman Margie Juico is having a big explain in the announcement that the result of lotto 55 last April 8, 2014 ends.
Justice Secretary Leila de Lima or the NBI should investigate the allegation of the PCSO scam!
PCSO General Manager Jose Ferdinand Rojas II's news that hit lotto 6 / 55 last week, Rojas said that the two from Makati were won by one from Makati to reach five numbers that hit five number worth P169,728.00 per hour.
But it looks like some of the employees of PCSO cannot endure the consecutive cases, which is why they encountered the real result last April 8.
According to the "hard object," no one won last date and there are only two who won to P169 thousand, now it is spreading now on Facebook.
PCSO could not set aside the allegation because even before, many are doubting the new system being implemented by chairman Morato and his director.
Along with this is the increase in the price hike for the former ten pesos, but now it is already twenty pesos that aside from lotto 6 / 49 and 6 / 55.
It is only now that this PCSO scam is happening! It is not in the past administrations that even before the corruption that should not be neglected by DOJ, NBI or even the Congress, it is clear that the PNP is behind the PCSO scam.
And if it comes to Malacañang, it is certain that this will not be returned to the investigation by those who are involved.
There is a need to know the part of the "PCSO scam to know the investigation and they need to restore the said amount from the treasury of the PCSO and bring them in order to win.
Only Juico and Rojas say that this can't be ignored by the DOJ and Congress.
Millions of Filipinos will make up in the hope that their lives will be fixed brought by lotto, but if it is bleeding and pocket a syndicate and the involved officials of the PCSO lotto, they should be guarded in prison!
Mister Aquino, you should stop the gathering of your sins and if that is ongoing, you're a liar for your "Daang Matuwid"! "
