TV Patrol, March 12, 2012.

Kabarming will be applied.

A person with birthdates have an equivalent force of 100,000 which has only one to desire.

Currently, if you know whatever you are thinking, can be likened to a garden, where you can take care of it, improve, and improve.

If there is no good sign that you will harvest six, you will harvest no meaning and if you will let it take care of your care, whatever it is he will inspect them.

"If you do not know, do not believe it," if you do not go against it, "if you do not come from each other, I still need to know all about it," it is still needed to know all about it so that the journey you will take will be enjoyable. "
Is my goal in life?

I am a body, from the head to foot where I can test the identity of my body, I know that I am part of my body, my body is currently part of my power, and when I know that I am in front of my body, I know that I am part of my power, and when I know that I am in front of my body.

If this is not, the world is not there, we are not a person who is looking for us to send them only, we are only one hundred people who are already dead.

This is where we come from and this is the most important thing we need to do, it would be a chance for us to do it, it would be a chance that it creates everything, and the effects that we have been set by.

To return to our source, we will not finish the search of all of us; until now, you can't be afraid to know what you are doing to know and make sure that you are going to know the right thing in your mind if you do not see what you are doing to know your life.

Our Great Britain has a beloved to see me, not as his own servant, but also in serving for all.

I am a part of its credible Sibol, which is known for me, who is known to me, our fellowmen, and I know that we are awake and giving importance to all of this, and we are thinking that we are awake and giving importance to it, and it will continue to get worse, and it will continue to get worse.

The most great increase in cooperation is needed to be thought before taking action and doing so that they will not be fulfilled, not because of the lack of movement, instead, in movement of non-mindedness.

It is 10 know if you are going to travel to life who are always thinking or has a trace of suspicion if you are being attacked on a bus going to a town, and if you notice the bus that you get along and put it towards wrong direction?

This is also what we have seen in our life, let us discover that we are on a wrong direction or if you find out that you are on wrong direction or a challenge that you will face, rather you are just going to meet someone else and you will discover that you are really wrong and you will discover who you are really and where you are going to.

Life is not moving after few moments to live happy for each other's success.

The tragedy that you are looking for where you are going to, if you do not have an assurance, whatever way you take, you can reach your plan if you seem to be a single piece of picture that you need to be put in your plan.

You do not want to meet someone else, and all of you can think and you are just thinking that you will not get rid of your mind if you are really interested in your mind if you are really interested in your mind if you are really interested in your mind if you're going to make yourself in your mind if you are going to make yourself happy, and you are going to make yourself happy in your own truth.

There is a need to learn how many are pointing out from different direction, but your appreciation of yourself is still needed, and it will only be more meaningful that will help you.

This is not a project that you need to end there is no end, until you are awake and understand that your success is going to reach the other side, but there are more people who want to reach the other side, but there are more people who want to reach the other shore as long as it is hard to make a limit, even if it is hard to do this without a motivation.

Whatever travel in life is happening, what is happening is that, and you will experience a miracle when you are awake and waiting for a miracle, this is not a good way for you, the real person who can make it hard to avoid people who are looking for you to avoid it.

I am proud of songs are "My Mama" and the national songs in the karaoke, but there are still killings where we are able to travel, but it is clear that we are able to travel at the end of the final resting place, My Friends, I was very clear in the journey of the final destination, My Friends, I, a state of case of the entire universe.

"He / she was full-tempered, he / she was full of the highway for IGAPAMORE by TGAPARK," DID, "My Dr, Paul Anlacan, and she did not feel that her emotions were rejected by her emotions.

Even though there is a smile, the shoulder will be cut off and not make a solution to the problems and do not make a solution anymore from this world to understand the feelings of this world to be happy, not to suffer.

You themselves can do this for yourself.

As long as you are not happy with yourself, all of you can see that the number of years in the end; not the number of years in your life is what is important, instead of your life in this year.

Loving family, good friends, good books, and he can sleep well as well as a good life.

Around 12 glasses of your character each one of us wants attention, good relationship, and difference in life, we can't stop what we can do, it is clear and you can help each other, no matter how hard work can be done here, there will be no consequence.

Ever you don't have an intensive conversation; if a person who takes action, trust, or a word from a person to be naughty, will change your life, but it is your duty to give this only one thing.

The success, any kind of this, is the trophy of just a proper way, to the statue of boards that is through discipline, resolution, meaning, proper fares, and discontentaries to your personality.

And the corruption, violence, laziness, theft, and confusion to know the truth that those who win.

"Are you going to know the order or chaos?" I brought my extraordinary difference? "I told how I feel what I really want?

Your progress is in your hands, you need to know that if you can't help yourself, you will be able to help you, and if you do not have anything to help you, and if you do not have something to help you, and if you do not have any intention to help you, and if you do not have any intention to help you, and if you do not have a sacrifice, you will be able to spend money for each other.

Trust on the decision of the decision is there are many who are avoiding to make mistakes that is why they continue to make mistakes that is why they continue to make mistakes that is why if you continue, you have no questions, you will not have a question, you will have no answer.

Why are I studying in college?

The questions are important, this serves as the map so you can find out what your intentions are, and it is expected that you get to know what others want to obey to what others want to follow but this is the only thing for them.

It became a doctor in medicine but they chose to be contractor who is going to be a lawyer, but you are always in the heart of music, if you can help in a part of your goal, if you can help in a part of your desire, if you will be able to help as part of your desire, if you will be able to help each other, it will be easy to help.

You should answer this: What is your plan to do with your relatives and very important life, as long as we do not have any conscience to get back, and if we know that it is not surprising that most of us do not realize that it is not surprising that most of us will stop all of us.

With the desire to achieve life, it is obvious to live.

The opposite of this is not a beauty, it is very worrisome.
The opposite of the sadness is not a party, it is very busy.
The opposite of the chaos is not peace, it is very rocky.
The opposite of the lack of lack of taste, this is very rocky.
The opposite of an aiman that it is not peace, this is very rocky.
The opposite of grief is not a happiness, it is very busy.
The opposite of the toll fee is not intelligence, this is unreasonable.
.

The Tagubilin needs to be fed up with yourself, don't be afraid of the Buhay of faith that every Buhay would be good, with hope, and trust that you have the ability to make the truth: What the truth is.
Listen to the loneliness that you wake up to IJ!
Watch and hug this All Soul's Day!
Because of this, the most intelligent in every Buhay of our Buhay.
To the short chapter, everybody knows and the reality in your true love when it comes to this world.
The glory of growth.
Taking care of everybody and moving.
The west of IOS and they are going to become beautiful.
That's why it's only another thing that's why I feel bad.
And the future is a symbol of view.
But the Holy Week is the right to be given to.
Each of them can do each other.
Happiness, and each of each day of Pag-asa.
Witness, watch the Holy Week to live!
Because this is the greatest and this is the very good thing for this.
.

Life is like sensitive, you need to take care of each side, and sometimes you think that you cry and become strong with the truth that you have used in life, and this is your personal appearance and becomes strong when the success is achieved by the success of becoming rich in all things.

We are living on what we are receiving, but we can make the life of what we give.

My candle took advantage of the both sides.
This will not finish this day;
However, I, my friends, or even enemies.
This is owned by a martial law and has exported back.
