
Attack on the rights of the indigenous people.

By Soliman, Santos August 22, 2012.

Pyi Mackay of Karangalan Village (Izzy Canillo) - the native citizens from different tribe and community marched towards Mendiola last August 22, we experienced severe attacks on our lives and rights under the administration of President Benigno Aquino III, "we experienced a critical attack from the administration of Aquino in the position," we experienced a critical attack from the government of Aquino in the position.

Malayao has also explained to the indigenous people, especially in mining, energy and security, which was led by the Kultura at the International Day of the World's Day, this is also a chance for the indigenous people to reveal their situation in the whole country.

"Aquino cannot deny that many of the indigenous people have no land, the rights under his leadership," said Malayao.

Based on the protest, it was made out by a cauldron which was driven by Aquino, which according to them, widespread mining and the privatization of the Oplan Tokhang were used to go against their human rights.

"Aquino has no good record for the indigenous people," according to Keddy Tolentino, general secretary of your rights as people are priority and legitimate.

In the record of Kiblawan Police, 507 application to the mining that is connected to 120 27,348 hectares is approved by the search of the exalel, copper, gold and other infrastructures that will affect the 39 tribe.

"The support and direct selling of the course, they will vote for the indigenous people, the indigenous people are giving us their homes, livelihood and identities," said Tolentino.

Executive Order 79, the order of Aquino to mining, supposedly clearly supported by his administration is a clear support of the foreigners in spite of violation of the rights of the indigenous people and the community's rights and the community.

The indigenous people were burned down by Aquino in Mendiola to condemn and show their anger to the Aquino administration.
