PKP, it is estimated that Aquino's plan to open the 1 million hectares of oil companies is open to the mining companies.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
September 31, 2012.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is calling for the Filipino people and Moro who to be united and fight the plan of the Marcos regime, "said the machine of Moro companies in mining," said the indigenous people and the abuse and abuse of the filipino citizens. "

According to the KP, the Aquino administration is taking advantage of its show in relation to the violation of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act (MILF), to double the services of the Philippines based in Manila and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF), to double the entry of political companies in the area where the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) said to spend on its natural resources in the area where the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF).

The KP has released the statement as reaction to the reports that the Department of habeas corpus will be placed in Area 11 which is rich in 85 hectares of land that is rich in alleys and Area-12 hectares of land that is linked to 14,000 kilometers east southeast of Mangaldan, including the part of Less Maroons.

"It has been a long time for the government budget for a long time to gather the potential wealth of the US," said PKP, "said that there are still many people who are lined up by the Philippines which costs $840 billion up to $1 billion pesos" which is in Mindanao.

"The local government budget, which is signed by the giant companies in mining and oil, is the priority of the MILF-Gongon was priority because of the opportunities that were opened for violence and the natural resources of the filipino citizens," said the KP.

"PKP has reminded the MILF to stand for their aspirations in the national decision making themselves and insist on their right to improve one program in the land and the Pambansang Kamao in order to release the majority of poor farmers and the Pambansang Kamao in order to release the majority of the farmers and the national economy."

"The Moro Islamic Liberation Front in their country should not be allowed to fix their country by pretentious people who are only interested in accumulating people and their natural resources of the country and for taking advantage of their cheaper ones," said the KP.

"It is clear that the Aquino administration is being used by the legislative chamber to force the MILF to force their weapon to force their weapon, and taking care of big foreign companies in mining and other major basic commodities in mining and other major capitalists have," said the KP.

"Aquino is still determined that some shouting in the history of the citizens of the Moro brothers where they were able to carry out is a business to defend their ancestors against foreign businessmen and his accomplices in the Philippines."
