
The SBMA was wrong, Subic was really wrong.

There are simple those who are simple, but a lot of example of this is the Subic Bay Film Festival.
We are favorite to visit the private citizens and especially the officials and so that the government now has been dumped twice about it.
They want to pretend to be a seminar, management or haunting, economic Planning or covetousness, and others, who are currently taking advantage of the country's money.
They can only go to their own places but even if they spend hundreds of thousands, or even millions, it's okay to go away, anyway, they do not have money.
It is said that it is the local government of the middle of a fence in Olongapo, in the expensive resort in Subic Bay Fewi-Lakas ng Masang Pilipino Program but politics is the only agreement, according to the report to us by some people in the government himself.
But that is not what we are talking to and this is the truth: Many people, educated or not, male or old, rich or poor, who just call the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority in the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority.
Through the law, R.7227 were made by Subic Bay Development Authority (Special Action Force and SBMA.
The former based on the Senate based on the Americans in Subic Bay Development Assistance center and Special Action Force, Subic Bay Conejero, for short, and the one who owns this is the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority or SBMA, according to R.7227.
That's why when someone said that I will go to the SBMA, that was wrong, because the SBMA did not go to school because it is not a place, throw it.
It can still be known if the office of the SBMA is going to be the office of the SBMA if the right call is right, what is right is, and Ii'll be the truth in Subic Bay Film Festival.
It should also be considered that the Subic Bay Development Authority) is not part of Subic, Zambales, just like the fact that there is a television series of show that live in Subic Film Festival recently.
He is placed on TV 5: Subic, Zambales.
According to the Subic Bay Development Assistance Center, it is not the scope of Zambales, even the Olongapo and Bataan, not also, although a big part of its territory is from the said three.
This is the point: We should not be instruments of those who are guilty.
Only a name, others say yes, but it is still wrong, and, the name is important, since then.
It is hard to get used to what is wrong because if it is used to it, it can worsen.
