Filipino OFWs: Tagubilin was saved, losing.

One of the biggest companies for education is to shoulder the many number of Filipinos in another country for the livelihood of their families, the reason for them to go abroad: Lack of sufficient work in the Philippines.
According to the Department of Labor rules of government, up to 15 million Filipinos are in different countries.
The upcoming end of the second year of the administration of Pres. Benigno Aquino III in the custody, Migrante International was examined the situation of illegal Filipinos in the whole world.
Because of lack of work.
Migrante has discovered that despite the difficulty in another country, the number of Filipinos who went out of the country increased again, it reached 5.2 percent, or an additional 1.23 million Filipinos last year since 2010.
It is said that this will be seen in the data of the government: According to the Department of Labor rules of government, up to 15 million Filipinos who are in another country.
According to Saguisag, the growing number of other countries has a direct connection with the severity of work and opportunity in the Philippines from the record of the National Statistics Office, it was found out that the number of work, from 7 percent in 2010 has increased.
Up to 19.1 percent is called on 19.9 percent in 2010 when it was directly related to the increase in number of various countries, for now, one of four Filipinos have no sufficient work or in position.
There is no clear program for the Aquino administration to attract work in their own country, aside from being abandoned by the government, which is the business construction of the government, which is why it is not surprising that the government is pushing the policy of the study of the Filipinos.
As of now, the Philippines is fourth in the world using his strength (leading China, Mexico and India), which is one of the biggest part of the Philippine Development Assistance 2011, 2016) that is one of the largest part of the Overseas Filipino Workers (OFW) that is one of the largest part of an Overseas Filipino Workers (OFW), compared to the combined or important person in the economy of the country.
It is not a secret that the Philippines is hoping to save the economy of this last 2010, which has reached 8.7 percent of Graft National Producer of the country, which has been coming from the OFWs in the middle of the international economic crisis.
Because of the continuous increase of OFWs, the government is still able to milk them, from the kind of left collection, bills and taxes.
"At OWWA (Overseas Workers Welfare Agency), the government is already earning a more than P5 million every day from 4,500 pesos per day for each day to go abroad," said Connie Bristol, Regalado, chairman of Migrante International Criminal Court.
In their investigation, it will reach to 80-million every day, if the 4,500 worth of pesos that will come out of the country will be spent for a average 20,000 pesos.
Nothing happened to the promise.
During the campaign of a resident of Benigno Aquino III, he said that there was no assurance for the work and protection of their lives and livelihood to the adversary of Aquino in OFWs.
But for Cherry Pie Picache gave birth to the reality, what happened was far from the reality when Aquino took office, "we saw that within two years (with his promises, he became a big joke and even during the past administrations that had an Pambansang Kamao," said Cinyras.
It is the Pambansang Kamao happening to him, or an active enriching traffic industry for their own welfare, one of those pushing for a long-term solution for the land, or distribution and giving rights to the farmers who are free to sell the land, for a long-term solving of poverty in the country.
For Susana, it is far from these proposals that Aquino will implement on this proposal, instead of the economic investment and racketeers, instead of the reforms and strengthening of some of the Lord Almighty who can increase the control of the majority of the Lord.
And while the Labor Law policy will be increased, the administration has been firm in making protection to Filipino workers in another country.
An example of this, Cinyras discovered the hundreds of Filipinos in the country Syria, which is currently in the middle of a bloody and very big problem of the Filipinos trapped in the turmoil there, but the government still cannot meet the repatriation of those who want to go home to the Philippines, according to the client.
The left and right cases of abuse, for the OFWs in the whole world, we recognize that Migrante has passed away from the whole world.
