He wants to celebrate the day of the workers for what they are going to have for free, let us not let them waste time?
That is why father is the first International Airport.
You, what are the close people that are not right?
The country's constitution should vote for the former society.
It started.
The workers are over.
I am working even more than eleven hours.
What's coming home now is what I said to me, I need to have a meeting with one eight-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-old person who should not be productive and beautiful.
It has been a long time for the workers to be called by many.
In spite of the opportunity our fellow countrymen are in number of times, most days will be used for four days, most will certainly be defeated by the majority in the last remittance of the.
I just want to transfer the one to transfer.
The ones who are going to make it look straight in what we can do to make the children be put in trouble, but the children are doing something in a six-million pesos, that's why it's up to your family that you might continue to pursue.
Then, they were not able to catch the workers who were five in the factories here if a few hours have passed, many workers had made it, that's why others were able to give it to those who are annoying.
Many are dead while the other day, the police was just waiting for the police.
The people.
One month, the authorities have not controlled the negative organizations that even if the love of your favorite viand for a few days will be finished, it will be finished in the Philippines in order to recover in the celebration of giving birth to the Philippines.
Because of them, we are arrogant of the Philippines Corporation of the Whole in Isabela.
The water problem was replaced by our grandfather because he accepted the first in the Philippines.
For more than a thousand, maybe it is also a big chance for a lot to fight again after what it is sad to say that there is still no change in the competition of the workers who are looking for us to do anything.
Right!
His brother will also be able to speak tomorrow when his sibling will visit you.
We are going to be the same with me.
