MTPB chief answered about the salary of enforcers (2).

Let us continue the answer of MPTB that can be used by some traffic enforcers.
Manila.
"Before a pastor tried to start his duty, they know that three thousand pesos will be received by them and if they agree with them, they do not have a right to commit suicide or any corruption in their duties and the reason that they are able to extort just because they are receiving a small thing.
They should not go to a mandate if they know that they are only small that they will receive for the first time.
They are working on six hours of service for one day.
This is for the other hours they can find another source of income because they cannot expect the three thousand pesos increase in order for their families to be impossible, that is why the time of their duty is short.
At the point of firing the neighbors who were able to do anything, it depends on the case, because if the sin that was done is not a burden to the office or other units of MTPB) but if there was a heavy sin that they have done, it will immediately be removed from his duty to prove this.
Their commander did not lack in fear for them not to do wrong, but some are really looking for money on the street.
We are not tolerating this, instead, hated.
If our administration has no trust and bail bail because of the corruption he did in his duty, there is a reason for us to remove them from his duty.
MTPB) we even proudly say that there is a big contribution from the treasury of the country and not from the pocket of any employee.
In fact, last October, 2009, the office of P69,161,604.8.
Back to Dy 2010, for an amount of P72,0415,5051, and last year (2011) was P98.454, 92995th.
We know that many were removed from our office due to the cleaning of our ranks of stubborn and making corruption in their duties.
We will not be surprised if our office will be transferred to any accusations that are contrary to the truth.
Probably, all wrong information are given to lily's Calvento Files, which is why this kind of story has been written, perhaps from those affected by the cleaning of our ranks in MTPB.
The management of MTPB) has its height and we continue to clean our ranks especially those who are making corruption and anomalies.
We hope that our office are not condoned to our office are not condoned to the wrong activities that our personnel do.
Thank you very much. "
Maria Napenas on M.
City representative of Heats.
