
Military violated the rights of the civilians in San Narciso, Quezon.

By Kenneth Roland A. Guda.
July 5, 2012.

Areven Albarillo, in the middle of the protest against the Marcos regime in 2008. (King Catoy.
The military are looking for the rebels, those who are helping the residents of Brgy. White House Committee in San Narciso, Quezon to their problems on earth, when they were not immediately found, they fired at the houses.
For sure, the residents of the White House Off that morning last June 30, exactly two years of the administration of Pres. Benigno Aquino III, were attacked by the soldiers of 75th and 85th Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army the barangay.
Seven houses were captured by the initial police, according to witness false investigation of Karuhatan, Southern Tagalog, after they searched the place and immediately found the members of the rebel New People's Army (NPA), shot at the three houses.
According to Glen Malabanan, general secretary of Karylle-ST, they have not yet seen the actual number of those wounded and killed civilians because of the severe presence of the military in the area and fear of the residents, up to the present.
But there was an confirmed report that a young civilian was killed, and the soldiers even burned houses, Malabanan allegedly burned down.
At around 11: 00 in the morning, after the attack in the community, the soldiers were met with the germs of the NPA, according to reports, the shooting reached 30 minutes.
Colonel Bartolome Bacordo, the assistant chief for the 2nd Infantry Division of the Army, that 11 were killed in the encounter yesterday but in the investigation of Karylle-ST, it was found out that other presidentiable were caught before they were killed.
"It was found out from the said result of the fact that the military gave up the remains of the military on the remains (of the germs) by the military forces) by double the corpses of 11 killed members of the NPA, according to Malabanan.
Malabanan also said that there are reports that "the military was paraded in the naked remains of the rebels.
A advisers of different groups in different groups in the southern parts of the southern Quezon were happening last day, said mission in San Narciso when the said incident happened.
Revolt due to lack of justice.
One of the killed was identified as ArAlbarillo, 34 years old, who is pointed by the military as a leader of the said unit of the said group, "with the other militant groups, in the middle of the suspension of the Arroyo administration in the middle of the leaders of the militant opposition in 2008.
It is proven that groups of human rights are considered to be the leader of the militants who are "Southern Tagalog 72.
"We will almost just finish the impeachment complaint against President GMA (Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo), I was shocked when the action that was filed against me and the number of other leaders of different sectors is the case that was filed in Mindoro Oriental, in the video of by the Arroyo administration after he was killed by the Arroyo administration.
General secretary of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) - Albarillo admitted before they are going to join the NPA because of lack of justice.
More than ten years have passed, last April 2002, when the parents of Albarillo was killed under the elements of the military under the forehead of HE, Jovito Palparan in Mindoro Oriental until now, Palparan's parents still has not been hiding.
"To our countrymen, do not worry because we will not lose in your side, we continue to move and fight for our rights and to fight for our rights and to fight for our rights.
Albarillo stayed in the fight against justice, but through participation at the armed fight of the NPA in the southern part of the NPA.
Albarillo was blamed by his former colleagues in Bayan-ST and other leaders of the militants who said that they did not find justice for the current administration who was killed to conduct the jurisdiction of the dead system.
"Ka Arwhether is looking for justice and favored the poor to protest against a decent salary, land, education and other progressive countries, but the justice has been filed in the country," Leo XL yesterday, the current general secretary of Bayan-ST.
Albarillo is set to give to the legislative chamber to bring his remains on this day, July 5, of UP Parish of the Holy Spirit, ice cream.
Meanwhile, Karylle - ST, even the wake of other victims of the murder of San Narciso was put under the harassment of the military.
"The grieving members of San Andres (in Quezon, where the three killed germs are from San Andres (Quezon City where the three killed germs are coming from fear because of an interrogation that the military was doing to those who sympathize with the family that was left, said Malabanan.
Malabanan explained that the shooting incident was said to be a shooting incident, arson and murder of civilians in San Narciso, as well as the murder of those who were caught in the war, just like the germs of the NPA in the said place.
"It was shown by our information that the AFP (Armed Forces of the Philippines) in IHL) is not only the NPA but even civilians, according to Malabanan.
