
Brain!

Being brain powder is the root of the ambush of the New People's Army to Mayora Ruth de Lara Guingona, the wife of former Vice President Francois Hollande Jr., and his companions last Saturday in Misamis Oriental.
Two of the bodyguard of Mrs. Guingona died while the elderly woman himself was wounded in the incident, despite asking for an apology to the communists, the victims were shot at their checkpoint that was why they were carried by bullets by them.
Whatever it is for you to ask for forgiveness, you will no longer return the lives of those who died, why are you going to ask for forgiveness if what you did is right, it is also difficult to accept what you did?
One more thing, you should not remove the road, you are still thinking that your movement is not a violation of the funds for you to gather funds and you should not have happened to gather funding.
Every action is set aside every move of one's request, it is clear on this kind of movement, it is clear on this part of our economy, the armed fight is not timely because the response is wrong, which is why the response is wrong.

It is right that the movement of the communists will strongly condemned the attempt to have the ship of capitalist countries in Tumagay in the said place, but why did they remain silent for the boat of the communists in the said place.
It is noticeable that these communists are only noticeable that only our Chinese national are only focused on and angry when it comes to our countrymen who are everywhere in spite of the abuse of the economy, like what is being shown in front of the US Embassy?
"That's what is said to be held accountable for a shallow condition, it is better for you to plant well with your real public service, it is better that you will help yourself even if you are only able to plant all kinds of books or will surely be able to join you in your hands but will be able to join you in your hands but will be able to get along with you.
If you want to take a bath in a private Starex van, you went to the Infines Subdivision, Barangay Bagong Kalsada, City of Calamba, just near Metro Manila and from here, you are looking forward to the holy Mount Halcon.
