
"AFP, PNoy should order to arrest Palparan.

Macky Macasac and Doren.
February 2, 2012.

Hen, Jovito Palparan in arresting the military forces!
President Benigno Aquino III needs to clarify the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) to arrest and not be helpful to the hiding suspect for violation of human rights identified as retired Hen, Jovito Palparan Jr.
This is the statement of the Human Rights Watch (Humalig), a national group of human rights, after the news being attacked by the military is being hunted by the authorities in relation to the kidnapping of two students in the university of the Philippines in 2006.
The suspected personnel of Palparan in the 7th Infantry Division of the Philippine Army were Karen Emano and Sherrie Underwood, included in June 2006 in Hagonoy, Bulacan.
"President Aquino pointed to the police, the military, of the Armed Forces of Tutok-Tropas.
The group also said that anyone should make it clear that anyone can be liable under the arrest or giving protection to the former general.
The group is also worried that the military might meddle in the process of the judiciary, because the motion of two other accused was transferred to the custody of the military after they surrendered.
In the letter on January 9 of Salas. Leila de Lima of the Department of Justice (DOJ) to Sek-Voltaire Gazmin of the Department of National Defense (DND), De Lima questioned the transfer of the two accused Lieutenant Colonel Felipe Atim, Jr. and Staff Sergeant Eduardo Osurprise io at Fort Bonifacio in Taguig City.
De Lima said that DOJ is not yet given a copy of the order of the court and the military has no initial investigation that they have plans to file a motion to file a motion.
"As said to be the good condition of the government of the government, we was impressed by the Armed Forces of the Philippines, or the Philippine Army as to the Philippine Army as to the Philippine Army as to the Philippine Army as well as if he / she has become a part of the letter of De Lima with Gazmin.
According to Papal son, the DOJ should be active in order to go after all the violation of human rights "Fight IT.
Palparan's supposedly become a symbol of the widespread lack of responsibility of the culprits for the violation of human rights in the Philippines today.
Insult to the relative.
Militant groups of the youth Anakbayan, led the statement of Palparan's lawyer, who was able to tell their remains are the two students, Karen Emano and Sherawat and Sherawat and Shermelyn Benzar.
"Hey, (Jesus) Santos (lawyer of Palparan), the authorities in searching for Palparan, if they are really doing their job," Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
He added that Santos should show up the proof that the two missing students are still alive instead of release statements to the public.
Anakbayan also supported the sentiments of the legal counsel of Emano and Willy Bayola, that if it is true what Santos said, it will prove that Palparan and his fellow accused will sin.
Crisostomo said that the lack of responsibility of the military is worse in their violation of human rights to the citizens, including the students who are going to the countryside to raise the knowledge on the situation of ordinary farmers and people.
The military recently harassed the three students of UP who are conducting the field Work and for their academics in Porac, Pampanga.
"This is what is happening every time the" tanim-uniform "is seen, which they do not need to take responsibility for their crimes.
