
Cory Aquino disappeared.

The "Tuwid na Daan" by President Benigno Aquino III will only start little by little by President Benigno Aquino III since the various anomalies under the previous administration which continues until his management.
People see, civilians and military, all words of President Aquino are doing all words instead of making a step to reach the problem of corruption in the country.
President Noynoy is trying to clean himself and forcing himself to clean his hands from corruption.
But does he know that the people around him are all who experienced money from the public funds?
Even if the relatives, classmates, friends and Kabarilan of PNoy, they are the ones who benefited from its administration, the people who benefited from them will not believe them.
That is why some retired generals and their colleagues are calling for President Noynoy to resign from his duty.
Because they believe that this will bring peace and orderly way to end the scandal.
It is just right to make it in a quiet way because the blood does not need to pour.
PNoy's heart will surely be removed when he goes out of his hole and see that people do not want him anymore.
He will imagine that the "Cory's Magic has gone."
Um!
That the implementation of Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada to the programs that will give discipline is not only for those who are working on the streets but also in his jurisdiction over the Manila City Hall.
For example, the members of the Manila Special Action Force Chief Insp. Bernabe were arrested by the members of the Manila Special Action Force Chief Insp. Bernabe were arrested by the Manila City Hall-Bureau of Norcia who were reported by a Julugan who was reported by a Jularta, of them.
Aranas is positive in Magandang Gabi thyst violet, but he was not filed with a criminal case by the owner of Juliet's roasted pig in Sampaloc because it was found out that he was a friend of the friend of Mrs. Tolentino.
Even if the criminal case was saved, Mayor Erap is still not going to be defeated by the employees of the Manila City Hall in the administrative case.
That is right because of all, Mayor Estrada does not want to be a burden and is lying about his fellow.
Um!
The vendors wish to be investigated by the Manila City Hall, especially the masses, the alleged cost of the residents of CSF, to pay for the payment for the said place.
He said that it is not the same for sale but thousands of pesos are missing in every vendors who are taking the head of sweat in order to earn and live their families.
Who is why the people of CSF should be blamed for the money that is being thrown away everyday to the vendors?
Answer, answer!
