A little burst.
That is why.
That's why we are proud and very much; why do you think that he is in a place.
No.
Yes.
The vehicles, Bulacan, the former president, on the glass with a piece of knife, and so-fog, are his own lives.
They are trying to go crazy there in Manila, what you say is a little bad attitude of the former in EDSA going to the other side which is on the same side which is on the top of some of the company of the Philippines which is part of the political companies that are part of the political companies.
Okay.
I let us go to those who were going to go to the same age, that's why, we can go to school; we might get married, both Moe.
"We are anxious; he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she didn't want me to go back to the former President, he / she said that he / she didn't want me to go back to our former Chairman, she said that he / she didn't want me to go back to our former Chairman, which he / she didn't want me to go back to our former Chairman, he / she didn't want to wait for me to go back to the Philippines, but he / she didn't want to wait for me to go directly to EDSA, but he could wait for me to go back to EDSA, but he could wait for it to go back to EDSA.
Yes, I know that if I will cook for something, I do not want to answer.
You will not be implemented, it is just there, a politician is there.
That's why I am not there for those who are not over and are already being raped.
The man in the morning when the man in the morning of the other day, that he / she left too much; he / she was very close; there was a distance from work that was far from work there in Saudi hours, so we should always see the acquaintances who are quick to travel.
There are many problems that do not have a problem with the former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, we don't know that you are going to talk with you tomorrow the age of coconut milk, I got the one to respect him, so I cannot respect him.
He / she grew up; he / she might go to school; and then he might go there.
Yes, I go out of what we are saying.
Yes, I am here in the trip of Project 8 in Quezon City going to Baguio City to Baguio, where we are close to Munoz, who is near the corner, we went straight to me; we went straight to me, this year-year-old man.
It seems like
In line, he / she was distressed; she cannot play like that, with a debt.
I can now be here when I am near the house, Muñoz.
Let us know if there is a change in life tomorrow.
"We have no idea; we have texted me," do you text something like this, right?
Anthony who is going to go there really is a former president who is going to be the former president in the back of our enemy, we see that there are a lot of people in front of it, that is why they see that there are many people in front of these two months, that is why they have seen the former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
Those who went straight to Navotas were able to go directly to Navotas directly, to look at the Fort Area-budol gang; and to send their education.
One day, there was a Friday order for Anthony to look down; we saw each other; we saw each other.
In the order of Caloocan to go to you, I know that this kind of smell was passed by me, I did not allow me to Adam, to just go straight to me at Fort Bonifacio.
Caloocan in Caloocan first.
It is unlikely to go and milk the New Year.
It can be said that it's because he has an order on what time we can do, it is really gladdening to have a call on it.
Apay.
We are anxious; we are sure that the former president is there with the rich people who might have travel.
They think about it.
According to you, the former President is near the seven o'clock Medical Center when he called the two of the association.
For sure, if I have something to do yes, but what can we say that this is the former president?
Yes, thank you very much; as long as we have to get a former President Gloria there in the end we will not cry.
What are you right now?
Yes, the former president seemed to have been cut off so that he would have been cut off.
Yes, next to the hospital.
He is guarding the police.
It is over but there is still no idea, most prominent members of my family, especially among those who will come from.
