The cut-off of Hala in Cavite has been cut off in Cavite repeatedly after a lot of food in the Agency (IED) that was cut off by his two children were cut off.
That's why it's okay for me to call him at the top.
Of the afternoon.
You know that they will just go back when they say that they will return yesterday at around three o'clock in the morning, there are people who come out on the streets at around three o'clock in the morning there are people who go berserk on the road, they said on the road along with Boy.
Together with the night there is the strength of the extreme love that I have love there.
Your favorite signal is just a little bit here in the office who is with you there is a possibility.
I want to know yes.
We will bring each details on the events now, in the afternoon, you should be given one o'clock in the morning in the morning, you are true that your families are true to know what happened in the life of our generation on two days.
Medicine!
Very kind; he / she was very blurry; the cut off of how much I gave was a huge amount that I gave him a lot and then my godchildren there at night, friends.
You can be able to go home to the Philippines for a long time.
That is why you are going to burn the memory of our memory to the Philippines, "will be ill-tempered about the heart of the Philippines.
Last Sunday.
It's mother.
Covetous, deport; Rayton; and covetousness.
!
But
Voted in.
Okay.
Who?
Okay.
Maybe that will really continue what your most beloved is.
You are really your life, whose life is very small; he's very hard to go in Raon, but of course, we have already heard in Raon, but of course, we have heard that it has already been heard in the cold of the Major-0.
It's been different after they were able to go to school; we are going to go abroad and go abroad.
Say.
You will say that whoever is with you there is not each party that is why she is not able to see the person who has a grudge yes to the person who has a grudge yes.
"That is right, but I am saying it's closed yesterday, when I gave me" I am the same owner of the mountain, can you think that he is the same owner of the mountain so that you can say that he is too much.
Ah, we are okay here because I have classes on Herbert for us to be together especially outside until Wednesday.
That's why we are stupid; we are very clear here, we saw each other, that's why when we saw that you have seen each other at the Heritage Village, there are some of those who live there at the finals, because we know that you are all the ones who love me.
It was eight o'clock in the morning on the morning on the road until three o'clock in the afternoon on the road until three o'clock in the afternoon, because we were not able to go out of a jeepney because we have no one to go to school, because we really do not have a hard time to go to those who need to go to school, but we really need to go to a passenger vehicle to go here in the island.
Possible.
Close.
We are already there.
In Santa Cruz Angelica Panganiban in the house of watching me.
Okay, look at me as a online and I do not want it last night to the people.
You will hear from the heart and complicated things that we hear in the sweat of artists there, I said, I am married with the medicine that we have married, maybe later on, we are together with other people who are working on the television; while we are together with other people who are working on the television series.
Already noticed.
