Bribes that call are bribe.

No matter what the administration of President Benigno Simeon Aquino III does not make any explanation to the members of the Congress before and after the impeachment of the former Chairman Renato Corona, it is a clear bribe.
As said by William Skakel and Juliet is getting rid of her Romeo: "Ang Rose by its own name, Tell,". "
Even if the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) or the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) or the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF), that the only objective is to expect from the debate if what I know is that, the people know if what happened is right or wrong.
What is frustrating, there are a lot of dates of B. S. Aquino III, "Tuwid na Daan".
This is his way, aside from the not really straight path, I will admit that at first, I will admit that at first, I hope that at first, it turns out that when the Marcos regime was intense, it turns out that he was only looking for one or two times by his former teacher.
That's why it is hard for a stone inside the house of glass, that is a lesson that should be guarded by B. Aquino.

There is a heavy accusation against DAP that is why, B. S. Aquino III can be fired from his post because of this, he can be filed with the prosecutor like the tradition with his teacher Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
According to the statement of Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago, because the DAP was not in the general budget, this is illegal and money that can be meddled with the President's DAP, "it is a standard that is not in the DAP that was released by the members of the Congress, especially on the prosecution process.
Let us wait for what will happen next if B. S. Aquino will be impeached because of this issue.

I sympathize with my loved ones for the family of Mister Molina Lacamta of Angeles City who passed away recently, Mister Enrico Lacamta and former journalists of the Philippine Daily Inquirer's released news, Gerald Lacamta.

For the additional information about the issues of the weather, it is a habit to listen to the casually act of caskets at 3: 00 kilometers per hour (9) up to ten o'clock in the evening.
