A tip that 2012, intelligence and awareness?

Intelligence is not enough to know what needs to be done or done, instead, you are awake and aware of what they can do and what you do not need to do.

Two kinds of view is focused on our minds; intelligence and awareness, you can be wise, or if you're lacking in the awareness, you are not important to you, or whatever is important for you, this is what they are waiting for you and the awareness of what is happening to us.

Intelligence is being taken from school and to take a training, while the awareness is learned from your own mistakes, the mistakes of others, and the experience tasted by others, so that it will not be returned again and it will not be repeated again.

"If you are smart, but if you are left short and are not aware of your surroundings; and if you are on the brink of danger, how can you escape and forget about this cheating that we need to stop.

To remain silent and aware of the events in our surroundings, a very kind of attitude is being wise in what you know, you are aware of having a thankful heart, and if we can help to serve your fellowmen, and if we can help to serve your fellowmen, and if we can help them, you will change a big change in life.

There is no need for evidence to believe it, just try it, and directly witness and experience this quick change.

A simple report, there are a few minutes of 2012 (only dip, it would be good for you to start the first month of this year and reflect on the first month of this year, and let them know that everything is true to others; and let us know everything; that is the cunning, everyone knows.

But those who are awake are the only ones who do not understand what results of this.

Remember that the quality of your life is used to be held today by the quality of your mind.

2, in your life, this is a gift to you as long as you are awake, the hope and opportunities is only for your hands, so that it will be true!

3 - instead of giving attention to those who are not in your life, give importance and make the people around you.

4 - your health is a priority of your health, this can't be blessed even if it can be blessed even if this is an important vehicle in our journey.

When she wakes up in the morning, I should be thankful is a glory.

Carefully ask yourself: "How can I serve many people?" 7-At before sleeping at night, "8-M, you'll ask himself not to sleep in your consciousness and order to get sick, and to when she woke up, you directly will be done.

9-minded which you are doing is not a job but it is the one who created the way for those following you.

10 - until you are happy with what you are doing, you are not working even if this is a hobby to you, and your salary is just a bonus.

Do you think that this is a big chance to prove no matter how your talent and skill is your traits?

It is 12-M if you have a problem, this is just a challenge to try whatever that you have.

Those who are wise in criticizing, judge, judge and complain, remain sleeping and convicted in dealing with others what kind of personality is on him.

13 to fulfill promises that you made in order to hammer, and even to yourself.

14-year-old people who come to your life have a reason and objective, so that the set thing to happen to you is complete, in the end you will give you.

15 years of things that you need to do, you need to put you first.

Don't waste your important hours that you do not have any value to do and has no priority.

17-year-old when you get fear and doubt, this is a proof that you do not have interest in what you are doing.

Don't take care of whatever you are envious of you.

Everything you can can be lively and everything will just be easy.

20 - until you are persevering, you will certainly attain food.

There are many popular and intelligent that they are doing big, there is a complication, dangerous, and violent things and situations are only awake and there is only one who goes up and pass the path.

21 to look for your goal, stupid, and real goals in life, this is your real mission, as to why you are going to be in this world.

22-December is a part of jokes and become commendable. This is an effective cure for the illness that's caused by the illness.

23-small actions towards making noises, when the result is a big result, it will be a big result of the end.
It will be a 24-close friend to all your hard work in your real hard work and avoid those who does not care at you so that it will not end.

25-don't forget to read these; the final farewell to Gat Jose Rizal, and Pag-love for the country of Gat Andres Bonifacio.

26 - with the fast flow of technology, we would be lost in our being humane.

27 - if your exercises and prayers are not met, you have forgotten about your nightmare and worry; you are answering and talking to them in order to enter them.

Avoid 28 years avoid any things, situation, and opportunity.

Because it will cause trouble to them.

29-Lagmay be the door of the room and pray that only one of them only has the ability to coordinate with our Great God.

Remember that those great ideas and dreams are deceived and put a hole on the meantime; before this is implemented.

31, there will be no more thing that started a huge amount, and in the continuous movement, it is slowly being amazed.

We should always remember that there is still no effect on how to give birth to critics and to become critical.

33 years to do the right thing is not a problem if you know the right thing, this is what you are challenging you.

34, do not be afraid to ask if there is stupidity if it is better than to create a need to increase.

No one can know that you are smart when you are asleep.

He had no difference from studying and was able to finish his studies; if he did not use it.

36-there are many who can make it brilliant, however, their temple are missing, and the proper strategy for those to avoid mistakes, and worse thing, they do not care about the welfare of others.

37, on this day, it is better to make a wrong fare increase instead of any increase of guide, especially if your life is at stake, if ever you have survived.

38 - if you have lost your destination, you will learn to find the map.

You act 39, because if not.

40 - you will notice her sleep, who is talking while sleeping, and she's arguing with you while sleeping, and it is hard to sleep while she is very hard to sleep while being silent.

It can be felt like 41-shirts and smile and think that this is your time to be able to make yourself happy now because this day is the only gift for you.

42, if you are a mother of good manners that you have seen, it only happens that age and imitate -- this is for your attitude.

The intelligent people are benefiting from the number of smartest in those who are intelligent and intelligent that the mistakes were avoided by evildoers, and if you are aware, you will easily understand the difference of being impulsive and proud of others.

For 43 years, your loved ones, friends, and co-workers have a great love for all the time, your present attention and appreciation for them.

44-CBN, if you want to walk, try to grant all of their wishes and what you want.

45 because if you do not love yourself, no one will love you.
.
46, because those things you have already have, what you can give.

47 years if you can do it.
From the bed on the 25th of the morning, you have a 60 seconds to prepare your mind, body, emotions, and the piration of those who will be driven by those who will be driven by those who will be freed, but for those who are ready.

48 to maintain a relationship with your loved ones, call on the phone, and send a greeting if there is an occasion or not because the time has passed, it will not be back again.

49, make a habit of writing the events at the whole afternoon, your life is a good novels, you are the only one to be able to write to your family and the following generation.

There are more people who are saying that I am stupid, instead of calling me wise in mind.

51, it is better for me to know more than I have a learn that there is no meaning and damages.

The small things that you have not given attention, at the end are the big things in your life and do not pay attention to it; the kid that you have seen now is a maiden or a young man, who, in a short time, will get married, and live with their own family.

Take advantage of it up to you, because in one day, you will look up to him.

Whatever you treat your child, he will also be treated with you.

Be careful, because in one day, he has the fares to choose if you take care of or put in an orphanage in your old age.

54 should remain smiling even if you don't know that it is giving your own mother and let your mind be maintained to be lively all the time.

55 years if those who are fighting about it will have no meaning, it will be better to stop the ingredients and threats to make sure that the intention is good and the result to free words.

56-many people do not know that he is making a calm speech and cause the violent words to be careful in terms of sentences, because he is on top of your happiness and skill.

57 on a Merry Christmas, in case you are just a great day, or in the next day; because you have only received a show and reading it today.

58-on this day, your life will open up a lot of door for a long time, and will create an extraordinary opportunity to maintain the mind that we will achieve our blessings.

59, you are honest, trusted, and caring, your love is what happens to you so that your aspirations will continue and what you desire will continue.

60 years if you want your money to be right, make sure that the spent and income are in the right way or balance to make sure that your knowledge is right and sufficient in choosing which is needed, and perfect.

A 61-year-old life does not change each other, different and fragrance of different kinds of things that will happen to you, but in facing the mirror, you will notice that there is an end of your face that will continue to change.

62 if you will not knock on the door, ask for an additional information or help, nothing will happen to you, that is why I am busy in the field where you will be diligent in the field of this.

63-ask because there is a need to avoid mistakes.

64-October. You can get the attention and trust of others? It is easy to take care of yourself and care if you do not take care of you to live in the mountain because there, no one will take care of you to get along with the depression of your attitude.

65 and just smiled.

It can be 66 years sometimes the brutal call here is a pair of leeches and barbells as well as their cousins and who are close to the plunderer and their hands are close to their hands.

67 - until you believe that you have a heart of loving and in power of positive mind, you have noticed that there is a rich chance that your mind is rich in finances and abundant life?

68-because the rich would continue to become rich and the poor continue to advise poverty because it is part of intelligence and awareness.

A 69-mindedness of a Chinese, "small, income is small, I have a big mind, it is big, if you are your life, do not fool me, because you are stupid, no money!"

It is really true that this is true and there is no doubt in what he is living in, always lined up in anything, and always waiting for all times.

Watch the people for every day they are doing it and do not rush you, "he said!"

Watch the songs of Ka Freddie Aguilar to include his songs his songs.

72-M, if you are really loving with a common Filipinos, just start saving and listen to YouTube that our countrymen who were able to catch up and listen to YouTube.

73-IBIG, sadness, and it is a proof that this is just a proof, you are still alive, like the battery that will be used to make noise and a meaningful hobby that you have to face.

74-mindedness of many water in the whole afternoon, this is a big help for you to be saved from any illness, this is the one to eat and have it cleaned all levels inside your body.

Don't you know that you need to cure yourself in every day, not just when you are sick as well as the garden, you are taking care of your own body and your life is at stake, and your life is at stake?

Wow, why is it possible that you will just blindly agree or any important occasions are planning and being prepared for what we should do to our lives, in good plan and prepare for it?

77-Ang happiness is a serious responsibility for us.

This depends on our opportunities and hope in life, if this is not in our goal, there is no doubt that the continue to live will not be done, it is sure that we will come and we will achieve it.

78 is needed to act and do this, it will never be seen in the depths of our hearts to be smart and awake in events; and the happiness that you desire will voluntarily return to improve yourself.

79-don't take an immediate action by a person.

You will stop and know what you can learn from her before being judgemental, even if you know what you should do, it is an important reason to be patient.

80-do not go through with the worry of others; give them a chance to enter their own suffering instead of having fun and rest, to have a strength to face your own worry.

81-minded the mind is open about finances and relationships if these will happen again, whatever thing is going to happen, even if this is not desired or has a hidden plan, you will only get annoyed at other day.

Narrow-minded are being focused on stupid moments of wasted moments.

You will be able to change your life with assurance and you will be happy and happy in your goal and actions.

83, if you want to get the attention and time of a person, they will gather and clarify that you will persevere on you, instead, you will keep your goal and you will achieve your goal and you will achieve it.

84) if you are already awake, you cannot stop going to stop and wait for you to look after your success if your success is effective.

85-in hard work, this is always a way if you are doing something wrong and we have to have something wrong and are really hardworking, there is still no hardworking, always doing something in the result of two kinds of answers.

86-May 21 and it is not easy to stop from entering school or in the office so it is good, but there is someone who can help or help in the company?

85 years have started when your eyes are opened, and we are aware of it now!

What are you waiting for?
