Starting Del Christmas 3 in Marikina City has started.

The city government of Marikina has its own annual celebration because it is a big occasion for us.
According to Noli Mirrian, chief of Mayor's Office, it was about the 29-year-old Charlesetta Williams and the Freedom Park in the morning where there is an attempt to give a replacement for the children who are going to turn around to the offices, there are some who are going to make a sample of the children going to the offices, there is also a person who will be able to make a flyer that will be given to the physical form of Halloween.
Halloween parties have passed on five o'clock in the afternoon, after they voted for those who will join the contests for the youth, old people and their bicycles.
The park will start at the Islamic Park, right in Shou Avenue, left behind by J.P. Rizal, straight to Preso or Del Monte City, which is certain that everything will be approved by everyone.
Different office and departments have their own preparation to become a colorful and full celebration because we want to celebrate Christmas eve.
On the other side, let us not forget the serious and fervent prayer of our departed loved ones today.
We visited their graves with sincere respect, "we should not make it as a party with the graves, but it is also not acceptable if we do something that is going to be happy but there is a part of fervent prayer but there is a part of fervent prayer but there is a part of fervent prayer.
Even a simple candle and offered flowers, together with prayer is enough for the commemoration of the day of the dead.
Mayor Del R. de Guzman and other officials of Marikina are going to greet our fellow muslims in their celebration of Eid Al-Adha (equivalent of Sacdice), that we are commemorating the severe challenge of the Lord with April 19 when he ordered to make his own child a sacrifice.
But in the end, it was also taken back and instead of a sheep, they were carried away by a sheep.
Just like what was done by Abrile, there are also an animal but it is being given to friends and other people especially the poor as sacrifice, this is a symbol of blessing from all the blessings received from Allah.
Even if we are christians to consider the challenge that was given to Abrile and the lesson caused by a happy Eid Al-Adha for all of us.
