Justice for the snake who is a student is enough for the education given to UP.

By P2,500.
February 9, 2012.

Connie very weak (right), the mother of the victim Lordee, is the mother of the students and other members of the community of UP, against the violence in the university and for the enough budget of university.
Different sectors in the community of the Philippines were supported by a student who was bitten and robbed last February 1 in the office of the University Regional Council (USC).
A mass and candle was offered by friends, school, fellow activists, and relatives of very weak at the city hall last February 8: 00 in the evening.
Lordee weak, student in political Science and activists to UP were still in critical condition at Capitol Medical Center in Quezon City.
Different groups and individuals have attended the mass as support of Lordei and his family, especially the mother and sibling who attended this.
According to the mother of the victim, Connie, a big help is being given by the community of UP so that they will be given a strength to protect them from critical condition.
The mother reported that Lordei was said to have been woken up by the doctors at Capitol Medical Center for six months to be full of debt if not, the student might eventually be returned to a student.
"I know what my daughter is fighting for, and I support him," said Connie, regarding her son with Lordei, who said to have faith and thirsty for knowledge when he was young.
"We are both of Lordee.
In the program, Renato Reyes Jr., the general secretary of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) and Samahang Basketbol ng Masang Pilipino (LFS) of songs for LordeO) of songs.
After the program, they held a candle was held in front of Vinzons Hall to condemn the crime that happened and was calling for an answer to those who are guilty of the crime.
Meanwhile, Kilos Pronto believes that a Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan, who is leading the campaign against the budget of UP and sectors of education in the national budget of the government, the tax-budget of UP have a direct effect on the lack of security in the Pacific Ocean.
"Particularly in UP, similar to the other State Universities and Colleges (SUCs), the lack of physical and modern security in the university is tainted by the simultaneous people in the budget of the government of Noynoy Aquino," stated by Kilos Pronto.
It is a big percentage of the legislative chamber that should be under the Priority Development Assistance Fund (MawE) and staff Services (PS), which is the source of funds of the university for the security of the community and community.
"(P) Ara Mina in this year, it fell from the 82-million worth of P69-M for security (SUCs)," the group said.
The Model Shop is said to have told the Democratic Front of UP (Station-UP), the security guards of UP including by Lordei, which is only 234 guards, from UP Diliman, from the former pay 2 last year.
Kilos Pronto said that even though the administration of UP had a few modern equipment for some facilities in a few facilities in the Pacific Ocean, the physical presence of the guards will not be enough, because of the budget.
In the call of articles, the suspect, Dan Mar Vicencio, 38 years old, who was caught by the guard in Vinzons Hall after the crime was recovered from her bag that had two laptop, and an ice pick.
The authorities continue to search for the companions of Vicencio who escaped after the crime.
