
Edwin Lacierda will interfere with the SBMA.

It has been twenty years that the operation of Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority, administrator of Subic Bay Development Authority), in spite of a long time lead by the media from the time of former President Fidel V. Ramos.
This is the truth: When expenses is bigger compared to income and are still submerged in debt, the call there are lost.
It was only last 2012 when the SBMA started to earn under Chairman and Administrator Roberto V. Garcia.
But the good move of the SBMA is in danger in the meddling of the fake gods in Malacañang.
Just like many agencies of the government, the people of Malacañang are doing what to milk the SBMA where the children are being stabbed to their own very bitter mother-law.
Until now that is the trend that is why Presidential Spokesman Edwin Lacierda said that it is possible to change the homeowner of the SBMA back even though its performance is good.
It can also be said that if the record is good for him but the record of the child of Lacierda is complicated, he might really not be known because there was just a few villain in the SBMA board.
Danny Enriquez who wants to be angry with Manny Enriquez has a connection with the dissolution of the National Intelligence and Investigation Bureau (EIIB) and it did not last long, in many times the agency entered, including the Presidential Anti-Illegal Drugs Group and there are still many others that he will hit.
According to Garcia, the administration of Garcia is following what Lacierda said and what will suffer is the businesses that are going to be the residents of Olongapo, Zambales and Bataan with big hope in the said agency.
This is the truth: President Aquino should call Secretary Lacierda on the alleged meddling of.
In terms of.
Since then on the other hand, those from Olongapo, Zambales and Bataan were behind their monitoring, save and improvement of the Subic Development Assistance Center after the Americans were left behind by the Americans when the government came close to the government, based on the truth!
