History of PETIDs and the pictures taken from her.

Be careful about the truth that history is going back and forth.
In other words, "history of laughter."
This is related to the rottenness of the government that becomes the cause of its downfall.
Is there a few administrations of the Philippines that fell down because of the rottenness or corruption that the people can see?
Because the people, Bro, will accept the administration.
It is possible that through the election or in love.
It's a show.
All the administration is being taken off to the first.
Be resourceful, Bro, what they show to the people.
There is the cleaning of the government against thieves and abusive.
Her twin is the good service.
But as long as long, the administration is slowly rotten.
There are those who were found new thieves and abusive, aside from the former, this is normal.
Because the government is fierce, the public service is slowly being destroyed.
Town.
Of course, the people are angry.
They are able to give them a good government but in the end, it is also rotten.
What is bad, there are more worse than what they replaced.
If the change of officials of the country or administration be taken to the election, it is only about the reasons of patience after being called.
But if the administration is directly carried away by the government, public service and towns, that is where the citizens are overflowing in the streets to change without any time when they get away.
Experience in history.
If the citizens becomes hardworking with the call to overthrow the administration not in the ballot but on the streets, like EDSA, there is a need to think of thieves and abusive in the government.
We witness all of these events because these have happened in our time.
That is why, our experiences on this issue are already alive.
And this should not be ignored.
Thieves!
The people are mad at thieves in the government.
Especially that the value of their pocket will come out billion pesos.
Because billions, are being said now that thieves are the cause of lack of lack or lack of service in the government.
This is true because the government is not able to move and serve the government if the funds will be used.
For example, how can the government make a good road, school, hospital, pier, airport, warehouse of rice and business projects if they prioritize stealing of funds here instead of taking advantage of the projects?
Hungry, getting sick.
It's most painful that there is a result of the implementation of the funds of the government to have a widespread hunger, disease, lack of employment and education, the worsening crime and general downfall of the economy of the country.
If there is a heavy crime, the criminals are everywhere in the stomach, illness and lack of adequate attention and income from the people, that's why the feet of the people going to EDSA or Luneta are already in a problem.
When the businessmen have already felt the financial loss, they are also making noise and they cannot help those who kidnapped their pockets of the country's budget, particularly Luneta.
For many times, they are still under the flow of change for change.
It is perfect for justice.
Even if the people would not like it, it depends on justice.
"Is it that if crooks are going to be imprisoned and abusive, you will not only get along well with the jails.
And your relatives, friends, party mates and allies of the tongue can be brought to other responsibility.
Even if the people will not want the initiative to go out in the end, thieves and abusive those who use to steal more than your enemies in politics until 2016 and 2022.
2022 needs to be sold because long in the administration of the President, vice president and the first senator in the election.
For the long time to save, example, to powerful crooks, the people know that their hunger, illness and suffering will last.
And they do not want to happen to them and their children and grandchildren are also victims.
Taking her pictures.
Let us remember, Bro, that if the people can't see anything from a administration, "the pictures taken by the people are telling the deep meaning of the people.
There is no need for an explanation, paguita Pictures, they said.
Now is the pictures of Senate President Franklin Drilon and even President Noynoy Aquino with his family, who is the center of plunder case.
They need to explain to the people, together with the other people from the Palace who are involved with Napoles.
"Isn't it, those with Anthony Taberna and Jerry Baja?
