
It was buried in oblivion.

Until now, it is still discussed at the Bureau of Customs, the execution of one Joey, who was sentenced to a ill-mannered case.
Marchier was one of those who are said to be a member of the powerful SeCircle which is moving to BOC during the time of Gloria Arroyo.
Many of these, including the said "God" are charged with the Office of the Ombudsman because of corruption.
One of them is, on the forehead of BOC on the forehead of the BOC on his case, his case was ill-tempered because of an unknown wealth.
But before GMA retire, the Ombudsman Merceditas Gutierrez was released by the mandate which was called by Midnight Cabinet.
Marchier was one of some personalities who was erased from the effects of the Midnight Cabinet of Gutierrez who is said to be illegal.
The said Midnight Cabinet filed a controversy because it was questioned by Iloilo Congressman Neil Armstrong and others.
Gutierrez's order was on top of the earlier command of Court of Appeals and was found out that, which was not allowed to be returned to BOC.
Also because of the Midnight Cabinet, which was returned to Aguana.
The result - nothing happened to the anger of Binoe.
In the statement made by Gutierrez, which was obvious, it was clearly seen - according to Examination of the former Ombudsman.
"They were not only identified as Avon Panggaga, Congressman Teddy Casino and Cong. Neri Colmenares who was confused by the severity of Marcherness.
Even the officials and employees of BOC are asking if the order of Gutierrez was right to insult and bring back, who, who was on the position, was right.
If in BOC on the theme, the theme of, on, which seems to be in the current Ombudsman, is, he has been buried in oblivion.
There was also a report that, which, who was born in a relationship with a Catholic Church official, so he's just confident about his position.
If the gossip is true, Oh, it is a bad sign.
Maybe it is said that the mask of President Noynoy has been removed.
If this happened, he was not able to stop himself, maybe the Palace might have no idea that the President did not have any idea.
We should monitor the Palace official.
