That is the belief of cheating.

There have been a lot of athy of our savings now about the rottenness of the elections in 2013, the result is not exposed with the anomalous problems, and the outcome is the results of all these: A bigger cheating, along with the possibility of a few pre-page that the result is.
The problem in the elections that cannot be implemented, however, especially in the case that was used in the Philippines, it can't be found out where the cheating was held and benefited from different kinds of fraud, Hong Kong Rep. Teddy Casi単o, who served as a senator and the anomalous candidates?
It can be said that the number of the recovered votes of the appointed candidates with Casi単o was questionable, only received by 34.3 million pesos, it was only received from the vote being obtained from him in running as a senator in the election case 2010, 3.5 million of the votes while Liza Maza, 3.5 million.
Is this the belief of Casi単o's campaign period on the basis of the campaign of the two, he has not been ready for his campaign for a candidate for presidency, and he received a wide support, along with the endorsement of many famous personalities.
After the elections that 2010, Propaganda of Miriam Coronel, the yellow party of politics, is the group of Ocampo and Maza, with the total votes of the Liberal Party (3.2 million), the total votes of the said partylist (3.2 million.
Again, is it possible that this is the belief of many agencies that are known by many because of the continuous control of the issues of many of the people, that is why their ranks of colonies and supporters have added to the new votes and supporters from different sectors of society.
It can be recalled that an incident happened last October 2012 when President Noynoy Aquino visited New Zealand, he asked about the accusations of human rights to the Philippines, he was asked about the accusations of human rights to the Philippines, but he is just waiting for his candidate for a senator, Casi単o.
There is a motive in the office of the Marcos regime, to just let the people look after each other, to make it look like they have no ability to make it look like they do not have no ability to make it look like there is no ability to make it look like this, which is the basis of the strengthening of the Virgin Mary, and this is the most important thing in the result, it seems that it can be eaten by salt.
Aside from that the actual arrangement of the opposition against the people who are going to be pushed, like before the constitutional solution was allowed to be filed against the country by foreign soldiers, even if it is not being asked, it will continue to serve the Makati Business Club and American troops that will be filed in the country.
Can it be said that the imposed candidates are centered on the upcoming election 2013?
