
Crisis in education under PNoy, was condemned by the youth.

By P2,500.
June 23, 2012.

The youth warned for an additional budget for education and against the program K + 12 in the foot of Mendiola, close to Malacanang, on June 19) (P2,500.
The youth were welcomed by every year every year of school that the government has not been fixed.
The teacher has not yet enough, from the peak of the school and the continuous increase of tuition and other bills as well, the Aquino administration seems to receive the crisis which is considered to be a problem instead of being considered a problem instead of a solution.
High and dirty.
In the expected result of the price of education, the youth were not surprised with the approval of the Commission on Higher Education in more than 200 private sector for more than 200 private sector in the academic year 2012, 2013, and there is still no control of the price hike for the government.
In state Universities (Colleges (SUCs), the administration was pushed to increase other bills or if it is implemented by the government groups, just like what happened in the university of the Philippines, in the appearance implemented by the changes in the university of the Philippines, in the appearance implemented by the changes in the university of the Philippines, in the form implemented by the changes in the university.
In the said program, in Braclang A, the students of UP are going to pay for P5 million pesos.
Meanwhile, inside the Philippines (PUP), the bills were increased to the agricultural sector for those who will enter the first year of almost 500 pesos.
"It should not be implemented yet, but it is surprising that they were implemented by the Board of Reagents) in exchange for payment from the First Family.
According to Isnain, general secretary of the National Liberation Front of the Philippines, this kind of increase is the effect of the wage increase in education that are pushing the taxes to increase the lack in budget.
"The increase of bills in public utility vehicles is the cause of the private university to increase their tuition," said by Vilma Santos, vice-President for Luzon of College was Edusma's Office of the Philippines.
K12, a permanent solution became a solution.
In the opening of the year, the program K + 12 has been controversial that has been controversial for two years and Bgy.
It was immediately opposed by the Saligang Batas-list and ACT-list-list of this program for the lack of the government for its readiness to implementation it.
"It does not mean that this new boss does not mean that this should not be focused on the academic, one Factor," that should be more effective to address the low pressure problem of education, "stated by constitution Representative Raymond Palino.
In 2012, there is a lack of 132,483 teachers and public schools, there are also lack of Enterovirus-80s, and 153 7,666 water, according to ACT, Representative Antonio Tinio.
"Eight of every ten youth are all out of school, and we are worried that it will worsen the desperate implementation of K + 12 of the Aquino administration," according to Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
In the implementation of K + 12, the agricultural sector is spreading in the budget of our society such as education, and according to the Aquino administration, they agree to the Aquino administration that they want to walk from the Aquino administration which is given to the Aquino administration for giving up the international institutions for the Aquino administration.
"The Aquino administration is to share to the sale of the future of the youth," added Crisostomo.
Negligence and fight.
Santos also explained to CEGP, that the national government needs to assert the national government that education should be enough.
According to Pagasa, this past year, Aquino just pulled out two 38.8 billion pesos, or around 6% of the United Nations EpiPen), according to the recommendation of the United Nations Eye Movement (ALS), it will only reach 7.1 billion pesos.
"The reason why the economy of the Philippines can make people through foreign investment and exhibited that the economy of the Philippines will continue to implementation the implementation of this policy in education in order to make the strength of the Filipino workers and prevail in the middle of the foreign countries," the end of Crisostomo.
The youth on June 26 in Mendiola continued to take a conversation with a conversation with the youth and teachers in Malacanang on the issue of K + 12, this is part of the preparation for the third State of the Nation Address (SONA) of Aquino.
