
Jessica Sanchez, American Idol and whose aspirations will be emotional in the country.

By Rolando Nana, May 20, 2012.

Record of a Filipina Mexican American finalist in American Idol continues.

Well, 37, who was waiting for a long time, is also able to go to the fineness of the American Idol, a Filipina, or a Filipina who was from a Filipina Filipina in her, but Jessica Sanchez, from the beginning, only since he / she was a favorite leader of judges.

It was even used for a point to save him by three judges in order for him to be saved by government judges, sex, sex, and most of all, the average wage increase in the entire world, and in fact, the average wage increase in the entire world is better, and in fact, the average wage increase in the entire world is better.

That's why it's here that we are as a stayes of the audience favorite gift of the US, who are amazed that the country is living on YouTube that is being watched on YouTube that is being watched on YouTube that is being watched on YouTube that is being watched over on YouTube that's why I am being watched over by a long-year-old brother-in-law, which can be watched over by a long-year-old girl, that will be buried in a long time and buried.

Sanchez insisted on the story of the Priority Development Assistance Center of Talk n Hayman, Arnel Pineda, and Charice lolly, and it might be more than the victory of Miss Universe or London, even more than a Nobel Privacy Law, even a Nobel Privacy Law, a lot is sure of fame and wealthy, many will look up.

The problem with this is that Sanchez is not a Filipina, maybe it's only one of his followers, maybe it's just a long time before it was resolved in the form that he needs to take the vice-year-old and fame in other countries.

Any new television series will be imposed on the background of their contestant, this is the new reason for him to become a background that will create a background that will create their own face (equivalent) to their contestant.

Because what was stated by the said show is, especially at the end of this, the viewers and the people will judge himself through text and online voting who will be exceptional, who will be able to talk about, the one who will talk to, the one who will be able to succeed.

Asking for the audience is very good because they also consider their income from having a text message of the votes, even in the Philippines, we are sure that the Miss Philippines can vote, we are sure that Sanchez has a big chance to win.

My problem with this is the primary popular holiest part in the television that is why it is possible that there is a big chance to win in a program in order to raise a colony of human colony on television, and its wings are bigger than the viewers.

Also for the political, economists, and even the country's condition, and for more powerful countries, we have already accepted our suffering, dialing a financial condition, you save us in our good condition, and we should save us in our good condition.

This is the shy guide in the jurisdiction of the country of the US and Japan, the basis is the basis of the US to help us in Scarborough Shoal, and it can be expected that in the US, the President of the country can be recognized as the president of the country, the president of the country, which is the president of the country, to be the president of the country.

We want Sanchez to win because we see the image of being innocent, decent, decent, decent, creative, and Filipino.

It is just a coincidence, the energy is because we already admitted to his fellowmen, and when I take care of it, the image of our own recognition is a nuisance, and is considered as a description of what we are trapped.
