
Mar Roxas is being ruined.

Currently the names of Janet Lim-Napoles are involved with a gunshot because of the anomaly he is facing especially about the anomaly in taking it by the Priority Development Assistance Fund of the congressmen and senators.
But what is being destroyed in this issue is Interior and Local Government secretary Mar Roxas because no matter what explanation the secretary says about the alleged Nueva Vizcaya, many of the Filipinos do not believe that given a special treatment on the so-called pork barrel scam.
If the people will not lose in the minds of the people, it is certain that Roxas has a very small chance when he went straight to the presidential election in 2016.
Maybe it is also right now that Secretary Mar Roxas should show that their camp is decided to reveal the truth on this issue and it is also right that the people involved in this scandal would be punished.
The name of Secretary Mar is also included because as a leader of the DILG, the entire Philippine National Police, who is the one responsible for Napoles.
Maybe as early as now, Roxas should make the steps in order to clean his name because we know that many of the Filipinos are good of the issues involving politicians.
Although the name of Roxas is not directly involved with Napoles, it is only right that the secretary should show that they are not giving the Philippines as the sole queen of the pork barrel scam.
There are those who are saying that the treatment given to Napoles is only right so that if he face the trial, he will ask all the things related to the misuse of money which can be beneficial for the people that are beneficial for the people.
We are hoping that the Department of Justice will not stop to determine all those who are involved in this scandal so that all those who are involved in it will be punished so that the politicians who are fond of defending the people's money will be punished.
We are sure that the people will watch over the results of this scandal and if proven guilty, involved in this will surely be expected in the next elections.
