We will go back to us even if your friends are not able to go with them for the rich businessmen who are the poor businessmen who are very beautiful to treat them, which is why our countrymen just have a number of nine people.
That is the good night to you here on what I know is the start.
So what they are together with each other.
Whatever we are doing, we are just doing that, like a big thing like a while ago?
You are not the people, as if they have seen something like that, they have seen something like that, so they have to go to each other, so we should have to show to the people that they have not just needed to show to the people.
That's why isn't it right?
Really a nuisance.
We were caught up with today.
Profit.
You are living there but it can be done.
"It's just easy for me to play the story that is why you really know, that we can text me," we can see that we're just like a shack that we have seen, "we say," we can see that we have been nervous, right? "We say that you are really nervous, right?
Do you talk to the group that are only alive.
It's because you can see the cellphone covetousness.
Holding and Zambales are doing something like that, at the center of Hala; Taucuses.
Maybe because of what you need to talk to English that's why it's good that you are going to go here to us, we will not go here to us, because it's not for the banks who will withdraw, but it seems that for the victims of April Two, I might help with what you are doing.
In Facebook, this is the eighty of the five-month-old maid, so that they are okay because they are happy that they are happy in our house.
It is a bit how long we are four hours.
Our fellow Filipinos, we have seen for the interview of the children of Two people.
We are proud; as long as you know, do you know why even your grades are going to become complicated.
No.
It's as if he / she is very pitiful; he / she is very weak.
Vangie, Vangie, is as if we are just thinking that we are just thinking about it like you and your father, we are really not really worried about what happened in the next year; we are really not aware of what happened in the next year; we are really not aware of what happened in the next year, both are not really happy.
What you are going to do is what you will do to you the food that you do to you.
Then.
There are many children who are at around three to three or children because we have done only four passports.
Afternoon, four kilos of Boy.
So they are asking you that there are only people who are happy about what time we always say what night.
We just stopped having a new time so as if they saw each other, they seem to have been able to go out that they seem to have been missing for two months so that we didn't know that we are getting sick, that's why you didn't know that you are doing this.
You should do it.
No matter the fourth speaker, you are immediately happy with the emotion that I have left when we have heard that there are many actors, who are really an actor, what is really an actor, which is really an actress.
It was eleven o'clock.
Okay.
They do not allow anyone to laugh at it.
This is one of our countrymen who are alive now on the T-L HQ.
