
The DTI is taking a hold-up and hold-up to the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office.

Luis Jalandoni.
The administrators of DepEd Needas to our panel.
February 12, 2012.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (NDFP) will lead the holdup of his post to arrest the staff.

Neanglement of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) was impressed by the two incidents of robbery and hold-up to the Islamic Freedom Fighters and Nihonggo, they are protected by Joint Task Force (BTAC) that they are protected from the peace talks by the GSU-NDFP).

On the evening of February 9, 2013, the suspect was riding a jeep at Miss Rose Tumesmari and the perpetrators shot him with his bag and bag that was threatened by the culprits, his cellphone and UPP).

At that night, Mister Rey Cgame Casamiz said that their house was robbed after they went home when they went home, the lock of the door of their house was robbed after they went home, his laptop was stolen, and an old Usahay, together with some of the money.

Atty. Rachel Fernandez was found out in the legal Philippine Amusement of NDFP, who entered his house and stole his laptop, and USB, 2012 while he was in the burial of Atty. Romeo Capulong, full support of NDFP members.

There are signs that this kind of action is related to the people related to the peace talks by the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office while it seems that this is a case of robbery, that is why it is possible that this scenario is happening in the robbery of the Usahay, which is why there is no more amount.

It is the scope of Atty. Rachel because, Mister Rey Cgame Casacapin, of Joint Task Agreement on Human Rights) because they were able to go to the peace talks by Galindez could be exposed to the public several times when they were able to go out of the peace talks by GSU-NDFP) in the peace talks.

It is the obligation of the Supreme Court to make sure that the people who are protected by JAdik-G will not be put under the peace talks which is proven to be given protection to the people involved in the peace talks which will prove that the peace talks will push through to face the peace talks in order to face the root of the armed arguments.

We encourage your questions, commentary or recommendation to be able to reach the NDFP International Information Office in the:

The address:
It is very easy to be part of 50 pesos.
3513, aids.
The Netherlands.
9: + 31 30 to 2330.
Email: NDF-Xs, Yuan, 44A; shrimp, or soup.
