Muños admits in the copy of the unique Lapian ng mga Artista sa.

A hot afternoon is being offered by fans and supporters to Bienvenido Meca, National Bureau of Sining for the 16th Independence Day, which is also a hot recognition given by his fellow writers, and actors, which is the model of the unique celebrity, in the university of the Philippines in Diliman, Quezon City last April 15.
On the stairs of Palma's stairs, "Ka Bien" will be met by his relatives and friends from different sectors and arts which was first met by Joel Lamangan and Gaming Corporation, while they were cruising at the station of the Intertropical Convergence Zone that offered his birthday.
Upon arriving at the stairs of the building, he was met by the X-ray of Production. Carmencement (Izzy Canillo) and full of music from the "first time," from the dams "of Ka Bien."
RNC and Los Indiana and Los Indiana, Bravos, in the next said station in entering the building of Palma's, was laid down and was beaten-out by Boy Abunda, and was seventeen years old.
One piece of povidone iodine was offered by Crown Regency Residences, which did not push through with pronounce, Nenita, and national president of Jhonny, Nenita, of Kilusang Mayo Uno, Rodel Mesa.

After a video that the Munting media and Thea is prepared for, even the haunting of Barangay Dalnac and Rep. Antonio Tinio of ACT-party-list so that one Laurel was made of copper which is made of copper.

It can be considered by Raul Funoff, an instructor and writers, who was approached by the organization in the Philippines to make the second time in the history of the Philippines, which is currently the second time in the history of the Philippines, which became the second time in the history of the Philippines, which became the first time in an actress who was earlier at Francisco Street.
"As an instructor, I am chosen by them because it is also my friends, they are also an actor," Sanga-off, which became a part of the events in the decades of 70.
This is also one of those who offered Gng. Lorna Lay-Reyes to Ka Bien, "Bien," Bien, "Bonifacio Ilagan and filled with music of Luciano Letti.

In his speech, he maintained the movement of action "so that the change in our society will happen, so those who are under the top are on top."

"Hopefully, this day is to serve as the face of a true society, true democracy," answer to the audience and actors who are part of the arts for him.
It was said that the Philippine National Police (Orchannels and UP Diliman were asked to build a colorful and meaningful offer of arts for the unique seesaw of arts.
