Son of congressman, Anti-ER did Liza! By Allan Diangco, August 7, 2016.
In the x-ness, the PR of 21-year-old Police Officer Miguel Lopez, the eldest child of Negros Occidental Congressman Albee Benico, who is the host of the Game changer, C-C.
Now that it is the season of show that Javi is ready to host his father, so Cong. Albee, said that his work is wrong because they are two of them.
According to him, having a long time, he will pass it to the show of Javi, Natangtze according to 6-year-old young man, he has not received any piece of morality from show.
In the cness, he is slowly comfortable in carrying the host and to cover her.
Acting cute, who told us that he is a good host of his father, but old school.
The millennials need to be like him so that the age of their age is also to watch a show.
On the Xavier High School, Javi is high school and in Santa Clara, he is at fault.
I am competing before to go with Matteo Guidicelli and Marlon Sefree.
When it was 10 or 11 years old, he became the host of the Sports Complex in 1923 with three other sports like him.
Javi is being linked to the Kapuso star Jazz and Recana, they only met a friend.
They already went out and he will post in Twitter about his pictures of Together.
According to the young man, they know that they're just fooling around that they're just fooling us before, "and the father and son can talk to them.
And with fun runs of Javi for the Youth, Negros Occidental, the nose of GMA star is going to go.
"They said, Javi said, but there was no courtship before she ignores all the character of Jazz, she is happy because the reaction of fans is okay because it seems that they were watering the two of them.
Javi is not able to see Jazz in the Kapuso afternoon way of soap that is a liar.
According to the young man, she might be jealous if the Jazz is guilty, but he made up and said that he has accepted it because it is an actor Jazz and part of his work.
There is also a Kapamilya star, Javi, who is Liza Soberano, he said, the beauty is Liza's beauty and is considered to be followed by her in social media.
He / she says he / she was wearing a towel, he admitted it.
They have not yet approved by Liza, that what she knew is Enrique Gil.
Buyo, in Chance, she wants to know Liza and courtship if possible.
According to him, he should not be swayed by them.
The young man who went to showbiz said that he was able to guard him in a play in school in America that his name was selling a van or a OFW who was a OFW.
The Father and Hang team of Cong. Albee and Javi is watched in Game changer Street, 9: 30 PM (with 1: 30 million) in ABS-CBN News Channel.
