
Cibac partylist Rep. Bolalin and U2 Health Office.

Congratulations!

Cibac Partylist Rep. Sherwin Tugna believes that the law is about to amend the law in exchange.
According to Representative Tugna, not only the officials of the government will be liable if there will be something that will happen, which should also be the ones who will build.
Tugna believes that the case will be strong that will prove the acceptance of the "condition of a official if one official will testify?
But if even if he chose to insult, will it be given to the court that he gave a "situation?"
Even if there are other witnesses or a CCTV that will prove that he was handed money, when it comes to court, he might say that he has paid debt!
As a result, it is going to be a nuisance, especially if he / she won't come out, he will not reveal himself.
Which is why Tugna wants to lessen the gravity that would be lessened, give a big "reward" instead of the beating, whoever gives importance.
To think twice of an employee who has accepted because it is possible to think that he is just making a hold-up.
The head, Representative Tugna, who was placed by the Lord, was not able to fly to hats.
That should be used as well in thinking, especially if I am considered a little bit.
Entice the President.
The texter was asking if it is certain that there is something happening "in" U2 health Club "which is at the corner of Macapagal Avenue, Parañaque City.
He wants to get out of salt that I am not sure of the information given to me.
Tangere, judicial oy, my informant is weakening while they are talking to me!
So if DOH wants to make sure that there are no diseases, and the DOJ and DSWD that there are no cases of "human shields particularly inside U2, why is it not investigated?
Only one thing is to make it clear, we are not against the operation of U2.
In my opinion, it is sure that there is no disease, no disease and legal are done within the U2, we are happy.
Entice the President.
RESalas.
09152,03 / 09098992775.
I am going to eat 10 kilometers per hour.
