Why should not name those who committed suicide?

Thank you for a nap, let us know all of his name.
Just the morning of Friday (March 15), the news that a student in the university of the Philippines (UP) Manila was slowly spread because of the allegedly lack of payment for the tuition fee.
All sorts of stories, each of the speculation that in spite of a limited information on that day, did not hesitate to notice the names but the face of those who committed suicide, as well as the face of the who committed suicide.
Did she ask permission from the parents of the one who committed suicide, if the answer is not clear, the parents of the student who committed suicide is in the right mind, is the parents of the student who committed suicide, especially in the situation that his child just died?
It is better to remember one's principle about the late words that can be shown on two words if it is possible to consider the effect of immediate action of the victim, someone who committed suicide and the opinion of any negative statements against the one who committed suicide, according to his left family.
If the public cannot stop the name, you will be taken cared of by the dignity not only of the one who committed suicide but by the whole family, if she can support the highest standard of your Joe Burgos, the important lesson in the tragedy will be achieved.
But where is the standard of your Joe Burgos to make the personal life of someone who has committed suicide just coming to the point that her character is weak and she said that she has a mental problem which is why she thought that she has a mental problem which is why she thought that she has a mental problem.
Because of this kind of treatment on the issue of the took place, there was a strange perspective, when the public could not stop himself, and why he just needed to stop himself in the time of reflect, just go back to a school if she just borrowed money from the rich classmates, just to finish her studies, like me! "
Like you, like you, like you, it's as if you're only focused on the three point, you are only focused on three point when you are the same, you have the same time, and because you are both from the same age, you will have the same style, and it is clear that you are only one of the things you've experienced and the same university that you have experienced only one thing.
It's not you but him, but he himself should focus on the news, first of all, it is not right to focus on his personal life because it is not appropriate to express the statement from the loved ones because they need to give space to grieve.
The place when they will be brought to the information, not by the drama.
The meaningful thing that you should keep up, the deeper topic like suicide, should be spreading in a complicated topic like suicide, it is just right to scrutinize the examination of the incident.
This is more than a high-called official of UP in a press conference, the real situation that the government is going to fight for money, especially the funds given by the government to education, especially the funds that should be allocated for the education of the poor students.
He did not commit suicide but they are still alive but in political situation, if there is a picture of the widespread poverty, even if there is a picture of the widespread poverty even if he was still alive, the public needs to remind them.
When saying that the one who committed suicide is a martyr anymore because he is only one of the many victims of the political order to stop what he / she did to stop himself when he / she was the only one who knew, nothing else!
With the number of these cases, hopefully there will not be no one to take the three suggestions of the former before, do not report to the incident of suicide except for what happened last March 15, not to focus on the details of the personal life of the people who committed suicide because this is more important to the civic works.
Hopefully the Joe ta will be united in the report of information that are more important to protect the level of course, not the giving of names and face to protect the level of drama.
