The question of the cybercrime law is now being questioned.

While the oral argument led to the Supreme Court on January 15, the gathering are increasing in order to clarify the Constitutional Commission (equivalent to the Constitution) of Republic Act 10175 or cybercrime in the Saligang Batas of 2012.
In a low temperature in the University of the Philippines-Diliman, Harry Roque Jr., lawyer, an expert in the Constitutional law and one of the five lawyers, which should be considered a lot of question in the violation of RA 10,175.
On the oral argument of the Supreme Court, Roque said to discuss the Article 4C (4) of RA 10175, regarding the declaration of the online libel case in the said agements, Roque said to tell why said articles flooded.
For example, according to him, it is very hard to say how a person has a bad intention in what he has written on the internet, Roque said that, in general, he might be a ill will, "will be held in," will be held in terms or putting on what he wants to say.
"If you are mad at that person, even if it is true what you are saying, you will surely be punished with libel, he added," said Roque, "said Roque.
In the issue of cylinder tube, the lawyer said that he plans not to take action, and instead, he will just show the pictures being thrown away, he said it was a joke.
"What I will say, is the problem here, who will tell this picture that it's naked and this next picture is not done," said Roque.
Again, there is no clear standard for the law - and it is likely that it will be equal to abuse, especially those in power and rich.
Strategy in court.
Roque also said that they will make a lawyer to prolong its temporary restraining order (TRO) until the court has a resolution or decision.
"After the TRO for a TRO, they can file a TRO, or file a case, an ordinary citizens because of the implementation of this law, the institution is not going to move," Roque said, that it seems that the citizens would not move to join protests.
Meanwhile, the attention of JJ Dilaw, one of the five lawyers, which is one of the five lawyer, the Department of Justice Renato, the data of the Department of Justice, which is just based on the complaint or the suspicion that the said person was doing is illegal.
It is possible that those in power are likely to be abused, and those close to them, the said power given by RA 10175 in the authorities.
Aside from this, Devera due to the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) and the Philippine National Police (PNP) even has no search warrant.
"There is a need to question when will they go to school, when what they are going to take a check is, no matter how many things they are going to get it," said Devera due to the Saligang Batas to put the Saligang Batas to the constitution.
However, Diyaryo ng Pilipinas said it was the amendment of Congress to collect traffic data to the NBI and PNP without a court order.
This is only one of those who seem to send the Congress to push for, while different groups and sectors are pushing for a long time.
Call for the move.
Meanwhile, different sectors are ready to respond to the call action against cybercrime law.
Last Friday, January 11, different groups of youth have started the protest in front of the Supreme Court last January 14 in the afternoon, they will start a vigil in said place.
According to Caano, Arguides, who is a member of the University of the Philippines, "The cybercrime law, the arrival of the city administration of the city administration of (Pres. Benigno Aquino III, behind bars, the serving the interest of their aim, to the US, the Youth,"
Vencer Crisostomo, the national chairman of JPE, said Black Nazarene Protest of the Supreme Court, said that the death penalty in the freedom of speech in the country will continue if the implementation of RA 10175 will continue.
Crisostomo is the call of Crisostomo: Wearing a black online line, to school, school-up-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M-M, let us show the fight in "CyMartial Law" of Aquino. "
The recommendation of Commercial er "Union (CPU), aside from putting a black candidate who will take pictures on social communications, just like Facebook, they can also get rid of this website as a protest against cybercrime law.
It was said by Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, who should fill the day of January 15 to activities and after lunch.
"" Let us send their lawyers "to the Supreme Court, the sudden income of support, said Reyes.
They should not leave the protest, because in this way, our rights will be taken cared for - in the time that the government knows it.
