The statements are sure, yesterday, I said to give them the trust in the province to be distressed as if they are doing it.
And for Ate who is Bing.
"We are anxious, two twenty-nine pesos, more than ten-nine pesos, what do you say, they might have told him why he is not asking for an impeachment, but what I was saying suddenly came up but what I was saying.
We were able to comment; he / she has lost faith in the 'Kin system only for PNoy who was able to go back to PNoy.
It would be recalled that the arrival of rice should be closed this Saturday, while the arrival of rice on Saturday, he / she said that he is going to talk to a branch of dinner, that is why he is saying that he is being discussed, that is why he is not joking with those who say to his acquaintances in the community.
He knows how to make a case on what he can do; that's why I seem to be true that I am true.
I am here in Information Office to those who are planning to be the vice Corona who is not really from the government that are not from the government which are under the private sector he said in the private place, he said in the bank that has something to do with the bank.
You cannot tell him that it is okay to say yes to Dodo.
It is possible to use evidence.
That's why it's only Putatan, that's why he became president judges for an impeachment case that was immediately given to the government.
I will be taught to come from what I remember, I am full; most important, but I am important that we will stay here in the law, whether it depends on the law, it depends on the law that I am going to stay there, instead, you will depend on the law that I am going to trust.
No trust has no trust in this kind of constitution.
Some of our countrymen might believe.
So what is right now is for a long time while you are going to save money now.
We will go back, isn't it that before, I have been able to go home last night, that I have money to look at, whose viand is the viand of his viand.
There are some clothes I can see.
It's a good opportunity for him to say.
That is why all National Capital will walk even if I do not have anything yet.
I was decided to have decided on him and it would be better if we are not here at night.
Who are really talking now, save for other people who are better than him.
Ryan, according to him, he / she said that his / her mouth is not from his life for all the time he went out from the office.
