Island of Ligation.

Mary Joy Viado.

"SDU30 for the meantime," the drama of our visit to Masinloc, Zambales this past Sunday.
Even if you have been visited by a few community I have been able to visit this Holy Week, my yearning for each other is still not missing every time we travel, there is always a need to set it aside.
For a moment to support our goal in the visit of Masinloc, where there is an additional plant in planting, which is said to be the cause of electricity in the area.
From far away, it was just looking out that a big plant was immediately put in the edge of a cauldron which was built on the side of the sea.
We first visited Barangay Bani PNP, the area owned by the plant and directly affected by it, but the P39 million tax received by the barangay every year has a bad effect of the plant.
Based on the statement of some residents, they did not pay attention to the first bad effects of the plant, and only the cheap bills that they want, however, as time passes by, the bad effects on the sea, just a little by fish, and even the harvest of mango.
In addition to this, the greater love for their electricity is estimated to be the "Fish Kill" in their area which is why some fishermen lost their livelihood, like Mister Robert, who is taking a livelihood.
After the interview of the residents and members of the barangay, we went to our neighboring barangay and went straight to the island of San Salvador, and went straight to the island of San Salvador.
It was quiet in the island, only the wave and leaves of the trees are heard, while not far from being a part of the house, we went to the house of Mother Edna and for some of her relatives in the island.
We are entertained by different stories of the residents, family, love, and most of all, the discussion about the plant and the effect of this in their lives.
Even if the island is far from the plant, the residents are worried that their usual living, clean and clear water, a prosperous and clear water, the source of throwing stones at least where you will not fail.
In our whole afternoon in the island, I also met a child several times with their names - Jt Carlo, Milk queen, Angela Maire, Joweelyn Jumilla, Joker and Rondy.
Before they were together in the afternoon, we left the island because our trip back to Manila is still long.
But aside from taking a gathering in the community and interview with some residents, we also have done to swim in the sea for a few hours as a few hours for them to be able to escape.
We last visit in the community today.
