
What I want, go to.

"What I want," said Senator Juan Ponce Enrile, in his re-election campaign. "
If Mister Enrile wants to serve the country, maybe the impeachment court should just make a decision to remove Chief Justice Renato Corona from his post.
In that way, we should really be in favor and have a Chief Justice that is not tainted with the accusations of corruption.
Because of the allegations of corruption, Corona is not able to resign from now that he does not want to resign from position.
And if that is what will happen, I think we can also say that what we want is for Enrile to be famous.
Many are aware of Enrile during the time of Marcos, many are afraid of Enrile because he is very powerful.
But the wind has changed last February 25 or Pad when Enrile was held in launching a camara, which even joined the former military chief of staff, general Fidel V. Ramos.
Enrile was almost the president of the Philippines but after the EDSA Revolution, Cory Aquino was imprisoned and Cory Aquino was imprisoned in an accusation that there was no law in the law.
The next president of the republic of Ramos is that they are not accustomed to each other in the funeral.
Enrile's fate was really elusive but like in the first time he was only a child outside which caused him to have a severe financial status since childhood, Enrile fought.
Cory Aquino was not able to lose his popularity, but Enrile was still the protagonist because aside from the Senate President, he was captured by the Senate Supreme Court.
If ever Corona will be touched, what would be of the fate of Enrile?
In my opinion, the anger for Enrile will return to Enrile if there is a guilty in the government being addicted to Corona.
On the other hand, if there are many who became addicted to Corona, the prestigious ge of Enrile might come back and love him by the whole country.
The ball is already at you, Gino-Enrile, you will take a shot on the ball because you might get ahead by the pro-Corona virus, or it is time to get out for a shooting of the ball.
Yes, there is no need for the immediate death of Calaguas Et al, the name of Corona is already destroyed and he is no longer being given justice as a justice.
Take a shot in the ball, Mister Enrile, to end the country and be able to go out.
