Cooperate in Filipino towns in India!

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) declared that, along with all the revolutionary force of the Philippines on July 2013 as the month of the cooperation of the Philippines on July 1, we will be forgiven our highest award in the heroes of India in July 1.

The PKP is calling for the whole group of this, to all the Pizarro and citizens who are part of its leadership to conduct a activity in the moon of July so that he will be raised to the constricted streets of the world of July.

The branches of the Liberal, the units of BHB) those who were carried by the revolutionary movement of the masses and departments of the SEA Games that will give one or a few days of activities in the month of July in order to express the cooperation and the filipino masses to express the cooperation and the filipino masses to express the cooperation and the filipino community in India.

The launch of the month of cooperation of the Philippines in the Witness Protection Program in India is causing the PKP, for a week of cooperation which has been done by NPA Party of India (Maire) or CPi-M last April 22-M last April 22-M last April 22-M last April 22) last April 22.

In spite of the Christmas and national race that is decided, the Filipino people in India and the Philippines have a lot of abuse and most of all, the Filipino people in India and the Philippines are both headed by the communists who are both attending the kind of sweat.

They are both pushing for a democratic interest of farmers and national mines that will roll up the land against illegal drugs, students, students, students, students, students, women and other under democratic sectors.

The Ci-M-M of the People's Liberation Front in the Philippines), like the PKP, is also leading the Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB) in the Philippines, which is part of the widespread support in the land of the citizens and the construction of widespread support, PREA and Botchok in the field of armed struggle.

Fellow towns in India and the Philippines are facing the brutal campaign of the domination and widespread violations of the US Embassy and the Oplan Galugad operation which is focused on the Value-Added Tax which is focused on the Intertropical Convergence Zone that is focused on the undiplomatic remarks of the masses.

They are going to be fired from the violent protest in India and the Philippines as "terrorists, but they cannot stop the advancement of the citizens in India and Philippines, they were not able to stop the growth of the citizens in India and the Philippines, they were able to stop the growth of the citizens in India and the Philippines, they were able to stop the growth of the citizens in India and the Philippines.

I will want to fix the revolutionary movement of the Indian and Filipino people who have a wide-graft case to push the interest of the common people in India and the Philippines to push the interest of the country in India and the Philippines to push through the destruction of abuse and abuse of the citizens of our neighboring countries in India and nearby countries.

The PKP has praise the CPi-M and all the revolutionary force of India in the path of Filipino people in India, the citizens of the world are hoping to change the improvement of the citizens of the world, such as the need to change the implementation of the people of the world, such as the demolition of the revolution in China and Russia.

The Filipino people look at the complete success of the Honor Code for their desire to achieve triumph in their own town, and to the armed citizens of the world to make a stand against the Pambansang Kamao and launch a revolution.
