Marian Rivera, better than those who agree with By Alwin, July 29, 2016.
Glaiza de Castro is a villain in Tempo of Wife, the Korean drama that made a Filipino soap operation, which is why she and Marian Rivera were drinking.
Though almost four years August 22, Glaiza Rivera's mother is already a mother in Encantadia.
However, I was able to make the wonder where her Marian's career is very short, because she's back to a mother that's why she became a mother-in-time queen of Marimar, mother, Rivera and Nadine Samonte.
It is scary to think that "his former lover de Castro, her son, is now his son and star as the antagonist as the antagonist as the antagonist as the antagonist as the antagonist of Marian?
When Dr Zulla also became an expert in Encantadia, at the original honor, the an award was an award by the former actress Sunshine Dizon, Iza Calzado, Karylle and Diana Zubiri.
On the side of the so-time beauty queen, we can be counted among the blindfolded TV Awards held and nominated, can we say that Marian has become subservient to La Zoster or Bajo in OPLAN League?
Calm down, which is much better when she is more than four years more than four who are so arrogant to go out.
He / she was wearing.
How is the weakness of her Yan with Yan?
Even if there are some who say that the run of its runs, there are also suspects who are close to the air.
It is said that Kris Aquino has not helped a lot in order to hit his suspension of the administration, even if it can be said that it has been sorry that he is not different, he is still the one who will take advantage of it.
The question, DID of powers, the welfare of the Philippines-seven network, is he prepared for the Talk n host?
Would he just study how the proper behavior towards the visitors?
DID lasted for the training as a short trip to become a famous TV host?
DoE is Talk n a bureaucracy.
How is the program?

D?
The former Talk n is really flourished in what uttered, that they should know the forwarded from at Tempo, which is a score of Talk n Work.
There are a lot of people who take care of Rivera.
There is a looming crisis which is always the super test of the company if Taw or their insurance will be the one to turn on it.
To be aware, the loyal Kapuso actress, who chose to clean the laundry, laundry, is settled, going to the market, mix the fish and dialing the neighbors to watch their house instead of watching the show of Marian.
He / she was wearing.
There are also some 'plans of Marian Rivera to be a pet dog, domestic helper, domestic helper, domestic helper, Zia, and Dingdong Dantes and Dingdong Dantes and Dingdong Dantes and Dingdong Dantes and Dingdong Dantes.
He / she was laid down by Chambers (WHO), that's why the admiration of the balist and the people who is questionable is widespread in her, because they could steal with shouting for Her and applaud him.
It is delightful to Cetiquette, Dorina Pentrante of Kerry, he will let a glitter of the love of Jose Sixto, he will let a glitter in his heart to take care of Dong, Zia, and their own children.
If it is true that she has plans to do this, I will be able to do something like this.
In the cts of Her, the Commission on Her) has an assurance for an assurance that it will be an obstacle at the Her Office (Her), this will be taken back to Her er center.
And "the center he is" at that age, is Oher, a native center who was grossed out with an ice cream.
Marian bars (Sep. 24), it should be recalled that it is just right at 1pm to Little, his showbiz-list-list of Her, which is very high.
Whatever the fts of him / her, he / she was able to go back to him / her, which can be spoken to, that's when he / she went to school, and then she was surprised that everything was wrong.
