Is Lim or Erap?

Like the movie, Mayor Fred Lim and former President Joseph Estrada are popular for the mayor of Manila.
Because as early as now it is the theme of the media and even in gathering the fight against two giant politicians.
Who among Dawty Harry and Asiana Salonga is the ones who will be the city of Manila, only the time will say.
In the popularity, "the two are not too different, Lim is known in the field of public service, like Erap.
It was first known as the police that Lim became the general, while Erap was very popular because of a tornado.
The government's high-sensitive office of the government has been holding a lot of years that has been long for a few decades.
No one to push them, like who among Lim and Erap should be the Manila mayor because of the experience in service.
Lim became the secretary of the Department of Interior and Local Government and became director of the National Bureau of Investigation.
Before the two high-ranking officials, Lim took care of many positions in the police, one of them is the NCRPO.
Lim became a mayor and until now, he was still a mayor of Manila and became a senator, like Erap who became a senator and mayor of San Juan.
Due to the severity of the popularity, became the vice president and won as President in 1998, but it did not last because he was defeated by the former People Power Plant.
The only difference between them - Lim is a native of Manila and has been used for a long time in the city while Erap is an expert in San Juan.
This is only Manila because of the effects of buying a house in Santa Mesa to fulfill his plan to run as Manila mayor in the coming election.
If only possible, there is no one to choose from and for the mayor of Manila, but that is not the fate of the law.
We should be the one to be elected, according to the law, who among Lim and Erap, "the Manilenyos in choosing their mayor are stupid.
What we are saying, they should vote what is deserving to be the mayor of Manila this coming May 2013 election.
The only fear of some of the mayor we talked to, his buddies in Kabayan, maybe if he lost in Manila, maybe if he lost in Manila, maybe Erap and there will be a candidate for the mayor.
