38th Metro Manila Film Festival Philippines will be exported in the box office of the 38th Metro Manila Film Festival.

The past 2012 Metro Manila Film Festival Philippines has too much scandal for the cases of awards and asking from the box office of the officials who are the contestants in the box office.
Eight are included in the first time of the feast of the Filipino movie every December while three years have passed when it was launched by the New Walis "for those considered to be a verification while they are all the same movies.
However, five are included in the New Wtch but it is being implied that one week before Christmas, after eight movies are corrected.
Prior to 8: 00 in January, 2013, the release of eight movies which include "womb (Thy Womb)" of Chappelle, "Aaahhmm," Zanjoe), "Mayanjoe)" of Quaquiña. "" Quaquiña. "
"Before Christmas, from 18 to 24 years of December, Armando" Bing "Lao has made the suspension of the cinemas the" tanim-bala "

The award will be submitted to the exceptional opportunity because the power of the every publication of the box office is washed away.
The "tanim-coloured house is leading in the box office of the Magic while the root of the awards from the winning movie was everywhere.
But why is it that the people inside and outside the showbiz are not interested about those who are leading the box office in the New Walis while there are also officials who are financial problems in the cinemas?
Is this because the authorities already know that there is no certainty and big in the New Wtch?
Are the MMFotoplay.
Why don't you help the MMFlintshire that will sell the New Wtch in putting the announcement of them on television, radio, newspapers, and salt and other took advantage?
Why don't they allocate money for the amount that he woke up?
Because if the giant militant group will also help the New Wtch that the products are selling, it is certain that there are also many viewers of them.
Even if there is a high price of commercials in the television station, if the budget will just go on the promotion of the New Walled, you will achieve one of the promises of the film to reflect the public.
But it is not the priority of MFFPP is the selling of heavy traffic in New Wtch because the Magic is currently busy with the Magic.
Waste.
It will also come from the government - and the MMFist is under the government - the success of movies.

It is only focused on the Magic 8, a bigger percentage of the MMFFF) and the cooperation of big production, which is included in the number of main production, and be moved due to the number of crooks in the television station.
A movie is also a movie, New Wtch and this is a reflection of the arguments of schools in the community who are going to fight interest and idea for their own sake, usually, to the few.
If possible, don't be called the New Wtch in the movies under this but just a movie.
Even if it can be said that the use of names and doors of the New Wonderland has been used for a long time for them to just call all the movies from "Enteng Kabisote" up to the issue of justice for Armando Lao.

Mike Feria has a suggestion, also known in the call of Maegalibis, Jr., a doctor who is based in San Francisco, California but continues to promote the Filipino film.
Mike was the original founder of the respected Standard Lunch Program (Ysrael) that started in the legislative chamber.
Feria is also previously members of the accused and is believed to be Manunuri ng Masang Pilipino (MPP).
According to Maire, it is time to remove the MMFullido and transfer to the private group to walk it.
As of now, its ehek has to be avoided, it can be avoided that the result of the possible result in the implementation of calamity, including other aspect of celebration, will be avoided.

Why did not let the MMFist leave the MMFist because the Urian has a strong credibility?
Or is it only in Yoyo, which is also covered by credibility as time passes by?
These kinds of organization should be run for activities in showbiz including the desire of movies.
Waking up in philosophy is philosophy in films which is why there is hope to progress and take care of the industry of movies for supporting the people.
