The outline of love.

Mary Joy Viado.

The straight line of those who are in the rally will be destroyed when militant groups and police force tried to escape from those who are going to attack in the barb that the police are going to escape.
Hechanova Junior. the police are wearing helmets, carrying a helmet, and, not far, the tension rises when the tension rises when there was a stones of stone and broken bottle.
That night, in the news that happened in the television, the riot happened between the police and the militant groups, who are aware of the angle of the camera who were intentionally being harassed by activists as chaotic and violent, from real stories like a neglected story.
Head!
One day before launching an rally, different organizations are busy in preparation of their pro-Friends that will be held accountable in Batasan.
The leaders are reminding their members to wear a red-shirt and do not forget his partner and plaza, which seems to be done by everyone in the past night.
It was seven o'clock in the next day when some protesters are already waiting for the arrival of other organizations which are just waiting for the wide ranks of protesters.
The ranks are wide and long, especially in a big social gathering like the State of the Nation Address (SONA) of the President.
Usually seen in the ranks of organizations from different sectors, workers, students, students, skillful and many others, whether rich or poor, are only one voice of all the contestants in the rally.
Aside from the plaza, different call of the citizens will try hard to cry, the capital of those who lost their voices from the shouting of their voices, the message of the call, and some comments in the government.
Same with the clings of the fist, they will run together in running, drinking while walking, and sometimes, with jokes and laughter.
!
Before the aliens were presented, it was revealed that the group contestants are going to lay down, ten-up and each ranks to fit in half of the road.
There is a popular news about the rally - there is a popular way for the rally - there are noisy and reason for the slow movement of traffic, it is said to be a lack of respect for themselves and for his fellowmen.
"It is true that the rally will not be busy, but its value is not only for those who are fighting here," said Alvin changed, members of the Center for Nationalist Alliance, who has been attending the SONA of Bayan from 2007.
In addition to this is the instruments used for the call of the citizens and so that the number of those who are hiding in real condition of the Filipinos will be lessened.
There is a question that the rally will research based on the event that occurred and the farmers are always in front of the farmers, biggest sectors of the country, after this is the workers up to the poorest sector of the youth.
"Aksyon Ngayon" Tuwid na Daan, the person who will be the first to judge and farmer, is the most powerful society and is going to be the best sector of the society, "said that.
Meanwhile, the leaders have not needed to be in front of the ranks because this is just being done every time the wish of a took place, Michael Non, member of League of Filipino seafarers, UP Diliman, should not be in front of the ranks.
"What is in front is a line of people who are disciplined, not easy to marry, and ready to protect the those behind," he added.
There are also "alter" of the police to ensure the safety of those who are involved, especially the youth who are there in order to ensure that no one will get separated from the ranks, the co-system is doing, where every one has work of doing everything to go.
It can be seen that your partner will be seen in front of the side or side of the ranks to let the advocacy you are fighting for.
Not all people are joining the rally - because of fear, lack of time or not, lack of interest - the citizens continue to listen to them to listen to their call.
Barbells.
The group is going to get through a long time before reaching the final destination of their rally which will be held in the annual culture and speech from the leaders of each sector.
Some of the stories are going to share with the different organizations that are going to attack and listen to the Eye Movement (trapo), who are going to act or in personal experiences of the farmers, who are going to do and other sectors which are included in those who attended.
The violence that they are experiencing in the hands of their employers, the owners of the land that they earn, and even in the military, are featured in their stories about the lack of government in giving way to the government.
It can be seen in front of a truck that will serve as stage and where there will be a Pinoy culture in the form of singing, marble, or father-Top Rank which is also based on the problems faced by their group.
But in the length of the length of classes, they need to Lam, a big truck that placed the barbells!
Even though those who are going to attack are the standard for permission to get closer to Batasan, the authorities are considered as a big threat to the government's idea that it is as if the government is expecting a huge threat.
But even if the government tries to challenge the citizens, every year, the tired and SONA of the Bayan - it is not mind the tired, heat, and danger, especially that in exchange of their call to President, he is just pretending to see the people's request for a long time.
