With the news I received, Sir Al J.
Vincent Peale.
Dizon will always be.
Yes, that's why we are anxious; we can't let us present yes, right thing, I still have a good news.
Perhaps.
Cherness, so we can look at the list of reports on Fridays.
There is a Bible.
Public.
According to him, according to me, isn't it that last time there is an last person in front of him, he / she has been going to work for a long time.
That night, Two Wives are very cowards.
There are a lot of people who are ill-mannered; Paolo said, that why there are many programs that have a lot of programs, the light to your one is only a problem.
"It's okay that, so you say that the story is in trouble, but if you explain it to the actor, Allen had a lot of electricity, that's why many are watching over the electricity that's why we are cut off.
What is the resolution for me to become stupid; I am the ones who can take advantage; I am the ones who can take care of the road for two thousand.
Someone left you there who is taking care of you.
He went home very much.
Bro, both of us.
We are not close to the welfare of our country, but it is still not called by the president why are we going to go to each other.
If we already have a chance, they are positive.
We should be friends even if we are not stupid; we are not stupid; we have a text; the person who has a text message is the one who is at fault and will have nothing to hear.
The advice of parents are food.
We together with our country together.
We can't do anything in the Philippines anymore.
We arrived at that, and at the mass there are a lot of good news that our countrymen entered and reach our countrymen right now, is it easy for him to have no rest Communications Corporation.
Yes, as early as now, I said that my favorite to be talking to there is very strong; we are very strong; that's why we can see each other.
"Is it only yes to your nose, like what you want, we can just laugh at what you want to happen, that's why you saw that we are not in a mat that you want to happen, we can no longer do that we are going to be able to fulfill, we will not be able to fulfill it.
So sorry, what really is on the death, there is already nine soldiers in the sea, and then in Baguio yes, Jews ah, Tantos, are just sleeping.
Maybe it is just my sibling that you want to happen, so that we can see each other so that we are all good in one of what you will say.
That is a short time, I will mention to the person you love.
Of course
Covetous, deport; isn't it, right, there is still something like that.
I was able to finish.
There is it.
Money.
Fittest; he / she could not be lost, maybe you could not be lost in the colleges; we could not be lost, right, isn't it?
"I am stupid; I likened to the director; I postponed the director, I told you to be one of the negative news of the rain here, I said yes.
Answered.
Two Wives are two years.
My families, I said, is the Americans when you came up with Jason, isn't she able to fly, wouldn't she be able to give him or the U Vs, we are sure that we are the smell of Two Wives.
If the government will just be asked to choose from there, the government will allow you to sleep with my family now that I do not want to go back to my ear because I do not want to leave him from the internet and I do not want to see me right now in the internet and I don't want to see me right now that I do not want to see him from the internet and I do not know that I am being killed in the internet and I don't want to see that we are being killed in the internet.
The development of the law in the world is to make sure that the safety of our countrymen should not be sure, we should be sure that we are the only ones happening in the country.
Meanwhile, he will take the initiative of changing help for the B: M for the shortcomings of the government, you are surprised to talk to our countrymen around ten o'clock in the evening when we buy the newspaper because there is no one.
