Who will be her pregnancy with the people we are with, he said that it's not good for you to be observant on the movies that you have not seen, that is why you have not seen him at the other hand, that is why you have not seen all of your husband here on the other hand, and then at all, I am just smiling at all of my husband, who is just smiling at all of me.
On Saturday province, I was able to cut off the lights that was cut off; rather, laughed and laughed at the side of the feeling.
Like the small people?
.
It's because they are going to spend or that, we are really the four of us, we are really going to be a care of what we are saying, but it is really necessary for you to be frugal to what I have to do so that they would go to the house for two children.
There are many thousand pesos in where you are.
A few days.
Who did I see that I did the same time, right?
Ah, isn't it?
We were cut off.
Give what is good for you to just go back, but I am not going to sleep that I am not cooking for me, brother, "we cooked for many of us here in the body.
I am really, brother, I said.
I am here in Cavite, why don't you lined up in the water that I know, you have said that you are stupid; we have said that we are stupid.
Maybe tired.
Heard a voice.
I let myself go near me before, you did not have the children of Day's Day.
She was put inside without a job.
Whatever it is, that is really a big thing, for you not to make it anymore.
Do not be in a hurry to dictate the numbers that I have done, to ask for a violation of the good thing that I have done to ask for a lot of things, and commercial drivers, who are still right and right, "I still want to be poor, right?
It seems you are serious.
It was really one o'clock when I found out.
Whatever that's that, what's still that life is, of course, you will go or just wait for it.
!
That is Tito Mark said?
Meanwhile, we were able to look at each other; he / she's the big thing that was there in the very big thing, that's why I lost a job, so I lost a job with my brother with a t-shirt that I know how to talk to him and I know how to talk to him.
My godchildren, I know, I will not forget when my problem is kind, similar to the afternoon.
