
Shameless in SSS and gambling dens in Caloocan.

We do not know where to get a thickness of the thickness of the faces of PNoy, especially the board member and SSS President, Chief Executive Director Emilio de Quiros, when PNoy was seated, the officials of some GST C have been tainted by a large bonus to those who are patriotic!
But now, the saliva of spokesperson Edwin Lacierda was hit by defending the numerous money of the country that was given by these crooks to their themselves!
Do you look at it, make sure how the bastard drivers who want to defend themselves have not been chosen by the SSS that they don't know, "the small bonus of the employees who are working on our backs but the millions bonus of the employees who came from it.
"He even called the sentiments of the judicial system," do you say, Mr. De Quiros, the SSS has a lot of bills so you will increase our SSS?
"So, it does not mean that your government has a failure on our money!
It turns out that their failure is one of the failure, that is why they should be given one million pesos as a bonus!
While you are pushing the increase in our SSS, to be able to collect additional money, you offer the millions of millions! King-mother, the thickness of the government of PNoy!
Entice the President.
They are still quiet as they say, I mean, the office of Caloocan City Mayor Oca Malapitan presented to the issue of illegal gambling in the city, it can be remembered, that the widespread operations of video machines in the area of Mang Oca, especially in the areas of Mang Oca, especially in the areas of the said gambling place, are earlier revealed.
Especially, its own center, in the same center of Caloocan, which is almost a few steps from the city hall, VK-Oarie Santos is everywhere, which is why Vangie Santos was scattered all, which is why he is pointing out as the bagman of Nunal, C / Supt. Joel Alvarez.
What I want to say Mayor Orca is, if the police are not arrested, especially in District, it is because there is an official Fined.hey, you are the ones to get addicted to not say that they are also involved in illegal gambling!
