Employees of health, the people reacted about the benefits.

By P2,500.
January 27, 2012.

The Filipino workers under the Alliance of Health card were held accountable, in front of the Philippine Heart Center in Quezon City.
"It is already enough, it was replaced!"
This is based on PO 1 Louie Ebora, national chairman of Alliance of Health (OFW) and a nurse in the Philippine General Hospital, together with other employees in the Philippine General Hospital, together with other employees of the health during the midst of the heat in front of the Philippine heart Center (PHC).
The employees of Captain C started to go out at around 12: 00 in the afternoon together with other employees in different hospitals in Manila which aims to protest against the Department of Health Organization (September 2012, which aims to protest against the Department of Health Organization (September 2012.
On the 22nd of January of this year, the Department of Health is released by the Department of Health (Hutalla, 2012-2) that aims to lessen the laundry of 130 pesos per month from 150 and 30 pesos for every day of work from 50 pesos.
According to Robert Mendoza, general secretary of Pili, Carta of Public Health Organization (Republic Act 75.5), and cannot be touched by the said alliances, which is being reduced in Hutalla, 2012.
The Filipino workers are extremely angry about Memorandum Number 25-52 of the Department of Health, that takes care of their benefits, and according to the beginning, there is a lack of lack of lack of lack.
"It is sad to think that DOH is the one who should give the right benefits to the employees of the health, he is slowly being killed by employees of health," Mendoza added.
According to Ebessister, "the Aquino administration cheated on the lack of worry about the people when it approved the budget for 2012 where the benefits given to the health was too small, and our benefits was lowered.
"The government does not want to give free health services to the Filipinos because of its implementation of the negative policies," Mendoza said.
It is clear, Mendoza, this is the steps of Aquino to the privatization of the public service like the hospitals by the hospitals by its construction in the budget, one of these is the construction of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation (PS) in the year 2014 because of the Public Services Program (PS) in the year 2014 because of the Public Services Program (PS).
"That's why public hospitals are forced to increase and payment for former free service to health, which is part of the citizens in their rights in health services," Mendoza added.
He also said that instead of lessen the benefits of employees in health, the government should allocate higher funds to add the budget of health and also for the benefits of employees.
"In this way, we can make the more Filipino workers serve our countrymen to serve our countrymen and have a better service to our patients," Ebora added.
Included in the said action are different hospitals in Metro Manila like San Lazaro hospital, Jose Reyes Hospital, Tondo Medical Center, LMedical Center, National Center for Mental Health and all UP Diliman, La Union.
