Revolution - justice is now being prepared for the victims of the brutal crime in Carbon!

NPA - Nueva Ecija.
June 12, 2012.

It was strongly condemned by the BHB-Nueva Ecija for the brutal murder of the driver and staff of CCFS Trucking before yesterday night of June 10, 2012 when three armed men were found dead while the victims were riding gasoline and burned the trailer truck.

The victim, Romeo Ballesteros, 46 years old, and his companion, Randy Vergara, 27 years old, both residents of Barangay Pugo, Jones, Isabela, was burned down by fire.

After the heinous crime, the criminals immediately escaped riding a motorcycle and a white van in north.

It was not long before the three trucks of soldiers rushed to the scene from 81st Infantry Battalion headquarters of the Philippine Army based in San Jose City, and immediately spread intrigues.

They are again rope with sand when they have not yet done the investigation, that the crime is being thrown at the Bables as crime, however, the people are used to their lies.

This kind of crime is not new and is done by the armed forces in the area.

The proven bad elements in the stretch of Maharlika Highway in Caringal is holding the police, soldiers, and officials of the flying game, and of protesters, they will be active for the revolutionary movement and accomplices in the AFP and PNP with the revolutionary movement and accomplices in the AFP and PNP.

In the past, it's not just a few times that some good policemen were confiscated by the police, soldiers and INTEL) and pretending to be NPA, that's why they were immediately brought out by their members.

It is natural for the dirty responsible for a pay, corrupt, and anti-Filipino AFP-PNP who are the primary serving in the interest of the poor people of the Lord, being demote, they will be led by the people who want the Filipino people who wish for the current rotten system.

It is also firm that it is firm for the honest goal of serve the defense of the country against all kinds of abuse and bullying.

Together with the whole people who have long desired the real democracy, and completely freedom, the New Hala Bayan here in the province and in the whole country, a solution will be caused by the widespread criminality and will achieve real justice for all victims of criminals and enemies of the people.
