TV Patrol, February 17, 2012.

Wake up and be happy.

To waste, awareness, consciousness, Kabarse, and truth with each person that you have experienced in the straight path that will be given to him every day, but also asked yourself, "do you still have a better life than living?"

It depends on a lump sum.
(I Lab, "I am I am very thinking, I am very thinking, as long as I am a realistic talent in the primary content of our mind that is existing and made to follow our lives.
Whatever we are thinking will be the source of what we are doing.
If we can change what we are thinking, we will also change our lives.
There is a law in spiritual knowledge that if you build a imagination in your mind, that whatever you want to happen to yourself, and for a long time, you should maintain this kind of mind, and slowly, it is becoming truth like what you think.
The whole world has already accepted the fate, to shape, bad luck, wealth, poverty, etcetera, and the experience of excessive thinking.
People, things, situation, opportunity, and activities are the only right path in the course of our lives.
And this is because of the mentality that we are focusing on here.
There are many material things, and the Plevel of those who expressed it back then, and even the modern songs are sent to school.
Until we are thinking, we can create myself.

"Even in the Bible, she mentioned it," the person who thinks about his will, is that way. "
(Pang-23-7), it is not only about to hug your whole personality, but this will prevail in all events, situation, and opportunities in your life.
Whatever we are thinking about and thinking, the reality is it gives us.
Whatever you are thinking now on this day, will bring your destination; and will be your future, especially when you are carrying your mind - this will be a bit of your mind.

Even if you think that you can do it, or think that you can't do this - you are right.

Lawyer!

As to how the right mind is saved, I was saved by my Buhay: A description of what we face.
The things that you are doing is usually the source of deep truth about you.
Because the extreme hunger for life is not food, money, fame, success, security, that they have to pass, or even love from others.
These are achieved, why isn't it that, we still remain happy; we still remain happy, and more often, instead of starting to achieve it.

The one with the deepest hunger in life is a secret or secret admirer when a person wants to look like the hidden part of his self; whoever he is.
What can be understood and that the hidden level of yourself is the only way to protect him and become a pillow.

This is about the lesson that I have learned about life while he gave back the events that are planned in front of me.
I continue to learn while he is still alive since I have enough money or can do things for my needs, those that are more important than the secret that I took.
I learned the first lesson in the age of three.
My mother fell into a seeker, and because of this, I am always saying something to be prohibited from the pet dogs that can be cut off.
I have two neighbors who are five years old and my playmates, and they are always cough.
One day, I put it in and cough like them.
I took off my revenge and went out of the door of our house.
But when I was only three steps from the door, I went on the wall, and was not able to move when I approach my playmates.
There were also a few moments after, before I had a house and put my revenge again.
In my age, up to now I still had a memory even if it was still something I felt at me: Shame.
I was five years old then and the feast of Tondo, in Manila, a lot of people and I was just outside the church in Tondo with my Ate Flora at while listening to the mass.
I saw something far from afar who have a big colorful sign (movie basketball player).
Nothing is like this in our province and I have seen it in our province.
With my desire to see the big cloth that I saw, I approached her without permission from my companions.
I have been doing something for a long time and wanting to go back to the church.
This is the only time I found out that the police are looking for a long time, and even the children to look like bubbles t (boy) who helped me look for me.
From Iya, extreme worry and tears were felt when I saw me.
He cannot blame anyone or advice, but thank you, thank you, and you learned to go back! "
But from my Ate Vi, a mixture of hair-tempered and because of a lot of cruelty.
And next to this he would suddenly cry loudly.
A toy airplane made out of wood and canned goods that has a color, the crack on me so that I stopped going to be implemented.
I could not forget that airplane that gave me a lot of days that gave birth to my young world: Kalapati, and it had tantrums because of the New Year, and those who were firing their childhood friends.
I was in the fifth district before and reckless.
Iwas angry with the firecrackers, that's why he was not selling our store.
It is prohibited for me to have money and he does not want to imitate other children who were firing outside the house.
When he was distracted, I got a glimpse of a few coins from the box of the store and had a strong angle of Antartica in another store.
I covered it with gnaw the cigarette and tied a moderate rock.
I want to imitate those who hang fish with the dynamite he was holding.
In my opinion, I will be charged with a huge destruction by dynamite in order to catch fishes.
I had a lot of childhood friends with me in the river.
My rent is with cigarettes.
Because I did not get it into it, I will only be able to send it to my eardrums; instead, I left the wick of the blurring.
I only put up water on the water for two times.
At the last blurring, the explosion was I heard and I felt nothing.
But when I watched my right hand, he was cut off and my thumb expressed his half bones.
I just cried a lot of tears when she rushed to the hospital, what I cannot forget.
Since then, this served as a warning to me: Passion and it will lead to some of the unforgettable chapter in my life, I learned a personal discipline while I am avoiding to make a chaos and worry about my parents when it is more than what I can make.
I also learned to be patient while on the line and waiting, even riding my car in spite of removing the head of others on the road, or for a long time to pay my jobs.
Discipline is important to finish the project that is outside and inside the house or the incessant care of my body and your health for health.
The self-control is needed in order to be vigilant, especially with the long-time meeting at work and be understanding with the dreams of your family and friends.
Compassion and sympathy to others should not be forgotten and neglected.
And it is very healthy while you continue to know about things that matter to whom I am saying.
These narrow-minded people are not only needed in good life, but this is the ingredients in happy life.
We need the guidance and rules in searching for our choice and right path.
Although many will learn how to understand the path of our mind, the awareness about this will not be lowered down and there is no direction or a bit of entertainment.
This does not happen that just think of your desire to have a new chapter in your life and entering any depression that is given protection to yourself, or entering heavy problems.
What he says is that I cannot understand that how we can think carefully, good, clear, and effective.
What we know is our weakness and strength, how much is too much and also what is lacking, if we take advantage of it and short.
The mind is not just about what is in your brain, this is about staying in your awareness, to be awake and ready for the struggle in life.
And included in this is what can be seen even if it is not just the theme of the span of each person just to live and be careful when to change.
This is the truth.

Together with these men, my own stories, my family and friends.
Sometimes, what's funny is what makes me vitality, anger, and taking advantage.
Each story has given me an effective lesson about life, and helped a lot in my character in many times.

I am hoping that the stories here will be an invitation to you carefully at your own situation, relationships, and destination.
You can give further more strength to analyze, to suppress the mistakes, and correct the obstacles that are just between your success when it comes to your standard.
This is also a chance to beat and learn some things that are going to change yourself.

The content of the mind is one of the right path that will be followed by the clear path, change your reality, the reality, your reality, 5, your perspective of 7 call to end your outlook of 7 to wake up to 8: 00-9: I am here?

10 know if you are going to find a 12 mirror in your personality and truth, it is true that the path in release of 15 to determine whether truth will lead to Iyo 14 to determine the meaning of happiness?

18, Diwa and the happiness of 19 happiness and happiness is the difference between them and a fulfilment of choosing peace 21 to support the good state of glory of mind.

It is said that one-page-minded people here is a process of research, increase, and studying.
The meaningful thing that will give a lesson and principles in life is destroying you.
It continues to increase according to the spirit, understanding and anomalous Filipinos.
They are going to fix it, being thrown away, and even the abundant taste of our unusual taste, according to its leeches.
Clings only on the journey of strict, so it will not fall.
And it is not happy with the content that is very busy with the contents and will be delightful.

Here are the wake up wake, meaningful, and causing extraordinary inspiration.
Practical and serves as a real map of life towards a good relationship, it is good for guidance, and meaning to the ratification of the desire to become subservient, love, and happiness.

Study and insults the content of each sentences.
These kinds of suggestion and does not be guarded, should be made to prove.
Just discover that with each of this, there is truth that you will pull you up to maintain the power of Pag-minded and how this can be suppressed were our minds, because of your words.
Be careful with your words, because it becomes your actions.
Be careful with your actions, because this becomes your attitude.
Be careful with your attitude, because this becomes your traits.
Take care of your traits, because it becomes your personality.
Take care of your character, because this fate depends on your fate.

Mind (Thcts) what is the thing that is being taken from us, since we wake up?
Why did we follow this?
What is this power, that we cannot stop it?
Why is it that someone is whispering to us, if what we do is right and wrong?
Why is it that when it is good we are happy, and if bad, our feelings are having a hard time?
What is this, which is implemented and always being followed in each moment of our lives?

He has a lot of names; brain, spirit, knowledge, feeling, feeling, feeling, feeling, attitude, attitude, milk, and others., etcetera.
This is what is given to us.
This is the cause of our personality, the source of our lives, is the source of our fate.
And if we have enough contribution here, we can do it to watch, watch, take care of it, be careful, and change their mentality.
And we should be followed, and he is not the one being followed and being a slave.
If the cause of this is the reason and effect of your studies and training, together with each experience from here, even if you are small things, it is meaningful to know yourself.

In this move, and no one else, it is under the law's law.

"He's the one who is looking for you to have the distress.
This is too simple.
You will know each secret about your life if you make sure that you can say, "I need to know, I can't wait for it for a long time."
Because he is in control, training, and for those who have nothing to discover, it will only be the opposite of the truth.

This is amidst our life.
Whatever that we have, it started first in our minds, and this is making everyone taking care of it.
The causes of our lives caused by our lives.
From what they are thinking, they can create themselves.

What they are thinking is a process of their minds.
And this will not change when what they think will not change.

"Is that a wide mind?
"That is not enough in thinking!"
"Think of a mosquito, if you will be friends with each other."
"Think about it first, before criticizing" 1 plant in the right process, plants should be guarded from the stench, because if there is no plants, there will be no plants.
As well as each of the people's actions; as they say, it will be true from what you are thinking.
This is not a long time and will take action if this mind is gone.
Always weigh in and complete unity of your mind, words, and actions.
Make the principle that your mind is always pure and clear, and everything will be easy and orderly for yourself.
This is your key to success.
Continue to follow the mind, right or wrong, good or bad, and you don't fail to result and bring personality, events and opportunities.
A person can't be able to make it clear and choose the opportunity, but he has the power to choose what he thought of, and this will create his fate.
He defeated his fear and fear is defeated by failure.

Each of your thoughts are allies of power, and all your hard work is your whole courage to face and be wise!
Until your meaningful goal is the right tree, it would blossom and will bear fruit, according to what you are expecting.

2 follow the clear path to have a shoe and put it on.
You yourself and no one has responsibility in yourself.
From your mind, this is the sign of your fate.
Since childhood, we just realized that people, things, events, and action are going to our truth who we are.
Each of us needs to understand that we need to support the effect of the old things of others.
They learned how to follow their footsteps, practices and beliefs that are not given importance to the mysteries of life.
It is time to follow our self.
"Anywhere in the forest, there is a snake," said the other.
But my life is part of each life of each other, my connection with all those who have life will prove that I do not have an enemy.
I feel that I do not need to resist, refuse, fight, defeat, or destroy it.

I do not need to control and hide anything or whatever I can be affected and the only thing I can be affected is to finally change and I have control, I only have control.

3 change your Reaytono 4, the power to correct your mind.
This is the thing that will be taught with what you want to make goodness.
Whatever you focus on negative, those with no doubt and all destruction they continue to think.
And while you are noticing the worry and love for earth, you continue to feel grief.

Given attention to yourself to just think those who are good, improve, and would make you happy.
Think about the pure love, love and concern.
Dwell on these are the highest and important number of high and important information that until your mind is no direction, you are not aware of it.
If you know your intention or goal, you know the result of this.
Even this is going to happiness or sadness.
You are reaching your standard and awareness to whatever you could come upon.
From staying with your integrity, honor, and whole character, your effect on your life is bitter.

"What do I think of that!"
"I did not notice anything."
"Is this gained awareness?"
"You won't waste your feelings."
Consult with your appropriate decision.

5: Earth Mo, you are now in the world; the world is with you.
Each one is the Creator of his world.
And as Creator, this is more important than the whole world.
Whatever you are experiencing will be given to yourself.
And whatever you are outside of this world, there will be no meaningful answer, until you do not change and make your reality in your reality.
The right path that you will heed is for you.
Most of all, you are the only ones with power and rights in your fate.
Your prosperity and happiness depends on your hands.
No one or anyone can do this for you.
And more painful, if you are following and you are getting married, it will only cause more grief waiting for you.
Make sure that you are the only one who moved and creates your own world.
The one who answered "" or "I did not want" he is the highest care of self.

It is true that you will leave yourself if you are leaving an argument, will refuse an invitation, let him fail your request or request, and avoid going to you.
You will help them with vitality and more trust in yourself instead of accepting and answering, "Oor" of his wishes.
It is not cowardice to avoid and inform your ability and lack of time.
It is hard to ensure that that you will make sure that it will be given to the things you will give and to your reputation.
It is easy to make promises, but to fulfill it with doubt, it is hard to do.
Have a positive outlook in mind, like the building of the house, remain positive in making it.
You understand all stories that are included in this, from the plan (blueberry), preparation for the land and construction of a strong foundation.
Subsequent to this is the taking of people involved in this work, and preparation of the primary materials that will be used in fixing personal decisions and equipment to complete the house.
If they do not have an ingredients in these, it is impossible to complete the house on the right path.
This is also like the use of mind, if there is nothing to prepare, there is also no chance to come upon any intention to become good like what you are expecting.
Even from the start, if your intention is raw and something lacking, this will not happen.
And if there is a trace of abuse, or hidden corruption, it will cause danger to it.

To those who are unaware, there are actions being followed, like these: Two days that you cannot make it like others that you want to cover, no matter how much you love this person.

A lot of things that you are in love, even if you are afraid to focus on it.

A person's fight is not for you.
A miracle that you are more beautiful than giving me another to you.
A misfortune caused you to be taken away from any danger.
What you can do is to take your own path, no matter how hard work and livelihood are included in it.

It is a miracle that while you are focused on the right path, the entire world is going to help and weigh out for many opportunities to fulfill it.
You are always in choosing to change your life.
Are you seated, unable to decide and just waiting for your feelings to be strong before doing it?
Although it is for your good and prosperity, you will achieve it.
Who really can do this for you?
You themselves, the only ones who can do this for you.
If you will not make a move, you will get rid of others based on what they want and not for you.

The standard of consciousness: The news will be kept in great thinking that the path is meaningful and good.
Learn to discover what you are looking for and pay attention to it.
Learn to know and study how this will improve and make yourself happy.
There are unaware that until there is no inspiration prevail, there is no shouting.
You are unaware that you will coordinate with teachers (LGU), that your knowledge and experience will worsen.
Sure, the right questions to explain to you are the right answers.

7 call to end success.

8, wake up and Lagrao, I am always saying, that I am awake more than what you want to say.

Always be alone and reflect.
Whatever experience brought to the peace of your neighbor, you can call it.
In the movement in every day you will face a thorough fight, and because of this, it is important that you are able to get along and it will be important to your whole mind what you want to happen, and if this is related to your real goal in life.

You never know how the things can be resolved.
All your success, and even all of your failure will directly result to your awareness.
All of your weakness and strength, cleanliness and filthiness, will be recognized and flaw, only to you, and not for others.
No one can belittled you, abuse you, take advantage of you, if you do not have a participation or cooperation.
You are the only one who can change yourself for yourself, not from others.
Your condition and condition are yourself, and the happiness that depends on you is the cause of your awareness, that is why it has happened.
What is your consciousness, you, and while you are thinking, your awareness is existing.

Relative, --- - your thoughts is green) if you know whatever you are thinking, can be likened to a garden, where you can take care of, improve, and improve.
It is also possible to neglect this and even just a grass without benefit.
If there is no good thing that you will vote, you will harvest no meaning.
And if he will let it be, no one will take care of it, whatever it is he will inspect them.

"If you do not know, do not believe it."
"Your intentions towards me are just around each other."
"Do not go through it, if you do not have any ties."
"Weigh in to know something!"

9: I am I?
I am a part of its credible Sibol, which is known for me who is known as Baba, IOS, our fellow Maysilo, powerful, etc.
Even if I do not see him or worried, I know that I am part of this, because I have mercy on me, which is why I came from here.
From Him; I appeared, my mind, gained awareness, and we know, the truth about me is true.

The most great increase of guide is needed to think first before taking action and doing so that they would be fulfilled for each day.
If he will fail here, it is not because of the lack of action, instead, in movement of non-mindedness.

10 know if you are going to run fast and do everything you can, if there is no direction to go, you will continue to finish your peace and not to get peace.

The tragedy that you are looking for where you are going - if you do not have an assurance, whatever way you take, you will reach you.
The barism is not happening according to the plan.
It seems like it is a single piece of picture that you need to put a hole so you do not have adequate attention on each other.
You do not want to meet someone else, and all of you will think or imagination are just thinking that we don't have simple meaning.

It is hard to go there.
If you don't have a hard work, or Banga of gold that you can achieve, it is nothing to you.
But if this is what your happiness depends on, you will force to laugh!

Use the map of others.
If you are just followers of others, expect that you will be approved.
His experience is a big difference about you.
You are just being honored by your mind if you are accustomed to it, and others are asking for your own truth.
There is a need to learn how many are pointing out from different direction, but your appreciation of yourself is still needed, and it will only be more than meaningful things that can help you.

Getting tired to improve yourself.
It is not a project that you need to finish.
It is not the end.
The holiest part is going to be pushed until you are awake and understand the true events in your surroundings.
Each moment, you are unaware that the truth will be found.
Until your mind is open and you know the difference between good and bad effects in your life, your success is your success.

The time will be destroyed until it reached.
Many want to reach the other side of the shore, but there are just a few of those who will taste, they are going bankrupt and coming back.
Although there are more people who are going to return to it so that they can return to the source.
To avoid this, do not allocate a limit, even if it is hard to do it without a motivation.
Whatever travel in life, the narrow-mindedness are happening, and will make any moment, not for an destination.

Waiting for miracles.
All is a miracle in life.
Until you are awake and you are able to use all about you; mind, consciousness, and covetous, this is the true truth.
Whatever is bothering you, you will control to the powerful of all, the real person who can make our miracles.

There is no good way for the real ones who are looking for it instead of avoiding them.

11 centavos in your personality, the success of your personality, success; whatever kind of this, is the trophy of just going to my goodness, the statue of horseshoe.
Through discipline, a resolution, meaning, proper fares, and discontentment is what makes your character more.
And the corruption, violence, laziness, theft, and confusion to know the truth that those who win.

Are you going to reveal the order or chaos?

Is I going to tell my extraordinary difference?

I am going to know how I feel that I am going to know what I really want?

You need to know if you cannot help yourself, no one can help you.
And this is just what you want to help, because if you are weak, you need more strength of others.
From your going home, you will be able to strengthen yourself like others.
No one can do it for you, but you yourself, if you can change your covetousness of this matter.
This will free you.
Because there is no success and there is no success, if there is no sacrifice and truth (Trujillo.

Our ancestors fought back, with two kinds of hunger. "
There is one kind of hunger and there is a simple hunger.
A simple hunger is wanted for food for the stomach; not too much hunger, the most great hunger for everyone, is hunger for meaningful and meaningful.
Each thing that was planted or allowed to be buried in the mind, and this root, will become the truth.
Time will start, blossom and will be the words that will be defeated by events and opportunities.
Good thoughts will bear good luck, but the bad mind will bear bad luck.
This is the truth: A good mind and goodness, this will not bear a bad result; and the bad mind and corruption, will never bear a good result.
This is a law that cannot be guarded.
"Are you true?"
"When they were seen, I was bitten, and I experienced it; I believe it."
"As long as he is not doing it, he / she was just fooling around."
"You grew up, pull your improvement; your progress is at the end of your hands."
The truth is we are not with the mother of what we want, instead of what they have.

13, truth will set us free, if the truth is being mentioned, the truth will set you free?
People are always being punished and have been abandoned when telling the truth.
Most of them are also killed, like Jesus Christ, Gat Jose Rizal, Gat Andres Bonifacio, Mahogany, and many others who expressed truth.
But "the truth will set you free," that is no meaning of an advice to be practical.

There is a trace of spiritual intention for the back of his words that he is saying, that you will not be able to ask yourself, but the truth will be done. "
The truth is that there is a burden to our hearts.
In each fight in life, the truth is he talks with us; he explained what real form of each person, relationship, and times, never or for all people, it has never been moved to our consciousness.
The immediate flow of consciousness should be given importance if you want to be freed.

Reflect to know the big difference.
Good fortune in waiting for those in waiting.

We are becoming humane if people will not stop from himself, and start to discover the truth that when the course of our lives will be stopped.
If we can remember our minds, just think of what will be good and meaningful for us, we cannot blame and blame others in the situation we are in.
We can do it to be strong and decent if we use the goodness, prosperity, and happiness of power, talent, and possibility that we have something.
The proof of this truth is for each person, that is why there is a need to accept the easy notice of insults on yourself.
Let the mind change and change your mind, and you will find the transformation being needed in the world of our life.

14 are the path to release from the depths of your heart.

- the flow of your consciousness will be followed when you see the truth.

2 do not complain about what is happening to your will - the mind is open to what you cannot understand.

Do your own friend, not your worse enemy.
Without any advice to you, if you do not have respect to yourself.
Until you don't have love for yourself, you will not be able to love another.
It is only that that you have something to give.
If you give the truth to your reality, each has a secret which is within you to have no disapproval.
What you are doing and shown will be the basis of others to know you.
My life is part of each life of each other: My connection with everyone who has a life will prove that I do not have an enemy.

15 to use truth - you have high goal.

Your relationship is going to be continued with a put in life.

3, your awareness is always open to change.
As time passes, he feels that there is no change in the things in your surroundings.

- you feel the happy acceptance of others as equal, so there will be no progress or suggestion.

You are taking advantage of each time when there is a new strength that it can create, they are not able to follow and made to follow the old and not at that time.

- you are going to know the person you are taking care of and you will guide the surge of care and care.
You will feel that you are safe and will become rich.

For 7, you have an idea that you are capable and easy to give, let the flow of life to give you your needs and happiness.
The violence, repression, and severe struggle are not for those to get along with.

You will feel the connection of the connection and you continue to get closer to your source.

It is 9 that you appointed it as a way of giving up all your prosperity.

10, you can see all the changes, a peaceful and unreasonable, happiness and sadness, even birth and death.
These are the type of testimony that whatever does not change is the more truth to you.

Those who cannot be seen are the most important thing.

Find out when will he move, and know when he will stop.

Accept that accidents can't be avoided.
16, there is no need to prepare for someone who is usually trying to prepare for an unexpected coincidence and any occasion, it is better to prepare and plan well in our lives.
The conservation in our personality is important.
Whatever mind is being focused on here, will happen.
And everything that's happening in this life is not just an opportunity, rather, because of what we think.
We suddenly looked up or it was by chance.
And there is no truth that we are victims of the opportunity.
We ourselves make it like what we think.
It seems that our athletes are distressed as the mother and failure, hence, all of these can help the people to reach you.
Be creative and do everything he can.

Whatever boards or purpose is being implemented on your mind, the source of surrounding it will be the root of the depths of your heart.
This is the strong and form of life that you're planning to do, and this is the very person that will happen to a close-.------- happiness (joy), and from this, there are results, and what kind of action is also the equivalent of the result.
This is not a chance.
The "gifts, power, material things, awareness, and conservation are caused by these actions.
They have the mentality that have been completed, things that were taken away, and there were dreams that became realistic.
If we have done what we are thinking and have succeeded, this is what is making us happy.
"Are you happy or happy?"
"My happiness is what I saw."
"He / she has a good intention, is happy all the time."
"I am happy; because I can buy all the meaning of happiness?"

18, Diwa and the happiness brought by intrigue.

19 happiness and happiness is the difference between them.

20 is the fulfilment of choosing yourself to achieve what you want.
Will you get married with what you see?
If you can see violence, watch their lust and tasks that are not desirable, are you still investigating this to be distracted from yourself?
Maintain your awareness that will be followed.
Your covetousness of this thing is the "captain of your ship, and the Master in your soul."
You are waking up if you are sleeping well with your sleep; the repression of your self is what you need to have more strength; and you are calm and intelligent mind to witness all the events.

Peace (Peace Agreement) let your heart be strong from the depths of your heart, peace, stay!
Accept your fellowmen is effective than taking care and correct.
Pay attention to a fellow person who does not pay attention to any kind and look down on him.
What will be peaceful is good than a fight, retaliated and escapes.

Glory of Divinity and there are things that does not know who wants to be known.
You are the most important creature on the skin of the land, causing the level of its character: Mind, awareness, Kabarse, and truth to your world.
It does not need to give your right to know this.
Your next mind, feeling, or movement, will start to open and lay down the one with the deepest sleep.
This is a pure crisis and is free like a clear water that should be destroyed.
You will not allow yourself to maintain the secret that you want to keep this secret or stop it, no matter how much you insist on our awareness and continue to be different than the real and pure personality.
