It is the law of operating at the 16th year of Martial Law.

Those bastards are feasts around.
For the majority of Filipinos, it would lead to the month of September the next time of September, but for those who lived in the decades of September, but for those who lived last May "70, the fact that the Martial Law in the history of the Filipino Philippines - the martial law or Martial Law (ML) is worried.
Widespread poverty is widespread, everywhere corruption, widespread violation of human rights and disconcerns in the democratic rights of the people were left trace of ML.
However, the criticisms that he dressed up in ML and even the price of change are said to be made and made to be applied at the middle of change but in four decades after the freedom of the most Filipinos? "What is the situation of the majority of Filipinos?
In the countryside, the farmers remain in the ground for a long time, the workers who have long been complaints of the workers are still being heard, not being heard, the call for sufficient budget for education and a good health service is still there.
On the streets, the call for the meaningful change will continue for the meaningful changes, and in the celebration of the 25th year anniversary of ML, it is just right to go back to the lessons that have been formed and height in order to finally remove the dark and height.
Back to school.
John Toledo.
Even before a few scholar of the country has already reached UP, it is strictly approved by their parents not to be activists. But if it can be returned to the history of mine, it cannot be denied that it's a big role in buying UP and the society.
Just a few years have passed since the UP arrives from 1917 to the decades "50s, the students of UP had a sharp critics of the policies they take in sovereignty and sovereignty in the country.
In the entry of the decades of 60s, the former professor was built by the former professor, Jose Maria Sison of the approved organization, the municipal hall of the UP (SCAUP).
Later, Sison made it, along with the 80 students and teachers of UP, the under democratic governance, within a year, almost a sign of 80 kilometers of protests against the agreement that Laurel-Langley Agreement and US Military Bases Agreement).
The strength of the movement of the youth in the '70s is released again when the price of oil increased by three centavos in the first three months of 1970, which was identified as the First Class 1977).
Due to the Fahs, the movement of the youth will be more strengthened, "the members of UP arrived in the problem of the Philippine Army," said Exodus, one of the leaders of the students during that time.
It became one of the primary reasons of Marcos to the strong movement of the youth, along with other sectors of society, in implementing Martial Law.
In the declaration of Martial Law, the whole street was quiet but the military allegedly caught many activists.
"I was caught two times when I was seated on ice, and threw water on the nose, water," says Atty. Judy Taguiwalo, the Pambansang Kamao in martial law.
Not less than 70,000 was imprisoned, 34,000 were killed during martial law, according to the Amnesty International.
In the downfall of the Marcos regime, some of those who were imprisoned were liberated, while a few were not found.
According to Sison, Ocampo and Taguiwalo, even four decades have passed after the Martial Law would be passed, which is currently being applied for the sectors of the youth, Armas, development, improvement of the youth.
"The critics say that, if you have been able to show up, they have not seen that there is a need to return to a medical root - the arguments in society," said Ocampo.
For the veteran activists' Martial Law, the youth should continue to continue in front of their rights, especially in front of the increasing crisis of education, "what I can advise from the scholar of the country is to be a Persist back in the country," says Taguiwalo.
It cannot be denied that the role of the youth in the form of history is big, especially in the fight and removal of the Marcos regime, it should be a lesson from the martial law, the youth should continue in action and be critical of the prevailing arguments in society.
