Vic, refuse the new system of the MMFF!
By Jojo Cabinet June 15, 2016.
There was no joke because it was a letter from the letter of the cast of Hay-M for the new sitcom of GMA 7 and M-ZEt that will start the coming Sunday, June 19, and her pregnancy with the youngest (baby boy) and Oyo Sotto).
Everyone is laughing at the words of AiAi delas Alas about her desire to Vic Sotto but it did not happen because their respect for each other is prevailed.
Everyone has listened to everything when Vic said about what they say about the Metro Manila Film Festival 2016 for Vic, what the executive committee of the MMFF should fix because this is the always problem in the previous film festival.
"The problem was there," that was there, "that was not like that in choosing a person.
"We can't be belittled" the Entry SEC of our festival now.
"We should also consider this," where are the Metro Manila Film Festival?
"What I know about this, is the mandate of the government there that is an ice cream.

There is a need to earn big, the box office needs to earn big.
"Why is it that because there is the money of Mowelfund for actors, people in movies, in the industry.
"There is also coming from the budget of Film Festival, the film PRIMO," however, it's as if the budget rate is coming from, which is why the Presidential Legal Wife.

"So the priority is priority, to earn (the MMFF), if we want it to be Cannes Film Festival, what they do is to set up for those who are going to be Berlin, Film Festival," Cannes Film Festival.
"There is a different mandate about this, this is to give happiness, but sometimes, the Christmas season has been included in the culture of our countrymen who are" Hala Christmas, just to watch the festival.
"I," I, "I," the type of Erik Matti, who complained of those... that it is true, what they are wrong, is that you have already shown this, you are not allowed here but there is a huge amount.
"They brought it out and because that was that, they were able to cross the Awards that I think is wrong, what you did was wrong, why did you accept it?

"Why are you worried, maybe he is being favored now," that is what they should be investigated, "that is what they should fix the incident, but they changed" the entirety of the festival.
"What will happen is that, those who do not have too much budget will be pitiful because there is a big budget for us to release Pas.although our capital will go back.
"There are many who will benefit from you," our friends in indie films will be quick to make.
"They can handle two in a month but, the things we are doing, I could not be able to finish one month, I was not able to finish one month," I was not able to finish one month, "I was not able to finish his opinions about the new system implemented by MMFF Execom who wants to include their movies in the MMFF 2016.
