
Gambling of AGROs) and "WILAH," of Ormoc.

Since 1995 when EF-cino Cousins will first sit as mayor of Ormoc City, the charisma of the Cousins will continue, not only in Ormoc, but also in the whole district.
In fact, after the three term of the old man named Cambilla, he became a congressman.
The children, Biboy Cousins will also have three term as mayor of Ormoc as a mayor of Ormoc and ECambot who are seated now as the 3rd noodle stalls of Mayor.
And the current mayor of Ormoc was the other mayor of Ormoc as the other son of "Dodong" who is Only Cousins.
But if it can be considered "Samson," is the strength of the politics of the Cousins will be the strength of politics in Ormoc City, in danger, his wife, Delamah, the wife, Delamah, the wife, Delamah, is the strength of Samson!
It's because according to the many Ordcanon, the wife of Mayor Only Cambot who is the source of disunity not only by the Ordancers but also the leaders of the politics of the family!
It is too easy to act as if he is even worse than his wife mayor and you think he is smart, but you have a failure to wait for it!
Entice the President.
It is not like a lot of bees in the city of Southern Police District who is just quiet about their illegal gambling dens but it is still different from his widespread illegal gambling "gambling and boochies" that is proud and according to our AOIL. "
Mang Aguba is always direct with SPD Director Chief Superintendent Jose Erwin Villacorita which is why no one can stop in his operation.
"Langbay, AOIL, ah, why, is it that even if you are the" given protection money "will be sent to General Villacorta?
Do you want to say, Len Aguado, there is no SPD that we are coming through right? "There is no director that will receive from the gambling Lord, except if your" virginity "is really serious, okay, okay!
What can you say, General Villacorita, you will sample it is Aguado to stop it from your name, sir!
Attention, NCRPO boss, C / Supt. Marcelo Garbo, will your "one typhoon" policy "?
Here is it, Mang Aguino is very confident that he will not be able to attend the media because he and Toto Lacson and one "columnist."
Okay, why, isn't it?
