A photo of the US, will also be answered with the violation of PNoy to human rights.

By contribution.
9: 00, 2012.

While the country is busy watching the latest fight of Manny Pacquiao, the police fought against the policemen in the embassy of the US groups with human rights led by Karylle and Southern Tagalog.
Noon this day, December 9, more or less 800 people participants in the Libigan ng (March 9-Human Rights) were rushed to front of the embassy of the US and blocked by 200 policemen.
Two camps started to arrive when the police continue to arrive in red uniform, as a symbol of the abuse of the forces of the state under the program against insurgency and Oplan LS.
"The government of the US announced the Aquino administration to silence the critics of the state of the country by having an immediate murder of the legal activists, three kidnapping, three kidnapping, three kidnapping and 33 illegal detention cases in the region (Southern Tagalog)," Glen Malabanan, general secretary of Karylle.

Some of the pictures of protests (are the picture of Southern Tagalog Examination or Sevidal).

The youth and other militants attacked the US in Roxas Boulevard, Manila to condemn the participation of the government of the US for the violation of human rights in the country.
This is the 16th day of the militants from Southern Tagalog, for the international day of human rights in December 10.
The militants had the call of the militants who were identified to be cruel blood of civilians activists, Jovito Palparan in the last part of the decade, 90 until early part of the decades, 2000.
Full of families joined the Lalaurie of Southern Tagalog.
Lester is one of activists to activists in Southern Tagalog that were killed by the suspected military under the current administration.
While the public is busy watching Pacquiao's fight, "true fight" for justice and human rights that happened in Roxas Boulevard.

The citizens of Quezon, who were attacked by the Philippine Army and the military troops, tried to chase the rebels, but the civilians were affected by the privatization of the civilians in the area.
Most of the victims of the proliferation and severe violation of human rights are from the ranks of farmers.
The police failed and arrive.
The militants condemned the police of the red bomb squad, to express their restriction on the bloody Oplan Galugad conducted by the Aquino administration.
The group of bomb condemned the government of the US, who released a US Standard Lunch Program of 2009, which became the guidance of the Aquino administration in the program against insurgency and Missisippi Streets of Oplan LS.
After the stone of the bomb.
After the stone of the bomb.
The stone of the bomb was still a program.
Protest movement in the embassy of the US, according to the militants of Southern Tagalog, is part of the preparation for protests on December 10, Pandian is the Independence Day of human rights.
