Okay.
They need to undergo autopsy to know if the Guardian needs to be able to know if they were able to get out from them, but when they were able to get a pipe, I have not yet received a pipe but I have no assurance that the result of them has no assurance for it.
The result will be known within one hour.
What about the time of Luning.
There is one grandmother who is selling the plastic plastic bags but outside this, five pesos is needed.
Yes.
It will continue to help the elderly who are sick of Lola Pele.
"What is his / her cellphone (C-R is the hospital open to him by senior citizens in front of the commission but it is still not right now that they need to give free coffee and do not want to give free coffee and not in the laboratory that they have to give, but they have nothing to give in to them.
It was eleven o'clock when it took out for more than two new millionaire, we buy a building for two new millionaire; we buy a building in front of us, because they were not hospitalized.
It was eleven o'clock in the said hospitals that were not used.
We will buy permission to avoid the talk of C-R) to know what they can do not use us.
You might have something to buy a house which is needed by those.
When I will last for a long time, we will be able to go into a long way; the budget will be destroyed, and you can see that you are going to see and do not need to buy and do not need to.
We have been together for several times here in Dandola.
The problem with Sir Wilson is not a problem in the country that you do not have actions.
It is hoping that a stingy has been going to pass and that is why it is not yet prohibited for four pesos to four pesos, there are those who were not able to escape from different hospitals in the chin.
We gave you alone but he did not let us get married.
Here, he is still doing a way that is why we entrust to me 'Medical Center.
It is okay to be used.
It was said that the two Germans themselves said that he really had five pesos two pesos for two thousand pesos to four o'clock and how many were five.
The time is a drug pusher is the right path to East Avenue Medical Center and it is also wet here when they arrived at us.
On the other hand, it is still on Tuesday, all of them are already there.
What happened?
I wonder that there is a need for you to do that before you go, it is okay for us to wait a long wait for the man to be brought today, like other employees.
He was allowed to see each other for the cause of the use of Miguel Break, probably because it was only here in the "Paula, Holding Corporation.
Yes, the two are there in the two.
The advice of a friend admits that they will help each other when we still have 20 pesos and we have to know that we have an ally, the hospital Philippine National Heart's department, we hope that we will be recognized as our fellow people.
