Biazon as well.

The Bureau of Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon will not just fight back against the fight, to ensure that his campaign against the horler who should have been going through the treasury of the country should be completed.
In his obedience to the "straight path" by President Benigno Aquino III, everyone was about to be hit by Biazon even if they are ready to go to settle even how much is his office that should have been added to his wealth.
That is why, so that corrupt businessmen are not allowed to increase in drug addicts in the country, the owner of CSB Barita, the owner of the CSB, Customs broker, are filed with a case in the Bureau of Customs which costs P30 million pesos from China which costs P30 million pesos.
The Customs Code of the Philippines is filed against the Department of Justice against the two.
According to Biazon, the 25-year-old lady, who was about to be sent out by the 25-million-million-million-peso amount, was released from Port of Davao from China last September. 14, 2012.
Manzano issued a alert order, which is why the cargo trucks immediately blocked and carefully examined it.
It is confirmed by BOC on the help of Industry (WBC) for-peso products, Mister Lotion (Fi), which was said to have been wrong on the declaration of Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (Fi) that's why it was immediately released by the warrant of Sebunga (WSD), Port of Davao District Homicide Section (Bangkal.
Barita and Alberana tried to avoid more than 6 million tax that should have been paid by the government so it is better for them to face and what is painful is that they will face a case.
That is why Biazon warned other countries that he will try to cheat on the government because this is not going to happen because all personnel of BOC are on alert and will not push through.
Biazon advised those who are working abroad to stop drugs inside the country to stop their tasks because he will not take revenge on them until they will be charged with the case and suffer in prison.
Meanwhile, salute poured from the Bureau of Customs under the post of Biazon.
