
Nazarene, difficulty and death.

The reason for millions of people who joined and endured the long procession of the Black Nazarene in Manila yesterday was easy to understand.
The devotees did not care for the long time of the procession, stampede that injured more than 100 people and threats of the terrorists.
Severe calamities.
The leaders of the country cannot handle the calamities that are happening in the country.
This is the clear belief of the citizens in front of the horrible calamities such as calamity and landslide.
It is often said that they cannot see them who quickly take action to save the victims.
Private people are able to help more and are able to give them a great help to them.
And what is bad, they are pointing fingers at who should first take action and who should be blamed for the failure.
Because of these events, to whom the people will run but to God, like the Black Nazarene?
Severe poverty.
In the survey of Pulse Asia, the people's hairs stood on top of poverty.
About 45 percent or almost half of 95 million Filipinos say nothing happened to their lives in the whole year 2011.
And around 38 percent of them are saying that their condition will ask for forgiveness.
How many people are saying if the survey is true?
Because most of them are poor.
If the 45 percent and 38 percent are over, how many are that?
It is about 83 percent all.
Almost fifty million people.
Then, almost everyone feels tiredness.
And the truth is, it is not only the poor, not only the poor.
Together with those with disabilities so there are only few who cannot feel suffering or crisis.
Who will not run to God for the Black Nazarene with this situation?
Even the meantime have been killed.
Because of President Noynoy's seat as the bosses of the citizens, his bosses, we have a big trust on how the murder of Camen will be lessened.
The child of tofu, we might be disappointed.
It is more than four years that PNoy will stay in Malacanang and it is scary to think that we still have colleagues.
Why?
Because for sure, being active will continue in the observation of the sensitive programs of PNoy.
That is corruption and corruption.
Every report of PNoy is against this fight, each can be put in jail by the corrupt and corrupt, it is natural to report to the town of Hamen.
This is where our ranks went to and we are driving.
If we get along with corruption and corruption, it is better to be a mad dog for them and the pork barrel of their guns will be pointed out.
Isn't ZETECAYETANO!
In fact, there have been eight people with Christopher Goitia, Guihulngan, who was killed to be amen in the administration of PNoy.
And there are still many threats of threat that has a sign of lack of safety in their profession or work.
There are agencies of the government that we trust in order to monitor the cases of being amen but what we see is very rare for the solution.
It is also a big failure of them to identify the minds of the killings which are more than "Dangerous Drugs" than the gunmen.
But how much is the agencies of the government for the search of those who killed criminals, this is a failure in giving protection to the life of Camen.
In this situation, Bro, who will not run and will ask help from God and to the Black Nazarene just to continue to live?
Kill people.
One of the very big problem of the people is the lack of ability to go to the hospital.
Aside from the attitude of the hospitals that they are going to resist them, they are in danger just because of the hardship of life, those who are sick or hurt, those who have sickness are not allowed to be in the hospital because they get involved in a lack of jobs.
Who will stay and who is the one who has the ability to make a hospital?
We are still very well, Bro, we do not know anything, they are just worried about the Lord to get her with the Lord.
Sat down.
Listen and not.
There are also those who always cry and make the people look for their late father.
The government and other authorities should listen to this truth.
If they will remain deaf or pretending to see anything, there is no other destination and you will approach the people but the Lord and the Black Nazarene.
Even if it is believed that the people in the government are trying to take care of the citizens of those who have to increase the increase.
Or you are here in the government, how can you show your service that there is always someone who is always with "Help and God" of your taking of duty?
