Let us just go to school; we are really brilliant, thank you.
Covetous, fur.
Even if we were able to take it back, four applicants who are more beautiful than me by different sectors that have not yet been five, no matter what was able to check in a check, he was able to check in a check.
It is like we are clear to the public that shows different sectors.
Which is intense to get angry after getting down from the stomach, that is why the mistake has nowhere to anchor.
I thank you very much to you.
I am tired from those who say that I am tired with other people, I said four four-four-four-four thousand pesos in a jeepney.
Four pesos was answered that he was not for eight pesos.
Of our fellow countrymen, perhaps, of the computer, where did they think of papaya, the fare must be paid; we might have no operators, isn't it?
That is why we have a government so much and when you have added to me the truth, I said that all we do not like the rain is not enough, the payment is not enough, especially the payment.
But if we will buy something.
Corporation), it is not really the agreement that the fare is not yet done, but sometimes, we should see that, we should know that our feelings are not their feelings, that is why there is no money being thrown by the law in the price of petroleum.
Rich.
Yes, it is hard to talk about it because all of us are cut together in the exam here, the Filipinos, how will we wake up, how will I wake up?
It is too much for the long payment of self-control later on the two losses change in the petroleum products, the company that is being supported by the petroleum will be given to school; they are able to find a good position from school to be able to eat later.
It is just fine here in gasoline.
As told by the contribution of the indigenous people, Two Wives are said to be one of the orders.
That is why I searched for poverty.
Your mother, in the same time, that is why sometimes we go to the room, that is why we are going to sleep there and it is hard for us to sleep while the government has no pity for almost you.
I need to go out of it later at the mass.
