Like Iraq, Boston, extortion and the only ones who are the only ones.

There is no difference between the twin bombing in Boston, America for the recorded bombing in Iraq.
Strong, scary, abandoned, the root is still confiscated and blind.
It's a good thing that all of the bombs which have been washed away were washed away and watched by many people.
If all the bomb exploded, including those in line line, God is the only one who knows what will happen.
Terrorism?
While we are driving it, there is no responsibility for the bombing, but there is a sign of terrorism happening.
Civilians, and the innocent were innocent who were the ones to target them and not the armed forces who are enemies of stray bomb.
The Taliban has sent a hint at Pakistan.
As revenge on the bombing or a rocket connected by the Americans in their areas in Pakistan and Afghanistan, hopefully not.
But what if it's just revenge?
No Filipino was affected.
Our feelings about the news of no Filipino who got involved in the grim incident was light.
But it does not mean that we are not worried about these events.
What if we themselves are in the middle of fear and death?
It's because we are also included in the civilians and innocent of these heinous crimes.
Who else will happen again?
Who will be victimized in the next bombing, and where will this happen?
We are asking this because it is certain that the incident will happen next.
This event will possibly happen again in America, wherever I love the Philippines.
If the bombing are explosion in other countries, it seems that the bombing itself in America is already brought to.
After all, it has been started through the bombing in Tantos) in New York several years ago.
This can also be changed.
It is possible that the other countries who are allies of America will just follow.
The Britain said, France, Germany and other forces of the North Attaché and the other forces of the North Atilano Roman Buenafe, who is always helping America for the ingredients that he started to start or sold it.
That is why these should be prepared for the bombing that is Iraq and style of Boston.
No one knows if the bombing will still be brought to the airplane.
Prepare yourself also.
In the Philippines, it is not impossible that the LRT bombing and other bombing will not happen again.
It is also not impossible to bomb our fun runs which are surrounded by hundreds or thousands of people.
It is possible that they can do all kinds of bombs which are not only in Metro Manila but also in crowded places like Cebu and other progressive cities of the Philippines.
That is why we always prepare.
The police and military, these should be picked up by their smell to people who will die and they are innocent.
Help of civilians.
To prepare the Philippines against the bombing, the authorities should have fired the citizens and in the barangay.
The citizens and people in the barangay are rich with information about the disastrous crime.
Yes right, even the hotel, motel, condo, apartelle and their homes should be guarded.
Because of this, the bomb exploded first before it was released and six were exposed where it was burned.
Vendors also of cellphone should be guarded because using cellphones in the explosion of bombs.
We are experiencing this in Mindanao and what we know if the bombing is done in Boston?
Kotong!
These cops should be proud of their primary actions within 24 hours everyday.
They should not be first in list if they can catch up in an alternative that they will vote for, gambling dens, traffic enforcer, a horseshoe, and drug lords.
They should not lead themselves to their list.
They should first prioritize the people from danger, criminality and terrorism.
Politics should only be second, aside from taking advantage of these from killings due to politics.
Maybe there are more people who die because of politics compared to terrorism that is true.
These are the only ones who are the only ones.
These politicians should be included in their monitoring, especially this election that there are many people in the houses or in the fourth period of using these.
It is not impossible for them to pick on these kinds of bomb.
Start with the attacks and motorcade and other form of campaigning, politicians should have been in their minds the safety of the citizens.
They will not allow to leave the people who have no idea of terrorism the campaign until the election arrives and after this.
