
For a student who wants to stop from studying.

By Danilo Arana, Arao October 19, 2013.

There are many political issues that should be examined properly but for now, I chose to just write this letter to you.

Because I heard that you have plans to stop going to school why do you not have a problem with your family?

If you do not like what you want, you will give you notice that there are three words, you are not alone! If you do not want to listen to your age, there are friends who are ready to listen to you.

Even though a teacher will never be replaced with the care of a mother or father, the teacher will be in a position to give advice on academy.

As a student, you will not lose all respect and fear every time you see your teacher, you should still look up to anyone who you think has no meaning of your old age and the youth cannot take care of it.

Sometimes, respect and fear of dismay and worry because no one is perfect in the world, it seems that they do not care if all students are going through their sight, they do not care if they understand everything that can't read in the book.

But at this point, do not hesitate to listen to whatever you want to say, there are teachers who want to listen to anything that you want to say, especially to those who need to tell your own bank, I want to bring the message of my own bank, I want to bring the message of me.

What are you going through?

Do not make a misunderstanding with your problem if you believe it will be solved.

It is possible that the solution is difficult, but let us force it to face your problem instead of running away from it.

Find out for the meantime do not rush in action, your plan to stop going to school is a heavy decision, it can be said that it is better to leave the goodness of the majority, for you and for the country, your departure from the four corners of the SEA Games.

In my opinion, it will be acceptable to stop studying if it is related to facing a bigger problem being faced by the society, if your decision is for you to have something to say, but it's up to and increase.

It is really needed that people like you are ready to continue the struggle of the past and present in order to achieve a meaningful future.

But if quitting smoking is just because of your personal advice, you should not leave your mind for you to continue to study the importance of a kind of education for you to continue to study all things that are not just timely but right.

But even if my office is open to listen to your thoughts, it is still your final decision, even if I think that what you are going through is a shallow reason for you to finally go back to the four corners of our society, I am sad to go back to the four corners of the SEA Games.

Thank you to reading whatever your decision is, hopefully it has something to do with the struggle.
