"A special treatment of GMA condemned.

By P2,500.
February 21, 2012.

Gabriela and other militant groups insisted that the former President Gloria Arroyo should not be transferred to true prison, not in the hospital.
Kilusang Mayo Uno (equivalent), Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) and other militant groups are the Veterans Memorial Medical Center (VMMC) in Quezon City to insist the burial of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo in an ordinary prison.
"It is only right that Gloria and not in the hospital will be jailed and not in the hospital," according to Elmer Liscano, chairman of us.
The militants conducted the attack in VMMC one week after the court allowed the burial of the Aquino administration, the stay of Arroyo in the said hospital.
Arroyo will be facing criminal case but his lawyers insisted that the remains of the former President in VMMC will be facing due to the various diseases that Arroyo will take on.
The group allegedly angered that despite all the "administration of Benigno Aquino III to hold Arroyo, he will give a special treatment and not to answer to his crimes.
This is no longer running away from the special treatment of the Aquino administration to Gloria Arroyo (Macky Macasac.
According to Gabriela, in the almost 10 years of Arroyo, he asked the public funds to kill the country's funds, and we were fooled by the fraud during election period, he remains in the hospital, and not in jail where he is right, according to the group.
According to him, the special treatment of Arroyo is showing that the impeachment trial of Corona is showing that the Aquino administration supports the Aquino administration, not to answer the crime of Arroyo.
"The true interest of Aquino in the impeachment trial of (Chief Justice Renato Corona is about his interest in Hacienda Luisita, not in the sincerity in implementing the Supreme Court and the implementation of the Supreme Court that will keep it in Hacienda Luisita," according to Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
Last November 2011, the Supreme Court released a decision on the leadership of Corona, to dismiss the temporary restraining order given to the Presidential Bureau of Tax which is restraining to the legislative chamber to pass the impeachment complaint against Corona.
"Earlier, the police immediately responded to the capture of the authors who wrote the wall, but why was it that the people who stole the pork billion pesos and killed by the citizens were not allowed to catch the youth who wrote the" Gloria jail in front of VMMC.
Danao is calling for the former President to be imprisoned in his involvement in the multimillion peso scandal on corruption, cases of extrajudicial killings and more than 200 cases of kidnapping of military.
"While the directive of Corona is ongoing, he should not forget that the real issues here are the crimes of Arroyo, similar to electoral race, plunder, and violation of human rights," said Lana, general secretary from Gabriela.
Linmei is calling to remain observant and do not be swayed by the impeachment trial just like what the camp of Aquino and Arroyo wants to happen.
Before the program is over, the police attempted to separate the protesters when they started to push through the sidewalks where they arrived in the sidewalks where the leaders of the groups and the citizens who responded to finish the program.
