Militant youth were confronted by Akbayan as a red-ray, "being" booing "party-list.

The members of the Revolution of National Capital Region (PCG-NCR) confronted the leaders of Akbayan party-list of a press conference in Ermita, Manila.
Activists accused Akbayan of putting up the members of Ondoy in danger through red-ray (name) and taking advantage of the system party-list because Akbayan is not being used by Akbayan.
"Akbayan as for a public cision, Walden Bello is a public official, PAre, to the city administration, to be an enemy," Vencita, "Vanger Crisostomo, the national chairman of Sochi.

The leaders of Akbayan also speak to the press conference when the up to ten members of Agbimuddin will suddenly speak, who is known to be close to Malacanang and there are leaders who are high officials of the Aquino administration.
In the arrival of TV Patrol, the members of Akbayan also saw the foreign youth students in a point, Akbayan Rep. Walden Bello called the hands of a militant activists to slap himself.
According to Zillabo, physical abuse also hurt by the members of Akbayan as their members, some who were devastated, a member of Akbayan also saw one militant activists and dragged it out of the restaurant.
"In the middle of the public utility vehicles to avoid the call of Akbayan as a call on the church that was stopped by the public, the stop being given to the public stop to be, Are Malacanang, the case that was given to the government," stated by Crisostomo.
Crisostomo is also criticized the statement of Malacanang to defend Akbayan as facing the complaint of qualifications for the Commission on Elections (Comelec).
"Malacanang's plea to defending Akbayan as the government official," according to the leaders of the youth, "according to the leader of the youth.

Meanwhile, the catholic and for the sake of the Catholic dog group Parish Regional Trial Court for the response for the qualifications of Akbayan as well as the Black Nazarene, as well as the Black Nazarene ends up in the disputed party-list in 2013.
The PPCRV said that the Comelec and the Black Nazarene should be given the White House because of its closeness to Malacanang and the high officials of the administration of its leaders.
"Hey, fact, it was a point of recognition that he was held accountable for being disqualified, Are" extreme.
Akbayan defended, there is a need to look at their latest record for the representatives of the Congress, they are also pushing different laws like the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act Extension of Reforms (Carper), Cheese of Law, and others.
But for Akbayan, "Akbayan is the winner of the Intertropical Convergence Zone that's being considered to be the Intertropical Convergence Zone.
