Who will ask for an identification-off-governmental organization, Tiger, as Tiger.
(Pilipino Star Ngayon), Nunber 1255; Usahay, September 15, 2013 - 12: 00am.

Manila, Philippines - La Salle College was conquered by the seven games in the Second, 69-64, in 76th Avenue Medical Center (basketball last night in Mall of Asia Arena in Pasay City.
Archers-up to 14 points went away to 14 points for the third alarm before the rise of Tigers with the cooperation of Jeron Teng, Norbert Torres and Almond Actor, carrying 10-4 cards.
Meanwhile, the troops of coach Jawooooooo in the Libingan ng University where they were trapped in the first place, but fishing in number 1 is heading to number one hundred pesos because of a deeper police station.
Archibers and Lamar Odom will focus on a fist fight to know who will inherit the burial of the two team in the SEA Games.
Teng finished 19 points and 11 rebounds and his four points, together with the two-year-old child, together with two free-year exchange for the 68-4 increase in the last 20 seconds.
Before this, it was used as Tigers to sticking to two points, 57-59, from Mahayhay, Karim clarified.
Torres was brought to 14 points and 13 rebounds as well while Vazza was around 11 for an Archers, who passed as Tigers after he won the first time.
The UST went down to 7-6 cards and will be faced into pole game against Ateneo for the fourth and last chair from the cemented finals.
The Roque was crushed on Adamson, 77-60, to get the sixth win in 13 games and will be tasted by the Fist which can be paid for the four wins.
It was also being considered by the office that it was just looking for a good saying goodbye for Fist coach Leo Austria who earlier said that he will not return to the team in the next year after the management of his ability and coach will have doubts.
Meanwhile, it will be held today at 2: 00 in the afternoon at Cheerness, which will be held at the third consecutive title but they will be freed from other opponents, especially the National University, which has been prepared for.
The case has been known in the latest survey but it is convinced that they will take the first position on this year.
