
PNP, AFP who teach the Mamasapano massacre.

Joy Cantos (Filipino Star Ngayon) - February 5, 2015 - 12: 00am.

Manila, Philippines - it seems like "word case" is what the generals of AFP and PNP can teach on who should be blamed for the death of 44 SAF commandos who were brutally murdered by the MILF.
AFP Chief General Gregorio Pio Catapang Junior said that the officials of SAF in the AFP were able to coordination with each other.
"Thank you, thank you, thank you to the war today, this is not the party that we are not, party, and we are expecting that it will be a low pressure, share that it is an intense firefight, and it is expected that the SAF had shortcomings in coordination.
According to Catapang, they know the plan to arrest the Top Jemaah Islamiyah (kill Bin Hir alias Marwan and Abdul Basit Usman but they did not know the date of the date when it will be conducted.
The military initially gathered criticisms because the commanders are not able to go back to the SAF but the commanders are not able to respond to the area which should have been first responded by more than 300 SAF on the operation which served as the force of the force.
In the statement of the arrest, SAF Commander Director Getulio Napenas was fired, the 55th SAF 44 of the military officials particularly against Army's 6th Infantry Division (ID) Commander Major General Edmundo Pangilinan was ordered to send reinforcements.
According to Napenas, he also sent the text message to PNP Officer in Charge Leonardo Espina, who was able to send a message to AFP Western Mindanao Command Chief Lieutenant General Teddy Casino Hotel.
Napenas was refuted that the 300 SAF members, who were pointed to be taught and joined with the Philippine Army units to help the 55th SAF 44, Senior Inspector Ryan Pabedas, the MILF cornered.
35 of the total 36 SAF troops of Pabasaan, died in the said fight.
Catapang said, the AFP troops were able to take advantage of the troops of the AFP and send reinforcements but they did not know where to go because of the lack of coordination with the SAF.
"We, the attempt to avoid a text message to a former tricycle driver with the US fight with the MILF or BIFF in the combat against the MILF or BIFF in the combat against the MILF," Catapang, said that the peace agreement in the MILF is not given importance.
"Fight IT led to the Armed Forces of General Catapang will be the responsibility of the Armed Forces of the investigation or the Board of Inquiry.
