"We do not have a fight with Piolo!
We are not rude to it! "JUsahay, BE, Alwin, July 23, 2016.
EX-ED are the members of Mount Athos because, the movie queen Judy Ann Santos-Agmailig, and Natanglement and the drama actor of Dos who is Piolo Pascual... they would be together in Sun Life and anacons, then she gets drunk.
The case is, they are not put on stage.
Juvenile first said, that Maner X-tra: The royal family, Papa PNoy, was able to send their way home when they had their own relationship with their own Holding areas.
Very Hollywood, huh!!
In the way of being observed, it was a sign of Mahmoud Together "Povidine iodine or Me Noguides.
By Mrs. Agmailig, "Annie" said, we do not have a fight with Piolo but we have not bought there, no one is happening between the two of us. "
Diva was very entertained by a love between Judy Ann.
I was able to hear the words, "arrogant" and "Pogi" who was the one who is going to be a father.
It was obviously scared, but the movie queen is going to have a short portion.
"There is a little need to adjust, of course, it is said to be a lot of new before."
Juvenile admitted that in Her mid-ABB), he / she said that he / she wasn't able to pay for his debts to the government.
"Entice, a point, that I have a account, I am really not wearing.
"Because in the past," with Euphrasia Eluvathingal, "isn't it, there are sad stories of actors who are not able to save.
"It seems like she's like an eye cream."
She continues to say it, "although my mom was able to push through, his mom is really different, his priorities is really different.
Thank you all the all of you, thank you, for thank you to be the one to be able to ask for forgiveness for being a child for a point.
"Maybe it seems that all my mother's mother is like that, that is why he really loves me, I was a buy-buy-bust operation.
"That is the fact that I am being deceived and I am being servile."
How are the Piolo?
"We were surprised, we were okay because we did not have an issue because there was no effect of honor or a few.
"I am happy to be happy, that he / she has not yet arrived at that kind of discussion, but with a closer discussion, I will come in a short time."
In a period of time, it will also be known what will happen with Nora Aunor in Camply film fest season.
Mrs. Agoncillo, the protagonist in the kitchen, meanwhile, Ate Guy, reviewed for a kind of kind of pork barrel.
"There is a competing case, that's why we have nine films that are included in Camply.
"With my respect and admiration for Ate Guy, I cannot say anything about it that I am happy to have a movie in the said film festival.
"What I did not expect was that we are saying that I will be forgotten about Piolo Pascual, first, the Pope Francis and watermelon seeds.
Thea is very filling, which is as if he / she is being grossed for by a lot of giddy and amusement from the questions that he hears.
It cannot be denied that he is the one an actor that can be exported while he was devastated.
The physical form of a mental problem, he will be the one controlling the "fist protest, exercise, good sleep and the proper Food Park."
"He is not in the boils of Top Rank Promotions" he is using the word "prime," to cover the state of his career and position.
For Piolo, "Judy Ann will also be the part of the my hip.
I am not a I am I am, if I was for Her.
"We, it was found out that We was taken out.
"" Her as one of the Pambansang Kamao, "Pascual added.
"Susi sa Her), hopefully in the movie, I hope in the film that the concept of Miss Joyce Bernal plays the movie.
"Hopefully you can do it," he said.
Papa P / she does not want to talk about their past, "upon arriving at the amount of Fight IT.
"We are still young.
Piolo should come from London in London in short-short-tempered at Juaning is, according to WILLIE.
"Emanuel Christian Church (Pang-120) WHO) that is the only ones who are faith against him are the ones who are faith that are faith that are faith in marriage.
"
"The story of Piolo," it feels good to go back to school.
"I have learned a lot of things from a few days of studying.
What he invited now to his / she is the one who will be the one who will be the one to be the son of Inocencio Street, "Eve since he was still young, I was a hidden daughter.
"Wansis, for the meantime, I can no longer give financial support."
"Papa PNoy, seems that I will not be able to leave the word" financial support, "if it seems to be listened to by the word which is owned, it is a better father.
