Each has its own.

It is probably the life of the national hero Jose Rizal to make the topic in the movies of the year 1912, before the making of movies in the country, two movies based on the life and death of Rizal was done by the American who took it.
Even the novels he wrote are my favorite for a movie, Noli Me Tangere "on 1930, on 1930 in the direction of Jose Almonte, in 1961.
Two films were also done based on the character Salas (1951, 1999) who was the staff of Noli Me Tangere.

In the last year of the decades, 90, there are a lot of films which gave them as a part of the celebration of the network to the country, three of them are about different aspects of life and heroism of Rizal.
Tikoy Aguiluz made the movie "Rizal in Dapitan and the love of Rizal and Josephine Brad in Dapitan.
It seems like this movie does not want to answer how it can be considered as a hero, including the advancement of Rizal and his being a genius in the other hand, he is being sold in movies as a person, especially in the aspect of love).
It can be seen with Rizal in this film why he was the national hero, he was not an inspiration because he became an inspiration because he became an inspiration because according to his principles even though it comes back to his principles even though it is still alive.
Rizal is true in one part that the Americans have made a national hero, instead of Andres Bonifacio (this daring, dangerous and threat to the Americans in making films about Rizal in the first part of the Katipunan in the first part of the 119th Independence Day.
This is also the logic on why it is more acceptable and the middle of the middle of Rizal as a hero because of the bravery of his life, but the approval of his life, but the solution was given to his inspiration.
In spite of the number of films who are talking about Rizal's life, there was no one who tried to take back Rizal from the box that was made by the Americans when he declared that he was not seen in a revolution.
