
Citizens do not let a man die.

Congratulations!

The question of the civilians's question is again opened in relation to the killings of the police in Atimonan, Quezon recently.
That is also what happened after a massacre happened in Kawit, Cavite.
But the debate was started on the issue when the children were killed in a stray bullet from the guns that were given the New Year.
The debate is legitimate.
It is only right to talk about having a gun or not a civilian's gun.
Because there is really a problem: The use of legal guns on the crime is really there.
There are even questions that should be given important in life, freedom and properties of civilians or people.
How many use of crimes?
Up to total number of guns reached more than 1.6 million.
It is said that there are more than 500,000 on the establishment that have no license or those who will renew the in-list while about 1.1 million are licensed.
500,000 on the VCM is possible to be used in crime.
But what are licensed, here are licensed, it is expected that the gunpowder exploded in the gunpowder.
I am sure of this.
Even if the treatment of the other people is in a blender, it is very rare for a fence in a fence in order to go amok using his gun.
PNP, AFP, Lumad are not enough.
It is estimated that around 400, 000 policemen, military and 120,269 people are only watching the security of the people.
If the number of 500,000 on the Priority Development Assistance Fund, is the reason why the policemen, military and Mulato have the citizens to save the people?
I am sure, the armed authorities are not able to give protection to the 95 million citizens.
"It's just that, Kawit massacre, then the police are already done to help the police.
Manila, it is acceptable.
In Metro Manila, it can be said that the police are easy to respond because there are many Police Community Precinct police scattered around the groups of barangays.
Even if others are kicking in different reasons, like severe traffic or lack of vehicles in their patrol car, and their own vehicles are what they use.
Outside Metro Manila?
But outside Metro Manila, the police station are involved in the municipal hall and a few number, which is why the police responded to the right time?
This Kawit massacre has an accident for example of being impossible to take action in the right time for the authorities.
Why?
So, there are many police station that have no vehicle, and if there is a vehicle, it is broken.
Our friends say, if they do not have a type of jeep or motorcycle, the police is paralyzed.
Civilians caught each other.
Many cases to arrest criminals, people or ordinary criminals, are made by the people.
But in the police report, the police are the protagonist.
They should forget about their reports on their reports, even the barangay watchmen, barangay watchmen, councilor and chairman who cares for criminals, Tina covetousness and the criminals are just like them.
The civilian was injured.
In other words, there are a lot of civilians who are members of the police, military and pensioners in the proper peace and order.
The question is the call of the civilians who were charged.
There is a need to be the first force force in front of the truth that many criminals are using guns on their hands.
69 percent from the Governor.
How about the condition of being amen in a international report, 69 percent of the media killings were done by the people?
It is scary to think, Bro, you think, the people who are expecting to protect the people are the primary ones who will be shot and kill.
And it is very clear that this incident to the Ampatuan massacre and other cases of the governor, mayor and other politicians, police and military are the suspects in the murder.
What is the protection of the Pamen against illegal blood from the government that they do not want it to be used about their corruption, corruption and abuse of power?
We do not say that the government needs to fight for the teeth.
But in the moments that you are already being shot by the government, how will you finish and ask help from the police, military and beta-kilometer distance, especially in provinces?
Discipline and training.
It is better to maintain a gun in front of danger in their lives, freedom and properties.
What should be done is to make them look into the proper handling of the gun, to have the proper discipline and obedience to the laws and policies of having a broken gun.
This is where they can protect themselves from the plague of society and will be able to help in the government to ensure a peaceful and orderly way of living.
