Migrante has a voice, needed in Congress.

A new hero if they get to know them, but a new slave to treat them like this is the situation of the Filipinos who are pushing out of the country by the government who cannot give their own work for them.
Carrying the principle of the millions of Filipino workers in other countries who face many issues - from the inhumane condition of the government until facing the immediate death penalty and the Liberal Party-list is being considered as representatives of the Congress.
"It is a success now for cyclists to get to know their voices that resulted in order to bring their voices," according to Connie Bragas and Regalado, the 65th Liberal Party-list was first nominated.
Face the obstacles.

For Regalado, although there are congressmen who are taking sides of illegal immigrants that have no true attack from their ranks.
They said that they won't be easy to attack in the fields that they are living in a different country, except for the relatives who are here in the Philippines, but despite this, those who are living here in the Philippines are not easy, but despite this, they are ready to get enough votes in order to raise the representatives of the group of Liberal Party-list compared last year.
"Like what the party-list is centered on us, we almost experienced those with antibiotic which are almost not allowed to join in the upcoming party-list.
Regalado added that Elben was able to attend to those who voted for the overseas absentee in Hong Kong, Migrante (number 96 in the ballot).
"Although it is evaded and there is no sufficient fund for the campaign, we are expecting the historical group of groups and relatives of illegal immigrants to deliver the Migrante party-list in Congress," according to Regalado.
The situation of the OFWs.
It is not only because the government cannot make his own work to his citizens as to why he is pushing away from his citizens, the government is earning a lot from the Filipinos coming out of the country, according to Migrante.
"In an OFW who will go out of the country, it is going to spend for the P26.,000 pesos for all the documents that he will need from the government (NBI, Police, passports, etc.), the government is earning big," according to Regalado.
For Alunan, a policy of the government is to push their citizens to go to other countries, instead of going to their own country, allocate these to the Filipinos.
"From Aquino's seat, the increase of workers in another country continues to push through from 1.6 million in 2010, about 1.85 million which was coming out of the country," Regalado explained.
Although there is a big promise brought to another country, each other Filipino Workers (OFW), in any country, will be in danger of danger, with any country, discrimination, loneliness in your family, not violent, and abuse, and others.
"Let us look at how the government can address what is happening now in Jeddah, even what happened to Sabah.
It is set up to be set aside for those who are stranded in Jeddah, they are Filipinos who are in danger of being imprisoned by the government of Saudi because of the lack of legal documents or any reason for several times, that we recognize as a conversation with government officials, but the end of the end is still slow.
Meanwhile, according to Susana, around 7,000 Filipinos are imprisoned in different countries and there are already seven who are in the death penalty in different countries with no legal team in different countries which have been brought home to the Philippines every day with the mysterious death.
"OFWs should not be treated as a simple issue to milk, not just a simple issue of illegal immigrants and treatment to loved ones and make a slave to a system," according to Regalado.
On the streets and in the Congress.
In front of the lack of action by the government, and the continuation of the Labor Law Policy ", illegal Filipinos can feel their needs for the representatives of the legislative chamber.
According to Migrante Party-list, their participation in the election is what they can take on to the legislative chamber to show their issues that have been brought on the streets for a long time.
Included here are the real service for immigrants and not collection or business, it is a real protection for them and resolve the forces that can be taken out of the country.
"It is important for us to promote the price of work, many Filipinos are forced to go out of the country because of no sufficient work in life for many Filipinos," the end of Regalado.
