Weapons Vir Rice and Salisi Gang.

Bothering the land case against the whole country.
It is still not impossible to die because of this problem.
An important question: How will the rice file on top of my loved Philippines?
One more thing, how can they get the case on top of this?
If you will think well about this questions, you will surely answer.
The pork barrel might be stopped in order if they will be able to ask for a long time for a long time with the coler who will be included in of course their accomplices are corrupt and corrupt.
But is this enough time to stop the contraband of rice? Here is the second question and the answer to this.
When enough.
If the production of rice is always lacking in the Philippines, it is natural for us to repair the case on top, while the National Food Authority and the Department of Agriculture, they will go together with pork barrel scam.
And what's bad, they are able to take the filipinos to look like the authorities to give them permits to give them permit to those who are in the Bureau of Customs until they will still live in case the people of Customs have.
If the horses have made a huge amount of rice to the blessing of the corrupt, that is where the additional wage increase of rice is frequent, but also in favor of the covetousness of their inmates in the government.
The co-workers in the supply and price of rice are in line with each other and this is where they will earn, especially in additional price.
There is a liver.
When the toy has used its power to dictate the supply and price of rice to the rice grains, even in NFA-DA, almost everyone will become victims.
Every additional price of rice is going to eat on the expenses for other needs of the citizens, but the results of this to the poor families who are all over 50 million people in the Philippines, along with 70 million people, are more than 50 million people in the factories, farm and cholesterol.
Also included were the millions of jeepney and tricycle driver and they have a lot of operators.
And do you know that a lot of farmers will become the one to catch up until harvest and they themselves just buy rice?, that's why they are also victims of rice cakes.
Sip GER Vila.
Aside from the boils of workers, drivers, vendors, and other poor in the Philippines, the race of farmers are going bankrupt.
Farmers are becoming an enemy of the farmers in selling rice.
It is often said that the farmers will not be able to sell it because the public market of rice is flooded.
There is also a little rice for our farmers because it is very expensive to farm, which is why the laborers are in the Pler's rice that they will just buy.
None of the farmers.
What is scary in the picture of the rice field in the Philippines is the big possibility that the filipino race will lose.
Who will continue to farm when the expenses of the production will be huge and they are very cheap and full of losing their backs?
In fact, there are a lot of farmers who don't want to plant rice and instead, they are just being sold by their land to those who are making a subdivision, factory, farms, fishpond and others.
And when this happens, we may not have anything to do but the importation of rice and foreign farmers are the only ones who will speak and will progress.
Commit suicide.
Because the problem of rice is rooted on the lack of supply of rice in the Philippines, the DA, NFA and the National Iriberri administration, what will be done here, should have been done.
One of the things that should be considered by these is the making of many and sufficient irrigation in the country that can be given 341 million hectares of rice field in the whole country.
According to NIA, 341 million hectares of rice paddies is only about 1.7 hectares, and about 1.7million hectares, which, about 500,000 hectares, were damaged by the irrigation.
The water in our farm is not enough, the production of rice is not enough.
If El Niño prevailed, the farmer is more dead, especially those who are just depending on the rain and use the generator to be cut off.
Allocate funds.
Malacanang, with the help of DA, NFA and NIA, the should be the one to lead in making a way for the foolishness of our rice field.
If this is what is spent by the congressmen and senators for the impeachment of ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona, he should be able to bear the funds to make the people look at the stomach of the citizens.
If there is irrigation, it is certain that the rice field is always healthy, aside from having two to three times to farm inside a year.
That is where the country will get enough, but even if it is too much rice, year-year and will surely subside in case.
