Sevidal of Relief EpiPen.

Many are worried because it is not enough for a week before the election on May 13, there was a widespread brownout in Metro Manila and in northern and Middle Luzon, even if the election is not a few who said that this is part of the "Final Agreement and Seal" for cheating.
The loss of electricity is still controversial during the press conference of Pres. Noynoy Aquino, this is the first time that this has happened in this kind of x-El "or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of the Philippines.
If it can be remembered, there are also fear that in the first elections are being experienced in the country, in the upcoming elections, in the elections this evening, there was a result when the election and counting at the evening, there was a result of the arrival of a text message.
What is not being questioned: The upcoming elections are being questioned, there is no system for verification - if one person voted for him, but what happened to your votes and after being counted or not, that is not sure.
This is what is still waiting for the Filipino people on May 13, even the controversial payment code, which aims to be done by those who know and fraud for those who know about it to the took place of Sixto Brillantes, Jr., chief of Commission on Elections).
The problem is, even if the source of the profit is examined, there is no system of verification of the votes in different levels and until the end, what happened in the elections in 2010 will be repeated again, that what happened in the upcoming elections until the end, what happened in the upcoming elections, will happen again?
The elections are far from the calamity caused by Hala Chavez: "Maestrado of the voters, who were chosen by the voters, that they will be able to sleep in the ballot.
Let's accept the truth: We can become an instruments of widespread fraud during our trust in technology, and we are just instruments in our trust in technology because we are just instruments in our trust in technology, but we are just instruments to ask for advice from those who can be honest or broken.
There will be a lot of brownouts so in the election, it is important to the people that the process is important to say democracy is the implementation of the election in history, even if they continue to be given to cheating, it will be given to the elections that they have launched to the public.
