Alden and Maine, live together in the television series!
Bakar Regalliances, Rose Garcia July 28, 2016 was said by the National Bae, Alden Richards, in the latest party that he was held for about Mount press where, when he / she was really worried that there was a possibility that they will do a series of Maine Mendoza, but, it might be said to be the final and being talked about.
Noguides, for the US, so Alden does not push through, so Alden will push through with becoming the protagonist here or a different series that he will do?
"It's just that, i'll serve as the Kapuso sitcom, Alden hopefully, Alden should be the one to act for the name of Matteo do, which is also confirmed by the director of the series, Joyce Bernal, But IT SUWERTE, for a series of change?
Alden does not care about the profit of their movie with Alden Richards for a long time when she wants to have a day with Alden Richards for having a long time for those who became part of his duty in the beginning until he became famous as famous.
But, due to the reason why he slumped especially last year, and for a span of this month, this July 26 was the only time that he had a chance to fulfill his long time plan.
One whole day, he was the only one who was the only one with the staff of GMA Cortabista, who was very busy with the gratitude of Alden.
It rained money due to different kinds of items being thrown out in different parts, and the grand reception was made as a game in order and about Mount Halcon (a 40 "Samonte, TV and Sampaguita Pictures), which I won't win.
The Pambansang Bae also does not have a mistake to those who want to get her pictures on him because he is going to pass every table for a way to get on us.
Before the short-flop is started for him and the raffle proper, Alden also thanked the good news that he received because of the good terms he received from the gravity of movie Ichine and Maine Mendoza, which is still continued to be full of combing.
To those who are asking if the Kapuso actor cannot answer anything because they say they are not investigating it and just let Producers (RNX Entertainment Television, GMA and M-Zet Films) the one who answered the official.
