
Pushing and addicts in barangay officials.

There are many important news from some branches of the government that are not being given attention because of the incessant issue about the pork barrel scam, and other anomalies in the government.
The election in the barangay is over but we will feel a change in our community? Or maybe like before, the people who voted for the first days are going to raise our barangays and after this.
We can no longer expect them.
After all, the duty of our captain and members of every barangay in our country is very important, they are the primary ones who run to our countrymen in our country.
We have heard a lot of success stories about our community because of the good and good officials in the barangay, but there are still a lot of barangays who are not progressing and instead, it is becoming a nest of evil spirits due to the negligent barangay official.
Last Monday, the right to clean our community is given to us, our community, on the other hand, we also gave a chance to strengthen our support to the real public service through the election.
However, it seems that there are still many of our countrymen who are not used this opportunity to improve their community community.
I will not be surprised if there will be a number of barangays selling drugs and those who are called shabu bazaars because there are many of those who run as officials of the barangay who are believed to have a connection with the drug syndicates.
It is said that these do not spend money and food to buy votes, there are those who won in their community pushers and addicts that are known for their community who are known for their community, and they do not even know the character of the people they won.
Hopefully the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency and the Department of Interior and Local Government will look at it as early as early as early as early as early as early as early as early as early as early as now the syndicates of drugs are devastated and their power to destroy the future of their own neighbors.
