Only the classroom of the former help in the other cellphone program is being called for a high school program for the public schools on the use of the house only one week, that is why the teacher will just stay on just one week.
You are the parents.
My children can be able to see yes, she herself is studying.
Today, he is ready for classes on the fourth of their high school.
We do not need to leave the house and think of what is the blood of the child who is in school.
Patrolling, I said, I asked him to go.
Last for the end.
Go to the law of the world.
They tried to enroll to other school but was not able to go to the store.
That is why mother needs to be here.
Covetous, fur.
I said, it's as if we don't have hope on having a banana tree because there is a lot.
I really know that those with age are going to work.
"That is the reason why I also told me.
Yes, you can be a businessman first.
For the eight years of Divisoria, DepEd, Bombay in the public schools, those who are studying to go home to different schools that have no money to go home to some of the students who have been going home to the high school city of Quezon to get two thousand who are expected to enter the high school city of Quezon.
It is a solution to a point that there will be a pipe but we will continue to accept everything that we have regular.
Because they are going to sleep before they have a lot of things inside my class in school, there is also no.
For me high school, he does not need to go to school in the Holy Week that's why he started to study again in the house.
They will see each other in their noodle house to monitor this once a week.
It is clear that it is still clear here and you are still studying.
The result of the fruits that will be done on Monday to Friday in her home and even Saturday night and instead of all Saturday and I will really learn to focus on the school that is not to be focused on, it will not be focused on to the form of a student of ten thousand.
Maybe it is a violation of human rights.
According to him, it's sad about the children to have a regular school regular school compared to the government when they entered the house even though I am not the eldest.
What is worried now is her mother how to help her child in studying she is not able to finish the high school.
Elementary and I know what is right now, what I said, just know that you have been cut in reading their reading right now, because I do not know anymore.
I do not know how to answer their children, right, there are parents who have money to sleep because it is not good for the parents to help them because it is good that the children are doing what they should do.
Two twenty-four-four-four-four-year-old Alagan, school since the High School and lay down for the beauty of his mother, was joking.
He / she was shocked; he called thirty-seven in the past not only because of Saturday, father said.
Alright.
Very small; unciation; Tutok-budol Gang, and Two Wives are very high-up, a janitor, who has a high-month-old student.
Students are going to school.
With what was done at the examination of eleven thirty-five points, it fell to regular students.
When he arrived in college, I called Alagan, where he went to the night when I talked to her with dancing.
I school, four years of Two Wives are all!
Two people are fearless.
Four others.
Ah, that's why yes.
I am taking care of you, who was Erlinda Dennis Kailagutan, who is very being made a husband, right? "
Ah, you want to.
It is really his head to finish college that is why all of us are complicated in order to reach the success of the victim, four sons, both my siblings, my sibling, and my siblings.
When I had five years, isn't it?
It is indeed impossible that Dela Cruz has five-six-six-six who live in him, maybe one four o'clock.
But before I buy the school, he will buy a thousand to remove the education but a child should not be able to study it not just once, he should go to the parents so that she can go home to school, I will go home to school.
