TV Patrol, April 23, 2012.

Are you crazy?

Since Daniel discovered his glory, many were surprised at her change that before, he frequently gets mad at his colleagues, now it is rare as if in words, it is rare as if in the past, it is very slow and affectionate, now it is very careful and affectionate.

Oftentimes it is listening to the suggestions of those who know, now they also explain what is good for him and to all of those who love her, and if he is not singing, even her neighbors know that he is known since young.

They noticed that he is always alone and locked myself in my room that seems to be talking to him and when he is asked, he needs to be brought by Daniel in mental hospital, and he decided to bring Daniel to mental hospitals, and he decided to bring you to your beliefs, and he decided to bring him / her own beliefs, and he decided to bring him / her own beliefs, and he decided to bring her knowledge to her. "

When she found out of her relatives and friends, they were all able to make noise to why it happened to her, they decided to visit him in the hospital.

When Daniel asked them, he asked, "who did all of you," why didn't you look back to him, "why didn't you know and who love you!" I grew up with some things from the table. "

Everyone ran away, she is crying and crying, but when Daniel suddenly called them, I did not hear that you have told me that you know me and the most beloved?

Why is it that just a few stones that I have been going to run, what happened to my honest love that you will deliver to me?, if you really love me, understand, and concern, instead of mind the small pain that you are feeling! "

Lawyer!

More than two thousand years have passed, there is one person who expressed it like this, but many of them did not accept him, but many of them did not accept him, and when he was replaced with a reward of the leaders of their church, he was mocked and offered to celebrate her in the race.

This is also what is happening in our society he is urging, locked up, he is being thrown away, he is being killed by our citizens without any fight, if we want reform and right change.

They have been dismissed by rebels, terrorists and Abu Sayaff and Abu Dhabi, to think that the generals and Abu Sayyaf Group will not be defeated, and this is not surprising that the generals of the NPA and the bandits will not be defeated, they will continue to leave and carry it until now.

Why do they do the ramp of this murder of our countrymen?

And if you are fighting for the care of nature, like Doctor.

Gerry Ortega, of Palawan, you are already dead by the governor of the province and together with his mayor, who could forget the 57 victims of the murder of the Ampatuans of Maguindanao?

Why are the killings for those who want to change our society?

Why, to where, and who will benefit from this?

If there are questions; we have answers and the truth will free, not only for us, but for our country.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
