
The voice of Mang Regi'll be exported in the term of the Student Regent.

(This work was published about the issue of 30 kilometers of the Philippine Cologne last 15 March 2012.
John Toledo.

A photo of Richard Jacob Street.

In the threat of the budget of budget from State Colleges and Universities and Universities (ALS), the posture of the Student Regent (000) Ma. Hambi) to reach the Board of Regulations (GAR), the voice of the students.
As the only representative of the students to the highest position of the university, he has a big use in order to send the interest of more than 100 students of the entire UP System which is only one of the representatives of the group of horny, Staff, and Ubers which are composed of armed men from the government and those assigned by Malacañang.
However, Conti was seen with the interest of the students and even the other sectors of UP, who were very proud of his appointment.
Historical arguments.
In the year 2006, when former President Ferdinand Marcos was in the first 000 SR, he was hailed as the privilege same time, and only send the role of horR.
When the Martial Law was declared last 1972, he was removed from the 1987 position because it was returned in 1987 because it was only returned in 1987 due to the national alliance between the council members of UP.
In the next year, the Office of the 000 (O000) as the office where it is being implemented by students is their complaint against horR, "Aaytono, the president of all his university," Maritez-Reynel Andrada, the president of the all the town of UP Acid, Taba, La Union.
It's too late.
As 000 SR, Connect will focus on his time in the advancement of the campaign of the various sectors of UP and became a sharp critics of some in the university.
Last July, the Enhanced Defense Cooperation (Izzy Canillo) released the financial Assistance Program (STS), Conti, who did not go to the proper state of review that he became a basis for the formation of Pascual of a STS.
In every step and decision made by Conti, 000 SR, he said that the students were taking advantage of the student who became the "consultative dialogue in his way of driving Onok Island, according to the students, they were able to talk about horR," Aaahhmmmp, one of the Orena Corps.
It became an active convener or UP Nationalist Alliance, a huge Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, a vast Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, which has a huge role as condolences for the suspension of the alliance and unity of the administration and the sectors of UP during the time when UP prioritize the budget of UP.
Aside from this, Conti also led the opening of "avenes" where he can send a task force who launched a task force which launched a task force which launched a boxing system to extend the donations for the office of the University Provincial Council.
Aside from the gathering of donations, Contingent is also calling for justice not only for justice but also to other victims of defective security measures like Given Grace Campico.
He was one of those who led the call of the needs to improve the defective system of security during February wherein he was able to discuss the responsibility of UP in these kinds of crimes, and it was reported that the guards of the ID and bags and often attacked by the guards on each building.
Martial law.
Aside from the students, Conti became active in the issues being faced by other sectors of UP.
As a member of the National Union of People's lawyers, the fight for violation of human rights that he directly fought was the disappearance of the students, Karen Sinsero who fought for the campaign to be released by the political leaders who were Ermson Acosta, and one of Moniqueo 09213263166.
He became an avid reader of the students to search for "prepaid er" of activists, General Jovito Palparan, that until now, I was still missing in the cases of Karen when I used the Martial Law in the field, "he said.
As of now, the campaign of Consignation is still ongoing for the advancement of the division in the middle of the legislative chamber's advancement in the next academic police, wherein Orena Drilon will determine the true state of the lives of the men who are in different parts of Oemes.
Coni'll be the one to gather the councils for the second (SC) on March where the provision that is being applied at CRSRS. "What is being discussed in CRStukenbrock."
He gives comments and criticisms.
Even though he was seen with pride and hard work, Conti did not escape with criticisms.
Conti admitted that there are some projects which are not able to do such as the construction of the muslim students of UP, for the Muslim students of UP, to build a state of Science and technology of Science and technology) which is the responsibility that the policy of UP.
For some, the difference between the different views of the students he is headed by in fact, became a big obstacle in the past General Assembly in the whole General Assembly in the whole General Assembly in the city of UP Manila (GAM), the movement of Consignation.
Contingent is said to have been prioritized to a "epal." To look for those who were involved in his immediate issue within the Supreme Court instead of putting up the proposed bill to be made to the CoCs) election (CRTEL), according to the people who take advantage.
It can be recalled that last December 2011 in UP Visayas (UPV) Balisacan, the student who went to the entire UP System was able to talk about the suspension of one member from UP V School of Technology) Council, that was why they were forced to discuss a member from UP V School of Technology) to agree to the amendment of the amendment.
"Delorino," aims to focus the search for those who were involved in the "give issue, instead of giving attention to the proposed amendment of CRSRS, according to the Production anniversary of the Proletarian Army, PFC Francis Calayag.
"Quiti Kill is normal for the crash site in my defense," that is the fact that I have an intensive conversation between the Catholic Church, "according to the Supreme Court if he allegedly prioritize his issue because he is after the mistake by the involved individuals inside the Supreme Court.
Even if the other hand was criticized, it cannot be denied that the concrete campaign launched has been launched and was proven by one of the students, not wasted, the power given to Conti, the power and responsibility to give a voice to the biggest sector in the university.
