The foreigner has become a wife of a foreigner, who is exported!

It is not new to the hearing that the parents are pushing for their children to be able to marry a foreigner.
They have beliefs that somehow, this is the only way to rise their families from poverty.
Even if the foreigner is not known, as long as other colors and not of the race, it is fine for their children.
Before, even if he has not yet seen the appearance of the person he is talking with, just chat, it can also be!
They have a big contribution in the new technology for these terrorists!
That's why the email that was delivered in was very popular then.
It is already announced on PL in Europe if they want to get a Filipina to marry him.
There is one Filipina before that you are pen pals with the European Union, the picture sent by the man.
Until all his documents would be fixed and the day he has been waiting for will come.
Kabayan was going to travel at the airport and when he arrived at the airport in a country in Europe, he was surprised that a old man who was riding a wheelchair fell on a wheelchair.
Kabayan is holding the picture and looking for the man who will be knocked on and scheduled to marry.
His surprise almost doubled when the old man approached him and also brought it with the same way he was holding.
She said she also told that man when he was still young.
Although he knew that he was able to make a foreigner, deceived, but his Filipina decided to remain in the company of the old foreigner, he still married him, instead, he went back to their province and he could not bear the extreme shame to his distress.
Just because he is retired and in a wheelchair, she became the one who took care of her husband.
He could not be able to work anymore, because he got the foreigner to become his wife and caretakers.
She also kept the true situation, while those are hoping that he will have regular for them.
Because of the desire to follow the family, he learned to get a glimpse of the old wife just to bring them to the Philippines.
This is almost the situation of one of our Filipinas.
When he is buying, he will increase every price of its construction in the grocery.
He / she also hiding a few buying so that he will be able to ask for a budget for the grocery.
That is the style of Kabayan in a long time, to send money here to the Philippines.
He learned to cheat and have not been faithful to her husband even in a small thing, because of the pity and skill by his family here in the Philippines.
That is why, for those who were left alone in the Philippines, do not expect to depend on your children who married a foreigner.
What they are going through is not easy.
They also have a lot of problems in their respective families.
And it will be more easy to mingle with and socialize with different races and culture especially that they can even be harvested by those.
OFWs who are working abroad have different situation and are just being deceived by their jobs to get carried away by their families.
The foreigners would not understand why their wives need to send money to the Philippines, even our OFWs.
