Until the twenty pesos is up to you?

Victor, or Limited.

To all who are thinking as students of UP, it is the most good thing to eat and what will eat and what they will eat and there are a lot of others who can buy from the restaurant at Capitol Convention Center or Single Entry Approach where there would be a lot of others who can buy-ing or coffee, or coffee, for or to go.
But what if your budget is lacking?
It hurts.
According to the experts in malnutrition, it is the most important food for the whole day, especially to the students who are starting early, it depends on the thickness and weight of your wallet, it might be true that it is not poisonous to any doctor.
In fact, even though the store of the expensive coffee is fed up, and bread inside the bed sheet, these businesses are still left in the corners of the corners and taking a bath in the washing of cheap charger, every morning.
On the streets of RL and Area 2, a white machine, which is offering a hot coffee (P5), reaches up to the sleepiness experienced by a long night of studies, or and Mary i (P7), or Mary i (P7), or Mary i (P5 million) in order to fully wake the spirit.
There are no nutrients that they will be able to get along with these temporarily in stomach, it is not surprising that these kinds of commodities will continue to create and destroy it inside the university.
It is as if UP cancelled the culture of restriction on the time of severe poverty in fact, UP knew the "tanim-masses" and cheap food such as an ball (P10 billion order) and expulsion.
Because of this, it can be found out from a more poor family, those who are getting addicted to the SC, even during the years, have already been a part of the Black Nazarene, some of the students and students in the nearby Mido Island, some of the students and students in the nearby Mido Island, still go to UP just to experience these foods.
Lunch.
Upon arriving at present, the CASAA-market is even worse than the number of students who are competing in searching for a vacant table, but for those who are not perfect for the budget, which costs more or less than 50 pesos, it can still not go through.
Under the academic, Calanoga, those who are pointing their viand, are waiting for their chance to have a choice depending on the taste of their taste, depending on the age to 50 pesos to spicy., and just within three to five minutes, there is becoming more hunger.
But it is not only for those who are lacking in exchange for this diet because it seems like FAMAS.
During the President of UP, Propaganda of UP Diliman, it is prohibited to sell foods that are not nutritious and together with the agreement between the vendors and the administration the list of those who can be sold to students.
It is only started to allow these foods last August 2008 - only two months after the slow movement of the new Isko and you will be affected by the increase based on 300 pesos to P1,000.
Dinner.
If you have been placed here, take care of your stomach again because the stores inside the bed will be closed, you will be brought home to the houses of UP - even in the community which are even more cheap, cheap alcohol and Mary, and most of all, cheap food.
In the Krus na Ligas in the Krus na Ligas in front of the plazas, stores that will be talked in front of the plaza, you can buy one cup of rice, fried eggs, and various viand of fried rice, fried egg, ham, ham, ham, ham, ham, ham, ham, ham, ham, ham, ham, vinegar.
There are also scattered truth, noodle, and store of the buy-one-old hamburger which is similar to the students of UP who need to be frugal even for food, parts of the community, like the Krus na Ligas and creative ways to eradicate poverty.
For a community, "former Presidents Elpidio Quirino in 1941 have been sold in 1941 this $1, it seems that it is not surprising that the Krus na Ligas is not surprising.
In the jurisdiction of almost 400 hectares of pork barrel, there are more than 20,000 people who are living at the Krus na Ligas and most of the two decades of a resident, they are still considered a "Ipit Gang" who can ask their homes if UP would want to leave their homes.
Meanwhile, because UP are lacking in funds, big companies like Ayala takes a chance to use the land of UP in exchange for the rent of new establishments, which is being pushed in the corners and taking a university to be saved from the corners and taking a university.
For the sake of every day of saving, there is a strange feeling brought about by the night - if there is a suspicion that you just want to sleep with the whole day through saving, there is a suspicion that you want to sleep immediately before losing their stomach to save the small and temporary success.
