It's not good that these children are not good.
It is said that I don't feel the source of stress, Formosa do not feel any feeling.
Our countrymen.
What will happen.
That's because that's because I can see that, we can even see even if I was not asked if I was not asked for a week for me to say it.
We have been going for a long time, right last night, he / she cannot say that at the same time, she said that because when it comes to a resort he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she didn't say that she was still beautiful in a resort Sunday that's why he / she was not good to look at.
He immediately went to his throat which is too tired.
Ten people do not stop in putting it in front of him, so I think the two of them have Pag-asa.
Yes, we are pitiful; we are the only one at me, I still have a question here in it.
And you were able to talk to Jason yesterday that's why he / she grew up.
You talked to FJ C yesterday.
That his nose is not okay, ah, okay.
Or what is the feeling of the manager?
According to him, she said that she did not give because after the afternoon he left, but we said that he was able to leave it, but you said that it was your Chairman, it seems that they have something in her past.
Isn't it really getting old to teach him the people who are really angry last night just like what they called on the phone, I really saw as a bit of a little bit.
There are those who bought Sony Pictures, it can be easy for others to say that you could really do something last night, but I can see it off.
Yes, she noticed that she lost weight, according to those who are in the car, most of my don't know that you see each other, but, I am thinking that you were not deceived by two Moalibis; but I was thinking that he / she was not deceived by two Mojo in the house.
Maybe it's because the friends' friends are not the ones who will support Jessica, in the Philippines with Tabe, and then it's different in reading when it comes to a lot of youth who are really hardworking.
"Do you not have documents for judges, even if you still know his bones, he finished our bones; we really want to change; we really want the people to go there 'Clearance or maybe it looks like nothing else.
"There, but whatever happens, we still have something like that, we are asked to win with what we have, but you said that we are all-years old who have already gone hungry until the end.
Added to you.
Will be added to a few days before it is known.
It was three o'clock at five o'clock at five o'clock in the beginning.
Okay.
Yes.
