Bakil on the name of "prosperity.

While the violent demolition of Silverio Compound in Parañaque last April 23 is nothing, those who are being thrown away from different places in the country can be saved from different places in the country, or the people who were forcefully evacuated from their homes.
"If in this case, they are being forced by the poor because of big businesses such as SM, in the middle of the indigenous Lumad by the indigenous Lumad in the region of Caraga, which was led by the indigenous Lumad by the National Historical Commission on Human Rights), which was led by the indigenous Lumad by the National Disaster conference (TIDs), which was led by the indigenous Lumad by the National Football Federation of Caraga).
"If it is experienced by the poor people who are living in the custody of the police, to us are the widespread military combat operations," said Genasque.
6,500 is being done under PNoy.
In the record of the group of Karlo, there is a 6,500 worth of victims of forcefully sent (WBC) and forcefully confiscated from Pres. Benigno Aquino III until the first room of 2012. "Said by every administration the number of IDP," according to Marie Hao-Tropas.
Many of the natives are going to be the indigenous people who are victims of operation under the Oplan Tokhang, program against insurgency and Aquino.
Filipino Weeker was the indigenous people from the Barangay Mainaga, one of those who evacuated from Brgy. CPRO-onan, Ghanaura, Surigao del Norte when his two companions came from their armpit, while two of his companions were saved from their armpit, while two of his companions were saved from the back of the soldiers.
"They did not stand for it, they left me after asking for forgiveness," said by his fellow indigenous people, who gave a piece of medicine for his wounds, which gave a piece of medicine for his wounds.
Along with the shooting of Inano, their houses were cut off, causing the whole community to finally evacuate, together with the children, women and elderly, from the lack of food, many of the natives are getting sick, especially the children.
Not only in the town of GROs), according to Karylle-Caraga, there are also evacuated in the town of Feranthem, AOIL), AOIL), AOIL (52), that they have evacuated because of the fear of the local government, that they have directly attacked them.

This is also the reason of one of Mabalaca, Bebeng, Enriquez who was included in a 215 Zone 20 families of the Armed Forces of the Philippines near Cabadbaran, Agusan del Norte last March 2011, he was arrested, and he was afraid to have been attacked by the rebel New People's Army (NPA) after a few days, he was arrested and was allegedly a victim of a checkpoint by the rebels.
There is a deep grudge against the indigenous people, "every year, we are forced to leave our community, our children, who are ready to hide from places where there is no assurance, sleep on the cold cement in crowded places and basketball or school.
What's worse, in the hour that they return to their community, they caught up their homes and we continue to recover our lives, "he said.
Genuque added, "we are like a garbage if some officials of the government and military who should defend our rights are being treated," the people from Malacañang have been asking for help but are not noticed, "said one native who didn't want to testify.
I was called: Interned - Maire.
Bakil (from the word unit) was called by people who have been evacuated from their community going to a safe place, usually because of the armed arguments or Armed Forces, that is why there are also two kinds of countries, "said Marie Hao-Enriquez, the chairman of Karylle.
According to Hao-Enriquez, the Inter@-@ Illegal Drug (IDP) inside the country has a presence of the revolutionary movement, like the Philippines where the NPA and Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) are there.
Since the Martial Law conducted by the former dictator Ferdinand Marcos in the '80s, it is said that the widespread damages in the whole country continued to increase and grew up during the time of former President Aquino's time, and continued the evacuation of the evacuation of the time and during the time of the administration. "
There are many IDP in the ranks of the Moro brothers, he added, "it is more difficult for the documentary on their number because it reaches to thousands of people, like what happened to the all-out war in Mindanao by former President Estrada and Arroyo," said Hao-Enriquez.
Because of the projects to progress!

Just like the frequent reason why the houses of the poor cities need to pass through condominium and other citizens in secluded places in the countryside, to give way to the projects that are allegedly for progress, like mine, big dams, and plantation.
This March 31, 2012, the Aquino government approved the 56-Tropical Convergence Zone that there is a total price of 130,420 percent of the total Land Area of Caraga) and 16 hectares of 31,800 hundred hectares.
Meanwhile, in the province of Compostela Valley, thousands of hectares of land in Pantukan are jurisdiction of the foreign operations of mines such as nationwide Development Corporation (1,659-shirt), Southern Mountain Island (2,000 pesos.), Southern hornets (2,000 pesos.), Southern hornets (2,000).
This is the reason of the widespread military and attacks in the said area, according to Maria Lou Lambo, a teacher in the community in Lumakil, Tantangan, which is said to be forced to evacuate the NPA rebels, who is allegedly accused by the NPA and teaching the children's education.
The ratification of the privatization of the mines that was pointed as the cause of the murder of Jimmy Llagas on March 5, a leader of the 45th Infantry Batallion (NIPAR), whose wife was murdered due to a tight competition in the entry of mine in San Fernando, Bukidnon.
Since Jimmy was killed, his whole family was forced to evacuate, together with the 19 families of Barangay Matanlang, in order to be sure for their safety as long as we were not arrested for our safety in our community, "Sharon said in our community.
The groups call for an immediate death of one of the military operations to return to their respective community, they insist to identify their rights to our ancestors.
