There was no ransom in 2 German - AFP.

Joy Cantos.

Manila, Philippines - the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) denied the two more than 50 million ransom in exchange for the release of two Germans, which was held by Abu Sayyaf.
This is after Abu Spokesman Abu Rahmi said that they prohibited Stefan Viktor Okonek, 71, and partner, Henrike Dielen, 55, after the requested ransom will be given.
"We already got the ransom, not too much, nothing is lacking," said Abu Rahmi.
It was Friday night when the AFP got the custody of Okonek and Henrike Dielen in a checkpoint in Patikul, Sulu.
It can be recalled that the Sayyaf gave a extension, up to 3: 00 in the afternoon this Friday, which looks like the P250 million ransom, and if not, Stefan was decapitated by two hands and kicked the cemetery.
Two thousand pesos was the first ransom of the Abu Sayyaf but according to report, 60 million was paid by the German Embassy in exchange for freedom of Okonek and Henrike Dielen.

The AFP Public Affairs Office chief Lieutenant Colonel Harold Cabunoc said that the two Germans were liberated from the severe operation of the military in Patikul.
According to him, this is what caused the bandits to release the two.
As of now, the couple Embassy in Makati is already holding a German Embassy in Makati.
Around 6: 45 in the morning yesterday when the airplane of the two arrived in Villamor Airbase in Pasay City.
They are finding out if they will stay in Manila or go home to Germany.
In relation to this, AFP Chief of Staff General Gregorio Pio Catapang is ordered to be the full rescue operation for the remaining 10 hostages of the bandits.
Included in those chasing the kidnappers were the two battalions of Army Brigade, an companies of the Special Forces, K9 teams, PNP Special Action Force or thousands force.
Included in 10 hostages were two European countries who were Euphrasia Eroela, Korean national and learned kidnapped last February 1, 2012; Japanese who was kidnapped last July 10, 2010, which was allegedly made by the bandits and others.
