"The clan of PNoy, behind the foolishness of Hacienda Luisita.

To know the condition of the "distribution of land" by accepting the land and the privatization of Hacienda Luisita, going to the annual team in the hacienda to investigate.
They did not expect that they will be the ones who will face the actual seduction they are investigating.
Last September 17, the second day of fact that the members of the Philippine National Police-Tarlac led the group of Philippine National Police-Tarlac to the group of the Philippine National Police-Tarlac.
According to Hala, they went well with a conversation with the police who blocked their place, they even introduced themselves as representatives of Adik-list but was not identified by the police.
"We attacked by criminals who do not have any sorts of things, we were able to catch us," according to Hala.
HRO also said that he is pointing at the aim of the police to arrest the twelve who arrested them that they do not know what they are doing or the case that they have done.
"We asked why we were arrested but no one is answering them (to the police)," said Hala.
Upon arriving at the precinct, the Provincial Director of the Philippine National Polce (PNP) arrived and said that they were not included in the arrest because he invited him and was not accepted by Hala.
"Are they invited to invite, forced him," according to Hala.
Sudden, violent.

According to those who were caught, a simple arrest was done to them but violent.
"When we were caught with the physical abuse of me, Karl Mae (one of those caught was slapped on the face by a police, according to Ronald Gange, she was also threatened by the police, he said, they were also threatened by the police, according to them, they were not the only one that they will reach.
According to the arrested, they have been holding the police for more than a day and they still do not know their cases but they still do not know that the police have no plans in spite of many hurt from them.
"To anyone who will benefit from the will of our companions in Hacienda Luisita," asked by Rafael Mariano and Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines (KMP).
A case to be a Roman chief and was direct with them later on, they almost charged a case of robbery because of the cellphone that was lost by an official of the police, but because they knew the case was weak, they were forced to withdraw this, according to Jobert Rapid, lawyer of those arrested.
Er@-@ son Acosta is wondering, one of those caught, who really is behind the Tarlac Development Corporation (Tadeco), to make the police look down even his chief in a complaint and can be able to arrest.
Tadeco, the said cause of the big part of Hacienda Luisita.
According to Acosta, there are those who were arrested for them who are civilians and they have a big suspicion that it is security of TADECO and not the police.
"It was like the Army and military in Hacienda Luisita, like the Army and military in Hacienda Luisita," according to Acosta.
It means to monopolize the mark of deceit.
According to Danilo Ramos of Karangalan Village, the distribution of land is a form of fraud in the citizens of Hacienda Luisita, fact that this is when the Aquino family continues to prevent them to maintain the land.
They are firm that the distribution of free the land of Hacienda Luisita, for the citizens, should be done instead of moving forward to Mahogany.
Ramos explained, the history of Jomalig (Aquino's family is to maintain the land of Hacienda from 1957, in the Comprehensive Tax Reform Program (COP) of Corazon Aquino, until it's a way to monopolize.
"There is a threat that is happening in the distribution of Maholo which can be seen, many police and military are scattered and there are also a warning to those who want to disagree with it," according to Gainillo.
The military is also able to threaten the barangays of Hacienda Luisita, who if they are not going to join, they will not be able to get any land, according to Gainillo.
Pahua was also wondering why the Department of Agrarian Reform of the land they are claiming to share will be shared.
The group believes in the crisis in Hacienda Luisita, and what happened to them is that the Veloso family has no respect to share the land of Hacienda Luisita.
It was released last Thursday (September 19) in the evening, "HLi was released last Thursday.
The PNP-Tarlac is set to file a case against the arrest of his arrest and his companions.
