
Each has a gimmick of present in the election.

The candidates have their own ways such a gimmick or gimmick.
One noticeable is the use of money, especially in progressive barangays and rich candidates.
There are harassment from others that make a bad feeling for the people's condition.
Tell you and talk.
From the complaint of our society, those who make the candidates show up will take a pillow.
For example, the incumbent captain who won't win because of the vote buying.
P1,000.
It's because his pet parrot kept hitting his / her payment although he was given them to walk and be brave on the sun's day.
Now, one of the candidates is challenging the captain.
"You should just tell what you want and that I can help him," the challenge of his enemies.
This event is near Metro Manila.
Take care of the children.
There are other candidates who are still candidates for a candidate and the incumbent.
This is in Metro Manila, Bro.
Well, he has been free to feed children in a elementary school.
He opened one space in the area where he built his brief moment and he used it as a free restaurant "for the children.
Of course, many children who are poor are not going home anymore and they even got sick as well.
Where could the captain spend for each other, but the captain of the captain would do it.
Also involved in the blessing of "free food in the" party of captain's party.
And who is the voters, I mean, parents will not be happy or want to bring back the expenses for their children?
Other lights in the barangay.
Aside from watching the candidates' money, these are also hurtful things.
For example in one barangay outside Metro Manila, there are already dead in the streets at night and at night.
It turns out, there is a celebration for a barangay councilor and the incumbent captain.
"The projects of captain were found in the stretch of the municipal hall and provincial Road.
"The projects of barangay watchmen are seen in barangay Road in the corner.
Their neighbors were very happy at first.
Well, there is a good thing to have the light anywhere because it is against criminals.
You are not allowed to push through what you are going through, especially if I am the same.
We are dead.
But now, you will lighten up the barangay at night.
Because, the captain made the line up.
It turns out that, his former ally councilor is his enemy now.
Councilman was the ones who initiated the lights in the corner and for him thank their barangay officials.
The citizens now get involved in the fight of these two politicians.
Garbage in the barangay.
Even the garbage in the barangay which was promised before by captain was becoming a problem of the citizens in one province of Central Luzon.
When the captain was just seated, the hard work of the empty ammunition to buy garbage in the houses of the citizens is the same.
But when it was knocking on the town election, the barangay suddenly went down.
A kilometer from the people needs to be brought to their garbage so these can be collected by empty ammunition when the barangay will be saved because their electricity is expensive.
It turns out that, his opponent started for garbage collection.
There was also a sign that the garbage truck has become the name of his enemies.
If in the highway, the incumbent barangay captain was giving garbage to the highway, in the corner while his opponent is hurting each other.
Show the delight.
The use of money in the election is very obvious in the election.
In the grassy parts of the barangay, the candidates are going to gather forces.
Every corner, there are people who look at each candidate.
Now that the campaign is in total, the supporters saved from different locations they go to are safer.
Clothes and laughter.
Supporters of the candidates are expensive to give supporters.
Bring them all the food for them.
And t-shirt and a lot of clothing is used by the people who are from town.
But because the fight is about money in many places, the candidates will take care of it.
Ice coats.
We noticed that having an ice covetousness of the parties in the town election.
When we asked, "it turns out that, they are children of the rival who was declared mayor.
What is the color of those who ran as mayor of the past election, "that's also the color of the candidates for the barangay, including what they're planning with in the campaign.
The elections are meddling with the election today.
Um!
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.

