Talks frankly: Aquino, Roxas, Robredo, Lilia Pineda.
March 28, 2016 - the picture of the Liberal Party in Pampanga on March 17, where they will see the candidate for the presidency, Mar Roxas, who was known for the presidency of jueteng, while President Noynoy Aquino is very happy in the middle and looks like the candidate for vice-President Leni Robredo is very happy.
Many are dismayed because of the revelation of the Liberal Party which is "Tuwid na Daan" because many of the Tuwid na Daan "has a high morality which does not want illegal activities and its result.
"That's what we thought, that everyone knows that President Joseph Estrada is prohibited from Malacañang because of jueteng, he thought he will run after illegal drugs because it is not money from the country's funds.
"That is what he thought.
We also know that when it was removed from Erap before, the colleagues of Roxas and Aquino are leading the burial of Roxas as Trade and Industry (WBC) when Estrada fell.

They were on the side of Gloria Arroyo when they left it now that they do not know if he is still a enemy or a friend again.
The wife of Lilia Pineda is Bong Pineda who has been used for a long time as the king of jueteng in Luzon, of course, it is not proven.
Jueteng is the gambling of poor people who get rich while those who are rich are the operators and their protector who are in power.
When the administration of Aquino started, many believed that the Tuwid na Daan is true.
The retired Archbishop Oscar Cruz revealed that Aquino's friend Undersecretary Rico Puno of the Department of Interior and Local Government and former Police Chief Jesus Versoza were involved in jueteng.

Versoza cannot really want to be the DILG secretary instead of Jesse Robredo, the wife of Leni, who is the acting DILG secretary.
Aquino's plan to make the DILG chief, Versoza, was disrupted because he was included in the failure on the boxing crisis in Rizal Park last August 2010.
Robredo is included in the fight of jueteng that is why he is one of the reasons why he is not confirmed as DILG secretary.
When Archbishop Cruz released the list of operators and protector of jueteng, instead of making a thorough investigation, Malacañang challenged that he will give a proof.
Is the extraordinary because they should be thankful to Archbishop Cruz and attempted to expose the list so that he will have an responsibility to find a proof on who has the control of PNP, DILG, NBI?
Now that the real reason why the "Tuwid na Daan" is not in the desire to stop the "Tuwid na Daan" that is clear in the picture of the meeting of LP in Pampanga.
Representative Edcel Gutierrez, spokesperson of the tandem Roxas and Robredo, are the criticisms against them in their study in politicians who are involved in jueteng.
"The service of Mar and Leni is not based on your party, belief, or allies.
They are going to bring the help of the government where he needs no one in exchange for this, Gov. Pineda has no ally and many other projects for the province of Mar, Leni and "Daang Matuwid" and a decent leadership for the decent Filipino. "
What is it?
