
Quick as quick.

The magistrates of Malacañang recently attacked the Senate hearing when Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago initially called the Senate hearing that President Benigno Aquino III, 2, will be elected.
PNP Chief Director Ge-Tempore Nicanor Bartolome has been elected by the Interior Department, Rico Puno, together with Bishop Oscar Cruz (Amen).
"We are happy and first, Senator Santiago has control himself from the care of his Pres.
The appearance of G. Puno is contrary to the controversy of the Noynoy's fight.
"Do you remember what Puno said?" I am the only one with the guts to tell PNoy! "She added.
When the Supreme Court was seated, they did not do anything but criticized, that the previous administration of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo (PRO-GMA) has been removed.
Because when he was in the custody, Executive Director, which is stopping him from Congressional Avenue Police Chief Investigator.
GMA said that he is accusing his administration and staff on the wrong actions that until now, there is still a case to prove that I will just be disqualified by the Congress, I will not attend.
Now, for Senator Santiago's candidacy for Senator Santiago, what the troop of PNoy showed was worse.
Lacierda said, "they are not included in the investigation," Noynoy did not want their boss, Noynoy Aquino, to attend Senator Jojo Ochoa, DENR Secretary Ramon Paje and DILG Secretary Mar Roxas.
The reason is, Mrs. Miriam has not sent her questions to the questions!
"What?
Malacanang is more worse than the time of Mrs. Arroyo?
If before, there is a reason why everyone knows that PGMA and his personnel are going to use the numbers that will be used for the politicians and the coldness of the Aquino administration, now they need to be a list of the Aquino administration?
You are so lucky that you are just pretending to be clean, open and handing on the right path, but in truth, you do not want to believe that you are right or clean but what is the lies of you and your personnel?
Interior Secretary Jesse Robredo has not yet confirmed dead then that you have already attacked his house and office for a still not clear reason.
Now the guns and sacrifice, even jueteng, do not know anyone of your government, who will believe that you do not know anything about illegal jueteng and the hundreds of million pesos from the government?
Wow, I am Tsong and sympathize with Mackay.
I pity my Kuyang, Chief Supt. Nick Bartolome.
All COA Chief Grace Pulido-5.
