
There is a reason for Sip on Regine Reyes.

A few months have passed since the Supreme Court junked the Supreme Court in Marinduque while he is said to be no Filipino but an American citizen.
However, this is a hot theme of the discussion and discourse in discovering that Representative Reyes is in the majority of the Supreme Court's most of the majority of the Supreme Court, "maybe because he can see the" hole in his decision.
The Supreme Court can show the lawmaker based only on her blog to the internet of "unknown" tanim-ray "and ceran x" by the Bureau of Immigration, which is said to be the United citizen.
The thing that Representative Reyes will look back is that he is not given a chance to present evidence, because even before getting registered to the certificate of candidacy, it is said that he is already given to his US citizenship.
If you cannot get into the mentioned reasons, why is there a reason for Representative Reyes to fight, especially that the opponent in politics, Lord Allan Velasco, has a reason.
Lord Allan is the son of Associate Justice Presentice Velasco, so they can't take away the doubt of Representative Reyes's decision on the decision of the SC.
The decision was also received by a big contribution to the new leadership of Chief Justice Maria Lourdes Sereno.
But if Representative Reyes became a disadvantage with those who are threatening his position, they got from the support and trust of those from Marinduque last May 2013 election, we think that he is being guided by the top.
Because, even before he was totally removed by his opponents, the Commission on Elections (Commission on Elections) has been laid down as the new member of the legislative chamber.
The decision of the legislative chamber, he is the elected Marinduque representative and the issue about the issue of who should be the congressman of the province is decided by the House of Representatives electoral council.
But "the camp of Representative Reyes will still not be complacent because the chairman of Humalig) did not worry because of the conflict with Lord Allan Velasco, the father of the latter, Justice Preslet Velasco.
So let us wait for the next chapter here.
