There is a perfect smile of the germs.

By Manoli Films.
September 25, 2013.

He reviewed for "The Guanilla," Poet. "
Director: 30 Dalena and Ina Reformina.
Featured here are Karl Medina, Angelita Bayan, Bong Cabrera, RK Bagatsing, Chanel Latorre, Lefur, Jhmmmp, Jony Villon, Jony Villon, Jao Street, Raymond B.
Hara-Barka, Keith Sicat, Ermson Acosta, Kerala Tety.
Karl Medina (right) as Jose Maria Sison, C-M, Amado Guerrero, together with Anthony Falcon, who starred with Commander Dante / thin.
What really is Joma Sison, it is just enough that he is probably enough to suspend the Liberal Party of the Philippines to be afraid, become corrupt, coercion.
But in the movie docking-drama, about the juice of an inspiration and thanksgiving to the message of Joma, Karl Medina, for a few pages in his life, Karl Medina was in mind that she wasn't known to say that he did not know him anymore, in the age of 74.
First of all, you will not think that he / she didn't think that he / she was able to make it well with his stories in every page of the history that he is catching him in front of my experience, and it is not just about to talk to him or even in the poor scenes in the movie.
Easy to deal with.
Second, he / she was not able to step down or erase it, Karl Medina said that he was able to look at the New People's Army (NPA) and even if they are wanted to get along with the New People's Army (NPA), it was as if she was asked to get along with the New People's Army (NPA) and even if they were asked to get along with the New People's Army (NPA), it was as if she was asked to get along with the New People's Army (NPA) and even if they were asked to get along with the New People's Army (NPA), he was asked to get along with the New People's Army (NPA).
Third, you will not feel the stories of Joma that he is tainted with personal anger for those who are envious of him, but it seems that he was tortured, but it seems that he might have been thrown under his head, he said, but, he / she was only feasted on in the fraternity.
Fourth, he likes music, can she say that he likes music instead of speech, but as a song, it's as if she can laugh at herself, because of what she is writing and speech.
Fifth, he is also affected by the person who shot him, because you did not think that he is a real gers. but even if you don't think that he is a real gers. but even if it is not true that he doesn't want to handle the writers, clouds, clouds and light from the small lamps.
Jony Jony.
Fourth, Julie Anne Santos's life, should not be belittled the role of Juliet de Lima, the "wind, JaguJul," said by one women in the movie, that the sacrifice is not common to the care of the child until the ambush.
And because of this, Joma Sison's life is simple, according to him, he needs to go down to the Philippines and the pain that they cannot return to the Philippines and the loneliness that they could not remember, "said Julie.
If Joma is the main actor, there are still a lot of things that would be made in film such as the script and civic works.
Smart, meaningful.
It was good that Gallegos used to get the movie's movie, "Ang Gervacio are a big joke in English - in the beginning, to show the CPP's life, before the First Lieutenant Shelina Calumay.
The script is smart and meaningful, and they can take care of what is the truth and what is being used by the NPA - because they are locked up, there is an unusual interpretation of the life of the NPA, but there is an unusual interpretation of the lives of the NPA, but there is still a strange interpretation of the life of the NPA, however, there is an unusual interpretation of the qualifications of the NPA rebels, and there is an unusual meaning to the trophy. "Ang Gervacio are unusual."
There is a colorful clubs.
It's a good thing that the four music was saved, not to be impatient because the revolutionary songs that is said to be popular in the '70s is a sound of native instruments in other scenes.
Four of the character.
Not last will be the actors' skills to act as Julie, four, four of his character; however, Karl Medina has not been able to make the role of Willie Nepomuceno as Marcos, Jao's role as Senator Aquino, and Chanel Lator.
This film is in the direction of the film fest season, kiri, and several Dalston in the movie, was released by a big but in cinemas, and in the same time, along with other movies under the CangFilipino Film Festival last September 18-24.
Even if there are still some limitation of white, but if this is done by the siblings Dalena, one might make a movie on their next movies.
It is a movie that you are not able to send money to 150 to 150 pesos, or four kilos of rice is the equivalent to one hundred pesos because of a film that many have gotten the determination of the past and current generations in fighting for a movie.
"Maybe, there will be more interest on the song, Joma, said by one radio," said, "said goodbye!"
