Kris is certain that Mayor Bistek and Tates have reconciled again.

Sanga-sangandila by Veronica R. Samio.

Kris Aquino deeply felt intense jealousy when she heard that the mother of her children, Tyo, and the mother of her children were together in the return of peace and happiness to their family, that's it!
In the front row, Lily lives in order to be able to watch the concert of Gary V!
If there is someone who is proud of Gary Valencita, this is the incident after a lot of human rights that he has done, he is just starting until now that he has a big name in his concert, he has a big name in his concert, he has a big name in his concert, he is showing a strange and rare gift of singing.
But the lead to them is considered as Mr. STS. Aside from a bigger performer, Fight IT led by the two nights ago in Araneta Coliseum at the month of August, one reason why the one who was able to see the concert last August.
Even Mother lily did not want to ask for free ticket but and for sure he will give her a ticket and when she was going to ask him to go home to the capitol of Arise in August 2, Tindan, she took it at the Mall of Asia Arena.
Mother Milagros was able to bring any formal agreement that he is going to place, the 36 kilometers east which can be done for the children and colleagues of Nora Aunor, friends, or even in a simple gathering of Nora Aunor, friends, and at the neighbor of Nora Aunor, which is part of her neighbor's house which has been made into a grassy part by the Vera Perez, which is also done in a grassy place.

If Gary V was the most beautiful concert with Gary V, on the Priority Development Assistance Center for me, the beauty of Arise could not only be used by the Foreign ACambot who is being used by foreign ACambot who are taking care of the schooling of Gary V and his son, Paulo Valencita which is being used as the director of Arise.
Again, in the repeat of Arise, the only daughter of the Valcariano, Metias, who will serve as a interpreter of the Philvolcs 2014, was also included in the concert, Rico Blanco, Iya Pradesh, The Manayres, The Manayres, The Manaytono.
KC's will be better to love Paulo.
Paulo Avelino also got well as an artist who will tell anyone what he / she is doing is not good, which is why she was able to reach KC Concepcion, which is very important that she wants to arrive with KC Concepcion, which is believed to have a big space in his heart.
Selling petroleum is also selling the law.
Do we need to do the law being sold, which is really needed to buy it before, in case, I only found out that there are establishments that do not want to sell pork barrel, but, I'm not sure there are only a few of them.
PNoy was just quiet.
Hopefully no one spoke or added her opinions about the issue of the National artist P-Noy.
Edam a new host of the amazing Filipino.
Congratulations to Edu Manzano if he will be able to get any form of Ryan Agoncillo.
