Love, theory, etc: The world, according to Gerry Litong.

Toni Gonzaga-in-law.

Isn't it?
This is the holy question of Facebook that we are trying to be filled with different answers, but for Sir Gerry Lanuza, the "Ipit Gang" which is due to his students to show and explain to his students, according to his students, and according to the evangelists of Jesus Christ.
She will make a date.
Gerardo, Lanuza, Sir Gerry, to his students, is a professor in college of the Agham society and philosophy is member of the Congress of Fire Protection (NGO) in UP Diliman, he is also the current director of the Office of the Black Nazarene (OSH).
He graduated from the course, which was taken from UP Diliman last 1995. Although he received a job from Pulse Asia, San Miguel Corporation, and one real Estate agency, he chose to be a teacher in UP.
"What is important to be for the gratitude that is being cared for, our fellow citizens, and it should be used in the release of the country and the people," strengthened the belief of Marx-ray even before the lessons of MarX and submerged in the situation of the masses.
The amount of dates of Sir Gerry seems to have a celebration of his debate in class and experience as director of OSDick, this is not just a simple report from the events on his day, but there are also a simple research in the events that extended different integrity.
"I have been having a relationship with some of those who are talking to him," Gerry, 24's for fun, "No," I, "No." I think that the public should be more than a big sister-in-law, because he is becoming a big sister-in-law. "
Although there are other inmates who are active in Facebook, those who are active in Facebook say that the observation of the students to the children of Sir Gerry Maroons is said to happen when the students and fellow teachers, especially when it comes to love.
"Yes, it is true what Atty. Jalai'll be true, thank you to be an accomplice of Sir Gerry regarding love, especially those who seem to be criticized by Sir Gerry and even if we talk about it," said a lot of their problems in love, that's why their problems in love, "
But in the midst of staying in love and society, it is possible to be approved by faith in faith and it is just right to expect from a teacher who is known for being a teacher.
Religious people?
Even before he joined Facebook last 2009, Sir Gerry was already known in the university because of his militant teacher for more than a span of his religion, there were students who cried, convinced, and pushed their faith.
Even before he entered UP, he was also six-years old when he didn't want to name the said ID, he knows the influence on the consciousness of Sir Gerry.
"In the middle of the sanctity of this, I became a goist in Ichist," Gerry, a simple-month-old I have been able to go to the masses because I have been able to go to the masses because I have been to a lot. "
According to Sir Gerry, although it is proper for some belief as time passes by, he did not release his being the Christian Marison in spite of his fellow teachers.
"Marty ism is able to deal with Christianjoe), who has a job with Iris, which can be shown in the role of Jesus Christ.
Sir Gerry believes that, in spite of his explanation, there are still many students and fellow teachers who do not believe in him, but, he said, more than belief, the greater challenge for them is to be on your side.
To comment, share!
Even if there are many followers, there are also many who get irritated of the dates of Sir Gerry and others, they are looking forward to the language of others, it seems that the observation of Sir Gerry about the changes in the university and in society cannot be ignored.
"The People's Day Arinoli, who is an actress in extreme depression is an expert of the extreme jealousy in my ex-Ci."
In the university where the people are proud and are pointing at different consciousness, it's inevitable that it would be inevitable that it will be grossed for by the commandments and outrages, but in the middle of the time in choosing and on your side.
"
Using the new attempt by the offensive, Sir Gerry was able to reach the students and fellow teachers and fellow teachers to ask those who want to ask politicians and militant spirit in the university.
"The partner of UP Tapayan is to be able to support the students, who will be able to step down to the force, to be a point, to be able to step down, which is very important to be at the age of Tantos, which is the cause of the funeral for Fight IT."
