
We are fond of digging.

I hope I am impressed by former Finance Secretary Benjamin Diokno.
It's because his point is good especially when it comes to the implemented policy of the government when it comes to the public funds.
He / she was able to comment on his criticism against the management of PNoy and his arguments was really loud.
I am puzzled with his explanation for what should be done and the current administration should not do anything when it comes to the use of the country's money.
But wait, I also thought, that if it really is Secretary Diokno, indeed, why is it that until now the Philippines is still in the slums?
Why is it that Secretary Diokno might not use his skill as a financial experts and economists when he was even the Finance Secretary under President Fidel Ramos?
I suddenly remembered that the land of our Armed Forces is almost gone because this is the business of Diokno to have a fund for the called Armed Forces of the Philippines modernization program.
Isn't it that Diokno, also Diokno, is also the type of the Value Added Tax (IED), which looks more often through the expanded maternity leave (Eve)?
What came from, applaud him!
It is really a great sign, Diokno!
The only problem is, after selling the Fort Bonifacio, now it is better known as Bonifacio Global City, it seems that the money they sold is just mistaken.
From the decrepit ship, the government has not bought anything during the time of Diokno as Finance Secretary so that we can believe that we have a AFP modernization program when he is in power.
But, it is better now to think about it because even if we know that PNoy is really a lot of failure, he has a score of old new warship from America.
He was able to buy new in line with the Philippines.
I also remember that during his time as Finance Secretary, the economy of the Philippines is also down.
Is that the good thing?
I also thought that if Diokno, in the view of Diokno, the existing policy in our finances will be wrong, particularly the abuse of our lawmakers on the pork barrel fund, "why was he not led by his departure since he was in the custody of it?
Why is it that he has ill feelings about this while he had a chance to erase it?
If this was done by Diokno, perhaps, it's likely that we did not sell it, Janet Lim-Napoles and his accomplices in the leadership of Senator Migs y.
The only problem is, if that is just a scene, it is sure that Diokno made sure that he is really clean and not put a hole.
