TV Patrol, February 27, 2012.

Everything is in the glory and blessing.

We are not opposing people who are in travel to spiritual activities that are in inhumane traveling in order to achieve the glory.

Or, our fellow light, I don't have any interest on where I am going.

I cannot see the path that I am taking.

I do not know if there is an assurance where this will be finished.

I also do not have consciousness to myself, and prove it.

My mind is following what you want.

There is truth that I can do this.

But I believe in my desire that you will be happy; he is the one who makes you happy.

And I am hoping that I have high earnings in all of what I am doing.

I am hoping that I will not do anything that will create this anytime from the opportunity you get.

And I know that if I do this, wait for me on the right way.

Even if I don't have any idea about this.

Because your truth is the surrounding and what is taken from me.

That is why I always trust you even if I am forced to cry.

And you are on the brink of danger.

I am not afraid, because I am always with him.

And you will never leave me to face these danger.

When alone.

Or, our Great light, you, and I am alone.

Glory of Divinity.

He asked and is an ally given to you; to analyze and be able to open it; and you will be able to open it because for each one who asked you to receive, and those who ask him will be found, and she will be able to open it.

(Mateo 7: 7-8) KJV, do not worry, we will also take care of us too.

"All of us are going to our glory," I think everything that we want to achieve is right, and if I am thinking about it, I feel that I am happy and wrong with my spiritual knowledge that I can see the glory of my life.

I cannot deny it and I believe that I know and I am sure that there is a lot of experience that will prove that there is a lot of more powerful than me, month, and the years; I proved that there is a lot of powerful, and this is the most powerful in all.

Because if I am sleeping well, no one is thinking about me, I seem to be dead and similar to a miracle that I am awake and a sign that I am awake and with the guidance of my body, I am ready to defend my body which is experiencing the truth.

Just like television, many stations (Channel), you can watch out in choosing the stations that have no meaning and when you think about what you want, we should learn how to know the source of the source of what you want.

Our Great Britain has always learned how to be done for three important issues in any relationship, you, Him, and for a long time, we will not be able to express any flaw if there is no center of loyalty, the relationship will just lead to grief waiting.

There is always three basis, words, and actions; right, wrong, negative, negative, negative, negative, and negative comments, even in nature and electricity; this is the standard for nature and electricity.

Do not be afraid, because I am with you, do not blind, because I will strengthen you; yes, I will help you; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will help me; yes, I will support my right hand in

You are your religion, do you know, that the difference between the saints to achieve your dreams is there is a future, but until you are honest, you can live without a connection and love from your fellowmen.
I have faith in our Great Creator that if you do not have beliefs, you will not be seen with my fellow citizens, but when I feel that she is hungry and love my fellow countrymen, you will be able to help me and love my fellow citizens, but when I am hungry and have to make food when I am hungry.

It is not a bad thing for God to have been able to have sex with the Lord, let us be in love, we are being treated like bubbles and will have the ability to think right.

There are no parents who were able to kill and kill their children, that they were able to make a mistake by them, those who are taking advantage of the path and can be considered as a monster.

The Lord can't do it to be touched or put in danger if you are guilty, he does not do this, and for the reason he did not do it, or it is your right that you will be guarded or punished.

There is no particular order for the Lord whom he wants to pull and praise the lord for you to be a good person, so that you will threaten you to be a good person, just to threaten your wallet.

The kingdom of God is at you and you do not need to look for it.

The path towards God is from the depths of our hearts.

Just open this and set it as long as there is a lot who is taking a lot of mind, he will give you the truth, to know the truth, to know the truth, to know the truth, and be punished if there is no end of punishment to your soul.

The religious people are feared to go to hell with spiritual faith that came from here and distribute your feelings for all.

God is my forgiveness.

We are not being talkative; and together with our mistakes, that is why because of this, we have made a pencil with bribes that can't reach and understand what we can do to God.

There are things that you don't know who wants to know you, you are the most important creature on the skin of the land, if you will not be able to encourage the rights that you have to know, you will not be able to find out of your awareness and will continue to be other than what you want to know, to be other than your real and pure personality.

Life is all the things; life is God's life, God continues to act and change, and it looks like it seems like a tire which is going to love and improve our lives of the holiness of your life and improve our lives.

There are a lot of people around the Lord, if we have been suffering from death and he is very suffering, but if we lose, we have a gift given to God, and how we can use, we have a gift of us, and how we can use it for the kindness.

Siblings are the holiness of the glory; and the father and son will take care of it.

The Lord is with joy and sadness, she is in sweet and bitter, all of you will think is that he is there, he is the holy purpose in the back of all things - which is why the holiness of all events are in each other.

How will you face if you are losing faith in the true spirit of truth?

It is really hard to watch out those who are going to enter the streets now; which is full of violence, aiman, and even our lives are becoming a source of faith to see the light and start saving himself towards truth and start anew.

Pray to restore the trust of yourself.

2 be thankful for the time and accept many blessings.

3- serve and sympathize with others to find ways to help those in need.

A part of life will be accepted even if there is a part of life waiting for the most powerful, which is more powerful that will prevail in all events.

Cultivate the personal importance and suppress urinating.

We were able to watch out for 6 to talk to anyone.

7 - maintain the motive of our motive that is filled with morality, integrity, peace, and gruel place in life.

You salute your blessings, in the moment you have proven your importance and how much your eyes are going to face, the day will be completed, strength, strength and trust of God for you.

God has no religion, my kingdom, kingdom and altar, in the depths of our hearts.

Each person has its own version which is what he believes; and it is only based on his understanding, it is only based on his mind that it is only based on his mind that it is only based on top of his religion, there is a sign that it is only based on top of his religion, there is no joke, side, or church built inside and outside the world.

In religion where there are a lot of fake gods, saints, vendors, bishops, bishop, German, buddy, German, German, German, German, German, large businesses, and widespread businesses, jewelry and properties.

Before your prayer comes, they are going through their rules when you may just be able to make it directly, and it is possible that you will do something for your welfare, so you will continue to get to know yourself and to know the truth.

If ever you will be involved and have not been addicted to their own mothers, and you have found himself from the actual commercial drivers or even in the field of land, that you do not have the slightest truth; this is the result of the fares that you are in.

My religion, my religion is simple, my religion is my concern because it is not necessary to complicated things in philosophy, but my mind is my own heart to my church.
The religion is not about those who are unfortunate, those who opposed, there are violence and killings that they want to vote, but most of them are not able to help their members, however, they are not able to give taxes to the majority of our countrymen who need to help them, or to vote, this is the real religion where they are idolizing.

True religion is only this: Based on what we are doing every day in our life, if you are fond of gossip, this is your religion, if you do not have an end to you, this is your religion, if you can do it, this is your religion.

If there is no change happening in your situation, you wake up! It's time to support and improve yourself.

The best thing that we will experience is a mystery because only the things that we do not see is the most important thing, just to be seen and wanted to be seen by all the real education, art of things, and to those who continue to be seen by his religion, and they are the ones who will continue to save his religion, and they are the ones who will be able to save him.

We should know what is not given to us; which is really true, and prevail in our life, which is the center of real character, which is the center of real character, which is why we're just in the center of real character, which is why we're just in the same time when we know that we're going to know what we know.

We are not worshiping anyone or any thing, we are just a simple administration and partner of trouble, but if you opened the depths of your heart, it is so that you will not be freed and found the glory, you will be able to return again to the light.

If we are not ready for this, and we have reached the Japanese in life; and what's worse in this morning, we can't allow the right direction of all the truth that we can't be allowed in the beginning that we can't be allowed in the beginning that we can't allow the right direction of the Japanese, and not just this morning, that is why we don't want to be reversed in the morning so that we can't believe in the right direction of the Japanese and Magandang Gabi, in the morning.

If we start the frustration you have experienced and are looking for a change in our whole world, we are going to our glory.

Fulfill our glory better, the holiness of our country is the fulfilment of a promise to us by God, "ask for your way to achieve the path that our lives will achieve if this is the real meaning of our life.

What happened to our life: The two kinds of people: Those who get hurt, "and those who are being crushed," if the Lord is being crushed, and after that, the house is being crushed, and even if it is strong and strong than before, this is your glory.

Start with the light which made you.

I rarely say in the gathering or theme of my religion, or even if you really try to change the belief of a person, or not in our religion, you should be able to change our religion's situation if you do not need to change the situation of your life if you do not need to change the situation of your life if you do not have to follow your religion.

It is not surprising; only the only Christian nation is considered as the Philippines in Asia, but it would be recalled that we will be able to follow the situation of our citizens, and those who are taking advantage of the truth will be identified, and all of those who are leading the truth will be identified, no crooks will be seen in the glory.

As long as you are blind to what others want, you will remain paralyzed, always waiting for the residents to buy and pity if you do not make a way for yourself, if you will not make a move for yourself, you will be able to take care for yourself, and for their selfish benefit.

The glory is the faith in God in all things, according to you, and not to what others say, the powerful God is on all parts.

You are part of this, God is at you.

Let us coordinate with them and find out that these are missing; and they will start to show to your mind, its purpose, the purpose, and the gift of each of our souls will be watched over by our glory.

If you are honest when you are looking for your own glory, the light can be taken off and by our Great God will take over and will vote for your whole character.

To advise me, or the Lord of my God, the mentality that you get to know.

With a heart of no jealousy for IJ.

That together with those who implement your true truth?

A big chance to be seen, the misfortune caused by the misfortune caused by the Black Nazarene, which is waiting for you, and waiting for you.

And with the end of the end, you can see the end of you and even me in life.

Amen.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.

Even if ever I have been hit and have been hit by understanding, it can only happen that you can see your light, and there is a possibility that you can see your light, and there is a need to read and a thorough understanding, or it can be remembered that it is not for you.

It will only happen that in an instant, you will transfer and have fun there for those who are at ease because this is your religion.

Thank you.
