It's a bitter story for a scholar of the country.

March 22, 2013.

He kept the promise of a good life brought by education since childhood, he / she was brought home by those medals in the family that he wishes to raise from poverty.
But this will not be fulfilled after he took his own life, when did not refuse to her the only thing she is holding in life: The right to study.
An death of crystal-Tetuan, 16, the first year-in-school of Behaunt from the university of the Philippines (UP) Manila, is not only the community of UP but also the system of education that take the dreams of millions of youth in the country.
Study the life.
Since childhood, to grade school and high school, the transfer of crystal.
"All of the things that he gets along with, he can do it even if we are having a difficulty in life even if we are having a hard time when we are having a difficulty in life," according to Christopher Tetuan, father of crystal meth, in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
A part-time taxi driver was the father of crystal meth, his job is not regular at the street when his mother who was taking care of her children was not a livelihood for four siblings.
Because of the strict budget of the family, crystal meth in UP Manila went to UP Manila which is for lunch, but he will enter, as long as there is only fare.
Even his professor was in front of her intelligence and he needs to learn.

"His term is favorite," that's why he was not absent from different kind, but when she was not allowed to enter and when she was not allowed to enter, he was really ashamed that if she answered, there was a content and right, according to Andrea Martinez, professor of crystal.
The professor added, "he / she will improve the writer, which is why he got a high grades in the First Lieutenant." The eagerness to him, "the eagerness to him."
Four times.
They did not go outside where the parents of UP Diliman came closer to the administration of UP Manila to save the education of their child, in the middle of their lack of ability to pay their tuition.
According to the father of crystal meth, on the first time, he went to Vice-Chambers (Acid Iaykit, Acting CalAffairs, Josephine de Luna to ask if she could have no other choice but to file a leave of Abaca (grandmothers).
"I said," Ma'am, what will be the leave of Abaca, "I said, I was surprised," I told me that he will not enter, "," I said, "according to the father of crystal."
The father of JLuna only saw a hope when his child let him talk to him in case she would talk to her child who is humble and saying that she is not able to pay for a letter which is being humble and she appealed again if she could not pay attention.
"But he / she (de Luna)," No. Taba, "she said to my child," I told my child, "Ma'am, she has no idea, that she was embarrassed," she was ashamed. "

After that, they repeatedly asked the father of his father why that is what happened, while she is studying well, "I said, do not suffer in a way," said that we will still make a way, "said his father.
In the third visit by Christopher in the office of Vice-Tropas, he asked, if in case he works for P7,000 next day, would he be allowed to enroll for crystal meth, led by Martinez, to lend money to his family.
"He said (de Luna)," it is also not the deadline to pass, "according to the father of crystal.
The days passed, the suffering of crystal meth, sometimes, he was going to work, sometimes, he did not experience discrimination because he cannot be annoyed with the classes, but he was not able to be annoyed.
Christopher decided to ask for the fourth time, and went straight to the office of Chuwariwa-lor Manuel Agdugayan from the office of Chaykit, Manuel Agawan.
"When I went there, it was given to me a giant paper, and was placed there in the Office of the Vice-Chaytono, the final decision: File a decision," according to Christopher.
To try to earn, he worked as a student who is a student named in the Office of the Student Affairs that he was not able to pay for him, and then she gave her service, then it became more painful for him, "said the father of crystal.

Garbage in FAMAS.
It has been almost two decades that the STS (Izzy Canillo) the financial Assistance Fund), which is said to be a sationist.
In the death of crystal meth, the number of students who have long been the call of the students to dismiss the STS.
The parents of crystal meth were disappointed when he was put in Bracademics, which is owned by a 300-peso unit when it's too late, the parents of the student of P135,000 pesos to 250,000 pesos every year, were not affected by the father of crystal.
Christopher added, he does not have a job when he applied at Mr. STP, so I want to be able to go to Bracademic, so I want to be able to go to Bracademic, but I want to be able to go to Bracademy.
He added, "I still have three children who are studying, but we are still not going to eat, that's why I challenged them (the administration of UP), do you not have something to prove that the justice there?"
Mariz explained, the chairman of the University Engineering Council, depends on the STS.
"They said that they want the STS.

Zubiri also said that the students are fighting for a long time because the administration does not listen to UP Manila, but it hurts that the administration does not listen to us to believe that this policy would be true. "
System "deadly."
Meanwhile, the primary reason for education is the primary reason why the increase in tuition and implementation of the tuition and implementation of the tuition fee is ongoing, not only in UP but also in different State Universities (Colleges (SUCs).
So for many, the statement of Agdugayan is not enough to stop the "number of late" policy and the basis is more than this.
"There is a need to bring back the real character of UP," his students, as a scholar of the country, will only be restored, not the money of the people who send them to school, "the government's money to send them to education," according to Martinez.
Different groups that are against the government of Aquino are afraid to be self-enough for the outline of the Public Works and Private Consignation.
At last, UP Manila was able to recover the ID of crystal meth, he was still scanning a student before he was given.

"That's because it's because he's his life," reflect to know a father of crystal. "If you were removed it well, then when he removed it, it was very painful if she was forced to study it, so when he was forced to go home, it seems that he lost his life."
The testament of crystal meth in the worsening crisis in education, according to the students who became an inspiration to ensure that what happened to crystal meth should not happen again.
Even the Teysie is aware of the incident, "hopefully the authorities would be aware that there is really wrong, that there are those who need to correct the policies of education," according to Brockman, mother of crystal.
According to Martinez, hopefully it will not be wasted on the life of crystal meth, hopefully this will result to more meaningful changes in the country, "the implementation of policies, not just and not pro-students.
Christopher insisted, "if we focus on the system, the system needs to change so that others would not suffer if this happened to my child, I hope that it would happen to my child so that it would be better for us to follow the system so that there would be no one to follow them.
In the death of crystal meth, the public was deeply worried about "deadly," according to the group of youth, the crisis of education in the Philippines is certain that there is a lot of scholar of the country to study and live, until now, the government continues to repeat that education is a right.
