
Watch the campaign of DOC, BIR.

Almost every week we read in the newspapers, it is being implied that the campaign of the Department of Finance-Bureau of Internal Revenue (DOC-BIR) against the companies that saved up in paying taxes.
Almost every day the people of congress are saying the widespread brownout in the country from rice, petroleum products, meat, using houses, buildings, gadgets, all residents.
It is also often heard that the missing tax will be heard and in the case of charges, almost 300 billion pesos is not yet included there are those who are not paying taxes or being the tax of big businessmen and corporation.
The question, after getting caught, have been caught and charged with the DOC-BIR, we are involved with it!
The DOC-BIR will fool the people for their boastfulness to catch up against those who are paying taxes.
Their last victim is the 8th division world champion Manny Pacquiao, we have also talked to a lot of people who almost have a heart attack because of the strict tax that they are asking for from them.
If you are true, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima and BIR Commissioner Kim Henares, who are trying to catch up with the cheater of their vehicles last 2012 with a Toyota Wigo while 75.8 billion pesos was paid by a Toyota Innova with their Customs (P15.4 million pesos!
We are not an accountant but on the temple, that based on the book of the BIR, okay, remove the taxes that based on the Value Added Tax which can't be removed from the Value Added Tax which can't be removed from the Value Added Tax which can't be removed from the Value Added Tax which looks like their earnings in the Toyota Hilux, looks like their earnings in the Toyota Hilux, seems to be too much.
Did this be known by Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago that if the BIR used the right amount of tax on the Toyota Innova with the Value Added Tax, the cheating of Purisima and Henares will earn a huge amount of taxes as a Toyota Hilux, which is why they earn a huge amount of tax "of a Toyota Hilux, who can earn.
In the document that we are holding, drilling, thick faced by the DOC-BIR, Madame Senator Miriam, you are mad at the corrupt, right?
The tax of a Toyota Innova is just an equivalent to 0.28 of their needs to pay taxes!
There are many following the documents.
You might be embarrassed but you are the same with embarrassment to the BIR!
