
Only one's courage (2).

In the past few days of Sunday, we discussed this column about this column to go out in The New York Times (NYT), "A Game, Shark, Minoras."
The previous column is very clear why every Filipino should join the events in the West Philippine Sea.
The actions of China is clear in the ratification of its increase in facilities in those (former) territory of the Philippines.
Currently, the Chinese are now in Misalania, Subi Lab, and Scarborough Shoal and is given to filipinos on the issue on the territories of the West Philippine Sea, the question: The Philippines did not neglect his rights?
There are foreign writers who are interested in the international law who are saying that the Philippines did not neglect his right, if they will be the strong proof of our possessions from the territory of the Philippines, this is also the strong proof of our possessions from the territory of the Philippines before they occupied the Misalania last 1995.
According to the government of the Philippines, this is not negligent just in fact, a lot of cases were given to the Philippines to complain about the violation of China to complain about the violation of China for the agreement that will be provided by the said country.
Between the two of those who will oppose this position, this column believes that the Philippines is still strong if there is something that is erected in it.
It can be recalled that the Misalania in Scarborough Shoal is occupied by China when the Philippines will be careful and just wait for a moment to leave the abusive ship of the Philippine Navy.
When it cannot be resolved by the Chinese people, "they did not leave it because it was part of what was called" Cabungaan in this part of the called "Cabidray.
We can be assured that the moment they leave the Marines one night, the Chinese were already occupied by the Chinese, even if they were being monitored by the Chinese, they are being monitored by the Chinese; and they are being monitored by the Realty Corporation, which is said to be placed in a rich clan.
It is too late for us to take pictures and fix our structure because this is the current reality in the West Philippine Sea.
China will not allow it! The Chinese are still disappointed when they found out that the Philippines will bring a construction results in AyPanatag Shoal.
What would it be if we will build a new structure at all of our territory?
Despite their prohibition, China continues to beautifying and strengthening their facilities there.
The collections! They are able to do this because they know that the Philippines can't do anything but to be a part of the steps of the Philippines on the legal process.
The country brought the country to the International Tribunal on the Martial Law of the Philippines (SAF).
(For your reaction: Carevasion 90 kilometers per hour (P222,278), Atty. Edeving.
