
The palace is near the palace.

The National Bureau of Investigation filed a case of serious illegal detention case that Napoles is facing.
The NBI also offered evidences against Napoles about the billion peso stolen from the country's funds in the position for some senators and congressmen.
Napoles admitted that he was just being attacked by the NBI even just from the beginning of their problem with "tanim-called" Benhur Luy.
Do not forget, make sure that the NBI and arrest of Benhur Luy came from the kidnapping of the siblings Napoles.
In simpler terms, the "state of witness," the "state of witness, is erased because of the perseverance of the NBI.
But to PNoy, it has surrendered to the queen of P15.B PDAF scam because he has no trust in other agencies, especially the NBI, which caused them to have many problems.
And after a closer conversation, it was in the PNP and it was not allowed by PNoy.
In line with this is the statement of the President in one day, "I was asked by the NBI," to the PNP, which is why it's in the PNP that Napoles can be placed!
It means, PNoy believes in what Napoles said against the NBI, the President is also a sign of faith in the credibility of DILG Secretary Mar Roxas who created the police.
And even if he did not admit it, because he believed to Napoles, that is why PNoy's trust in DOJ is very high, if not even Sec. De Lima that resulted to the NBI!
With what's happening, it can be seen, make it look like anyone else to defend Napoles about the case.
Here, if the NBI is holding the case and save for evidence against Napoles, it is not believed by PNoy that they will still be able to express their evidence?
And if the NBI or the result of their investigation is in doubt that the president of the country is in doubt, how Napoles' dt-convict of the court, "
If it will be examined well, the NBI will cook or bothering the NBI.
Last day, the two officials of the NBI were reported to file a case against Napoles about giving them a "tip" about the release of the warrant of arrest.
In short, Napoles is his ally in the NBI officials!
"What is that?
Derit, if Napoles should believe, like PNoy's belief, get ready for the opposition!
