Your story can be talked to because of the children who have no ability to enter the school, they do not really need to get a bicycle for them to find a bicycle, that is why we do not really need to go to school, that is why we do not have a chance to go to school, that is why we do not need to get a bicycle, that is why we do not have any plan to watch this story, that is why we do not have any plan to watch this story, "that is why we have no plans to watch this story in front of us.
Five o'clock in the morning, I am preparing to enter a way to be able to go to this day when the young girl is facing him only after a year will not stop from studying.
Yes, because it fell, I might not go to my grades.
She is after her parents are after the school year even if she does not have anything to use, I can't use any money from the picture of my uniform, and I will leave the money.
Maricar does not want to invent because she still has not finished me properly but there are only seven who just came out of the ability to reach them as if he is also from you.
In Marikina to the siblings for the calamities third year-high school year-old school year-old school year-old school year-old school, we should not support his studies for a way all afternoon, I am going to support the parents so that I can earn money in order to earn money.
Arrival of the afternoon.
Looking for a life.
This is the amount of comment; it is important to return to him.
He / she was speechless.
Yes, be able to study well.
Meanwhile based on the worst part of the house we are cut down now that the change of Two Wives and Two Wives are not enough.
He / she was still walking everyday.
He will first stand up so that he is annoying for the class, and how two hours do we need to walk, we help him when you enter him for a long time.
I will go to the cellphone.
She was also smiling.
It would be more quick to go to the entry of age; so they need to pay a ticket he was able to pay.
The time is earning a rest and will not go with each other every day when you spend on the motorcycle with two children's payment.
You are renting a few days of living together with my children who are studying at you for the whole afternoon.
We have a change for what might be in the minds of the principal so that they will be able to study the youth.
I just know children but I said to the school.
"Isn't it that it's hard to go far from the end of the end, that's why it's been criticized by the strong Upper, which what happened is really poor.
We are here on the face of the government to stop smoking in order to reach his bicycles.
!
Two Filipinas who were eight years old and two motorcycles, who were riding two motorcycles, had a jeepney two motorcycles when they shared that his older brother was given by his older brother, who was two male teenagers.
A tire which was made by the family was felt by the sadness when he / she saw that she was a couple of life.
The barangay.
We were able to look at each other; I am studying; I am studying every day I cannot text yes.
Already entering.
Randy's students are receiving the new visitors that they have in the vehicle.
He said that it's okay that this child is okay to go to school because I put it in the house because it's good for me to be far from my friend so that they will have something to use.
It is very good for us to go to school because we are here in our house.
!
You are worried that this is going to join the beauty of my classmate in her reading using their visitors before you leave, before I leave, you should be given a pending need for them to be given on the road on the road.
You will always be at the same place for the race which we have met, which is why we really need to compromise here in the area to avoid this.
To be considered.
It is said that it is a different signal that I felt that they were going to sell in school.
No problem will go to church and go back to the way that he could not escape from his friend.
I am still entering the mountain which is why those from the mountain are still entering.
They only went to school for five minutes and I entered it with strong rain.
In the middle of the payment, Marayes will only have to pay.
You are going to think; he / she is stupid.
Insult towards the roof.
It can be avoided.
The students were at the side of our bicycles.
Despite there, he went there.
After a while, you have watched ten minutes that we bought.
"We are okay with what we are saying; we are far away; it is very good to trust because we are surrounding us when we are walking, not far from those who are walking, not far from that.
I have not saved any love for me and I hope you will be given a give by your way towards a distant place.
The roof of Heart will lessen the obligation in the country to give way to the country.
We are living in a distant place that Christmas shouldn't happen when we are walking.
I am walking to school that is really difficult to do.
I asked that we are in the latest survey.
His cousin did not say it.
They were in a long time.
You should get the principal.
Here in the Parañaque, the two houses can be found in another bicycle for others to study in the coming of August.
Should we stay on our bike right now in the 'party, because they are going to be the ones who went here with birthcertificate from the budget so they know if they will be carried away by the Philippines.
Because all their blood has not finished their blood, his bones in choosing the bicycle will be given to the Philippines when we have a lot of clothes that they have to be complacent.
According to him, they have a shoe and what do you have killed, that is why you should have no effect.
For the medicine to buy for children with children, my parents will take care of what they are there, especially when they enter the streets with men once they face vehicles.
We saw each other a while ago when we were not thinking how to pay taxes; we are not doing anything that's why they are the only ones who might be afraid of when I return.
Just in reading their reading, I am just courting her because I will be able to buy a case.
They were on top of what I said to the children.
The ref should not be able to study any bicycle but you should not say that the one feeding the one to make it especially when there is no money can be finished after the moment.
DepEd is going to sell a bicycle which is far from school and is not the primary inspiration to spend.
Study it well to live with no enemy, so that they will be given the rules to be given to the students.
Because our minors are going to be discussed, children will be safe from school or in the house.
Many vehicles are really in danger in order to study long because they need it because it is far.
Who now can be used for a lot of days.
Not anymore.
.
For help, we are going to be very lucky in Pangasinan in my neighboring barangays in Pangasinan.
There are some rest school Corporation so that it is better to be closer to the barangay for the future.
I know that it has an unusual appearance.
They have just put a hole on what we have to go to now to know the weak person that they should always consider their safety.
There is a noisy student who entered the school but this morning, the price should be said to my aunt that you have not yet entered it.
I would leave a bullet that is really true.
Even if you make a soldier, make sure that to be approved of students to be approved of students to the friends, we are complete that it is good to have a heartfelt heart aside from being hardheaded.
We are trying to enter the school everyday of my fingers to walk far from there, if you still need to be playing in school, it seems that we need to be playing with our students so we need to make sure that they still need to be sure of our students.
