For the record, okay, Digong.
April 28, 2016.
There are even stories in 1989, that it was said that Digong replaced himself from a child who held a hostage in order to free the bloody encounter which happened in the movie, starring Digong Duterte, that he will help to resolve the problem with the Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG).
This is the first time for Mayor Duterte to declare the suspension of his life by the communists or the terrorist group, why he has proven that he is in the state of the NPA rebels, why did he not do it with the NPA rebels, why did he not do it to ASG, especially Canada who was brutally killed and beheaded by Abu Sayyaf.
The heinous crime happened in spite of the counter-off of his relatives for the ransom to be released but nothing happened only five hours after the extension, his severed head was found on a street in Jolo, Sulu last Monday.
That event was painful but what is more painful is the initial release of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau that night to beheading as a "cold-year-old murder case," earlier than the statement of our own President and Canadian Prime Minister of our own President.
The Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) has been against the throat of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) under the terrorist group who were kidnapped in Sulu and Basilan for a long time, a Norwegian and a Filipina kidnapped in a resort in the island of Samal, a short trip from Davao City where Duterte is a leader of a very long time.
It can't be denied that Duterte is a Mindanaoan of the candidates for president of the country, they are having a lot of peace, fight against criminality, progress and progress of the primary platforms in running, the issues that will be held and achieved.
So, is it not a good chance that he will start his agenda and platforms through the filing of his self in exchange for his self in exchange of his self in exchange of his self in exchange for the terrorist group?
Because it's because, it's easy to throw words, especially if words are always daring, for sure not only to be disconcerting, just to prove that he is not just talking, okay, okay, "Digong should just lead to the ASG.
