Unice, program!

Because of the perseverance of President Noynoy Aquino to lead the supply of rice in the country, the Department of Agriculture (DA) is slowly experiencing the project, the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) for the next year.
And because of this project, there is no need for the importation of rice to other countries starting 2013 and in the next year.
It can be recalled that the country's importation of rice was too difficult when it comes to the importation of rice last time because the preparation is enough to have enough fields, irrigation and harvest of rice, which is why we keep up in buying other countries.
The result of this is the excessive supply that is not been utilized by our citizens because it creates a warehouse and even used for insects bites.
Now, the DA said that it is almost 80 percent, which is why there are a lot of rice grains in the next year and a few are not taking advantage of it.
Even the question of Mang Tindan, I seem to be throwing shade.
My answer to him is not that.
Because of the truth in the past time, it is not found out of the economic growth of rice and primary needs.
But now, President Noy's priority is for them to not depend on the importation of the few.
Since President Aquino sat in office, NIA will have built more than 150,000 pesos in NIA but the target was 290,000 in 2013.
In relation to this, the government is still target that there are those who are going to be finished which are more than the target of the DA and NIA that 290,000 hectares only.
And because of PNoy's priority, there will be no lack of supply of rice in the country next year with the DA.
The target was said to have started three times a year in a year, which is why it is better to advise the fixing of the Iriberri.
DA revealed that the DA implemented, such as Herrero, Adolfo Saure, and Venice, so even if it is rainy season the harvest of rice continues.
The DA has also asked rural areas where a farmer needs to buy and do not have any money to buy for them first and the DA will serve as an alternative or payment.
