
Long live and take care of the real in serving society!

Tribute on the ninth year anniversary of the Hala Bayan!

Veronica R.
There will be a town of Bagong women (protest) - Southern Tagalog.
March 29, 2012.

The country of the New women and the southern part of the Bagong Humalig) is currently sweeping the 16th year anniversary of the Saligang Batas of the country - it is definite that the success of the farmers and the citizens of the legislative chamber can push through, which is truly a great contribution to the New People's ng Bayan, which can be considered as the real target of the Bagong HE.

It is our Bables as Bayan Patroller from the poor, but because of the desire to serve the citizens, we are also parents who are ready to support the filipino people who are ready to serve and offer their intelligence and strength to the revolution.

The advancement of the fire in the revolution is a threat to the division of the US-Aquino, US-Arroyo, US-Arroyo, US-Arroyo, US-Arroyo, US-Arroyo, US-Arroyo, US-Arroyo, US-Arroyo, the US-Noy Aquino, the US-Aquino administration, so it can be implemented by the Filipino people who want to be free from the people of the filipino masses.

In spite of the left operation of military, our HBayan Patroller has been able to make sure that the Philippine US-Aquino III does not have to make sure that there is no effect of the Oplan Galugad conducted by the country -- this is the scheduled failure of the Oplan Galugad conducted by the country -- this is the scheduled failure of the Oplan Galugad conducted by the country, this is the scheduled failure of the Oplan Galugad conducted by the country, this is the scheduled failure of the Oplan Galugad conducted by the country.
Together with the benefits that we got from, our success is a bigger challenge for our most powerful economy to achieve our most powerful division in order to achieve our most beloved armed forces, to give our strength to protect them and unite the masses.


It is as if we are to address the protest of our revolution.

It is also hard to know that the protest to protest against the youth and women have chosen the path of Antartica in their own children but also for their own children but also on top of their own children but on top of their own children.
