
Big success in Filipino towns in Mindanao.

The town.
7-April 2012, the Filipino people in Mindanao is continuously being pushed in spite of the violent campaign of domination and Oplan Tokhang.

The New People's Bayan (BHB) is moving forward to the 42 areas where the companies on the whole of Mindanao will increase, and with the help of their own efforts and with the help of their own efforts and with the help of their own efforts and with the help of the progressive region, they will be together with the other regions of the entire country.

For an additional wage increase and more than 20 percent, the armed forces of the BHB) will increase the ability to launch a huge and stronger punishment.

From January 2011 to March 2012, it has already been launched in the entire island of Mindanao, more or less than 600 percent compared to 250 kilometers northeast of the Philippines (AFP), the two roads here have been killed in the fight and one hundreds injured.

It can be punished with widespread those who are opportunists, understanding and destructive to the environment of big companies in mining, similar to the UV Expresses which are owned by the Mines and Metech, DOLE-budol Gang, Inocencio Street, Ubihan, Del Monte, Del Monte, Del Monte, and others.

The number of barbells that can be achieved by the Liberal and armed people in Mindanao can also increase, more or less than one million citizens, which is also given a larger and stronger basis, which is based on the constricted streets of the top of the constricted streets.

The corresponding solution to the island is growing up from the level of low levels in the town, Inter-budol Gang, that's why there are hundreds of thousands of farmers who are benefiting from its benefits because of this, it's getting stronger to politicians who are benefiting from its benefits.

It is getting stronger that an anti-ranked leader of the masses against the Marcos US-Aquino is getting stronger against the citizens who have no movement and violation of the price hike for the farmers, US Balikatan, and the damage caused by the American troops.

The privatization of the Black Nazarene is getting stronger in the community of farmers and Lumad by the incessant bombing, shooting and other ways to face the citizens of Caraga Region, provinces of Davao, Bukidnon and other places that will be held in Mindanao.

The number of group of Liberal Party has increased to five percent of regions that are more than 30 percent and continue to get stronger against its leadership, politics and organization in the ranks of the units of Botchok, community, factories, which cannot be enforced by the masses and allies.

More than 90 percent of the group of Liberal Party is able to finish the studies of the Liberal Party (BKP) that will continue to be held in the schooling of the Liberal Party (BKP), which will continue to be held in the fields of the Liberal Party (BKP).

Abille party (AKP) is launched in the level of region and will be studied by those who are going to school in the level of brethren, that may be harvested, and in the field of next two years.

In total, the revolutionary force of Mindanao can be touched on the initiative of the suspension of the enemy of the two regions to stop the proliferation of enemies in the two region.

The victory of the PKP, it is a proof of the failure of Oplan Tokhang to stop the advancement of Filipino people in Mindanao.
