
Oton of House Committee is sensitive.

The report is about to feel the report that will send financial help to those who are called Malabar ie or those new members of the legislative chamber to our countrymen in Zamboanga City.
In the leadership of Marinduque Rep. Regina Reyes, the resolution was already being experienced in a resolution for the financial status in Zamboanga City, which was affected by the MILF attack.
We found out that the amateur lawmakers believe that each of them have their own pieces of 10,000 pesos that will come from their own pocket.
It's amusing that this action is done by religious groups and the legacy but they are united in for a pleasing goal to support our fellow countrymen who are in need.
The real financial status is proof that the new house members have been known to be aware, responsibility, care, haunting and charitable to the tragic event that happened in Zamboanga.
We do not know if there are a few natives of congressman and Congress in the legislative chamber that they will be able to collect and save, but what is important is they are worried to help.
For Representative Regina Reyes and those who are pushing the financial status in Zamboanga City - what we can say, is that the start of the young lawmakers are very good.
While the veteran House was amazed, the veteran house members will surely be pity that's why we can see that they are questioning the pockets of the residents of Zamboanga City.
Pork PRO BE.
The scam in the pork barrel should not be at the right age to Janet Lim-Napoles because if the expose of GMA 7 will not be effective, this is an effective way so our suggestion of Senator Guingona, that the pork barrel of some of the former congressmen who is Janet Napoles' pork.
The harassment done by corrupt lawmakers on the public funds that should have been responsible for the real needy should be held accountable and imprisoned by the congressmen.
Which millions of money stolen by the people should be imprisoned like Napoles.
