
Wednesday, April 25, 2012.

Condemn the demolition of Silverio Matute.

Congress of the city, the needy of the city.

National Capital Region-Rizal (KimXi.

Block. 31, Lot 82-83, a little later Street, Brgy. NBBS, Navotas, MM Tel. 2859957.

Press Sungala.

You, Allan dela Cruz.

President, Kovalev.

April 24, 2012.

Shoyna is condemning the violence that happened and murder of a demolition of Silverio!

We strictly condemned the violent demolition of our siblings who live in Silverio Compound, in Sucat, Parañaque, which caused the death of one person, which caused the death of a rich 21-year-old and wounded in the Congress of the city, livelihood, livelihood, future, dignity and personality.

There are still some who should die so that there will be an assurance for the housing project, a few demolition would happen in order to respect the rights of each person in living?

The negotiation is important, although there is a disadvantage with the negotiation, the poor is at a disadvantage, compared to those who have money to buy even if the government of Noynoy Aquino is being driven out, which is being driven out by the poor, which is being driven out from far places.

The capitalists have no pity for the poor as a proof of the demolition that happened where the poor are throwing stones, to defend their rights in residence, dignity, personality, life and future.

In many incidents that happened, in Laperal, Makati, of Mariana and in North Triangle, Quezon City, to Corazon Aquino's house, the house of our children will surely fight, to protect our rights to defend our rights!

All the poor should be united in order to fight the political policies of our countrymen who have no right to live, people who have a right to live, people who have a right to live, people who work hard for the future of our children.

The poor should also study the society we turn, and why is it that our rights are being paid, and why is it that our rights are being paid, and why is there really a simple corruption for the poor, rules for human rights instead of human rights?

Same, let us end the time of silence and be acquitted.

It is time for us to decide, not only for our self, but for the future of the next generation.

Siblings who live, unite against violence in our ranks!

Justice for those who were wounded and died in the demolition!
