
Libra (CTRAOIL.

Congratulations!

Every local government of the country should be ready, particularly the provinces, cities and municipality of the country during the time of calamity.
This should be the statement of the DILG or to make sure that the action and recovery of a place will be brought up by a typhoon or calamity.
This is the time of putting a solar panel panel or even in the private office of the local government like the capital of the province, municipal hall and city hall so the local government can immediately move for the needs of their jurisdiction.
We saw the importance of electricity in the past typhoon Yolanda who went to Eastern Visayas which is why the call for the institution is timely to the institution of the local government is timely.
It's because according to placing a electricity in every office of the local government, their communication is very important in the time of Disaster Risk Reduction and lack of communication that brought the action of the local government to help immediately in areas affected.
It was very easy for communication to now because the weather is very high but because of lack of electricity, it is disregarded.
It is clear that the national government provided to the rehabilitation center of the government but it seems that said tragedy will be repeated again if we do not pay attention to the preparation.
The preparation of any incident is important and this is where the government should discuss their attention, therefore, they should allocate more than a billion pesos worth of money in the rehabilitation, they should allocate time and strong communication system for every local government.
We know that the "Philippines is the way to pass by typhoon and other widespread calamities so we should focus on it.
Preparation is the issue of safety and that is why PNoy should be focused all because it is his obligation as the President to save the public for any calamities and tragedy, even if it is natural or made by a person.
