I know: By Serame, she is able to get pregnant with others!
By Jun Nardo, June 16, 2016 was by Yasmien Kurdi, November 16, GMA, the ability of by Yasmien Kurdi, in her drama that is why according to her, she just let it go to Jennylyn Mercado and just let it go to Jennylyn Mercado as a lead actress.
It is just because when she was about to go back, based on TV Patrol based on TV Patrol, he / she was about 15-20 million pesos in the taping by his infidelity.
"That's why when we are really for a long time, we will receive a vacation, we want to see the shower of Split if I am really good, but she is really the protagonist compared to the name of Katrina Halili which is the super villain in her.
"Now, it is not that Knapsack is not.
Pressure, the burial was by Yasmien Kurdi, in exchange for the The Legal Wife.
"I am enthusiastic in every point, maybe it is in the company of Mother, IT's, because you need to show your love but it is a bit far from my heart," that is the one who came from my heart, "he added.
What is his wife's support for the new project?
"He is happy, before I climbed up here (GMA)," krrrik, good luck.

Thank you, "Thane thank you," said the Kapuso actress.
Did he feel the support of GMA in a new house?

"Yes, they are always supporting me because they are always taking care of me when I do not neglect me when I study, they will give me to study.
"When I decided to go back, they accepted me immediately and gave him a point that's why he / she was given a point, RL-ora X," he said.
Is his being stubborn now?
"Ha ha ha ha ha ha!" Of course, "we are still young, there are others who are weak because you have no obligation.

You are not working for working so now, you understand why you work.
"" If you are still young, I am working.

Is she pregnancy with the child of Katrina, which is why he can do it, "for others?
"I can do it," if I will give joy to other people! "By Yasmien Kurdi.
"He can give" the child to be pregnant if in case she gets to love her? "That's the poor!" That's okay!
As a mother, what can he do for his child? "What I can give to my child is not just because I really want to give him a good life but because you really love your child," because you love what you are doing! "
