Skyway southbound, SMAS.

So, the first foundation of the skyway from Makati City to Balintawak and other places in Metro Manila has been started, that is good.
Malacañang said, DPWH and MMDA, it's just two years before the project was finished, that is okay if it will be finished in the set time if not, instead of blessing, hell with this project.
Let us just clarify that it is not true that the original plan and project of the regime of Benigno Aquino III (Bira 3) was scheduled to be done by former President Fidel V. Ramos but because of the excessive dirt of politics, then up to now.
Two years have been waiting but it is also delicious when it is over, the only ability to be happy because the payment to pass there is certain.
Just like that from the skyway from Makati until slowly, it will still be fine if the lower road will be lessened.
It is just needed to make sure that the calendar of work will be followed if they will use the right things and they do not want to see the workers in a project that is used and forced to see in the projects of the digging!
It is also not possible to rush the task in making the current regime of Aquino and it will report it, "or, here is my project!"
Do not rush the contractor of the skyway southbound, or cows, maybe you can do what I want to say, in your haste, there is a fluster of cement in the streets of the skyway southbound, and the one who will fall down on the streets!
The agencies of the government who are involved in the project are also needed to ensure the proper measurement of steel, the foundation, the foundation of the cement, and conclusion to the cement, and conclusion to those who are going to pour or put it on their trap.
And with the items being done, do not agree to the vices of the Republican candidate because it cannot be hidden that there is a need to earn a commission in the trend of business in the country, it seems that something is normal, but do not risk the life of the people.
The two years it is not a joke that we will suffer if the quality of fruits is right, but if the fruit of fruits is sweet, but if it is full of arrogance and money is the content of the project of the skyway, SKathleen, all of corruption and boastfulness of the state!
