
Secretary Alcala and your NIA will be identified.

Do I thought by the Department of Agriculture Sec. Production Alcala to improve the lives of farmers in the country? That's because his promise before he sat as the secretary of the DA.
He also boasted that he will return the Philippines as the primary cause that she will be brought up (an inspiration) for all of the products to be stolen.
The term of boss Benigno Aquino III (Bira 3) and Alcala is almost over, instead of progress, the farmers have become buried in poverty.
The system of Aquino is really just stories like nothing.
Here is the call of the farmers of Sultan Kudarat.
It is said that they are happy with Aquino because of the anticipated promise of the convenience of the people.
But now, there are no more tears coming out from their eyes because their lives are even bigger.
They say, "PNoy is true, if you really want to help us, hopefully you have no payment for your service and irrigation.
"We were flooded and we were flooded, many of us were not able to pay due to the consecutive typhoons.
"The truth is, Ka Ed," the service to us by the DA is not good, especially the National Irrigation Administration.
"We are already victims of typhoon and flood or calamity, our debt is still high, hopefully PNoy only has an interest on his PDAF and DAP!"
"We also wrote to some senators, especially to Senator TG Guingona, to tell PNoy that we temporarily put them in charge of NIA but nothing has happened."
"What is being done to us by the National Food Authority, Ka Ed, we are continuously being buried in debt in NIA, we are still being buried in the debt of NFA.
Lies "what NFA said that they sold the rice we buy at our rice every time we harvested and sell our rice in NFA, very low, so they sell it to us, very angry."
"It is the reason why we are forced to sell our rice to the bark so that we can pay or get a little by the increase of debt.
In addition to there are too much loved ones or attack, the government of PNoy has no help to us in truth. "
Or EEO, Secretary Proceso Alcala, the original message of the farmers of Sultan Kudarat.
How can you fulfill the promises that you have made to our farmers and people?
