"There was a blackout that was on January 21 versus high level of electricity.

A blackout, or murder of the lights as protest, was announced by Blackwater and Kilusang Mayo Uno (equivalent) to the public on January 21 against the impending price hike for the Manila Electric Company (Meralco).
Along with the call of the said group to the public that they are going to go home together with their homes in full 7 p.m., they also encouraged the citizens to cooperate in the protest in front of the Supreme Court in the morning of the said date.
On January 21, the Supreme Court is scheduled to listen to a temporary restraining order (TRO) that he released a temporary restraining order for the wage increase of electricity from the petition of Alyansang Makabayan in congress and another congressman.
"We are calling the public to use the strength of our temporary action and push the Supreme Court to dismiss the burden of Meralco in every year by the extortion of Meralco by the public, according to Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
According to Ibon Foundation, the income of Meralco increased by 56.3 percent every year in the past six-years from P2.6 billion pesos in the year 2008 going to P15.3 billion in the year 2012.
The two groups also appealed to the public to act before after the TRO that was released by KS last December 23 against the height of Meralco which will be finished after 60 days.
"We are calling on power to the whole country to release their growing anger towards Meralco on January 21, we were deprived of Meralco by Meralco, and we have long been deceived by them," says Roger Soleta, general secretary.
Meanwhile, the Electric Power Plant (GAA) needs to dismiss the implementation of the electricity industry, according to George San Mateo, chairman of the Pagamutang Bayan of the drivers and Senators Nikki Coseteng (Izzy ton).
"Instead of raising the electricity supply, the case will increase because of this (Epperson) and one is one of the most expensive supply of electricity in the whole world and first in Asia," said by San Mateo.
According to Soleta, it is not acceptable that the income of Meralco increased and the continuous control of Meralco to the country in the issue of income and the Philippines is the number one price in Asia in the issue of high level of electricity.
"It is clear that Aquino has to serve as a Noguessed to the companies of the electricity in this issue that they want to gather big tax from the people despite the difficulty caused by the high level of electricity, according to Crisostomo.
