Nine-nine in the Comelec.

Six months before the 2013 election, but the candidates are not confused with going around their area, especially the place where there are both strong currently playing.
In the City of Manila, wherein both of the running mayor are already strong, they started to discredit and exit their faults and mudslinging of whatever issues of each of them.
And because of this, some voters are saying that they will not vote for them because both of them have their own interest, hopefully they have a choice except for the two and that is what they will vote for.
In Quezon City, there are a lot of rumors that Mayor Herbert Bautista is famous, which is why they are confident that the reason why he cannot get it through his barangays.
In the research of lily's research, we learned that they will file COC and run as mayor of Quezon City, although it is not known, we can say that we are good businessmen and prominent people.
Let us get to know the three allies of Mayor Herbert Bautista in Quezon City who is Johnny Chambers, Romeo BAcetiquette and Henry Samonte.
In the three names of what I mentioned, it is said that Johnny Chance is the most famous, who is one of the Board of directors that is one of the Board of directors of the Quezon City Sports Complex.
It was said that Johnny Chambers is said to be exported or in the said club when it became too much and almost closed the year 1998.
The said club is even bigger than before and this is through the good governance of Johnny Chambers.
So Mayor Banies, do not be complacent if you do not want to save the Quezon City, because if you are defeated by not known names here on the most rich city, you will not be embarrassed but also the big people depending on you.
Remember, Mayor Herbert, the words uttered by residents living in the area of Quezon City, that whatever you are going to vote, is that if you will vote for it, because if you will win, after election, they will be sure, after election.
That is painful and when the people are saying that this is true by the poor, because of the number of cases in Quezon City, it is possible that you have something to be victims of.
