Day of Independence, Pacman and the next Chief Justice.

Is it true that my beloved Philippines is free for a country?
For sure, we have long been free in the hands of the Spaniards.
It was then, 1898.
But it is not because of the destruction of the blood of our ancestors and heroes but because of the selling of Spaniards to the Americans for the amount of $20 in the span of $20 in the span of $20 in the span of $20.
After this, we were placed in Beneving, Asutilla) of the Americans.
Is that making us a civil wedding.
June 12.
June 12 has been declared twice in the Independence Day.
This was first done in Kawit, Cavite by the forehead of General Emilio Aguinaldo and against the Spaniards last 1898.
Second is the statement of President Diosdado Macapagal in 1962.
When Aguinaldo declared, he tried to have representatives of the Americans and there are saying that style of Roman Buenafe in what happened in the Philippines, which needed every move and mind was approved by the Americans.
When Macapagal was declared, also because of the Americans, the American Congress did not approved the $73 million wish of the Philippines as payment for the destruction of the Philippines in the World War II.
It is not just a Japanese who broke into the Philippines but the Americans who were going to ride in Metro Manila until they were destroyed.
The colonialism.
America's situation is bad and he himself admitted to President Barack Obama this time of the campaign for the presidency of their country and he is part of the candidates again.
And because the economy of its economy is bad, it needs to be a source of income source.
The businesses of Americans who go through the West Philippine Sea have to be protected.
How can they continue to protect them?
Based on military again in the Philippines.
It is believed that they will build a military in the Philippines.
And now America is already an official in the Asia-Pacific Ocean, which is why their forces are being monitored.
Question: "Can the Americans stay in Mindanao for a sign of building or having a military based on the Philippines?
No.
If this will happen, we will go back to the time of colonialism but in a new appearance.
In other words, we will go back to not free.
The foreigners will dictate all the important things that the government needs.
And whoever is the president of the Philippines without the blessing of the foreigners to ask Manong Ferdie even if he already passed away.
What will President Noynoy do to do with the people's opinion that we are really not free from a country?
"It was said that there were only big businesses like oil and sale of the ship from multiple gunshot wound which was also a sign of colonialism or ownership of the foreigners in the Philippines.
Pacman IOS.
We watched Manny Pacquiao-Timothy Bradley fight against National Press Club Office in Intramuros, Manila.
We intentionally have your own pay per hour for all members of NPC and what's being experienced in order to be live while watching.
In the whole fight, we noticed something, Bro.
The punches and movement of Pacman will retire.
It seems that his speed was gone, speed and weight of his fist and quickly ran after his running opponent.
It seems that Pacman is getting hit by the age, which is why it usually does not want to stop the career of his like him.
It is not bad to lose, but if you will lose because you will lose it and you are already old, you should think already.
One of those who will be hit by the old and old boxer is the interest of the audience.
That is where the profit of the boxer will be gone.
So if Pacman still wants to remain in the masses, he will prove to his next fight with Bradley that he can still do something.
A miracle in the fight.
As Freddie Roach said, coach of Pacman is planning to investigate the decision of the judges in the fight against Pacquiao versus Bradley.
It seems that something has happened.
Did there be other reasons for Bradley to win in a split decision?
And if there is it, is it possible that Pacquiao will win?
Let us just wait for it, Bro.
Fight for CJ!
The fight for Chief Justice of the Supreme Court will be in a pile.
There are those who are hoping that the Supreme Court itself is hoping that they are hoping to be creative.
But what is being paid attention to is what President Noynoy will choose because he is the only one to decide who will be the one who will decide who will be the next CJ in exchange of the defeated CJ Renato Corona.
Some are asking: It is possible that PNoy will get CJ from outside when he does not use the Judicial and Bar Council?
Ah, they are the ones who will take care of it, as long as the new CJ is not a thief and a liar and is the primary way to push the law, justice and interest of the people and the entire country.
