I have heard that the program will stay overnight with your program that you are resting that your children are on the way that we are working together with my children, Tina left Santa Maria.
Like this.
It is good for us to eat vegetables in our conversation, what are you calling me to become Two Wives and narrow-minded people.
The High School.
Me.
We do not know what happened to your life there in the living room or what?
Because I thought that we can go to school; we might be able to know that this is a chance that there is no idea that we don't have anything to go to school;
The location might be the location of human rights; to be able to give a chance for the children to be able to finish school, not in school, they can no longer have a high school year-tempered; and their eyes.
Here is it, what kind of form is, and what if we just want it to go back from and then to my parents.
Here, our fats were very low; since the start of December 31, my fats were found, we can get a lot of education; we can find it hard to help them in searching for each other, that we can't join them in searching for each other everyday.
To those who will mention, who will be the ones who are going to go to other countries, whose program can stay overnight; this program can stay overnight with strong evidence to become a challenge to the illness.
We are full-tempered; we have a problem in going to an example.
Cancer.
Already.
He / she was able to look down; he was able to gather all of their places to be able to study.
That was a deciding of that before being a family with the help if I want the child to graduate.
He / she was able to speak with my parents and then the principal, even from our games, they have a contract, and even if you say that it is a name of your parents, there is a need to cook my favorite viand here in Nueva Ecija.
My question to you later is that, it can only be school if I am at the same age outside the room, so I can go down to all the schools to have this kind since there is a lot of mobile school.
There was a student who quickly ran fast and deport; all the things that he said.
The start of the convenience.
When we talk about it, it is easy to do a student, what I will do to who I want to get abroad in the operators, then she went to the nearest office, I will point to them wherever they go to school.
Then.
Do something like that, fuck, dynasties.
No matter how much is that, they are very proud; we are not because we need to be a seminar when it is bad.
An example is DepEd, Thursday to know if she will be able to leave because of a bed which is where he is using a lot.
"There is no help in my whole yes, I am already hungry yes, even if Peter is really doing it, that's why it's not right for your parents to go back to that, that's why it's not right for you to go back to the children, according to what I will do.
An agreement that it will return to a child for a week only one week just to record you in the school.
He wants to all the areas that is why he is going to give a point; he will be able to look straight; he / she was able to talk to each other; he / she was able to see the Model Shop.
And then, it means you understand that you know that.
Not other people.
"We are anxious; and we are talking about our problem with our problem, isn't it right for our problems, isn't it right for those who are going to school, right in the afternoon, that's why it's possible that we are going to go to school, which is possible that there will be no other school that is possible.
They are waiting for what they can do to do that, but we already have a solution for us to take a solution for us.
Kuya Germs gave them a way to them.
What is really needed is your high school students to have a load for now where they are on July.
It will be dried-up there so that the office will be closed to the office.
That's why he / she was able to step down, which is why he / she was able to look straight at the same age to be easy to look at.
There is a process that will be asked to choose who are the old people.
We say that it is free children who are saying they are going to study yes, they do not need to study so that this is the end of the desire to study so that it is right for the children to study so that they will go to school everyday.
Because sometimes there are some children who get married.
With TESDA (TESDA), it will not push through that, because you will not finish without any hindrance in life, you might be able to arrive here in a high school.
But what matter how long the rain will reach here, we will only be accompanied by high school students to have a high school gift for high school.
It depends on the school that the children are receiving.
Study.
You can buy the documents for two years that they are really watching.
Meanwhile, if it is up to six children, he is okay.
We entered the owner and he still wants it.
Then in the program a while ago, there is no signal that he is going through a signal that he is going through as Fortuner, unable to enroll to the office so he can fly to the office.
What I'm saying earlier is that I've been saying earlier yes to ask what could be done by the Kagitingan reef is that we can only start, but it is only right for him to start four years that's why the First Year will start.
We are not like that.
Yes, that's why there's no idea or what happened that there is something that has happened that's why there's a point that I am calling for a certificate from marriage.
I said.
If there was really no afternoon, he / she said that he / she didn't have money, he / she said that he / she wasn't able to give money to yes, so what I am saying is that it depends on the respect and then, brother.
Fortich, I have known to know where he / she is in your own level, i'll just think that we should just think of a good project here for us in the house.
A house helper of you have been working for a few years for us, and you want to return to school and help you in studying and to help them in a pending pending case.
End now that we can go ahead; we can go to school; right now.
I am just a young lady, who is very small; very fog; if that is the case.
We have something.
Covetous, deport, different kinds of t-V-system).
Which is really possible, but the child wants to go near the high school.
He / she was full-tempered; he / she cannot explain all that will be the one who will push for.
There are because there are still a lot of people who will also drink in the house yes, because they can't go to school; we should not be able to go home together with our countrymen who are applying for a job so you are going to continue to go to our own school diploma that you have not yet attended to school; instead, you are going to have a job level.
My certificate is like that.
Siblings.
