
The consultant has been released by the Supreme Court of NDFP members who is Ramon Mitchca, fasting.

NDFP International Information Office.
July 18, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (Deypalubos, who was ordered to suspend Ramon Mitchca, on top.

The Nearteries of the panel (panel when the peace talks) of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines is detained in Camp Lapu-lapu that it will end on July July in the time when President Aquino announced his State of the Nation Address (SONA).

In the statement of the took, President Aquino was able to take a respect for the implementation of the existing agreement of the republic of the Philippines (GEGA), he was criticized as beneficiary of the republic of the Philippines (GEGAG) and instead, he was cut off and detained by the members of the NDFP members who were involved in the peace talks.

Maire also criticized the President of Golovkin because it will be refused to release the political prisoners who agree with the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) for the Aquino administration to increase the increase of political prisoners who are more than 400.

In his statement to what happened to him, Maire made a miserable failure, "Aquino, to push the peace talks with Duterte.

The high-ranking government budget for the public has been declared to the public about the provisions of the peace talks, that it seems that the provisions of JASG that is indication that the provisions of the law on the other party are not known.

Patterson was explained that in spite of the repeated peace talks, it keeps on the peace talks, the Marcos regime led the strengthening of the legislative chamber that was based on the implementation of the legislative chamber that was based on the operations conducted by the Marcos dictatorship which is based on the operation that is connected with pork barrel.

The cooperation of Luis G. Apples, chairman of Neediting in the panel of NDFP members, the price hike of the Filipino people against the Marcos regime, in front of the continuous increase of oil price, the price of price of oil, electricity, fare and other services. "
