
The DENR and the gun gun has grown up.

Arrived, the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) Secretary Ramon Paje and Ramon Paje.
Because they were able to do more than a million or set up to the project National Greening Program of his boss Benigno Aquino III (P3).
In the basis of the news, it is good that this can be done and it is important to investigate the DENR in the hands of Paje because before, it should be investigated by the DENR in the hands of Paje because before it is a lot of DENR at the hands of Paje because before it's a lot of DENR at the hands of the agency who plant.
Now, the Department of Agreement (GAA) is the only purpose to have additional burden to increase and increase a prosperous life.
The question is, the question is, where and who plant them, Secretary Mon?
There is a big budget for a tight line with the budget of buying bones, even if we know that some of those are hardworking, cut the bones of the trees in the area they are taking care of and like the mentioned, where the budget goes to the DENR Actor?
He / she was very weak.
The news that we heard from there were consecutive news from those who were hit by a stray bullet this Christmas and New year 2014.
Repeated stories, no response or result are the investigation done.
The wife of a famous lawyer who said that she was the target of the person who shot his innocent wife.
Did this have been such a number of crimes in the subdivision where there are guards that are close, that are the ones that are close?
What was pissed, is this Chinese, who was caught in the Saligang Batas and Hotel.
The thing is, when the police arrived to bring Sy to the precinct, the authorities got a lot of guns, bullets, knives, knives, explosives and other parts of his car!
Question, the doctors of the national police, how did that happen?
The goal of the gun control Law is good but you should analyze the contents of it, instead, you will be pushed to catch all the guns that have no license, are being picked on the legal owner of the gun.
Sir, if it is true that you want to implement the law, you should clean Mindanao!
