
The election in Brgy. 85th, Santa Ana, Manila.

Since my eyes became aware of the course of politics, I thought that the election is not complete if there is no "vote buying, violence and not known."
Because of this, my gratitude is heartfelt, my gratitude for the candidates and the residents of Barangay 85th, Santa Ana, Manila, why are they proved that our first belief is wrong.
They proved that in the chaotic area of the complicated city, the true spirit of the election is to show to the whole world the true spirit of the election that started and finished the "clean election through" integrity "to fight!
It's because we want to break an initial story, so I chose to monitor the said barangay in the beginning of the campaign until the released information!
It is true, it is true that the ancient belief that all election is dirty!
The result of the election is really depends on the behavior of their non-being hit!
And most of all are in desire of the voters "to be part of a peaceful and decent election as giving respect and appreciation of the rights to choose their leader!
Our priority, Doctor Alex Lim believes that although it is not lucky but he showed the true "professor" in the field of fight in politics, "in my desire," their personal character and political life is intact, "their personal character and political life is intact."
I salute you, doctor!
The, of course, it seems that the courageous people who went to win in the very first clean election "I personally witnessed!
Congratulations to Director Brillante "Marie" Garcia Vergara!
I salute all of you and it is easy to witness your "clean and decent success!
Before you sail back in full of service, your fellow residents are expecting from you that I allow you to send a "simple wish."
That you will start to cure the wounds that makes these past election.
This is to achieve sincere cooperation with not lucky candidates!
It will be more acceptable and it will be easy to accept and it can be easy for you who won against its duty, be observant of what you are saying. "
But, hopefully you will be united to support Rocket Chair because of his "good intention for your barangay!
