We are now waiting for the Panagile Festival in Baguio and it is expected that much more are the policemen in Salas.
Island from Baguio, is there?
The bread for some million-year-old child here in the house here in the most low pressure area is done here in our country just a few months.
It means that it is very wet in the bag I highest in other countries, I do not pay the best than others whose blood will be given to different flowers.
Alright.
Ah arrived before he showed an important agreement.
Here in our countrymen who will be held at the initial word, tomorrow morning, you are close to his conscience not to answer back to give two thousand to the competition of the problem of August two thousand pesos.
Wait for the appearance from the side of my family.
Stolen or that last Tuesday was the nine-month of April Two who were severely injured.
An estimation of Two people should be made to answer.
I still have a lot of people who arrived in an eye that has been cut off.
The rights that will be held this Sunday are the rights of the people and those kinds of flowers, which is why two hundred-four participants in the house said that I am just going to tell the network my letter.
We are going to call me, my sister-in-law, and what we are saying is our driver, who is our driver, cravors, for Marian Rivera and Marian Rivera.
Again, what is on Sunday?
We want to go to one thousand two thousand to fifty.
What on the ceiling to get closer.
He / she was not accepted that I might be able to say yes.
I cannot understand this.
You went here to each other, to go to school; let the people find the long time for the people on the street so that I will just continue at around four o'clock in the evening.
According to him, the number of those who went here in Baguio went to Manila and there were still a lot of those who went here in Baguio and there were also a lot of those who were living here in Manila, but this is why only half of the residents here in Manila, but this is because of the many million people who are expected to take care of the Panagements Festival.
If you do not have any opinion, you can go back to the coming from their arrival.
It is now ready to know if the traffic is still being paid here in Baguio Medical Center; which is very high, especially now.
You can see aside from the neighbors of course, those who are worried about this are our neighbors who are worried that because there are a lot of people who will go back to the motorcycle but they are okay to sell it to tourists.
For them, it is difficult for the opening but it is already a year if they have a practice of practice.
