
Workers in private, public sectors: P16,000 pesos are what we need.

By Filipino Weeker of October 28, 2014.

The workers in private and public sectors are going to protest, in front of the National Historical Office. To the left, Elmer Liscano, chairman of Kilusang Mayo Uno, KR Guda were united in a call: P16,000 National Capital Wage of all workers in the whole country.

The Filipino workers who set the wage increase in the poverty of Filipino workers, according to hundreds of members of the workers and public sectors, also for the members of the teachers and Filipino sectors, who joined a raid and protest in the National Historical Office this October 28.

Included in the leaders who are only in the call of Kilusang Mayo Uno (PAR), ConFootball Federation of Unity, Recruitment and Management Council of Health Organization (Lakas ng Masang Pilipino),) to strengthen the fight against the shouting and return of a Pambansang Kamao, "Elmer Liscano, chairman of us.

The salary of the workers if compared to the Cpost of Livni in the National Capital Region, where it was the highest salary of the country in 1989 and other steps of the government to protect us the salary of the workers.

As explained by the group, the amount of P16,000 pesos is half of the Family Liang Wage (FJ), more or less than P32,000. FFF), more or less than P32,000. Fullido) which is needed by a family who has five members to live, based on the price of goods and services.

In one family, the two members of the two parents who are working) are usually working), if P16,000 pesos was the wish of the group.

"The justice activity that the country can make is the natural resources of the country should be given the right for the highest salary and wealth of some capitalists have and the government can believe that we can believe our wish," said Ferdinand Galite, national President of Cimetidine.

Galite said that it is perfect for the National Capital Wage of the New Generation of the Social Weather Stations who said that 55 percent of Filipinos are considered to be poor as well, 43 percent of the Filipinos are considered to be poor in food.
