
"

The residents of Subic is accepted in interacting with foreigners or foreign to the community, permanent or temporary.
This is the truth: Because the people of Subic was accepted the colonizers, it does not mean that they want to be defeated.
An example of this is the tension now in the Independence Day where the Filipinos are living and foreign.
It's because it creates a "Independence Day" which is called "Independence Day" in the leadership of one-mannered family who are all foreign, including the Filipinos.
The Filipinos who are from the Kalayaan Flyover in the Independence Day, made sure that they are guilty and "Ipit Gang members, you think they are owned by the housing for a long time in Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA).
As a security guard "is the reason of the" Ipit Gang "to close the Independence Day from six o'clock in the evening until six o'clock in the morning.
The "Ipit Gang" is going to close the park and playground and shouted at the inhumane members of "Dugo-budol Gang" the youth playing basketball or Tennis.
Aside from joining Filipinos, they complain that if the Independence Day is closed, their drivers, gardener, house helper, guest and others, aside from all the time, will increase in fare or gasoline.
The "delivery" of business in Kalayaan, which is where there is a hotel and grocery store, has a bad feeling.
The worst is that if there is an emergency room, instead of the Kalayaan, older sister, it will be needed to turn around to the hospital, it is still needed to turn far away just because of time.
"
The thinking of Bella Flores and his gang in Kalayaan, sister go through the Independence Day because the thieves go through a fence, which is the priority of the Law Enforcement Department (WBC) of the SBMA under General Orlando Maddela (PNP retired).
This is the truth: The Pinoy Moviefest of the Independence Day, "power," what is done by the foolishness and his Gang that you think are the fake gods in the area.
This is a good example for Filipinos, although the relationship with the foreigner is accepted, he will fight back when the right is being stepped on and the truth is being stepped on.
