
Drug smuggling "should not stop the BOC.

Congratulations!

Bureau of Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon showed his confidence that the unique style of the smuggling of illegal drugs will not make its way to the country because of the strict implementation of the pro-Actor in the said agency.
It can be recalled that the BoC had a house helper in some series of arrest of those who were caught by the "shabu lab" after they were not able to get away from the Ports and airports of the country because of the strict process that they are going through to prevent illegal drugs.
After a online video gathered the unusual style of the smuggling of illegal drugs, wherein the sachets of "methamphetamine," even though they were alarmed, the BoC-mindedness of the BOC on this.
It is really true that Commissioner Ruffy Biazon will really have no plans to stop the battle on top of any kind of style like what I mentioned in the top.
Also because of the determination shown by Biazon, he was carried away by the BOC collection that was able to Lam the collection of the tax gathered by the past administration of the agency.
Commissioner Ruffy Biazon has a unique trait more than the raising of the BOC collection, it is also focused on the cases filed against the BoC and it will also be focused on the strict process of BOC before reaching or going out of the country, which in the end, it will also be a type in discovering it and capture it.
There are other style, which is why they have other style, which is also for the help of modern technology, their tactic on the leadership of Biazon, which is why it's sure that there will be a different style in order to destroy the agency or even Commissioner.
If you will look at it, it is not easy to remove the case against him because there are big people who are surely behind them, but based on the rating of Biazon, it seems that his desire to stop the case on top of the country is unlikely to stop.
Now, it is not only the illegal settlers, but also illegal drugs were said to have become a big change in the agency once it has been filed with criticisms but with what is happening in the current administration, the integrity continued to return.
