
COMELEC, are you cleaning the party or enemy?

The Commission on Elections chairman Sixto Brillantes will have a good initiative to leave the list of Paradise, which is really not agree with our Constitution.
Like the marginalized sectors, or sectors of the poor and continue to suffer in life.
Our forces are identified by that forces like farmers, workers, women, youth, fishermen, with disabilities and elderly.
They are clear.
But the Filipinos, especially those who have money, are famous, some lawyers and businessmen, including some officials of the government agencies.
There, each has their own version of the group partylist to Madela, their sector is not enough in the care of the government.
There are those who win and wins against drugs, with the security guards and drivers, there are security guards and drivers, with the care of the health of the baby and parents, to be buried.
If analyzed, it seems that their direction is right but the question is, are they able to do anything in order to improve the lives of the sectors they are claiming?
After all, in civic works, when you say a worker, they will claim that they have a member, farmers, fishermen, youth, women and other identified sectors of the partylist.
How can we resolve the problem?
In COMELEC, they are the ones who think that what they think is not appropriate for those who are not appropriate like Ferguson, Bicol, Kotong, and others because they think they are not worthy and right because the real face of a few.
That is why their decision is supported by the cleaning but there are still many questions that are coming out on the way of cleaning.
Like the alliance with journalists or know, the COMELEC said, it is not past because the members of the media are not poor.
Maybe what they saw is a few famous and famous media practitioners but in truth, there are also many members of the media who almost live by one.
How about the big organizations which are holding of powerful people or organization with the right millions of income even before they go through politics using the party list, some of their officials have responsibilities in the government now?
There, it seems that the cleaning of COMELEC or Sixto did not seem like those who are only allies and are not getting along well by the government, and not only your enemies are laughing at the severity of the syndicates there, are you afraid of your boss?
