
The trial to Chief Justice Corona: To anyone?

By Atty. Remigio D. Saladero.

January 25, 2012.

The opinion of the whole country is set aside from the impeachment trial of Chief Justice Renato Corona whose attention is given attention by the public by various opinions that we will hear during this trial, which is more good for the people who are involved in the impeachment trial.

Based on what happened to everyone, is there a bigger defense or a higher defense, is the group of Congressman Neil Tupas, who is the winner of the retired Justice Serafin Petalio, or more win, all the real win and is said to be a good winner and it is said that it is Senator Enrile, "he said.

In spite of all, the Aquino administration needs to explain that he needs to do the impeachment trial in implementing the "straight path," in relation to the program of Aquino against corruption and corruption in the government, he needs to give an example to Pres. Noynoy's program through removing Chief Justice Corona.

In simpler terms, the court trial is for the citizens.

According to the camp of the opposition, there is no sufficient evidence to remove the Chief Justice Secretary Noynoy Aquino's only anger for the Hacienda Luisita, which is why he will not be impeached.

The majority forget that the current impeachment trial is just to fight between two people and it is not true that the viand is being served by our countrymen in their table, water, oil, fish, fish, fish, fish, and other basic commodities?

Our country now has a tragic condition now, at present, at 11.6 million Filipinos, those who have no work or a job are still looking for an additional jobs.

Because of this, many of our countrymen are forced to go to another country to look for a decent job anymore that is why more than 4,000 Filipinos are forced to go abroad every day.

Despite this, the profit from the foreign corporation is not reduced in our country, although our local businessmen, who have no longer have anything to eat, will continue with help by the government because of the huge increase in the budget for education, health, and social activities under the Aquino administration.

This is an effect of the policies, according to the privatization of the privatization of the federal system which has been implemented by the previous administration, and now the Aquino administration has not yet implemented.

Why do these policies continue in our country by the current administration even if it is against people?

This is because they are holding the rich businessmen, Lord Almighty and foreign businessmen in the country's economy, but almost all of the wealth of our country are in their hands, but it is contrary to the interest of our country in a corner, where they make sure that there are many people who are oppressed and they are now in the lower part of our country.

Is the impeachment trial said by Chief Justice Renato Corona will destroy this power by the Lord Almighty, big businessmen and foreign businessmen, even if we remove one hundred Renato Corona, while our citizens continue to experience poverty, the citizens continue to experience poverty.

We are not saying that Chief Justice Renato Corona should not be removed but we have no illusion that he should end the suffering of rich businessmen, Lord citizens and foreign businessmen in our society.

We should reverse the corner and put the poor on top.

If we can do this, that is the only time we can say that we are going to be in the right path.
