Sped up.

By Rolando B.
April 7, 2012.

They reviewed for the documentary on the television which was hard to be affectionate and Nida Purpura, 2011, 78 years old.
"Aksyon Ngayon" the term of the very horny's term is very clear, and in giving titles to the series of pork barrel which was called Kino Pravda, which is the objective of the documentary on the New People's La Union.
For the documentary on the television on the meantime, the ordinary life of a family who lives at the side of the dock was being watched over by a monk in the side of the dock, cooking, food that can be bought by a movie, cooking, food, like sugar and milk for packs.
It is not that the camera was extremely hurt, even if the mother is saying something in relation to what he is doing, the children have something to walk in the area of camera, and the personalities in the movie, while the personalities in the movie, are trying to be careful of the documentary on them.
This is not "reasonable," which is one of those who are enia by Verano due to the documentary on the lives of a bitter, not normal life for every day, there is no normal life in the sensibility of the pro-active film fest season.
Eating oily foods are not an ordinary thing that is possible, not an ordinary thing, but the response of the poor, and the response of the government to pile it in secluded places that have no livelihood, and if not, there is no life.
The scene was a scene for the documentary on the top of the telephone which was very difficult, "Jewel Reyes.
It is clear that resulted to Maranan, three antos, just like the opening of the ships, fishing in front of the houses, fishing in front of the houses, which is causing the quality of life, and the lives of the poor are still creative, and the lives of the poor are still creative.
In the editing, this is for the shoot-for of those who violate the building, who are violating the house or trace of films which are hung at home or their taste in the edge of the coast in life, and the sachets of products being sold, similar to the majority of people like this in the majority of people like this in the majority of people like this.
In the direction, this is the pro-active television for the documentary on how to destroy the political life of the community in the dock, what is dangerous for the poverty of the community in the dock, which is dangerous for the sake of the citizens of the community, especially to the advancement of business), their creative response for every day.
Probably, the viewer would think that his own life is a coia in the Middle East and taking advantage, which the real status of the country is in the political response of the art of the art of arts that they have succeeded.
