
You can find an umbrella for us.

In spite of the refusal of the city council in spite of giving the committee or an additional funding, the Manila 5th District Councilor Ali Atienza continues to serve his constituents.
Farmers are lucky because there is an Ali Atienza who did not think anything but the welfare and health of the people, like the father of Buhay Partylist Representative Lito Atienza.
Helping is already in the blood, as they say.
Instead of the disapt of the committee in the city council, Ali is busy with his own public service.
Many senior citizens and with disabilities are working in Singgalong Street and San Andres where he is being fooled because of the wheelchair being given by the councilor.
The house of Ali is also there for anti-dengue campaign.
He personally given information, along with the fbust operation, the residents tried to avoid dengue.
The medical mission to the barangays and those who seem to be a pharmacy about the office of Ali in the City Hall due to the number of confiscated drugs from private friends is also being given to the needy.
As said by some residents, "in the hospital, there is a payment for the medicines, in the office of Ali, the medicines were free from the office of Ali, the medicines for the high blood pressure, diabetes, and even on a high blood pressure, diabetes, and even on a high blood pressure.
There are even those who, Ali is also being given by the free coffin and the legal process.
"Those who cannot defend their cases and those with legal problems are also helped by Ali.
"The barangay chairman who is a victim of" taunting of their real tax in Barangay is also one of those who helped Ali to fight for their rights.
Ali will file against the Ombudsman and the COA (Letter of Investigation to investigate this case.
His project at a cheap rice (P20.00 per kilo) is a big help to families who have many children.
This is a big thing for a pedicab driver that is earning small.
All of this, Councilor Ali has been the father of Councilor Ali even if he is being treated at the city council.
He has no committee and funds but the public continues!
