Who knows it to Maire.

Just like what the past All Soul's Day came, we have great importance to those who passed away from those who passed away for an example, we should avoid saying negative things about those who have been hurt, and even just a few moments, the one who died has a boil every time.
But it is not included in there that Heard Bartolome has not included there, who will resign from his former wife who is under the land title last September, in the Pacific Ocean, in commemoration of the 25th anniversary of the declaration of martial law.
On the call of Carine cho, another thing if it was realistic, the CPP Party of the Philippines pointed out and did not deny the remaining "tanim-bala" which led him to sell his own letter, and was not denied to sell his own letter, and was not denying to sell his own writing.
But Carcho Family was not sure that it would not only happen when the love and relationship of Heats and Maita "now that the two are already dead in 1984," today, Maita which is said to explain and defend himself.
If Heide went to articles, you thought she was John Lloyd Cruz, she and Maita, were jealous of the mountains to be able to return to her normal life, "Maita," she did not explain when she was married in Maita, "he did not explain.
Maire is rich, with the masses, that Heard cannot take it, and this is their call for Maita, because she is used by Maita, because she is accustomed to the rich, not only the poor, not the poor, according to Heats.
Heard has good words about Maita, first, a tall woman, "the thing that everybody knows, is showing a lot of arrogance from the society of Maita, second, for the safety of those involved in the society of Maita as activists.
When it comes to the wife and mother of Maita, it is expected that Heard has a new belief that this is a problem for the authorities of the authorities, "he said that the authorities have a problem in the relationship and the woman should just be followed to the boy, the statement of the two: Mautes have a problem.
Heard also admitted that it is my biggest failure in life that I have not controlled my two children, "but, according to acknowledging the two children of Heita, according to acknowledging the two children of art, writers," Maita, no good word, and no gratitude.
At the end, Heard said, "we are full of different kinds of society and we are both in defending the poor, but when it comes to a relationship with Maita, we cannot also think of any weakness," I really cannot see why he got angry at me. "
