
Filipino Moro, and increasing, the armed fight will push forward to push for the armed fight towards the national democracy that has a disturbance!

Bandila by Al-Ghamdi.
The Moro Islamic Liberation Front (NDFP) NDFP) should be punished.
June 20, 2012.

It is the message of MG-NDFP's message on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the start.

Asutilla, hmmmp!

The highest tribute on the 25th anniversary of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, the primary voice of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front of the Philippines (NDFP) and trying to send the right line of the Bangsamoro Basic Law (NDFP) who risked their lives for the sake of the Bangsamoro Islamic Liberation Front, who risked their lives in the sake of the Bangsamoro Basic Law!

Those who are with them are in their strength of extremists in our strength that might be implemented in many field, severe poverty, and national growth of the filipino masses, by the Pambansang Kamao, which is why the current regime was established in a democratic revolution.
This is not the future of the poverty and turmoil in the land of the filipino people, instead, it will continue to strengthen the regime because it is contrary to what he is doing, which is why it is contrary to the government of Moro and Filipino people, we need to strengthen and build our ranks, puppy, and the terrorist President-Aquino.

PPP-INTEL) is just the same situation for the ILLIE by PNoy.

Later our Moro and the whole country continue to rise from poverty and pain under the political administration of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, PNoy continues to support the interest of the US while it is an indication of being a slave of the Marcos regime, which is an indication of being a slave of the Marcos regime.

PNoy did not respond to the strong needs of the Bangsamoro Islamic Liberation Front, instead they prioritize the political needs of the citizens by the opposition of the United States, which is expected to cause a $7.5 billion dollars, which is expected to cause a high price of electricity in the citizens of Mindanao.

There is still no land for the farmers, many of the citizens do not have work and are forced to go abroad to support the government of Filipino people who are not able to save the budget for the social media, and the community will not be able to study the budget for the Filipino people in the continuing launch of the government of the government.

It is a big war and violation of human rights.

The former US-Aquino has the number of Foreign Affairs that is against the rights of Bangsamoro Islamic Center for almost 2 years of service, it continues to be blind and not care of the citizens of human rights but it is also full of support to the American troops that has been buried in the country in the effects of the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA).

The anti-Moro who was the US President Aquino did not hesitate to report to the launch of the illegal drug campaign to the land of Bangsamoro Basic Law, and many of the citizens were affected, not able to raise the community in Basilan and Payao, Zamboanga del Sur, which caused him to have been used by the United States, which was proven to have been used by the United States, which was proven to have been used by the United States in Sulu.

They still continue to capture the civilians Moro who got the right in violation of the rights, arrest even if there is no fault and accusing terrorists for the ordinary citizens who can catch them, including the so-called Basilan 73, which is known to have been imprisoned in Camp Bagong Diwa.

There is no value in the government for the rights of the citizens, to show his loyalty, the American troops in the face of the VFA, which was hit by the American troops that was used in Balikatan last April 19, 2012 when he was raped by the American troops that was used in Balikatan last April 19, 2012 when he was hit by the American troops that was used in Balikatan last April 19, 2012.

Peace talks and rights in your own decision.

Even from the beginning, the lack of respect of the Philippine US-Aquino will be exposed with the rights of Bangsamoro will be exposed in the rights of the Bangsamoro Basic Law in spite of the numerous mishaps caused by the Bangsamoro and RL.

Just on the first year of his seat, he dispelled that the Constitution has been recognized by the Constitution by the Constitution which is only showing-off the law for the anti-Moro and becoming greedy for power to the President he followed.

The regime says that he respects the RU D of Bangsamoro will be ready to sit and talk with peace but while they are talking, the Bangsamoro Basic Law can also file a outline of their natural resources and opening of the Bangsamoro Islamic Liberation Front, which is why the Bangsamoro Basic Law should be filed against the Bangsamoro Basic Law.

National Police Officer IGAA Rihanna.

We proved that our research is right on the real face of the country's real face, any strategy for the Bangsamoro Basic Law in the islands of the United States for the war which will cause widespread brownout, poverty, and violation of human rights.

In the inside of this, the Filipino citizens will surely give in the political system, the Filipino citizens will not give it to the local government, which is why the Philippine US-Aquino will never ask for a good decision, which is why the government wants to ask for help but for the Pambansang Kamao just to ask for it!

That is why on the 25th anniversary of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, we call for our real freedom through strengthening the ranks of our ranks.
The number of those who have the initiative to gather, and set the stronger!

When we will double the work that we are aware of, it is possible that we have vast people!

Supporting the armed fight, with the outline of the national under democratic revolution, with a disastrous competition, the real freedom and peace will be achieved!
Until success!
