I don't understand each other.

"It is not in the suicide of crystal-Tetuan, the tuition fee, which is why there is another possible reason for his death," this was started by Manuel Buencamino, which was started by a Aquino government, based on the said issue.
The standard of the suicide of suicide is widespread if you have committed suicide, "because I do not have anything to pay for a tuition," because of those who commit suicide, those who commit suicide, but not like that.
According to the report of Trillanes, he jumped or jump off and blocked by the suicide of the society, it is enough for them to ask them or their relatives on why they have committed suicide, and the answer that caused a blood of many: Poverty.
So there are so many evidence, "in the legal language of Buencamino, who came out about the issue, fellow information and stories that there was no doubt that the number of lack of tuition, poverty, and shame from the end part of his short life.
"But it is not all the students of UP who are having a hard work in tuition, chosen by Buencamino, real, and her mother of crystal meth, but he himself didn't take it anymore, but he himself could not take it.
It is also not all poor, who go to prostitution, not all, were selling stones at the body or the drugs, as if not all, have been evacuated during Manila or other countries.
Maybe there are other reasons for the death of crystal meth, but it is certain that one of the most important there is poverty has a direct connection with the system of lack of work, a high tuition, low tuition, low tuition in education.
There is a good effect on E. San Juan, Jr.
Included here is prostitution, the selling of stone in the body and drugs, the evacuation of Manila and other countries, including those that happened to crystal meth: Due to poverty even if not all the poor are given to such steps.
The logic in Buyo-ino is funny because the activists are blaming the poverty of the suicide of crystal meth, he looked like weak and the prostitute, fond of burning down, just like Buencamino, who can be with the effect of poverty.
They say that activists are just using crystal meth to punch the system, he said to the activists for not to sympathize with the family of crystal meth, but he called the activists.
It is very clear that he memorized all that happened to be alert in the government which needs to make work and change its subsidy for education and this is an indication that this is the government of the Aquino government.
Buencamino is not in the reason not to be neglected and insulted by the yellow party with the yellow system to build the yellow system to build the logic in the said path in the right path of his hoverboard.
