Take a distance from the truck and inactor for the victims of typhoon Yolanda, wiped the UL of DAR.

It looks like the distribution of the trucks and tractor of the Department of Agrarian Reform of DAR) of those who were damaged by typhoon Yolanda in Visayas Region is also reeking.
The said trucks and tractor are part of P720 million Farm in Finland who have set the bidding on the past January 3 under the television series of the Department of Budget and Management (DBM).
In the information gathered by lily's Calvento Files, it is figured out that the cleaning and fixing of the land in Visayas Region is delayed because of the command of DAR and stop the assigned order.
Why and what the reason of DAR and why is there a need to stop the distribution of the trucks and tractor in the region when our countrymen who are devastated by typhoon Yolanda have already needed things for their slowly rise.
Also according to the information, the bidding of Negros Oriental Representative Pradia, Teves, and George Canila, president of the Presidential spokesperson, Incorporated (AMMDA), for the reason that the construction of DAR and DBM in the actual need is being implemented.
And because of this, Agriculture Secretary Virgilio Delos Reyes decided to stop the distribution of the tractor in buying equipment on farm and said that the new bidding will call DBM for the tractor on the next 30 days.
Oh, this is what we are, very long for the farmers who want to recover immediately, they need to monitor this well because the 30 days might be forgotten and the 30 days will be forgotten.
The National Chairman of the Kapisanan ng Pilipinas, fishermen and Manggagawa sa Philippines, Incorporated (PMMMi) should be temporarily suspended and fixing the land in the region because of the order of DAR and make sure that the trucks and tractor will be given to the victims of typhoon Yolanda.
"We understand that the process of bidding needs to be clear and fair, we are not looking at it, our call is for the quick resolution of this issue and for the welfare of the farmers in Visayas which wants to be raised.
Of their livelihood again, "the statement was Vicente L. Domingo of the MMMPi.
