Iglesia ni Cristo and the lawmakers and from the palace.

Million people are directly benefited from the "reward of Iglesia ni Cristo of the day before yesterday.
Thousands have moved out about their illness and was given appropriate care for doctors, nurses, and other health projects.
Those who received relief goods increase the number.
There are several programs of Iglesia ni Cristo, similar in Mindanao and Central Luzon and hundreds of thousands have benefited from it.
"Isn't it TRIJ?
We are among us, Bro, for those who have been involved in traffic because of the program of the INC.
But we did not pay attention to those who look nice or known for the meeting and meeting with the people that we need to choose from that day.
We have the smile of a million people who somehow carry out their own home.
This is even if they have a lot of people who attended the program because of the traffic night on the eve of the program and whole day.
Even if they treat three kilos of rice, three cans, sardines and some packs of noodles that they have brought home, what is important is that they benefited from these.
For a few days, they can escape the hunger from the effects of the INC?
Different from the lawmakers.
There is a big difference between lawmakers of the INC.
While all the people connected to billions of money from the country are fake, there is a face and real life that those who benefit from the Iglesia ni Cristo is fake.
While INC directly gave to the citizens of public service, lawmakers are allowed to pass the fake Foundation in their services.
That is why they are the only lawmakers who benefited more than their beneficiary if they have something.
It is certain that the INC spent a small amount for giving blessing or aid and those who benefited from it.
The lawmakers like the annual P24 billion worth of pork barrel.
There is PDAF again, have DAP!
Based on the record of the Department of Budget and Management Council gathered by the RTECAYETANO, aside from the annual P24B PDAF, there is P13 billion Disbursement Acceleration Program that they received from 2011.
That is why the PDAF or pork barrel was not only received 70 million pesos and pork barrel was received by the congressmen and not P200 million the PDAF only received by the senators.
Do you also benefited from the millions of Filipinos from the billions of public funds which is a reward for the lawmakers?
PDAF and DAP.
They say, PDAF and DAP are greater than the Palace compared to the lawmakers of pork barrel.
According to Leonor Briones, the knowledge is deep in the complexity of PDAF, with the flag of P450B PDAF and the palace.
For the group who are patriotic, the value of the pork barrel of the Palace is patriotic.
According to as Tiger, there was an P157B of DAP that was even the Palace since last 2011.
And this is from P13B DAP that he gave to the lawmakers as pork barrel.
Did there be millions from this?
The same straight path.
If you will ask those who are away and lawmakers, these are the same who say that these are used in the Tuwid na Daan "their own pork barrel and DAP.
And each one among each other is one of those who has a mix of miracles for having and using PDAF and DAP.
Maybe, we can only say that there were no million who benefited from the PDAF and DAP, which are all huge sum of money for them.
If there are those who are benefiting, they are the only ones and their own NG Os.
Waiting recently.
The people do not know the difference of lawmakers and people from the palace.
What is clear now is that they are all pigs who are trying to get their way.
See, Bro, these are the unity of these for the Supreme Court to remove its temporary restraining order against PDAF.
In the end, even if the PDAF only has to be signed, they will be able to receive the sake of the scholar and patient.
Christmas is coming, hehehe!
The truth is, they even have millions worth of benefits that are benefiting and no one else but their damaged properties.
It is really millions, Bro, the ownership of the senators, congressmen and from the palace.
Ran after them.
Where is the huge amount of relief goods that the INC has from?
It is certain that only from their brows and other good feelings.
"What is the reward of the Palace to the lawmakers on the impeachment case and hope of the law that he wants to be approved by the lawmakers?
It is not enough to say that it is coming from the people.
And cut off and pocket money from these people while the INC gives away what he is receiving.
