The ceasefire was declaration from 20 years 2012 until 15 January 2013.

Based on the recommendation of Needle of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), the representative of the Philippine National Police (NDFP) is declared to be declared in the order for the ceasefire, which will be implemented from 00 o'clock in the 20 years 2012 until 23: 59.
The order to stop the ceasefire, which is being taken back together with the ceasefire, which will be taken by the local government budget of the republic of the Philippines (GPhilippine), like they were able to fool a special meeting with a special group of NDFP members and those who are in front of GSU-18-February.

The order to stop the ceasefire is part of the traditional celebration of the Filipino people, Christmas and New Year, it will also be given a chance to conduct the revolutionary force to conduct the 25th anniversary of the PKP, and celebrate the 80th anniversary of the PKP, and celebrate the disputed success in the past year.

The order to stop the ceasefire released by the National Democratic Front in Mindanao was made out by the National Democratic Front in Mindanao by all places destructed by typhoon Pablo, 2012 until January 3, 2013 until January 3, 2013 until January 3, 2013 until January 3, 2013 until January 3, 2013.

It is also being brought out by the ceasefire, supporting the hard work that the NDFP members who was arrested and continued to push through the legislative chamber that he was arrested and continued to be taken from the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights).

At the time of the ceasefire, all the units of the Botchok and its own town will eventually stop and stop in the launch of armed military units and personnel of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), Philippine National Police (PNP), and other assets of the republic of the Philippines.

The personnel of the AFP and PNP already did not have a big fault but to their being members of the armed forces of the enemy, they will not be arrested or punished because they may be punished to visit his relatives and friends to visit his relatives and friends.

While all the units of the Botchok and its own country will remain in defense against illegal activities, including the high level of economic provisions, including the operation which is called "peace and proper order, and if there is an actual operation, and if there is an actual attack of the forces of the enemies.

All branches and committee of the PKP, which is being followed by the KP, units of BHB) units, will now be blamed by the armed forces of the enemy, which is why the information will be conducted by the armed forces of the enemies.
