With his posture.

There was no notice that the Philippine Coll tried hard on his desire to get involved in the fight for the rights of the students and the Filipino people in a business.
In the past year, Coll asked the kind of Joe Burgos to be popular to many, but she has no idea that her readers have already shattered her opinion, and it does not mean that there are sides that could not be tearful, and will fight in our issues.
Because even back then, Colina believes that he will report to the report of journalism, as an institution who has power to think about it, this is not a waste of words to hide that is why the media and other institutions in the university and the country are worried.
When they were confronted by the students of UP last June on the rule of UP last June on June, Cologne, he insisted that this is a form of the price increase, because they already want to pay the scholar of the town of Php28.00 per hour.
More than this, it will also be seen in the news by Cologne, the financial solution of Soccorridor in the financial Assistance Program in order to make it easier and tomorrow to everyone who is worthy of the education of UP.
Brave those who attacks Cologne Center in the former location of UP Integrated High School.
Police continue to be reported and worried about the kidnapping of two students of UP whose kidnapping of two students of UP identified as Karen Halnon, and Shermelyn Bensani, until now, the primary suspect, Maj. General Jovito Palparan.
A year after being stabbed by a students of political Science inside a building in the university, Colina insisted that their shortcomings of UP have not yet been enough for the physical security of UP, which is also caused by a huge lack in budget.
When they received almost 60 percent, or P9.5 percent of the proposed budget of P18,4 billion, it was identified by Cologne, but instead of being treated as a complete success, the fight has not end here for the enough budget from the government.
Coll was also not imprisoned by his self from the issues inside the university, despite the students' duty, they continue to recognize the duty of the students to participate in the issues against the higher society outside our neighboring areas.
There are only a few seconds of articles for those who take advantage and supports the burial of the Reproductive health law, he is calling for the passing of a meaningful Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters, along with the call for the real reforms and inhumane pay for the workers.
On the other hand, quickly attacks by Coll was immediate action, or a cybercrime law, because this is a direct repression to our human rights to express the newspaper against the privatization of the public institution such as hospitals.
In the time when it seems that the situation of the Philippines seems to progress and progress under the Aquino administration, he took the revelation of the Aquino administration, he insisted that there is no increase of domestic helpers to hide on the hardship being experienced by the Filipinos.
In the whole year, Coll was living together with the type of your Joe Burgos to correct, he earns respect from the sides that he did not support.
The logic in the newspaper is simple, and he's always with his masterpieces from the rights of the students and the people, and whatever is contrary to this, he is brave to object to a pen pal, and in the actual fight, inside the Congress, until he's in the streets.
Because in the end, no words, pictures or people are true to improve the situation of every Filipino and expect that there is always needs for the concrete action and expect to be talked about by Cologne, and hopefully in the next year.
