
Influx of rice grains, "colorums will affect the agriculture again.

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
June 14, 2012.

Local farmers of rice, livelihood are in danger because of the influx of rice from the United States? (Pukan, (KR Guda).
In the speech of Pres. Benigno Aquino III in the community of Filipino-American in Los Angeles to his last visitor in the United States, included in his priorities is the self-control of rice from the 2013 elections which is said to be no need to import rice from neighbors in Asia.
What he did not mention, at the end of the month, it is expected that the rice grains of rice is expected to pour in the market which was given by the World Trade Organization (Wthese) in the Philippines.
In a statement, Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP), militant groups of farmers who can join the country can join the country without any limitation, "according to Antonio Flores, spokesperson of Kovalev.
As early as now, according to Kibalabag, one of the five bites of rice is from rice that were imported from other countries.
What Aquino did not mention, one of the reasons is the steps of the US government, that just started to visit the president.
US, a big contribution for rice.
Last November. 18, 2011, the Department of Agriculture (DA) in Wonderland has submitted a petition to the UR of rice to 2015, when it became a protection from the local farmers of the rice, but the petition of the US government was blocked, a big piece of rice in the Philippines.
(Also stated by the Agriculture Sec. Proceso Alcala, it is possible that the US will possibly end up from the office released by the agency Administrative Order (ao) 22, that the US will be stricter in the said mandate of the agency; the government has an appeal to the said decree of the agency; the government has an appeal to the said decree of the agency.
The US is the second among the biggest rice cakes in the whole world, after Thailand. From 2000 until 2010, the country was importation from the US last 2001, which reached 1040,900 MT.
Sonny Africa of Ibon Foundation (applicants, Quijano).
In a low pressure last June 6, the entry of Agriculture in Quantangan, executive director of Ibon Corporation, executive director of Ibon Foundation, is the executive director of Ibon Foundation, the executive director of Ibon Foundation, and other people who are destroying the products, or taxes for the importation of products.
"If you take advantage of the assets, the national industry and agriculture, this is a protection from the cheap products from other countries with the yellow technology and subsidy," according to Africa.
It has long been removed by the government of the Philippines to protect this, as one of the most first and fastest to lead the economy of the country even before the early parts of the country since the early part of the decades, 90.
A source of a bird.
As a matter of fact, the Philippines is even smaller than the importation of products, instead of 'adversary, which led by Written Is (look at the dining table, that means that the implementation of the government in our industry and agriculture, will be easier to want.

As of now, because the importation of rice has increased its limitation on 330,000 pesos per year, but the government of the Philippines voluntarily violate this: 00 last 2010, but the country was importation of Wthese to protect its own economy, and their own farmers.
Avenging from the Wtch.
It is believed that Wonderland has been used in progressive countries to remove the poor countries to remove the security or support of the government in their own industry and agriculture, but they themselves, like the US, its subsidy for their government remains high, "said Africa.
In the data of the US DA, it appears that up to US $1,500 pesos per kilo of every year is the direct translation of the US government to the American farmers, aside from various debts, its subsidy for irrigation that reached USD by 210 million every year.
Meanwhile, agriculture, and lack of support to the farmers, "no irrigation is a 1.3 million hectares of the rice field, three of four farmers have no own capital, and aside from the government, the local production," according to APD and Rafael Mariano.
Africa also agrees with the petition of the Philippines to hasten the petition of the Philippines to reduce the QRs of rice, "the assets of those who have no support from the government for improvement of our ability in the industry and agricultural," he said.
Abatan of Rafael Mariano (applicants, Quijano, were able to escape.
For Mariano, instead of giving a decision with the QRs, "if we will be able to leave our own agriculture and industry, the citizens will be able to leave our own agriculture and industry, and that is what we can make in talking to other countries, and that is the agreement that our friendship will get stronger," he said.
But under the Aquino administration, it seems that it is impossible to hear this call on May, the president appointed as Arsenio Balisacan, the former chief of the National Football Development Authority in the administrator of the Philippines, Balisacan, the undersecretary added that Balisacan, as the undersecretary of the DA.
Was you left by time?
Meanwhile, there will be more people who will vote from our country to protect the foreign steps in the economy.
According to the Cjoin in the Pacific Economic Cooperation Development Assistance Fund, from the year 2008, the different government of approximately 55 to protect its policies are implemented by the countries including G20, or most progressive countries like the US, Germany, Russia, and countries in Europe.
It is also not true what the government is saying, "the Philippines will be left behind if it will not follow the flow of agriculture, according to the United Nations Security Adviser on Elections (Priority Development Assistance Fund), at 147 or 98 percent of the policy towards the liberalization of economy, and around 48 pesos is heading to regulations or strolling.
It is being looked into by the failed promise of the white neo-lualto economy, instead of the source of livelihood and quality of lives of the majority of the people, it seems that the poor are hungry and hungry in the world, while there is a lot of increase in wealth among some individuals.
"That's why it is surprising that it is still here if President Aquino is still in full force of the advancement of the economy, he is the one who will be left behind by the weather," said Africa.
