
Conference with Ron Gagalac.

The officials of the five districts of Metro Manila are very tired of being called by the director of the National Capital Region Police Office, Chief Superintendent Marcelo Garbo Junior.
According to some officials, they are waiting for a conference that they will be given attention by Garbo which is just going out of their time instead of doing something good for peace and order in their jurisdiction.
It is better, according to an official of the Manila Police District, that the answer to the problem of the crime and illegal activities that the Philippine National Police is facing is quick action instead of having an ally and a part of programs that are impossible to be implemented.
The official also said that what was just doing was what was just doing for the conference, that they are officials who are tired and having a hard time.
However, if the officials who are tired of events that are tired of places as long as the conference with the conference, your servant are advised, we salute those who are loyal to the police for being honest in service and resolve to the "number of policy."
It is not yet sure that he has a t-T if this program is really true that Garbo should be implemented.
It is not yet determined if this is the principle of the chief of NCRPO or maybe this is just one way to raise his price.
That's why let's let's take a hidden talent in the benefit of the Philippines, everyone knows that hopefully their program will continue for "Tuwid na Daan" by President Benigno Aquino III.

During the time of the late Jesse Robredo in the Department of Interior and Local Government, the operation of gasoline and other supply of gasoline for the PNP is up to the PNP, which reaches up to the most low ranks, which can be tasted by supply.
In simpler terms, all are delayed because blessing is flowing.
But now, the process is back again which is often there is no supply of gas and without IGAE so that the police are forced to steal people and in the end, it is being asked for the people to focus on the expenses of the government.
That's why it should be said that the way of giving allocations while gasoline, IOS and other needs of the PNP so that it will not be used in corruption.
It's because it cannot be denied that these corrupt cops are also used to be used by the people.
But the truth is, they will go home to them and eating their families aside from being proud of his relatives and neighbors.
