
Frankly: Duterte, do not boast and insult to China.
By Ellen Toribio, July 4, 2016.
What happened in the first Cabinet meeting by President Rodrigo Duterte is really a failure, wherein they talk about what will be done in the release of the decision of the United Nations (UN) Artransfer of Court on the case filed by the Aquino administration against China.
But the position or strategies of Duterte: If the decision is in favor of the Philippines, do not boast, do not insult.
It is no longer "the students who go to an island in the Spratly Islands and destroy the flag of the Philippines as well as the campaign against Aquino in the whole world, China is charged with China in the whole world.
Aquino was compared to the president of China who was Xi Jinping against Hitler and the ambassador of China who is Ma'am Pilar, "a Mahogany" in Tagalog, a duplex, traitor, cannot trust everyone.
It's because Aquino thought, if China is thanking China, the opinion of many in the world would be the antagonist, and it seems that the Philippines is being oppressed and will be angry at China and he will support her.

The whole world will have sympathy in the Philippines.
Aquino also thought, because China does not want to be embarrassed to the whole world, they will remove their ships at the Scarborough Shoal and it will not be aggressive in Spratings, two of the Philippines and China.
The problem is, China is getting mad that is why the Philippines is getting into trouble, that is why the Philippines cannot do anything because there are only a few ships and airplanes that were damaged by the Philippines?
Live in the first cabinet meeting by Duterte last Thursday, after his taking of oath.
The beginning is well, it's just proper that Duterte reiterated his previous actions against drugs, the inconvenience of the slow action of the government and the suffering of Foreign Secretary Perfecto Yasay, Jr. about the coming of Foreign Secretary Perfecto Yasay, Jr.

Duterte said, they are expecting the decision on the issue on the Philippines, there are also other issues that the Philippines cannot get what the UN is asking for.
Duterte said, "here, Fight IT is a type of admiration, it is if we were able to solve it.

We, it has been an opium of some of the OPLAN), if we were able to take advantage of the Fight IT.
"We will be the source of how we can use, which is also of course, Fight IT.
Because China already said that they did not join the case filed by the Philippines so they have no obligation to follow.

How can the UN be implemented, that is why they do not have an armed force, especially the Philippines.
Yasay asked what to do with the Chinese fishermen in Scarborough Shoal?
Here, it was cut off the broadcast person who noticed a failure.
Just like that.

Just before.
