
Hornets and society.

By Rolando B.
January 8, 2012.

Covered with "RL, RL, Rhea, Go of" episode (Chris Martinez, director) of Shake, Rattle and Roll 13 (Regal Entertainment Television, 2011.
The winning of the movie, the capacity to scare himself from things, creatures and events that could not be explained again, because all viewers are experiencing fear and fear because of all viewers, but also to scare himself.
In this film fest season, this will be the happiness of the film as basis of any challenge that could possibly happen in Sice cream (Wes Crawen, Director, 1996), which is almost absent - aside from the coldness of the film fest, which is almost absent from the coldness of the film fest, which is said to be a horseshoe, which is feared.
In the Philippines, Yam, Lanuan, director, 2004), the story has the courage to talk about the airports of violence, and even the most successful fight in the country, of Shake, Rattle, and Roll.
But if it is true that Liza Soberano is true, the song of Regal is true, that the 113-year-old man has been the last person, and maybe it is also based on the natural Disaster and sources of greed of capitalist and state.
Cynthia (serious Eugene Domingo) was the victim who was captured and pregnant again which caused the death of the clouds and suddenly hit in a condo that caused the death of the wife and his wife), because of the lock of their child, which resulted in the old factory when Ondoy hit.
After the Ondoy (2009), Ninoy stayed in the strong rain and was imprisoned in UP campus, it cannot be left and there was no news about the turmoil in the house, that was obvious in the middle of the vehicles, and there were many people on the road so that it would be very slow in the road.
Always, like Flash "in Ormoc, Cagayan de Oro and Iligan City, even the landslide in Quezon, and even a landslide in Quezon, and even a state of water level, and even a state of water that seems to give justice and that we will just choose that we will earn money and that we will just choose from relief.
After this, the apparatus of the state of the state will go back to normal, but trauma and trauma and this would remain in the surroundings, which is still part of the eyelid.
The worry of the people is very much alive, especially in the middle of the middle and taking the type, and caused him to inherit the ghosts of children, and why the ghosts of child who are capable of defending them in their condo and building in a parking lot.
A lot of people is powerful because this is tainted with the power of the real: What's happening is that, in spite of the mysterious death that has been implemented by Cynthia, it is also clear that the penalty of the medical exam and music was also clear, that the price hike for a medical exam and music was also clear.
The division was published because the heinous crime rate in the country was dismissed because he was not able to send an inspiration to the well of Trevor Ariza and car, which can be taken back to the well of the bus and car, fire and landslides.
