Do you ready to vote with Casiño?

If you decided to vote for senator Teodoro "Teddy and Casiño, you do not need to continue reading it and if you believe that he is not right to get elected as senator, I hope you have a simple hobby out, read this short atings.
Let my question be direct, why do you not like that even if he does not like that he is the communists, even if he has denied this kind of connection or with his group of communist Party of the Philippines (CPP), why would you hear the name of Casiño?
That's why it's not for the communists to be mad at the communists, it is acceptable for each other, it will be better if you feel that it is just an effective tactic in English - if it is just an effective tactic in English - if it is just a simple tactic in English - if Fight IT.
With the number of these these, the "sin of Casiño is becoming clear to you, he has a similarity of commitment to the CPP in many issues like the Visiting Forces Agreement and derailing of the CPP's group, for example, they believe that he is the communists because he agrees with the many arguments of the CPP!
Do you notice that a depth of course, for an individual who does not like a deep research, is very quick to make a decision based on what is called on the English which is being made by those in power to lose credibility.
I clearly remember in the '80s, that even having a mole on this age, and if you analyze the current statement of some officials of the military, it means that the "favorite" colors of the communists and those who have grown up from legitimate organizations have noticeable, that is why they are both red.
It is very confident if analyzed, but I will admit that these are effective in order to convince many people, because they have no time to understand the situation of the family, that is why they have no time to believe what's the statement of officials in the government.
In other words, many of the people who are struggling can easily believe because of what they are trapped, when most of those who are in power - if most of the people who are in power, it is clear that there are many who are benefiting from the widespread poverty that are benefiting from the current trend.
With the number of these cases, Casiño's group is really hard to make it clear, but it is not acceptable for those who are against his candidacy, according to them, it is not acceptable for those who are against his candidacy, how it is not acceptable for those who are against his candidacy as representatives of the national Muna Party-list, it is hard to face the arguments that are heard inside their candidacy.
What will happen will happen if he will be elected in the Senate?
As of now, there is a reason for those in power to be happy because of the surveys of candidates for senator, it can still be said that if the survey is limited, it is clear that his funds are limited, it is clear that he cannot keep pace with the millions of spending of other opponents.
But I want to think about any lack of funds that is why the thorough campaign of his supporters is full, especially in social media to send the message of a meaningful change, and because there is a limitation on the community of many groups and individuals who believe in the leaders of Casiño.
My direct support to his candidacy is not only a result of my personal acquaintance with him since in college.
Communists, terrorists, activists.
Yes, Casiño was activists and did not deny it, but the arguments that he was communists and the terrorists will not fully understand what he was fighting for just for a meaningful change.
Do not be carried away by the arguments of those in power by activists, it is still difficult to give the communists or terrorists in a place, it is difficult to give the armed struggle in different parts of the world and there are even those who get involved in the Spanish colonizers.
As a teacher of your Joe and communication, I know the power of words because this may be the one to set a personal person, or the individuals who are suffering from the Senate not to be seated in the Senate not to be more meaningful but for his personal profit but to be more meaningful in the advancement of the disputed politics.
Are you ready to vote for him, hopefully you are not convinced with my argument, there is no problem because you have a time to study his platforms.
Remember, this is just a simple thing about Casiño: If he will win or lose in this world (and if ever he will vote or even if you will continue to fight for the common people.
