
Punished those who are senators; PNP.

The date for filing a Severe Actor of Conversatment is up to June 30 or a month after the election period, but according to Chairman Sixto Brillantes, only Alan Peter Cayetano was only able to submit the perfect SOCE.
Do you see, it is the foolishness of COMELEC, the law is strictly implemented, but when the senators have violated it, they will immediately extend their patience, but due to the huge amount of P1,000 to one day.
What if they really cannot handle the donations, and what they spent during the election? Of course, instead it is expected that the election law is violated the SOCE, however, the SOCE is not allowed to support until the term of the elected senator!
It means, 330,000 pesos in one month, P3,6K to one year or more than two million in six-years are what they prioritize.
Mang Simagala, this politicians have forgotten that these politicians or millions are accepted by the donations for the campaign and they are not included there is a lot of those who are taking advantage of it!
No matter how much the P2 million refugees will be done, what if it is not a fine, hk, haunt, haunt, hmmmp!
"You should admit it, Mang Simagala, that you are just afraid that you will not be impeached by the senators!" On July 1, now, "the deadline until you may cool it again!
Umm!
Entice the President.
The goal of San Pablo has already marked on the desire of San Pablo, Laguna SB, Egay Adajar said that the illegal gambling of Don Ramon.
But before PAGCOR was able to execute the hearing on the gambling of Don Ramon, that was scheduled on January 9, 2012.
According to our APD, similar to Laguna board member Danny Ang who was killed last 2009, the death of SB's a cauldron is related to the investigation of the illegal gambling of Don Ramon.
Would we be surprised if some officials of the PNP Region 4-A are afraid to hit Don Ramon?
I just do not know Hiroyuki Kotera.
Is it true, sir, that sometimes you have mentioned it, "you have already accepted him?"
