"Interpretation of the Holy Pope?

By Priscilla Mireilles?
July 29, 2013.

It is spreading now on social media the pictures of Pope Francis together with a vacationist.
Will you become a dog?
Brave, proud of a medical exam and out of the Catholic Church - it is surprising, the words uttered by Pope Francis to him especially in the series of huge protests against the country in Brazil, that she would be the first Papal visit to the citizens of Brazil who would be considered as a burden to the citizens of Brazil.
In the past week, the Wall of Saint Francis Magbanua will report to the worry of the widespread wage hike for the young workers, "said that it was not mentioned by the Holy Pope (or never mentioned in the market of WSJ, but it seems that the Pope Francis did not directly tell the market in work because it is considered as the strength of the youth.
These past few days, the tone of the public statements of the Holy Pope, which is happening in Brazil, on his first day in Brazil, in his first day in the said country, he said this (in English language, translation of writers).
"You, you, my beloved youth, is the one who carries a special person with people who are looking for their own profit and instead of losing hope, do not lose hope, do not lose hope.
"There is no one who can remain numb about the lack of peace and peace in the world as long as there is no obstacle in peace (peace-building), and there is no need to make peace and happiness, to one community, they are being removed or being an expert in one part of the society."
The US and media coverage of the visitor of Pope Francis in Brazil will push through.
Some might say that the Holy Pope is just suitable for the reality in the country's visit, rebellion, and to his statements, but according to his statement, he / she refused to reach Smokey Mountain, Tondo, or any place of the poor in this country.
And if you are not convinced with the bravery of the current leader of the Catholic Church, it will be noticed that the Congress of the Diocese of Rome said that it was almost two weeks ago in his speech (Rome, that this message was made by Pope Francis to spread this message and embrace the poor.
It is clear that there is a different from the new Saint Pope: Those who are proud of their opinion as the current problems of the society, and of course, the catholic bishops of El Salvador, which is very popular in the entire country, is very popular, which is being implemented by the catholic Church and Carangal, and their supporters inside the church.
But it is much better if there is a bigger problem and is being supported by big businesses and capitalist government) inside the Catholic Church (Germany and Europe on the second Filipino people in the Catholic Church (ISS) until now, the force of reaction and conservativity comes inside the church.
In the midst of this situation of the Catholic Church, many are happy with the statements of the current Pope, to show that he will be involved in the worsening poverty and taking advantage of the country, to show that he will not be ready to hug to the worsening poverty and taking advantage of the country, but he is still not ready to hug the entire poverty and taking advantage of the country.
Whatever it is, we should be part of giving tribute to the statements and actions of Pope Francis that there is a need for the poor and will be the citizens of the world to be the citizens of the world.
An alternative media group has been released from the US as Democrats Noguera, regarding the ring in the Catholic Church, after resigning from the burial of Pope Benedrial.
