In the eyes of a young gay.

By Lanting, Gonzales.
July 14, 2013.

Very noise of the city.
Different horn from the black machine can fly to the wind, which is full of mouth sore and blockage due to the lack of products they are selling, which is full of insults from a jeep which is full of music from foreign people.
Here, Erjas was looking at the surroundings of the city hall of the city, in the middle of the heart of government agencies that pushed their homes from the village.
Erlan was carrying his youngest sibling, who was just being entertained by those who were having fun with those who were taking advantage of the broken lights that was being taken by his younger siblings using his younger sibling using his t-shirt.
Erlan was worried about his whole day in a very popular university, together with his parents and older brother who met their arrival from almost half a day of voting from Catanauan, Quezon.
"
Erjas thought that maybe he would be happy to study in said university, if ever he / she graduated from the said university, he was amazed by what they are talking about to their respective towns.
But only a moment can be heard from this dream, because he will be able to leave for a few years since he was able to leave the reality that he stopped going to school this year because of the fear that he stopped going to school this year because of the chaos that happened in their community, he was fully released and continued walking towards their scheduled marriage.
Erlan was not able to know the names of more than one hundred students who were coordinating with that afternoon, he seemed to have felt a little peace even while the vehicle was rushing to go towards the top of the dark night.
But the illusion of peace in the mind of Erfe was once again in the mind of Erjas, when he saw a security guard standing in front of a closed bank that even if the scene was fast, he can see a mother lying down and holding a gun carrying a gun hanging with his shoulder.
He immediately remembered the morning that she is afraid of.

He / she was wearing.
That Friday, the last day of May.
Last night, the grandmother of the six siblings of someone who is operating a new crispy and banana wake up early and then laid down by the fire from the well-off air, and then he took off the smoke coming from the direction going to his eyes.
In the last few days of vacation, Erjas wanted his sleeping siblings, especially their youngest child, while her mother and grandmother went away from their livelihood before the day became aware.
Erjas heard a step outside their house and then he saw his mother on his way home when he pulled out his feet and sat down on the corner while she was being swept up by his feet while waiting for his feet to get tired of his feet.
Here, Erjas heard a unique beat on her shoulder which seemed to have been heard from her chest that it seemed like he was really wrong about her chest when the strong flick of her chest started to follow and formed a hole in the side of their door made out of the bamboo.
Here, Erjas decided to run out and that was the only thing he thought of doing the light of his sight from the moments of his eyes, which was why he did not know what to do in the middle of the danger that he did in the middle of the danger that they are going to sell.
He ran!
That is when he saw the level of water when he recognized his grandmother lying down and screaming while she was able to see her youngest, and then she saw her mother hugging their youngest, and her siblings who were both lined up at the side of being coercion.
In the noisy pain in painting a black smoke in the morning, Erjas noticed her tears cut off from her cheeks.
And then Erjas realized that he / she was wearing only one slippers.
He / she was wearing.
Very noise in the city, but the noise of the countryside can be stopped.
When he went back to the idea of Erfe of the fresh memories of the existing creatures and chasing the nightmare that she got annoyed, he hugged his younger sibling with a tight then.
And while they joined a jeepney going in front of their temporary home in Manila, Erjas thought that it was cooking banana at that morning, "so I smiled and laughed at the ideas that the banana is like the bitterness that they are cooking in.
His siblings came in a jeep, followed by her mother and grandmother, carrying the luggage they managed to reach their house before they finally evacuated the province.
Erjas surrendered to a asphalt before to the noise of the surroundings of the city, she noticed her outfit she was wearing on the neck by his two-year-old sibling, Erjas saw the newly-year-old sibling, who was waiting for their families.
There are new traces of hope that he will bring to the protests on the streets and complaints of the filipino people who have complete concern for his future as a child who just needs to experience the sweetness of peace from fear and fear.
For those who can be called by everyone, young or old, that a real house who will take care of anyone who is needy will be taken care of.
Because Erjas knows that he knows even his siblings, his family and the whole community in Quezon, that eight members of the military were put to their community in Quezon, that he can't forget and will be defeated by the poor and not to the people.
