
You will make the highest position of China in the West Philippine Sea.

By Soliman, Santos-16, 2014.

Whether the South China Sea or West Philippine Sea) or the West Philippine Sea), the new policy of China will condemned the new policy of China that states the new policy of China that dictates the foreign vehicles that resulted from their authorities before going to the West Philippine Sea.

According to Leon Dulce, the campaign period of the environment of the environment of the environment of the environment of the environment (environment (nature), the new policy of China, the new policy of the Philippines and other parts of the Philippines and other parts of the West Philippine Sea.

"He is not going to strengthen the tension but more are more worried about corruption, and the military forces, like the United States at the ocean of East Asia," said Dulce.

Who suggested the group to all those who are involved in a peaceful relationship with a "penalize, bubiased.

The environment of the region has also emphasized that all the countries involved in the issue will be signed in 1992 the United Nations Convention Center (WBC), one agreement used to take care of the environment, the competing use of the environment, the fair use of the environment.

Included in those who should be dependent on the provision such as having guidance for a smart use and share of course, it is also based on a thorough investigation by the military and to form a representative which is composed of all the countries involved in order to fix it and implement the said agreement.

"The government of this country should be the one to lead in pushing" biased.

For the environment of the Saligang Batas, this is what we desire for the West Philippine Sea to resolve the argument in the West Philippine Sea to avoid moving forward to the military forces of the US, like what President Aquino did in the past.

"The rise of the military forces of the US in Manila is not just the impending danger of our environment, but it is also set aside from the discretion of China, that will also cause the end to the destruction of nature," ending Dulce.
