MMDA chief, resign.

It is floods in Metro Manila, Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA) Chief Francis Tolentino will chose the National basketball Association of NBA) pre-season tournament in the Mall of Asia (GAA) last week.
The happiness in his eyes was clearly seen on television while his favorite NBA team was playing while the rising floodwater was filled with severe traffic!
"It can no longer make the mind of Chairman Francis just when he is a beauty, he really wants to take the role of DILG Secretary Mar Roxas as Mr. market, wow, he climbed the wall and canal in the market which he stole.
This is the last, I don't know if he really is getting sick, his boss in the Department of Discipline Office is ready to build a stable job and it seems that it is hard to rest and will do it to solve it but to solve it but his solution is different.
After all, like what we have written, only communication is needed by the MMDA or resulted to this.
Write to him, he will talk and get along with his agency, the DPWH and the leaders of the local government for putting on a single and big measurement of concrete items from the canal.
He also said that he / she also sees the system to weaken and could not suffer from the motorists just to do it if there is no corruption in the night and in the end, there is no corruption among those who are working and those who are working are just using a coercion.
Most of what is given a contract is to the group of "tanim row, which means that the things they want is a small amount of talking," will be the "will of the arrow, money, which can be considered.
Mike Enriquez used a witness to the DoacB!
Even if there is also a little rain, MMDA traffic enforcer was gone, and there is no rain, that majority of those who are from Tagaytay City, which are all from Tagaytay City which are all from Tagaytay City, who are all from Tagaytay City which are all from Tagaytay City which are both from Tagaytay City, which are both from Tagaytay City, who are all from Tagaytay City which are both from Tagaytay City which are both from Tagaytay City, because the agency is lacking and lack of real interest in work.
Far from the time of Chairman Bayani Fernando Poe because of the negligence and wrong rules and regulations, MMDA Chief Francis resign!
