Insist on the revelation of the mission of Commander of US Air Force in Clarav- PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
February 1, 2013.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) encouraged the Filipino people to insist on the revelation of the mission of the US Air Force who is in the Philippines recently in order to meet the high-mannered family in the defense and security of the government budget.

At Clark Air Mangguray, Pampanga, General Herbert J. Carayle, Commander of the United States Pacific Air Forces, the other day that they had met with Defense Undersecretary Homer Pelagantang, AFP Chief of Staff Lt. Gen. Lamasan, AFP Chief of Staff Lt. Gen. Dionisio Bautista and Commander of PAF.
"The government budget of the US and those who are going to build a hole for the drone that was held at Clark?," said PKP, said that it has long been used to build a facilities in the Philippines so that it would be a long time to build a facilities in the Philippines this early morning, and at the table in the next meeting of SDD.

"The Filipino people are strictly firm against any plan of building additional facilities in the Philippines, they are insisting that the physical appearance and objective of real national freedom and sovereignty," said the KP.

"In the campaign to strengthen the military released on the Asia-Pacific, it is always being used by the government budget for the Philippines as one of the military troops that serves as based on the illegal operation of the military forces to make a garage of the Philippine government to make a garage of the US in the Philippines."

"The plans of the construction of the appointed military to Clark and Subic was the priority of the permanent based on the operation of 700-people Joint Task Force-Philippines (JO-P) of the US Pacific Command which is in Camp Navarro in Zamboanga City," said the KP. "

"The US also wants to use the supply or lower selling of those who have been repaired or more than low-ranking fighter jets in the Philippine Air Force in your efforts to use PAF as household help in the operations of US Air Force in Asia-Pacific," said the KP.
