
Reyes laughed at the Palace; and when they tasted.

It is unlikely for the soup to be returned to the Bureau of Customs and asking as deputy commissioner of Intelligence Group, Pragencio Reyes, just like what his allies are saying that their allies are accustomed to it.
"What will be the right thing to say," it would only happen to the Palace and to the administration of President Benigno Aquino III? Naturally, the Moro "Daang Matuwid" will come out and the implementation of sports.
How can Reyes be able to return to BOC and put it in a good position when PNoy did not feel happy or liked by Reyes to get the President about the whispering and "call a friend."
Reyes's seat was first pushed in BOC when it was known by Malacañang that Reyes has a pending case in the Ombudsman related to 600 million Baguio Water Development Assistance Fund last 2000.
It was proven that he was popular in his position, which is why he was convicted by one-year-old man.

Because of following the rules of Manila Mayor Joseph Ejercito Estrada, the former was recognized by the district director of Manila Police District, Chief Supt. Isagani Genabe Jr.
Estrada has proven his immediate action of Genabe when he implemented the "number" policy "and he himself became a good example because he did not accept the coming or weekly payola.
The mayor said that because of Corona's leadership, the discipline and "old" of Manila's Finest was restored because last year, the policemen are involved in different crimes especially to those who will be caught.
It's only a lot of policemen, especially when they are receiving a check, those who get mad at Isagani Genabe because they are not in favor of these everyday.
There is nothing wrong with the release of district director because the government has not been paid, so that you can serve the citizens.

It has been more than half a month since the members of the MPD-Manila City Hall were arrested by the members of the MPD-Manila City Hall (Special Aspera.
Shouldn't the office of National Capital Region Police Office director Chief Superintendent Marcelo Garbo Junior can't implement the "typhoon" policy "?
Isn't it right that the NCRPO should show that they are giving more the "NAPOLCOM Suzuki Cup which aims to strengthen the fight against jueteng and all kinds of gambling?
What happened is that, in spite of that June 13, 2012 of the Philippine National Police, related to "Strike was the one winner."
Of course, we also ask what happened to the illegal gambling campaign of Mayor Estrada?
