
She does not want to avoid fighting against the demolition and abuse of the Aquino administration!

Editing.
The country.
There was 07, 2012.
It is clear that Benigno Aquino III showed who his real employer has done when his personnel did the bloody demolition of the community in Silverio Matute and other community, which was being driven by Aquino's blood, and let it go to the projects which are lacking in the land, and let it go to the projects which are lacking in human rights and foreign basic commodities.
This May 1, Aquino directly admitted the long time and requested increase in the salary of the workers and Aquino's salary that will not help in the government's salary in spite of the decision of the workers of Hacienda Luisita, not better if the salary of the workers in the Comprehensive Tax Reform Program (WBC) in order to maintain the land in their hands.

The opposite of the harassment and harassment of the filipino masses, grand reception was what Aquino prepared for the leaders of foreign businessmen and capitalists have to attend the meeting of the tourists in Pasay to make them know the poor families who are living under the bridge at the corner of the dirty river.

The actions and steps of the Marcos regime were included in just a few weeks because Aquino did not do anything that is in favor of the interest of those who are oppressed and involved in the interest of those who are oppressed and allies of foreign large corporations and local big corporations and local big creatures.

Under the division of Aquino, the price of oil continues to fall off the price of food, medicine, water, electricity and stones of goods and fare of the train, he also plans to collect tax on cigarettes and alcohol, even the ban on the price of oil and alcohol, even in texting, even in texting, will be sentenced to additional taxes.

It is a very big crime of Aquino on the imposition of citizens of a burden while they are almost done in poverty and poverty that they are eating, poor, and they are being abused by the public service, they are being abused and fighting in places where they are suffering and fighting the rules which cause more poverty and hunger.

They have launched their struggle in factories, poor workers, schools and offices of the filipino masses, they are still determined to raise their interest in the factories, human rights, which can be implemented by the filipino masses, and increase of millions of weapons, which can be implemented by the filipino masses, and increase of millions of weapons and destruction by the filipino masses, and construction of millions of weapons and destruction by the filipino masses.

Yanglement, the owners of Aquino won't slip away, hold-up and armed forces, not only by Aquino but to the lower part of the US in the Philippines.
