Meralco raised the product of the coldness of the companies and agencies in the power.

It was too late in their statement to the public: The Manila Electric Company (Meralco) and the agencies and corporation of the government have something to do with the services of the government to pass P4.15 which is the highest number of electricity supply in history.
This was said by Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares, after the hearing in the legislative chamber and Senate regarding the declaration of the electricity supply of Meralco.
"It appears now that the DOE (Department of energy), read Psalm High School which is allocated for the highest P4.15 height of electricity that will be passed by the institutions and institutions that will pass by the institutions and institutions in order to profit from the industry of electricity."
They gave a text message to him.
Colmenares said that the argument of Emmanuel Ledesma, Jr., president of Poverty am, and Rey Espinosa, General counsel of Meralco, in the Senate recently, is a proof of the colleges.
In the said hearing in the Senate, Pontillas will ask Espinosa on why Meralco told the power producers and Taung Masang Pilipino at the very high amount of P62 / V) in the very high amount of P62 / V) in the very high amount of P62 / V) in the very high amount of P62 / ao.
Espinosa said that they asked the Tanim-Tropas that there will be no one to buy the SM SM so that there will be no one to buy the said supply of electricity, but it is only the increase of the said supply of electricity that led to the price of Meralco bought the electricity.
Espinosa was also blamed to read Psalm X-bust operation under its P45 / k k "that's why it's not you who has an x-ch," Espinosa said that it is not the ability to supply the electricity that is why there is no ability to supply the electricity.

Ledesma admitted that it has been two years for two years when they were allegedly ordered by the Department of Finance to fix the said plant in order to sell the said plant in order to sell it to a private sector, and it will have difficulty in order to sell it to the private sector.
Meralco also said, "they were just made a mistake in pushing the Taung Pilipinas when they had a high fever.
Colmenares explained, that the statement of the officials of the said private and public companies that they have to be exported in order to prevent the price of electricity in those times they want.
Senior citizen, a burden to each person.
The Emergency Shelter Assistance can handle the Republic Act Number 36 or Electric Power Plant (SWS) of 2001) to ensure the most low price of electricity but the opposite is what is happening now.
In Epperson, in times that there is a lack of electricity supply which is needed by the owners of Malhh last November and December 2013), there is a need to step down and sell all the power Productions like Meralco.
The Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (PEMC) is referring to the most low price hike which is the highest position for the highest down supply which has been set by the price in order to pay the price hike like Meralco.
According to Colmenares, the normal price of the WEF) is normal for almost 10 times a high level of electricity supply was higher, which became a high supply of electricity that was caused by Meralco by a high supply of electricity through P4.15 / k.
"All of them (companies and agencies of the electricity), there is a role in the set up of the market, which resulted to the highest number of electricity that resulted in the Senate the strongest evidence, especially the exchange of electricity and pointing of electricity," Colmenares explained.
.
Continuing to protest.
Different militant groups protested against the leadership of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) in front of the Supreme Court last January 21, along with the hearing of the court on the legal case of P4.15 to increase in electricity.
The Court asked the Supreme Court to final the final decision not to be passed on to choose the said price hike.
"Up to now, there will be no ctioned due to the increasing number of 0 pesos per hour, we arrived at the point that the price increase in the price of electricity will be implemented," Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of the Bayan.
Reyes also said that it was more or less than 70 percent of the 3.4 per cent) that was due to the action of a few people who were able to pay electricity in the spot market which consists of 11.5 percent of the electricity that Meralco needs.
"He should just dismiss the taking advantage of the passing of charge (NT er) which should not be allowed to stop the abuse in the market, and the Model Shop should not allow the abuse in the market and to build a huge income.
