
Live in media coverage and smell like the FOI.

Two big rocks were sustained by the people from the authorities this past few days.
In the Supreme Court, live despite the prosecution or trial in the Ampatuan massacre where the 33 journalists died and 25 others are prohibited.
In the legislative chamber, the proposed Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters did not stop.
They looked like Pacquiao.
In the live despite of Bro, Bro, the hearing in the case will just be monitored to the barangay hall.
This is inside the television, radio and other people from the media who had a separate news about the incident inside the court.
Because of the television, Teleradio and the internet of the newspapers and radio, all watching and heard what the judge did was saying, the lawyers and witnesses have been saying and many others.
Tomorrow is open to the eyes and ears of the people, and the whole world is the hearing.
Truth and lies.
Through a live despite of live, it will be hard to keep your decisions quickly and make a lie.
All sorts of things will be known and nothing can be hidden, no secret that will not be revealed in a live despite.
And this is favorable to all sides that will surely come out in the decision of a judge.
Did you hide something?
What will happen to the closed eyes and ears of the public hearing?
It will create this, Bro, doubt that if the true truth will come out, and in the last days.
Even if you do not have a bad judge or whoever has interest on the case, you will surely be suspicious.
And if there is doubt, as time goes by, it will also be the feelings of justice.
And if there is justice, do you know that the whole government is going crazy over the people?
So, let us ask the Supreme Court to restore the live-in media coverage of the hearing on the case.
FOI is assurance.
The congressmen said at first that they will be washed thoroughly by the Bangsamoro Basic Law.
That's why the proposal to give rights to the people is to give and look at all the record of the government and the transactions of the government and officials.
Because with the number of corrupt officials in the government and with the volume of mistakes in the government on laws and policies, it is the right of the people to meddle.
Buom is full, Bro, the rights of the people because the tax that is being used by the government is from them and the corrupt and corrupt criminals are elusive.
They say, if there is no tax of most people, the government will fall down.
This is why this is where the people's rights are starting to meddle.
Blocked by it.
It is the child of tofu, can we expect that the proposal to investigate the FOI is ongoing.
It is said that these two proposals are almost related to bring them along.
The FOI is being investigated by the FOI.
That is where the congressmen were consumed in the discussion and the number of those who were prohibited from the time was prohibited.
The discussion on the FOI is deliberately being monitored by those who do not want to remove the rottenness of the government.
Because, one of the target of the congressmen in their pork barrel is one of the targets of the congressmen.
Hehehe!
Palace "Doren.
The silence of Malacanang is intrigued on this issue.
Their reason is that they will not allow to meddle with what the lawmakers are doing.
But if they are on top of the law, like the law that is being done for the Sin Tax Reform bill from the RH bill, there and they are continuously pushing.
What is the interest of those from the Palace in Sin Tax Bil and the RH bill that they need to pass on to pass the streets?
Why are these to avoid the FOI, hehehe!
There is RA 9208 or RH Law.
Who will take the money from the tax on cigarettes and alcohol?
Who will also get the money from the billion pesos worth of deacademics because the government will take advantage of them?
There in the tax on alcohol and cigarettes, the well of money which will be the source of the lawmakers in the Legislative Chamber and Senate and from the Palace for their pork barrel.
There on the RH Law, billions of pesos will be spent by the government for condom, pills, consultation to doctors and other parts of the agreement.
Who will have the commission on transactions and Ghost project here?
It is the money, Bato PA) in the FOI.
Then in the FOI?
Because the people can guard the funds of the country and projects and transactions under the FOI, the corrupt and corrupt politicians are thinking that all their source of income will be felt.
In other words, they can say that it's money already, and even a stone. "
That is why it is not the FOI, it is up to ten o'clock in the Sin Tax Reform bill from the RH bill.
Child of tofu!
