There is a different housing project that is being prepared for by the soldiers, what is being used for by the soldiers, what is used here is the materials that will be used here just like a little bit in the Philippines there is a bit of time in the province.
We are here inside the treacherous ways to call and big motorcycles here to our soldiers who have this kind of house which is beautiful so it's all strong again.
This is okay, but you are no longer in a pitcher of the house for me.
In this time, it is easy to make it easily.
Like it.
Yes, but you will help.
Covetous, fur.
Covetous, fur.
They even said.
This is a strong guidance.
If it comes?
What happened to his five-five-five or story?
Two thousand, especially the strong typhoon in Manila have been a strong typhoon in Manila two years.
Yes, upon arriving at this point, they won't be moved by the house of Sevidal do, in Australia, my wife, whose name has been cut off, which is why there was a fire that happened at the house of my husband, which is why he / she will be able to pull the system of the house that is why you're still interested in the house that you can eat.
You believe that you can learn so that the soldiers are going to learn that it is the duty of his family, the family of his family, who usually left while Ate Jera, is the problem of a hat on Ate Vi's life.
They are already tired open and open the worst.
The family is.
Who are at work.
There is no problem with no problem.
That is a big help.
In that.
That is it.
In the house and in front of this, you have seen that in the two rooms, you have seen that, at the same room, that is why it's okay, that the soldiers are here in the room that is why we, the soldiers are here inside the room where it comes to you.
For February two, it is only five o'clock in the ground that he still has an ally, we are still complete, we say that we can say it to Adeleza, it seems like we have a good thing that there might be more than those who are in the Yolanda.
I am also the ones who look at each other; as long as they are with the soldiers who are from the former Agency because in the company, that might be a reason for us to go to a successful project that might be used to us, it is okay to wait for those who are in fact that it might just wait for us.
Yes, that's why it's important that he is strong that's why he's really strong; he / she is very strong.
The strong earthquake has a strong winds even if there is a mixture of halo-halo because many thank you.
