Release of Order: Traffic and emergency powers.
By Fortun, June 24, 2016 - former President and now Pampanga Representative Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo was the first to file the proposed law in Congress which aims to give emergency powers to Vice President Rodrigo Duterte to resolve the traffic problem in Metro Manila.
Mrs. Arroyo has a lot of proposals in his "Metro Manila Traffic crisis which is focused on the construction of new roads under the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) and the organization of Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA).
But GMA have forgotten about his proposed law how to clean the roads in Metro Manila, which if you think about it is illegal parking, especially in the major roads of public vehicles, especially those who are in a parking area of the motorists, especially those who have no discipline, especially those who are parked vehicles.
If examined by the traffic problem in Metro Manila, it is a big cause of the lack of discipline to the motorists especially the drivers of jeepney, taxi, tricycle and bus that don't know how to take place in order to take care of passengers.
And because there are no garage, jeepney and tricycle are there in the side of the road, they join and usually do a garage, even if the streets are in the streets where they are barbells.
The MMDA has the power to repair the main roads in Metro Manila and this is what they are doing during Christmas season through Mabuhay Lanes or Christmas Lanes.
MMDA is effective in spite of the illegal gambling dens like basketball player, carelia, the general of their pet animals but every Christmas season will be implemented by MMDA.
Not free from the MMDA because they are supported by DPWH, Philippine National Police-Highway Patrol Group (PNP-HPG), Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG), Land Transportation Office (LTO) and local government units (LGUs).
Former congressman and now Senator-elect Sherwin Gatchalian for the first proposal of the MMDA to make the Mabuhay Lanes, so that this can help ease the flow of traffic in Metro Manila.

The questionable legality of the Gatchalian family is right because the narrow public utility vehicles are right because of the narrow-prone vehicles and other parts, they know that the traffic is very tight because of the parked vehicles in both sides of the road.
That's why there is also a proposed law for Gatchalian that aims to make the vehicle donation for the public to show evidence that they are a pig that parked their new vehicle.
The PNP-HPG is supporting the "ProAssociation of Parking Bureau of Gatchalian because if it will be implemented, this is a big help to solve the problem of traffic in Metro Manila and nearby provinces.
If the "ProAssociation of Transportation Office" Gatchalian said that the flow of traffic in Metro Manila will surely improve, it will surely need the emergency powers by President Rody Duterte to start the discipline on the ranks of motorists especially the jeepney and taxi drivers.
