
Prepare the offensive of the AFP, the call of the PKP in Bastes.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
January 15, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (CPP-NPA to gear surrendered to AFP troops.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (BHB) is calling on the Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB) to build the initiative of the military offensive to be launched by the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) against the end of the temporarily ceasefire this day.

However, the PKP stated that in the past 27 days, the Bagong Hughes was forced to comply on the declaration of the incessant rain brought out by the Bangko Sentral ng PKP, which came from December 20 to January 15.

The PKP has also criticized the Aquino administration and the Armed Forces of the Philippines and the Philippine National Police (PNP) in the continued strengthening of the anomalous operation during the time of the ceasefire, and for the sake of the human rights.

"In the past 27 days, the AFP from Luzon will conduct a widespread implementation of the forces of the combined forces of the Armed Forces of the AFP who are taking advantage of the sake of the local government officials of the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office of the Bugnay, Barangay Kiangan, Aroroy, North Cotabato.

According to NDF-Southern Mindanao, the unit of BHB) is preparing for a meeting with the local Filipino masses to discuss the problem in the land in the area, to discuss the problem on the ceasefire of the PKP, it is already defended by the AFP and safe from the offensive of the AFP and safe from it.

"On the declaration of the ceasefire from December 20 to January 15, along with the said declaration of the ceasefire of Golovkin, the PKP has given a good condition to push the peace talks," said the KP.

Meanwhile, unfortunately, GEGARAOCITY, the Philippine Army attempted to reveal the statement of December 18, which is proven by the ambassador of the Royalty Lund h in the next day of January 2, fifteen days after the agreement that pushed the legislative chamber, after it was formally proposed by the Aquino ordered by Aquino to the AFP.

"In spite of the disrespect of the Aquino administration in the agreement of December 18, they have already released a serious declaration of ceasefire, and continued the continuous force of the military and continue the hard work to face the peace talks in the government budget of the Philippines."

"They are waiting for the anticipated force of the next formal agreement between Duterte and the United Nations and they are hoping that this will result to an assurance and more concrete agreement to solve the floating issues of the ongoing agreement with the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights).

"As well as well, the crooked forces are hoping that the peace talks by the NDFP-Gabinite is going to go forward to the consecutive cases of goods, hunger, poverty and heavy price of commodities in the country, which is the root of the contents of the country," said the KP.
