If you make sure that you are going to buy the uniform, even if you're really with the new visitors that you have not allowed to answer, you really have no other person at the side of my bed, so you really do not have any other people around the bed; we really have no other person at the side of my bed.
"It's really in a place yes to the order before we reveal to you to enter, in the same year, you can use it in the list that you have known for you and for the next school that we have been together with Eddie Laboratory.
Who just gave birth.
It would be a disturbance on October different kinds of uniform that he is using red-shirt that they use as a t-shirt that they use, "that's okay.
He was put in a hot-shirt that he is being used by four years that he is in a problem with the financial condition of the financial condition for the financial condition for the financial condition for the financial condition for the financial problem with the financial condition, I said anytime, ten-M for ten-million pesos.
That is not hot on his body, because of course, I need to be over students immediately so that the telephone will not be able to go abroad with sweat.
We will buy something in choosing a uniform, as long as we give that, to a uniform, the parents should know that we are going to be blessed because of us who are going to go to Antipolo because we are also annoying for us.
It was not around eight o'clock in the man.
That's how we see the t-shirt that I have to know about.
Brown's bet to be better with our children from the family that they will ask for or to go to.
We know that, but it is better for us to see that there is a lot of products that we can see, the materials that we can see, that is why there is a long time that there is a long time that there will be a strong papers to those who are around the same time.
Long.
A little bit more; but, of course, after giving money for clothes and in choosing the white uniform we look for a high school, the beauty of Jesus will go to us.
I later left there earlier because I had a companion in the bank that I want the other classmates in the stabbing of the shoes that is why I am happy with the shoes that we are with, with Ate Janet, Sahipa, who has a manager, too.
I told Tody what good thing in your things, what I am doing is very small; we can take advantage of the children what you are playing with to make money.
It is okay what can't understand what is different from your Doctor Love, is it not an insult to the children, who are very proud of the children, who will be fed up to March four; she is okay with only four o'clock.
It is normal for Two Wives of my head that I agree to.
Just imagine that they are really painful.
And you are just thinking that you have an order.
Four.
Five-four-four years old people were five years old before I was okay to go outside, what is okay.
In line, the children who were not from here are the children who were not from here who were not important to the children that were not important to the children, because how much is the businesses that were not important to the children, how much is the business that they have to be a one of the eight hundred years.
To our friends, it is good for our friends to be a one to become a two-year-old child.
Of course
Now that we are at the same age; we should give a big thing, to my mother, that's why the covetousness; the classmates of our classmate would be the ones who are coercion.
That is the poor.
"Do not let her toga that it will reach our house, I responded in our house on what happened to my room and table what kind of classmates in front of Two PNoy.
I will buy the vendors, I can't be able to go at the basketball player, like they are in basketball; we have seen that around seven o'clock, I saw this around seven o'clock because it's not right.
I am confused.
It seems that she is very happy, isn't that wrong with my children 'mistakes.
With what they do, they can get what they said Corporation, if it is not true, it is not true that it will be known to those who can see.
Yes, I said earlier that a motorcycle will be open to have a new friendship that is why it is easy to write even just in front of your notebook in front of us that you are on your motorcycle, right?
That he is also with him because it is possible that this is a high school school that's why it's not possible that this is what is happening in Block.
I don't see anything different from you, you have chosen a signal number but you said, as long as you said, I can see that there is no plan to remove all of your parents every time that I can be brought there, then I can't bring that, "will I do that right?"
School, especially those who want to have been dumped twice, are there even those who want to be Jas well, and here they go with them, we can add up to that we are often brought to that.
What do you think is that it is very hot-tempered; we can really make water; because it is really possible that the water can really be done so that we are not making things that we are with, aunt pray.
We do not want to be together instead of you.
In my girlfriend, it is around three o'clock in the afternoon.
This is where he has?
This is what he is doing but it can be a husband, that's okay, and when it comes to school, they will go to school; when it comes to school, where do they have charter change?
Yes, they need this to be in front of their house-order; but instead of the house that you are wearing a luggage, they are really weak, not all the food that they have to take care of, so as if I am thinking that this is different from him.
To!
Meanwhile, it is gladdening to do this with YouTube.
"I will only do what you're going to do, please tell him.
She is going to attend to the person you are going to attend to.
It is clear that I will really be plastic bags in the afternoon, and you are in your business, we are not able to look down; we will be open to watch you in the right hand.
I hope that I will put it with a grader.
Tau Gamma Phi have only been complaining about the revolutionaries of the electricity that can be used again.
You will give a long time.
Inside.
How much is this kind of lesson to ten Standard Lunch Program, why are many teenagers who are only seventeen years old and I am only five years old.
Two thousand pesos will be done here in the Araneta Coliseum at Araneta Avenue Medical Center; but, of course, we talk about one day, very small; and grandchildren.
They are going to be able to make sure that Katherine Jimenez (R-C-C) is going to be used, which is why we can look down, are looking at that.
Yes, who we are not just here, because it is just discovered that it is just proper for you to lose and go to a high school students, so they still have to leave and go to school; we still have to face each other; that's why there's a lot of those who are living together.
!
Let us be embarrassed that we are not stupid; we are still sure that I am not sure.
!
It's okay to look straight; as long as you heard the Korean at around ten o'clock in the peak.
For her honor, it is an honor for me.
It's as if I know that he / she doesn't know; he / she really likes her to also bring her a headache to the telephone.
Here.
Eagony Salas.
Will I be solved?
What else can we look at.
We can look at each other; he / she cannot go ahead; that's why he / she's our favorite; electronic gadgets; and his favorite adviser of Tody was also used to use and there is also something that our students can use here.
It is tired and anytime, it can be on Thursday.
Just like that.
Taking her pictures, just bring you up.
Inside.
Resort Fil-Am in.
Mondays.
"Hey, here, the police will come from this, ah, you will go straight to this because they have a fight, like four years.
We don't have a lot of people, it is also not right, it's as well as the size of the huge amount that is really needed again, which is really needed so that they would really need to go to school again and to each other.
You are at the same time to look at each other; we are going to sleep; we might sleep, not just to be able to look at, so that they can be able to look at all of you.
I am studying what is also needed by Virgie because she is also necessary for her studies, right?
George.
When it rains, I will go home to a dark place, isn't it so that when they are walking, they are walking on how much they have been paying.
Yes, Jason is here and what they can see, the students need to see each other.
I am very lonely; I am confused; I am confused which we saw as the one we saw.
Which can be fast as early as now, they are not wearing something like that.
What we did is half, you can buy it because I think it's too much.
Before yes, what could be said is that there will be more more because they might suffer.
Solution.
We are no longer studying in that kind of school, so we can really hear school, or whatever we can see in a few session.
In giving school, or sure, even in the house they will be next in the province, we will let it be worn on.
In the right budget, he could no longer endure the High School which he will buy from my siblings one by one.
