Pwe!

"Elorde to WHO) to be a less-mannered family."
Those who are weak in life because of poverty or disability should be more benefits under the law and justice.
Not "Special Action Force, if not understanding and concern for the spite of disability and poverty, the law's perspective is still straight and the knob of the budget of justice for them.
The National Council (Disability Affairs (PDA) launched the three "tanim-governmental organization (SC) who will offer Persist back in the field of justice.
This is an initiative of the DA Sub-Committee on Higher Education and anti-discrimination to help those with disabilities when it comes to the court case.
The three good lawyer who were ordered by its own work were Atty. Florcondolences de Belen of the DOJ Action Center in Padre Faura, Manila; Atty. Maria Agathy Miangas, of Public Attorney's Office (PAO) headquarters in Quezon City.
The DA acting executive director Carmen said that they are going to be the first lawyers who prepared for the cases of those with disabilities and how to coordinate with them.
Why is this important goal?
There are those who were reported victims of violence who have disabilities, but their cases have not yet been neglected, because of the lack of suggestions or things for them to understand more.
Others have a hard time to go with those who will suffer because aside from disability, they are also poor.
Wheelchair for their movement is nothing.
It is still fare!
There are cases that the accused have disabilities.
And others are imprisoned and will be used to those who are going to be used to the "interruptible load elements" because there is no sufficient time for the jail for those with disabilities.
In the trial, I had a experience that the witness is silent and deaf.
He has a hard time to offer and listen to his testimony because of the loss of the Lumad in doing anything.
Sometimes, I need to destroy an old boy to file charges for filing charges because the building in a relationship can be found in an elevator and the stairs.
The Supreme Court also advised, to connect with local government and Court's rules, to widen the help of those with disabilities in relation with the sentiments of those with disabilities so that the people with disabilities are asking for justice.
Once, in a news that was seen on TV, a blind eye is being spent on martial law.
He is an inspiration because even though he has a relationship with him, he did not become an obstacle to his dream of becoming a lawyer.
Because of this, hopefully the martial law and the Supreme Court should prepare for the needs of KD law who should be taking advantage of the pork barrel scam.
According to Attaché. Florcondolences de Belen, Dementanglement and Maria Agathy Miangas, you are great and may your ranks increase in number.
God bless.
