
Pork barrel scam, a scholar and sickness.

Many lawmakers who are members of the legislative chamber are able to ask the release of the Priority Development Assistance Fund or pork barrel for the sake of their respective provinces.
According to the congressmen, since the direct placing of their hands by the pork barrel, it is only right that the PDAF only needs will stop this year and it will be washed away by the Aquino administration.
It can be recalled that PNoy was suspended in expressing the pork barrel of the congressmen and senators and almost along with this was the petition to the Supreme Court by some groups for the dissolution.
All of this happened after a severe abuse or widespread stealing of lawmakers on PDAF, and the report of the Commission on Audit and the revelation of the lower fight against Janet Lim-Napoles to explode in the public the pork barrel scam.
Customers!
According to the congressmen, their program is derailed for youth and in danger of their studies this year and in the next time because of the rise of support to them.
There is no cause of damages but the future of the youth and the country if they lose a chance to study their own scholar.
Thousands of youth scholar of the whole country are in danger to stop their studies in the acting of PNoy in the pork barrel.
Those who are sick.
In public hospitals, it is true that there are funds given by the senators and congressmen for those who are sick.
If we want the lawmakers to help us in our expenses at the hospital, let us just ask if I have a fund or senator in the hospital and it is easy to get the help if we have a recommendation from our congressman or senator.
But there are also hospitals that use pork barrel even if there is no recommendation of the congressman or senator because he just leave these using any sickness.
There are more than those who have sick children who need help.
Due to the intense hunger and poverty which caused more than half of 100 million population in my beloved Philippines.
Stop.
For the congressmen, the handling of the position or not lost in the election, they continue to be a scholar and treatment of those who are sick, and there are people who are not able to finish college and have ill feelings.
In the rise of pork barrel, all of these will stop.
Almost all lawmakers do not come from their own pocket and treatment but to the tax of the people.
That is why, in the rise of funds here, the programs in favor of the citizens stop.
Personal service.
If the pork barrel is thoroughly studied in education and health, their own interest is on its back.
The lawmakers have no scholar of their own enemies that they do not help those who are sick of their opponents.
Here is the rottenness of a scholarship and treatment of those not their ally, they just want the promise or if there is a help for them, it is even worse than the consolation for them.
The pork barrel that came from everyone was the only use of the voters of the lawmakers.
Scholarship.
For a scholarship, if the congressman is new, all scholarship is suddenly stopped by his opponent.
The congressman is looking for their own scholar.
That's why the education of the youth slightly weakened.
What if the scholar of the losing candidates are good or intelligent?
Child of seven canned goods, the education of the youth, and for education, the economy of politics and the government is being planted.
It is not surprising for the young age, the youth learned from corruption in the pork barrel and the government.
This was the last request of RA 9208.
No one is sure of all the pork barrel that the congressmen want to get to take a scholar, sick, and other needy.
But because the restriction on pork barrel will only be seen in the budget of 2014, there is a big possibility that the lawmakers want to pockets.
Do you think, Bro, the arrogance of some from Malacañang that up to 10 percent only and not about 20 percent are the removal of the congressmen for now?
We believe that because of the words of the people from Malacanang, the congressmen will still have been removed after the remaining half of 2012.
Free for free.
Do you know, Bro, that almost all the petition to the Supreme Court for the return of pork barrel are the yellow and hoping that the investigators of the COA and NBI have not done anything anymore?
Because of this, the judges should be careful in making decisions if they will allow or not the release of pork barrel.
