They were running out of Bala.

By Campos.
July 25, 2013.

Like many activists and Filipinos who are tired of flattery, I did not listen to the fourth State of the Nation Address of Pres. Noynoy Aquino last July 22, because according to the news, it's not appropriate to the report that Aquino will say, because according to the report, it is not easy to explain to what Aquino will say, because it is old and old.
But I also read the SONA, because it is better to understand and be better to understand and be able to understand his voice while reading the deceit of the Aquino government, he is determined to deceive me, but it is obvious that he is already having a hard time to cheat, but it is obvious that he is already having a hard time.
Here is all the scratches in the previous SONA's speech and speech of Aquino that the statement of Ninoy and Cory.
There are many stories about those who are trying to be the basis of the boastful, "but from 1.1 percent in the first room of 2013 going to 3.3 percent in the first room of 2013, that is why the government cannot evacuate Filipinos who are stranded in Saudi Arabia, and many others.
When it comes to the plan, it is not too late but there are many concrete contribution in the MRT and LRT, increase of contribution to the Social Security System, and others, as well as the twin programs of the Social Security System, and others, as well as the twin programs, UPP and CCT, who are supposed to be released by criticisms since the first announcement.
Because there is a doubt that they can convince the alleged good news and words, Aquino already released the past, as a proof of desperation, right now, what is the time of darkness right now, right since then, it is enough for those in power to be replaced? "
Aquino's speech this year has been long, according to the news, it can be seen that it is not being proud and he will be proud of it because there is a lot of arrogance from the content, it took it back to the form of the length of the length of length and it has been taken back.
"You can be fooled by some people in a few days, but you cannot blame all the people in all times," a reminder from the President's speech in the speech of the President, the implementation of the system in the expected midst of the scope of the world.
