The workers of the Pentagon.

Rondy's.

July 13, 2013, around 1: 00 in the afternoon, it seems that there was a strong rain brought about the afternoon, but the threat of shouting was not from the clouds, but in a factory in Brgy. Apolonio, Quezon City.
The workers of the Pentagon (Pentagon (Pentagon) are taking sides, they are waiting for the two trucks on board the products of the company at the box of remove, screws, wires and other products made in the acero.
They immediately tried to end off the guards of the Pentagon.
While the trucks are escaping from the scene, the workers attacked with rocks as if no one was hit, trace of the road the violence happened.
This is how the tension between the Pentagon, a slipper factory, and of 134 Filipino illegals who were removed from work for three months, and they will also just send Amas, 47.
Factory in danger.
In 1992, it was in 1992 when Aentagon was first to work at the Pentagon (Pentagon.
Because the salary is not regular, the money for his family is not enough, and its food is worse in debt, vegetables and dried up their food everyday to save.
Eight hours, six days in a week, Auntie will face a mother who will roll up the news that will roll up the new mold of the factory where he can take care of each other with his fingers.
Unfortunately, he has been deceived by the machine, Amay have been cut off by the thumb, even if they were able to go to separate accidents, and he needed to go back to the nearest hospital, and needed to go back to the Pentagon because the amount given for medicine is not enough.
"What is always with us: Look for a bigger hospital, of course, the first thing in your mind is to treat you immediately," said Amas.
There is no longer new in the Pentagon.
However, Akamai says all these are for his monthly salary of P10.76, but according to the studies of the National Wage, according to the studies of the National Wage, instead of going to be extra time and more than, to live properly with his family who has five members.
"What's happening to us is so much justice, that even if you have been working for 20 years already, your situation is still like that," said Amas.
Arguments in the factory.
The workers hope that the system of the Pentagon is going to change in fact, they tried to build a vacation in order to reach their complaints to the administration of the factory and their own armor while the agreement between the workers and the administration.
"ABS-CBN is the soul of the union for that we cannot oblige the capitalists have to give appropriate benefits and make sure the welfare of all," said Dulcero Gervacio, the national chairman of the Social Weather Stations.
Through ABS-CBN, it is possible that they will be able to fix the connection of the factory, it may be given a corresponding payment for the accidentally workers, and ask the general standards of safety.
That's why they are greatly shocked when they have been in a relationship in 1979, but it is not pushed by the implementation of the workers, increase in salary, and no matter who will be replaced by the government's leadership in order to make sure that the leaders of the union needs to be replaced.
Last 2010, Asukal will conduct the election for the union for the very first election since the Pentagon (PTWe) was established under the Philippine Trade General Workers (PTWe), and the PTawagon, and PTGROs) and the PTWe).
Rudy Pascol, executive board member of PTGWu, has already been appointed officials and the ABS-CBN may be replaced and will file a certificate for elections in the right year, "he said.
Despite the legality of the union, it will only get the support of the workers if he will be able to use the support of the workers if it is not allowed to use their interest in their fight, which is needed to fight for other ways, he added.
Every Holy Week, in 2012, the workers and wearing a black Suzuki Cup did not like the Pentagon. "We were surprised when we were not allowed to go to the gate and said we were not allowed to go to the gate and said that we were not allowed to go to the gate.
It is snubbed by a plumber.
After jumping from work, Alum and 134 years old, they immediately built a single piece of plywood and tarpaulins last April 13 in front of the factory.
In the past few days, they launched the programs to express their complaints to the company, they are also giving importance to their complaints from the company, causing it to be given attention by the rushing organizations from different sectors, which is why the Pet line will remain as strong.
"We are pushing the fight, to change Mariano Chan (the owner of the Pentagon) and" the next workers, good and decent lives, "said Amas.
Because of the noise felt by what they just gave to it, it is not surprising that it is not surprising that it is going to lower the Pentagon and its state in fact, the National Historical Commission on Human Rights is declared by the National Disaster Risk Committee which is an illegal Strike.
They are regular students and threatened the police and attempt to just let it pass through the law that they are prohibited to come closer to 50 meters here, however, on the 25th of July, they destroyed a few parts of just trying to bring peace to the workers.
However, the workers have a strong feeling, according to Auto, "we are not afraid, what we are doing is right because we have the right to protest."
Even if the continuous violence of the Pentagon is set, Alum and his companions are ready like what they are making, strong, and firm in their ranks.
