
It is the duties in facing the upcoming election case.

Editorial Department.
The country.
February 21, 2013.

It is the responsibility of the Liberal and the revolutionary movement to expose the division of the upcoming election as a score of democratic system which is part of the status of opportunists and understanding system.

The division of the election in the Philippines can count politicians who are pretending to take advantage of the interest of the people who are trying to support the interest of the citizens from the most serious problems which are being taken out by the citizens from the worst problems under the country.

We should be disappointed with the Marcos regime in its goal to use the country's goal in front of the quick support of the people, to make it look that Aquino will use the election as platforms so that it can be noticed that Aquino will use the election as platforms so that he would be able to use the illusion that Aquino will use, "straight path," and good governance. "

The Filipino people should show that there is no difference with the Marcos dictatorship from the previous regime, corruption of his relatives and friends cannot stop the corruption of his relatives and friends.

They should protest about the ongoing price increase in oil and water level of electricity and water that they should push for their usual reforms to fight, fight the demolition and implementation of health services and other public service.

They should be charged by the Aquino administration for being subservient to the orders of the IF-WB and fulfilling the rules of the agriculture, privatization of the bank and the banks who are giving up to the Pambansang Kamao and those who are giving up to the Pambansang Kamao.

Take advantage of the weather condition of the current election to widen the communication between the Aquino administration and the United Nationalist Alliance (Lakas ng Masang Pilipino) and the United Nationalist Alliance (Lakas ng Masang Pilipino) and the United Nationalist Alliance (Lakas ng Masang Pilipino) and the United Nationalist Alliance (Lakas ng Masang Pilipino) and the United Nationalist Alliance (Lakas ng Masang Pilipino).

However, under this point, there is a deep hole in the proper decision of the government budget for this coming election in the upcoming election in May, there is also a trend in preparation for the main rules in the elections in May that will be held in preparation for the primary services of the president of the government budget for the country.

While the election in May is approaching, it is not only in the national level, but especially in the local level of Ib, especially in the local level of IOS and strengthen the revolutionary movement and strengthen the programs of the Saligang Batas and push the programs of the revolutionary movement.

The participation of the progressive and local forces in the coming elections this past more than a decades, they have been used by the anti-governmental organization and anti-NPA members, which is favorable to the citizens that they have a representative in the Congress which is connected to the government of the Congress and will anchor in their posts.

Liberal Party encourages the progressive and proud of the forces to join the election in the election even if it is certain that the members of the US and his staff in the military will surely fight the threats, violence and fraud.

The construction of the progressive and creative force in the coming election has a particular meaning in front of the 1987 constitution to change the Pambansang Kamao in the 1987 Constitution so that the Pambansang Kamao will be set aside and give way to the agricultural sector in the trade.

The position of the negligent force inside the country's budget is also being used in full fight for the continuous fight of American soldiers in the Philippines and the meddling of the law in the Congress to push through the suspension of the laws in the Congress in order to push the suspension of the laws of oil and other policies of the people.

They should also take advantage of the time of the election to give importance to their ranks and launching a educated masses to expose the rotten system.

Because of this, Liberal Party supports the progressive and proud of the force of full force to expose the upcoming election and its lack of real democracy.

In the Philippines, the true democracy is only received by the Filipino people inside the territory of the country's territory which is built on the power of politics in the basis of their under democratic organization.

In places under a democratic country, the new system of politics is under the jurisdiction of the old system of this kind of old system that we have heard about this kind of rotten system which can be allowed by the nearest force to conduct the upcoming election and for the candidates to vote.

The government funds should be used by armed forces and politicians to achieve those who will participate in the upcoming election to follow the policies of the people and to make sure that the rights of the citizens will be given permission to strengthen the present rules and programs of the government fund.

While we are facing the upcoming election, the Liberal, should continue to hold on their duties in pushing a Filipino country to widen and strengthen the Liberal, the Bagong HRO that should continue to take the initiative to raise the armed fight.
