Hang on!
March 26, 2016.
Now that the campaign period is coming in the local position, it is expected that there will be a widespread war or change in the force and policies of the candidates who will vote for the stronger fight of the candidates.
The political experts believe that the fight between the Vice Presidential elections between Senator Alan Chiz Escudero, Bongbong Marcos, Alan Peter Cayetano and Representative Leni Robredo, will fight.
According to De La Salle University of the Liberal Arts Dean and Julio Tetuan, this is because the action of President Noynoy Aquino is limited at the campaign period, which is why some of the candidates have failed in the campaign period, which is why some of the candidates have started with the number of presidential candidates, as well as the chase with the number of the presidential candidates.
In the said TNiles, Vice Presidential Senator Alan Peter Cayetano has increased 4 percent from the former 12 percent, meanwhile, Senator Chiz Escudero, with 29 percent while Senator Bongbong Marcos was led to 23 percent.
Ragas also said that in ABS-CBN Pulse Asia survey that has been done on March 8-13, 2016, there will be 4,000 percent and Vice President Jejomar Binay's 22 percent; Mar Roxas, 20 percent, and Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago, 20 percent, and Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago.
It appears that the Duterte-Cayetano-tandem was able to attend the part of the votes in Mindanao where Cayetano received 24 percent, according to Robredo, there are 19 percent and last Marcos, with 18 percent.
Rappler admitted that the fight with Vice Presidential post was suspended and a big Factor here is the improvement of other presidentiable like the case of Duterte, which is why the rating of Roxas is stable, which is why also in the case of Robredo.
Because the fight against Vice President will surely fight, it will surely be in a pile of the campaign of candidates, it will not be surprised if in the next surveys, the number of 4 VP Binay will change especially if the local campaign will worsen.
