Sunday, June 3, 2012.

The grapes are admirable as there is a rope.

The true personality of a person will be identified with what he gives and not from his ability to accept.

The farmer was in a hurry to sit on the door of a pastor.

Just a few moments later, the pastor opened the door, and he saw a flirt with his bulging muscles that is pushing red.

"For you, he is a pastor, since it is from the most sweet tree of my movie, I chose this to experience the delicious and extraordinary kind of love for me, my children might get sick," the light of the farmer might get sick.

"Why are you still busy?

"I am not a pastor, only for you," the farmer's request, and he said goodbye.

It has been a long time when the pastor tried to watch out where the grapes were closed, the handling of the sweet words thrown by grapes, but he could still give it to Aling Trujillo.

That is why the grapes of Aling Tribunal will be accepted, and full of gratitude for a pastor, but when the pastor was able to leave it, I thought that my sibling would like me, "I think he went there immediately.

And this is what happened, the grapes have went to the sick, but it did not last long, because I need to revenge on his help to me, I am sure that I will be able to revenge on his help to me, I am sure that I will be able to revenge on his help to me, "the whisper in himself from being sick."

The soup was amazed by the grapes, it is only now that he has seen this kind of depression and the bulging fruit of grapes, which is even more cooked as red.

I felt restless in joy, it is really a habit to show his grapes, and it is hard to think of whom he can do to give back to everyone, but because of the goodness that he can do to all of these, he needs to be happy with the result of these grapes, "what he can do to all of these."

Before the night came, the pastor was quickly headed to the house of a pastor when he knocked on the door, and after a while, the pastor was confronted by the pastor.

He was shocked when he was holding the grapes, which was covered with red uniform brought by others but the pastor did not respond.

"For you a Pastor, he / she has sweet words and I am sure that you will be happy because for the goodness that you can do to us," the happy offer of grapes, that is why it is very good for him to eat while she is sleeping well, with a smile on her lips.

Pacu -- a maiden.

The acting of giving and who were able to get true is a real reason for each other and is set by each other, and it is expected that this will happen there to the good and generous people, may it be blessed, because there might be no good fortune for them.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
