Every time it rains.

Ann was able to speak.
It was only three o'clock in the morning when I woke up with a loud thug outside the room.
I slowly opened the window and revealed to me the big cloth that was surrounding the surroundings, I was horrified by the cold and strong wind which hit my face.
They continued a thud from "Bog, glass, glass, vendor."
Often when it rains, I sleep quickly on bed but now I let it be eaten by the sound of the rain.
It seems like a sound of anxiety like music, which can be implemented by the Badjaos, who went up to the jeep I was riding in Traeg, the big drop of rain on the roof.
There was a strong wave of the driver who woke me up from a tree, "I woke up and touched my bag again, which is why I got used to the back of the driver, which is why there was a thief passing by the thief.
The two children were not able to make it back to the driver's scream that they gave white envelopes to passengers but the young woman fixed his right hand and keeps on white t-shirt, then he was shot in the middle of the vehicle.
On the first hit of the fingers of the young man who made it made of the giddy, VC) and cans of Nido, the young woman raised his arm, which is just flying to an eagle.
It goes with you to make the rightfulness of the waist and hand of a young woman, where the dress on his finger was right, but it seems that the tone of his finger was right, but it's as if I cannot understand each other, but I cannot understand.
I put the white cloth that fell on the floor from the floor of the house beside me while we are the Badjaos, who are asking for food, thank you, "what is written in the trouble and numerous envelopes.
I reached the remaining coins in the pocket and the two packs of its biscuit when I watch the passengers - many are sleeping, there were a lot of sleeping, there were many sleeping, someone did not notice the envelopes.
It's as if the group of those who were oppressed in giving coins were the Badjaos, on the face, they are the Badjaos, on their hair.
When I returned the envelope with the child, the driver saw that I put them inside, together, "they gave it a habit," they gave it! "They immediately went down the children from shame.
I answered my older brother, "I did not give me pity for what I gave, I had good care of them," in Traiman that I should not step down but in Veterans, I was brought by a good show.
I chased the two children from Zamboanga.
I told the children to go near the police to return to their families, but they did not refuse what they want to be holding a gun, but when I asked them what they want, they have one answer - mayor or police.
They are probably happy with me that's why they've tried those who have shown a show that they have learned from their family that they are used in throwing stones at and hoping for a good day.
So at every time I hear the drop of rain on the roof, the sound of the young Badjaos, what I have been telling is the same time.
