
TV Patrol, April 12, 2012.

Ask for someone to think.

Whatever we are thinking, this is our future personality, whatever the result is, all of our minds, through our minds, we make our own world upside down.

Be careful with your mind, because your words are becoming more words.

Be careful with your words, because it becomes your actions.

Be careful with your actions, because this becomes your attitude.

Be careful with your attitude, because this becomes your traits.

Take care of your traits, because it becomes your personality.

Take care of your character, because this fate depends on your fate.

The power of Pag-minded and how this can be suppressed.

Thinking (though though I was in Oman as an OFW, I noticed that my co-workers have no intention to earn money, but many are still looking for their jobs and there are still waiting for them to earn money, and this is still waiting for them to earn money, and this is still waiting for them to earn money, and this is still waiting for them to earn money and have tantrums because of their own work or business.

The usual answer to this is "those who are able to do a big difference in life of a person, and where he wants to go to his life, and where he wants to go to your life, and what you want to go to your life, and what you want to go to your life is that he will be given your destiny or destination if you will be given your fate or destination.

The right question:

How can I let us see or be able to see the fares of guide?

What is really the cause of terror?

Like now, I am studying how I put it inside my brain, right?

What do I do for now, isn't it that we have to think and know something?

However, it appears that there is a proper mind to scrutinize the future events and the real meaning of this is to make sure that the questions are needed and we can be sure that we have a good and creative mind.

And the mind is not easy to think, but a process of questioning and answers to the questions.

The best changes are usually started in a simple, and common thinking of wide and high minds, it should be started to discover how your dreams are to be true.

Someone expressed that our minds will only be used for five percent in our minds that the remaining 95 percent remains hidden and together with our successful burial in our death, only a few of us is able to find out through a thorough study and awareness to their themselves.

Until you don't have any idea on who you are doing, and what kind of character is what you are doing, you will never find the real reason why you came out of this world.

While you are able to know what kind of mind that is dominating in your actions, it seems like you are just like a raging water where you will follow your fate, this is what you will follow.

Whatever thing is being taken from us, since we wake up, why should we follow this?

Why is it that someone is whispering to us, if what we do is right and wrong, why should we be happy, and if bad, we are having a hard time?

What is this, which is implemented and always being followed in each moment of our lives?

This has a lot of names; brain, spirit, belief, opinion, feeling, feeling, attitude, attitude, and others, and we are what we need to watch, and others, and we are what we follow.

The suggestion of a high level, whatever it is an analysis, it shows four times that this process can be compared to planting - because the food that is for the body is for the soul on what the food is for the body.

1: 00 to the first step to hit your mind, try to study it if you will be with or good for the land, it needs to be good to prepare for the anticipated six.

2-planting: For the second time, the idea will become important as a sign, it is better to stay and remember if it is right to use in any coming moments.

3-Pag-IBIG: The third time will be experienced and it is important to the fares that will be given to the progress of self or good for the former condition.

4 more opportunities: 00 to four, he tried to make these ideas as part of your life, such as food; it needs to be easier to digest or be able to create more strength of the body and wake up to your soul and wake up to your souls.

Whatever you are thinking about your column, you are always fighting for the real meaning of this world, and even in our whole life, we can just go home when we go home, and even in our future, we can always think if this is our appropriate fate for us.

Avoid getting up late, do not walk too, "the mind has no idea of what suddenly appears in the mind and he is following the head and repeatedly follow the eyes.

I am Kurdi, and wake up: What am I doing now?

If you do not have questions about yourself like: Why do I go alive? "What should I do?

You will remain a slave to your loved ones because you will feel happiness, you will know who you will follow this world, but if you will know who you will follow this world, you will meet the real path towards your happiness and events and this is your glory.

All of us is hoping to make no meaning and difference in order to serve our fellow citizens to help our community community.

Get to be happy and be happy when we get a taste of our life and they are doing the important duties in this world, and we should remain strong without any doubt, this is the appropriate and orderly mind.

In his mind's bad mind, happiness and grief is the results of what we are thinking about, which is why we themselves can wait for each other, and for those who are looking for each other, it would be easy for you to know each other, and for those who are taking care of it, it will be easy for you to discover, but it is the only thing to discover this; and it is the only thing that she will discover.

This is amidst our life, whatever we have, it started first in our minds, and this is what we are taking care of all of our lives.

From what they are thinking, they can create themselves as a process of their minds that they are thinking that they will not change when what they are thinking will not change.

"Is there a wide mind?" "What is lacking in your mind," said a mosquito, if he will be friends with each other, before criticizing it. "

Plant on the right process.

Plants have become aware of the stench, because if there are no plants, it will not be a positive action, and it is still not a positive action, and it is still possible that this is a big tree of positive attitude, which later on, will be set by your positive fate.

Always analyze and be able to complete unity of your mind, words, and actions to make your knowledge about it, and it is just right for your awareness to your mind that there is no discrimination among your mind that there is no discrimination among your mind that has no doubt and interpretation.

They continue to follow the mind, right or wrong, of good or wrong, and he does not want to create a reason, and if you understand your mind, it will be the importance of your attitude, and you can make sure that the results of your life will be given importance and be careful of your mind that is being planted in your mind.

It is true that the entarming will really be a secret of success, as a gardener who is always careful in the garden of your mind, it is better to make sure that your dreams of being planted in your mind will be taken off and removed from your mind, this will be put off and put in your mind.

It is more easy to pull the grasses so as long as there are still small idea or negative things started, remove them from your awareness, to remove it from your awareness, and it is hard to cut off.

He defeated his fear and fear is defeated by failure.

Each of your thoughts are members of power, and all your hard work is the whole courage to face and be smart, rather, as long as there are your meaningful goal and will bear fruit, according to what you are expecting.

2 follow the clear path to have a shoe and put it on your mind and do not have any responsibility to yourself, things, events, and action is going to our truth who we are.

Each of us needs to understand that we need to improve the effect of the old things of others what they have taught how to follow their footsteps, practices and beliefs that have no appreciation of their mysterious life.

"Even if in the forest there is a snake," said by others, but our lives are part of each life of others, all of us are living together, and both of us are living together, the entire body will feel that we are only one.

I do not need to control and hide anything or whatever I can be affected and the only thing I can be affected is to finally change and I have control, I only have control.

3 to change your reality.

As a person with power, intelligence, and love; that he is holding the key to each situation and the opportunity, she is holding the key in every situation and prosperity of his desire, do it, and taste the happiness that has been waiting for him.

Find the more meaningful and productive tasks for the better to be helpful and peaceful world.

4 is the power to choose a gold and diamond, in discovering and mining in the right mind, it can be found that there are only two who can choose, what is right and what is wrong.

There is an assurance that if there is nothing good in your life, it is on the wrong path that you are taking, but if you understand what is happening in your surroundings, it will remain a stray and confused which is the reason why he can make himself, the real king and the Master in his own world.

Correct your mind, if examined, our mind is always lacking of past and future, and when you think about what you want to think about it, you will continue to think about what you want to think of, and make sure that those pure love will continue to think about it, and when you think about it, they will continue to think about the highest and important future.

To know your real personality, it is just right that you have an intensive conversation with your awareness and minds, and more than those who have no solid action, meddling, and not desirable.

Asked for the right questions every morning when we wake up, we need to be ready, if we are ready to answer and fulfill the whole day, and if we are not prepared for the whole day, you will surely be happy, and will be sure that the whole day will be positive and happy.

There is nothing wrong or good, but the mind is on top of it.

If the people can stop the world and a sinful mind, the world will voluntarily return to him if he will maintain good thoughts, it would be sure that there will be no obstacle in any kind of mind that will hinder what he is in.

If the mind is really bad, the most smooth solution to this is to act immediately.

There are some questions that you will think about to start over.

What is the meaning of "good mind?

How will I know or understand if what I am thinking is right?

If I am sad, I am sad, angry, and worrying, how can I face him?

What is the one who makes me happy now?

What should I be proud of in my life now?

What should I thanks for my life now?

What am I experiencing in my life right now?

What are my scheduled responsibilities in my life right now?

: Who love my beloved? And those who love me?

What are the key to succeed?

- do I have the ability to have a happy home?

How will I get married?

- will I not use a hole on my potential and ability?

- can I avoid laziness and taking care of it?

- I will not have additional happiness to my family?

- I will not maintain self-control despite your persistence?

- I am not going to be a good child to my parents?

What are my duties in my family, and community?

- what is the meaning of reading the world?

Is it a testimony that there is a God, and I can explain it?

What the Lord wants to do to me, that I need to do?

- do you make the glory better?

Will I share your peace in the whole world?

Wait for a long time, do I know myself well, to answer them?

Questions about that night before sleeping.

What are I going to serve the whole afternoon?

What are I learned from this day?

- who do I have to pay attention to this day?

- if this day has additional quality in my life?

Is it possible that I will not use this day as a good experience in my future?

Him who is not a faith, has a bitter life and always widened.

Many questions are waiting to answer, and all of these are only based on what you think is only based on what you think is only based on what you are thinking and giving attention to each other, and your good ideas that can create bright and love life.

How can you make a clean mind, if your personality is dirty, also if your heart is dirty, you will not be able to love.

Most of us are able to do a life and death without terror because it is rare to go through with questions what is right and wrong before making it right, and just like what is happening to him, and just like what you want to do, always be followed by the doctor's priority and the basis why you have thought of your answers to the problem.

Our questions is the author of our minds.

Why do these need to stay in mind?

Because.

Because of this, this will create your present condition and in the next situation.

Because of this, this will be your guide and rule in your travel in life.

Because of this, this will take care of your integrity and good manners from the enemies of society.

Because.

Remember, we need to answer the question, "how can you think?"

It will be an additional one more than 1: Not only the questions that you asked, instead, even the questions that have been deceived and you failed to ask, is the author of your fate!

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
