
2013 / 05.

Editorously,: A type of image of Production.

It is also known for the call of "political carp to be known as the expression of the highest idea of being an illusion for a long time as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as if it is expected that the public needs to know the opinion of immediate action which should be known by the public.

Even if needed, and if needed, this is also those issues that are important for the majority, like things that are related to the government, laws, relationships, private service, national issues, national or human rights.

Because the political issues are full of political issues, the important role in dealing with the public opinions, the bastards who are pointing at the editorously in the streets, can be considered as a propaganda.

From the word "epal or," whether the propaganda in "support, unemployment, projects, projects, projects, projects, programs, programs, people (personalities), which is the goal is to be covetous, and bureaucracy." (Felixberto Aguila, 2005.

The editorously called for an effective example of propaganda, because it can be used according to the interest of the type who are used to rain and kind of serving in the Filipino who are taking advantage, and the kind of being raped.

He explained why there are two opposing parties of propaganda: The race of propaganda to the Black Nazarene.

They can be considered as an example of the editorcarp to be considered an example in the turmoil that's as if they are being harassed by the editions of the country, who seems to be recognized by the editorchist who seems to be treated and avoided to explain the situation of social activities to see this as an example.

Editorously attacked by the Philippine Star (payment.

In the said editions of the Philippine Star, it seems that the New People's Army's in the public has been trying to make a perfect information, even if the NPA could not make a perfect information like the Philippine Star, especially that the group of armed fight for the Philippine Star could not be cleared.

Meanwhile, there are also those who are responsible and aware that those bastards are responsible and aware that this is for example.

Editorously attacked by a student of Cavite State University, regarding the conflict between the Philippines and China.

In the editorously held on top of the top, China described that it is as if the role of the country's owned by the Philippines will be focused on this issue, while on the other hand, he is pushing his own interest.

It is also good to look at this example.

Editorously attacked by the Ang Bayan about the growing economists "under Aquino (payment.

In the use of the image of Juan dela Cruz, it seems like a lot of stones being forced by the air to look healthy, an effective economic growth caused by the Aquino administration, because it is not true that there is no true good caused by ordinary people.

Through for example I am on top of for example, it is clearly stated on how the editorcarelf is clear, as part of the wide propaganda, are avid whom are pushing for their kind of interest and resolve, the question is to make the question like that?
