"The armed men are prohibited in the territory of the revolutionary movement.

By Filipino Weeker.
April 24, 2013.

Along with the asking for an apology of the germs in the New People's Army (NPA) to the Guingona's family, the revolutionary taxes that they will implement is the ban for armed men who are proud of the politicians in their territory.
Mayor Ruedie Guingona was severely injured, while the siblings, Nestor and Bartolome Velasco, was severely wounded, in the exchange of gunshots by an NPA unit and an escort of the mayor in Gingoog City, on Saturday, April 20.
"The New People's Army-North Central Mindanao Regional Office) in the town of Gingoog City for the town of Gingoog City for the town of Gingoog City for the town of Gingoog City for the town of Gingoog City for the city of Gingoog City, Misamis Oriental, Misamis Oriental, Misamis Oriental, Misamis Oriental yesterday, Misamis Oriental, Misamis Oriental).
Asked for an apology to the germs on the death of the two Palestinians on the death of the two militant groups that they are respecting the Guingona's true group, especially the wife of the mayor, former Vice-President Aquilino Pimentel Jr. yesterday.
The group promised to submit to the relatives of the two who died, and carefully investigate what happened.
Juanito Dialogo said that incidents were not documented, Mayor Guingona fired an escort and Mayor Guingona took the point out of the NPA in Capoquian, 15 kilometers from the city of Gingoog City.
"
In a separate statement, the CPP-laws implemented by armed men in their territory will be implemented by armed men during their territory, according to this, this is part of the policies of the revolutionary movement in order to take care of the rights and obedience to the citizens.
After the consecutive wins of the Aquino administration, Team PNoy, party Akbayan and the Armed Forces of the Philippines on the said attack of the NPA with Mayor Guingona, they also appealed to condemn his policies about the election.
But the wife of the mayor, who is the former Vice-President Guingona, said that he will be in the online online libel which really does not change what his (his self-respect "did not change.
He asked the National Democratic Front (NDF) to investigate the incident and hold the germs if they are proven guilty.
"My your personal friendship to some of his / her to be amnesty.
The Supreme Court also expressed criticism on senator Bayan Muna Rep. Teddy Casiño in the said attack.
"
Casiño added that even if the NPA already admitted to their mistakes, he is hoping that the NPA will conduct an investigation on the incident, made an action, and cooperate with the families of the victims.
"This is one of the things that could be opened to the NDFP-GRP Committee on the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights (WBC) for Human Rights (Cantos)," Casiño said.
Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) said that it is only right for the NPA to ask for an apology to the deaths and wounds of the NPA in continuing to lead the NPA against the CPP-NDF and government of the Philippines for the implementation of Camping.
The mechanism can say that to ensure a thorough investigation and order to answer to the authorities, if there is, Reyes said.
"
This is also a chance to push the peace talks between NDF and the government.
"The Aquino government behind bars, which was given to the top of the peace talks with the peace talks, including the sole honor that was held as the Humalig) of the Humalig) for the peace talks," Special Action "for the peace talks," said Reyes.
