
The increase in the price of oil is consecutive, who attacks it.

Investigation of the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
August 23, 2012.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) opposed the consecutive price increase in the price of the oil companies that were implemented by the large companies of oil, which is said to be a cruel strength of food, medicine and low products, low wages, low salary and lack of livelihood. "

The price increase in the price of oil is next to the similar price increase in oil price that resulted in the total amount of oil price, which resulted to the total price increase in price of oil, the two stages of the price hike which is numb about the gruesome end that the citizens are numb about the gruesome end.

"The price of oil continues to increase the price increase of the oil companies that released last August 7, in the midst of severe flooding, and before the widespread flooding, the price of LPG has increased to almost 7 per kilo.

"The current price increase in the series of price increase in the past few months is effective," said PKP, "in spite of the lower price of oil in the world, the non-drop by the oil companies in the local price of petroleum will be eaten when hit by a bigger pipe."

The PKP is being supported by the Filipino people to dismiss the Filipino companies that have control of the local network to raise the law of oil products according to the target of the people and the state of economists in the Philippines. "

"The PKP has criticized the Aquino administration who continue to give attention to the widespread request to dismiss the law of oil and control the price of oil products which are raising the price of oil products which are increasing in the income of the oil companies that are increasing in the votes of the oil companies."

"The law between the Filipino people and the 12% in the price of oil and the 12 percent in the price of oil," said PKP, "said that it is just proper that they insist on raising the price of oil, in the destruction of oil from the law in boils of oil."
