
Patrolling, July 20, 2013.

Militants launched the State of the OFW Address (SOWA.

19 July 2013.

Press.

Congratulations to / s.

Gaxing, 0915-5.

Anthony Barnstaple, 49-7518792.

Instead of wait for the criticism of PNoy's SONA.

Militants launched the State of the OFW Address (SOWA.

Three days before the State of the Nation Address (SONA) of Noynoy Aquino, the militants groups launched the real condition of the Filipino workers and Congress to reveal the true condition of the Filipino workers before he was elected in his position last 2010.

According to Gie relative, Secretary-General of BMP) National Capital Region and Rizal Chapter, one thing that he gained is enough time to judge the current administration of Aquino's administration, he himself is enough to judge and maintain the policy of the big businessmen, and to maintain the support of big businessmen until his term.

"Whatever happens, the respective government agencies who are saying that more than fifty million Filipinos have no livelihood and are continuously increasing in our history at 7.93 million workers, and the most important thing that this means that the Poverty.

Marivic is also expecting that, "in the SONA in lunch, we can't be expecting from the old promises of one million jobs again, we are expecting that he will be able to take care from the New SONA of GMA, we are expecting that he will be able to take care from the low town of GMA.

Meanwhile, for Anthony Barnstaple, Secretary-General of KPM (National Capital Region and Rizal Park, who opposed the expected use of Aquino to the anomalous use of Aquino, the research to be used in the speech of Aquino in his SONA.

"It can be recalled that Aquino brought his numbers to slow down and statistics but all of these have nothing to know if he does not know how to be declared mayor of the government for those who are living near the river in Manila.

"If they give the room to the room, this is not enough because in these times, the amount of more than three months is needed so that it will give them a small room, but what is more important is it is for the twelve thousand pesos to bring them in and add the twelve thousand pesos.

Regarding the speech of the President, Barnuevo immediately challenged Aquino, "if he wants to talk about what he has done, the improvement of the economy in our community in Baseco, Port Area last Tuesday, I am hoping that he will hear his speech in front of our community in Baseco, Port Area, our programs, but we can always understand his speech in front of our community, but we strongly understand his speech at the multimillion program.

The two groups are both plans to raise the thousands of thousands of members, it is enough to raise the bark of the police until it reached Batasan Pambansa, for the SONA in 1980.
