
"The fight is not yet over" for us.

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
There was 11, 2012.

There are many things for the farmers of Hacienda Luisita, who have been fighting for a few decades for them, the decision of the Supreme Court, that the decision of the Supreme Court is clear, that the decision of the Supreme Court is clear, which is why it is clear to them that the fight is not yet done.
"The farmers are happy with the decision of the Supreme Court but we know that there are still a lot of problems that we will face," said the Filipino Weeker of Felix Huertas (Ammunition).
On May 9, there are already those who supported the "tanim-bala" or feast of gratitude for all those who supported their fight, because they are expected that those who supported their fight will continue to be needed, because it is expected that those elected President will lose their hands, especially since their relatives are elected.
It is possible to slip by Cojuangco.
The decision of the Supreme Court itself is possible to give way so that according to Atty. Jobert Rapid, lawyer of Ammunition), the failure of the court to raise the amount of compensation for the owners of Hacienda Luisita, Incorporated.
If the farmers will be asked, it should be free to share the land, because it was just made by Cojuangco from their ancestors, but if the decision of the Court (Regional Trial Court (Land Transportation Office of the Philippines), to review the decision of the Court (Regional Trial Court), the decision of the Court (Regional Trial Court), according to the Supreme Court), "according to the Supreme Court.
"It should be said that they have been able to make it" to the age of DAR and Land Bank, to be under the Office of the President, so what you can expect was to be questioned by Cojuangco. "When we are questioned by Cojuangco.
Beware of the decision of the court to include the interest in the land in 1989, as well as a 264 meters in the right decision of the court, but because the decision was given to the farmers in 1996.
"Why won't you wait for the interest of the land, which is why the farmer is not benefited from the fact that they will be given interest (Cojuangco), the government," the government will pay, "said the farmers," said the farmers.
Meanwhile, the homelf is given by Cojuangco to the Filipino-fields that they are trying to undergo in the legislative chamber that they are trying to undergo in court, they will pay for it for free, "according to Pahiram ng Sandali," it is not funny? "According to Pahiram ng Sandali," it is not funny? "According to Pahiram ng Sandali," we should pay attention to the supreme court. "
We will be able to talk about.
Even back then, the farmers of the hacienda already insists that if the land will be distributed, aside from free, it should be placed under our gibbosity, and not from individuals, which is owned by the owner.
It is possible that under the law, the implementation of the land which is owned by the land is possibly under the law, which is possible to be together in the large part of the land, which is said to be together in the major part of the land, which is started when they continued, in spite of the threats and harassment of Cojuangco.
It was announced by Ambullets of DAR the request for the piled up of Land OPLAN Award (CampA), it is said that it will be faster to the resolution of the land if an individual is going to be given to an OFW in the future if an individual is still possible to be given to an OFW in the future, if he would want it.
"The one who will talk about will be able to talk about, which will be avoided, the return of land to the Coancestries, because if you are the only one who will decide, you can easily be attracted to the earth," Junrey said.
It is said that there are many ways to be given by Cojuangco the hacienda, if an individual is owned by the court to see the farmers, we will get to show their land, "we will get to show their land," how much their salary will be paid, "said the lawyer.
That is why the destruction of farmers, especially at the lower part of the farmers released by HLi to distribute their ranks, according to Tumagay in 2003, and submitted to the Supreme Court to dismiss the Sais of the Supreme Court in 2003.
According to Pahiram ng Masang Pilipino, Kobe Mallari and his new group of Association of 1989 the Supreme Court (Arellano) and he became an employee of Hacienda Eker), and he became an employee of Hacienda Etau, and this is an employee of Hacienda Luisita, "Mallari of the reforms which is owned by the land which is owned by the land.
Those who are pushing to hold-ups are being pushed by the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Group (NBP) - the group Akbayan, and the legitimate Filipino Workers of Hacienda Luisita (LMHL), which is composed of the machine of Hala BHL), which is composed by LMBHL), which is composed of LMBHL), which has no difference in Salas.
"We are already preparing, because we are expecting to sabotage the proposed resolution of the land," according to Tom Villarin.
Success.
The success done by the farmers from the decision of the Supreme Court will not be gone to waste, they will be able to prevent what they want to do to the land, they will be able to prevent what they want to do to the land. Jilian, they will not be prohibited from paying taxes.
For the farmers, there is no justice for this case, whatever its value is, it is also expected that the land is going to be difficult because of the lack of support of the government, "we should be the ones given support by the government," they should be given support by the government.
There are many who continue to fight the farmers of Hacienda Luisita, there are the continuous threats, fraud, and the current agriculture and government who have no concern for them, this is when they have learned any concern for them.
