How to call out "as a word of the year?

I have no power to set a set but I have the right to play!
Everything is not too late to encourage the experts in the filipino language to make sure that this is a popular last March 2012 and this is not being used today, but in the coming election this 2013 because of the upcoming election in May.
My argument was simple, "since then, it is one of those in power and it is not being done by those in power and are not being done by those in power, especially when there is a direct translation in any foreign language, especially if there will be a pile of examination of the policy and programs of the current administration.
It depends on the political stand, it may be negative or positive that is the meaning of the word "to call out."
For those who are criticizing the Aquino administration, the government is not able to respond to the call of the poor about the call of the poor, the price of oil and dismiss the violation of human rights; dismiss the violation of human rights; particularly the cybercrime law; and many others.
For those who are supporting the administration, "since then, an individual who is telling the truth and doing is right and doing the right thing in order to believe the President ("
Political for those who are in critical condition, personally for lawyers, it is clear that it is the resolution of "No." For those who are against the administration, they are looking out as a simple favor of defending President Noynoy Aquino.
Because of those who are against those who are against the President, it is not good to think that those who are supporting the President are not able to think about the election that will happen in May 2013, and in the coming election, it is expected that the effect of the rules of the citizens will happen, not just an issue, which is not just an artist, who is not only known by, who is not just an ally, but not stupid.
Where will the word "
At this point, it is better to give a simple defense of "No.
For me, "since then called out, from the interest of those who insisted and embrace the interest of those in power, this is not a simple loss of action from the poor because it is moving or not) when they are against them.
Even if "
In other words, he is lazy and stupid in greedy and teasing.
Because the space was consumed with all those who are against the citizens and programs of the government, it is better to focus on the issue of salary, work and rights since President Aquino took office, including the murder of human rights, including the murder of the activists.
This is where the word "of" epal "is becoming important because he can take the evidence of justice, even the lack of change since the current president took office.
Not personal but political are not personal, but it is true that for the defense, that is appropriate for "of our time, because this is the call of our time to let us do this word of the year!
