
The Marcos regime will be able to conduct the appropriate information in the US in relation to the criticisms and defamation to the country's Bayan.

Gregorio "Ka Greg" epal. "
Spokesperson of NDF-Bicol.
April 12, 2012.

It is said that this kind of deceit for the Filipino people is to be spread of wrong information and the direct defamation of the Marcos US-Aquino in the launch of the writ of Korea (DPRK) from April 12 to April 16.

It is a real slave to promote the incessant accusation of the US which will be launched by DPapal "even if the DPRK will continue the observation of the international media on the observation of the national media the place where it is Satan.

Covetous and no embarrassment, it is being used by the et Aquino administration to strengthen the rules of harassment and harassment of the US and its allies in the Asia-Pacific and will continue the US in Asia-Pacific, and will continue the US in Asia-Pacific and will continue the US defense to the region and lead to the new defense of this.

A picture of the toll fee and technology and a form of dirty war against the leadership of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC), which can be hit by the Philippine National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC), which can be hit by the DPRK.

The imposition of different agencies in different agencies of the country's budget is also more dangerous due to the ocean of many provinces from Cagayan up to Camarines Norte, Albay and Catanduanes from the ocean of many provinces from Cagayan up to Camarines Norte, Albay and Catanduanes.

The route of the rocket will bring it to 200 kilometers from the eastern part of Cagayan and this is part of the national ocean.

It will be eaten by thousands of families of fishermen within six days and this is a big inconvenience for the citizens, and the basic commodities of the citizens, and the basic commodities of the citizens as well as the projects which can be given to the big players of the Aquino administration.

The rights of a country who is free and for defense of DPRK will push through with the improvement of their communication and defense for the welfare of their citizens and defense for the welfare of their people and defense for their country.

The Filipino people should insist and fight for freedom and defense of physical activities that promote the principles of freedom and improvement of the countries, respect, sovereignty and anomalous benefit, and peaceful to solve the conflict of the countries.



Gregorio "Ka Greg" epal. "
Spokesperson of NDF-Bicol.


Email: 00am edious, for sure, TIDs and harisees!
Fortunately, very filling, Preso (Ka Greg (Ka Greg are bronchitis, Pad, PPETIDs (NDFP) Duterte-Bicol Regional Office).
Twitter account: I am not wearing a noodle house helper.
Facebook account, Nica Tomines.

Media Officer 3: Work Oliveros (IED) - 092020 1981).
