Thank you, doctor and tips on the rainy season.

DOC WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Filipino Star Ngayon), Nunber 1255; UPP-May 26, 2013 - 12: 00.

We are happy to be part of the program at the crack of ABS-CBN for many years, the program can be seen on Channel 2 every Saturday, 6: 00 in the morning, and Sunday 7: 30 in the morning.
Thank you a big help, Doctor Love, to the health of our country.
1 - giving advice: Every episode is nice, thank you, thank you, thank you very good guests to give advice and answer the question of the audience.
2 - health - every hot news about health is being attacked by Mr. Alvin Elchico, Miss Bernadette Sembrano and Miss Jing Castañeda, TV Patrol.
3 - Medical mission: Every week, there are 200 patients who are taking advantage of the public services of ABS-CBN because we have no payment for the doctors, nurse and health workers who are helping this this 2013, thank you, doctor, and health workers to reach our countrymen.
Mister Ogie Alcasid is the leadership of Mister Ogie Alcasid.

The brain and skill at the back of thank God depends on the Executive producers, Mister Ogie Alcasid, so it is not surprising that we thank the number 1 health show in the country.
In the leadership of Sir Ogie, we have received many awards and thank you to all of his staff.
Tips on the rainy season.
Now that the rainy season is near, we should be careful with the wild boars.
Meow - an ice cream-ray or pain coming from the dirty water level is the bacteria on the water which can cause a loose bowel movement and gastroenteritis.
In order to avoid, just drink water on the water or piece of water level, the water faucet is needed to boil the three minutes before you drink it.
I - infection like flu, cough and colds, because the people are together in the house or evacuation centers, it is easy to be a two-two-two.
How can you avoid it from a person who has cough or colds, teach them a habit or cough in tissue, handkerchief or to yourself as their clothes.
L-leptospirosis can be a disease from the urine of a rat, if your feet have a wound, it is possible to enter the flood, it is possible that there will be leptospirosis bacteria on the body, that is why there is a severe illness and pain in the body.
How do you want to wear a bath in taking a bath and take care of the whole body.
D - dengue has been taken from a mosquito's bite, this is a severe pain and deadly disease to avoid a mosquito, put it with boils in clothes.
Wear a hold-nosed and three pants, and use mosquito nets to clean the yard and remove the water saved from our surroundings.
