To those who have faults.

A group of indigenous people in Kalinga province complained against mining in their area.
The group of old age or victims of Guinaang in Pasil of Kalinga province was asked to stop mining in their area because, according to them, they hit their rights as the indigenous people.
According to the Daily Inquirer's released news, the Guinayangan National Liberation Front (Gumba) filed a petition to stop the nearest location of Philex Mining Co, Inc., which is said to be a lot of people about to cross the area.
The allegations of Gumba was said to be forced by Makilala that members of their tribe have signed on a document of agreement even if they do not understand the operation of mining in their area.
That's why the request of Goulburn were sent to the National Commission on InFilipino-governmental organization (PIP) to take back the earlier that they were not allowed to cross the said mining companies.
Goulburn were fighting for the ancers and rights of the indigenous people who say they are being rude.
According to the representative of the mining companies, they are not able to step down and they are really able to make it according to the right process that permission to commit suicide in Pasil.
Pasil, Pasil, many investor are interested in the area and admitted that the small cart, which is operating in their area, is rich of gold.
In the current debate in the Congress, the small cart mining which is considered as the cause of accidents on the mines are being considered as the cause of the small cart, and the effect of their grades in nature.
There is a good for the country the mining industry for the country but there are laws that are being followed by the said company that is said to be considered as the company of Makilala were followed so they got a permit.
But Goulburn were saying that there are those who are not right in giving a permit in Makilala.
One of the hot discussion in the Congress is the industry of mining.
Many countries have become rich in mining but it is dangerous if this industry will get a hold of greedy and greedy because the weakness of our natural wealth is huge.
