Ryan Agoncillo, in a meeting with the boss, will she also refuse the show.

Sanga-sangandila by Veronica R. Samio.

There is a sign of sulking the news that I heard in the radio that I heard in the radio that was being reported by someone similar to the program of TV 5 where he had discussed many important things related to the return of the program stupid Filipino in the air, including the usual host of it.
I said that he has a tone of sulking with Ryan, especially that many are saying that it is impossible for the program to push through the program, and even if it is true that it is not the host of the program, and even if it is true that they will rise the program.
To be "true" actor, Julian wants to try.
Julian throne does not know if there would be a kind of story in the Niño as a friend of Miguel Potol or it will be a nuisance to it, however, he / she did not fulfill it, even though she becomes a villain, no, as a villain.
"According to Fight IT.
"Miss AiAi was fine, she did not get hurt with us that he is a big actor because she is too big," he / she gave all praises for her.

Meanwhile, he denied that he is courting Bianca Umali, "we are only young when we are still young to court a We-June.
Jeepney and a little while, it is not at the end.
I was also mad at a jeepney while I was still on a bath, what if I went back to the air, but when I went back to the air, the television series did not end, but when I went back, my television series did not end, but I was almost gone, and many viewers of the station were gone.
Why are they not fixing this? "Why did they think that he will just let go of those who are behind the station or out of this time, don't they think that it will not be all over or not, because they might think that it will be better if they think that they would think that they would think of it.
Is this the management of the management?, if not, the authorities are reading the complaints of their audience so that they will build a way to improve their lives.
