Jennylyn is the fight of women.

To celebrate his 25th birthday, the popular actress has chosen as Jennylyn Mercado who is a member of Gabriela.
He was a former victim of violence when he was still a child, Jennylyn ordered her name and reputation that he is very popular in violence of women and children in the country.
In a mall in San Jose Del Monte, Bulacan last May 14, 2012, the early celebration of the birthday of Jennylyn is formally received, that Jennylyn was formally accepted by the leaders of Gabriela.
The celebration, the celebration of the celebration, but became more special because together with the members of Gabriela, the poor children, and women and children, who are part of violence.
But there are also a lot of regular fans of Jennylyn, and other viewers, those who listened to the program, Gabriela were not allowed to discuss the order to discuss the ingredients in different kinds of violence against Women.
According to Ako Linmei, general secretary of Gabriela, which will make the participation of a celebrity like Jennylyn about their organization, that it is important that Jennylyn is going to help the programs and the services of Gabriela for those who are in need.

In an interview with Filipino Weeker, Jennylyn said that she wants to help and support, in his small way, for many women to open their minds and fight for their rights as women and Filipino people.
"We need to fight for women's rights," Jennylyn said that the women are going through something now, from poverty and abuse, until there is discrimination and violence which is not easy to end!

"I am here to give strength to women and also to support them in life," he said, he knows that there is a good future for women and the people.
"They should not be afraid to fight, and they should not be afraid to give rights to their own.
In the celebration of the celebration, Jennylyn is not the only birthday of Jennylyn, he celebrated the start of the participation of an actress who wants to meddle with the fight of women.
