
The involvement of the US in Oplan Tokhang was released by the PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 14, 2012.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (CPP-Anti-Illegal Drugs Act was held in Oplan Tokhang.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) criticized the advancement of military forces with the US in the local operations "counter-insurgency" which contains an additional agreement yesterday by the Philippines and US military.

The five new agreement between General Jessie Vargas, chief of staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) and Admiral Samuel James Reid, Commander of the US Pacific Command in a series of meeting with the Philippine-US Mectment case in the past few days.

Included in the new agreement is the form of its committee for the technology and standards of military operations, by a group who will take care of the humane and for an immediate response to the group who will borrow from terrorism.

"The Filipino people should be united in releasing the public agreement under the security issue of the Philippines, particularly in the implementation of the US administration, particularly in the implementation of the State Department of US," said the State Department of US and implement the guidance of the local government of the US. "

"It means the meddling of the local issues of the Philippines is those who are involved with the military forces of the US to plan and against anomalous operations in the Philippines," it was used by the US to implement the legislative chamber that has been fighting against the armed fight and did not complain about the Pambansang Kamao in the national release of the US. "

"Aside from giving additional advice, it has long been known that the military troop of the US will have long been involved in the local government troops that are linked to the local government troops in the operation conducted by the American soldiers in the operations conducted by the American soldiers," said the PKP.

"The filipino masses should be held accountable for the abuses done by the armed forces of the Marcos regime, the PNP personnel, and the groups of the police and the groups, who are continuing to raise the state of the military, stealing and other kinds of abusive military."

"The US is using English such as freedom in suspending the country," said PKP, "in the middle of the presence in Asia," said PKP, "in the legislative chamber," said the US Embassy in the Philippines and in the Asia-Pacific Ocean. "

According to the KP, "the Marcos regime and Obama said the sovereignty of the Philippines for the coldness of the US to raise the presence of the military forces of the US, particularly the advancement of the military troops and the Philippine troops of the US for the ports of the Philippines."

"The military and the US are using the Philippines as based on the operation of the huge government troops in the ocean of the Philippines," said PKP, "this year, which means that it has almost 80 times the presence of the Americans in the country."

"In addition to this, based on the military of Joint Task Force-Philippines (JSOTyo) inside Camp Navarro, a permanent basis of not less than 700 American soldiers."
