A lesson in addition, no way to devotion for important things is the duty of a person.

And this will only be maintained if small things can be addressed.

There are moments in your life that you are observing and what will happen to you, that sometimes there are small and big changes, there will be no one who asked to change his life and guide and actions.

And most of these, depends on your barking; what is more important to everyone, which is more important to everyone, and what are the small things that may be set aside.

Here is an event that has a good quality in our proper disposition towards life.

The content that is being thrown in a university in the city of Balanga, a professor was standing in front of his students in philosophy.

In his hand, there is no content in the hand.

The professor has explained that he will reveal this morning.

The students went silent and the classes have started, from a box, he was in a leader of the golf club.

And after this, he asked the students if they are just a tree.

And all of them agreed and this is a tree.

That's why the professor was made to get a box of small stones and threw them in a pig.

The small rocks are shouting at the streets and there is no content of space between the ball of golf.

He asked the students to ask if they are just full of stones, and they responded that they are full of trash.

What the professor did was he took a box with white sand and threw it in a garages. And just like what was expected, the sand can lead the space and space between the ball of golf and small stones.

Sometimes, the professor was once again asked if the students were already full of strong and together with the students to answer, "there was already a tree," there was already a tree! "

In this scene, the professor was able to release a bottle of dried chocolate from the table.

And he / she handed it in garages.

The students laughed at what they witnessed and they did not expect that there will be a place.

"Now," the professor's explanation, "I want to get to know that these are just being sold in your life."

The ball of golf is the most important thing that involves your family, the children, Ang and your friends.

Small stones are the other things that has a value that is like your work, your home, of your houses, of your colleagues.

The sand prioritize different small things that usually call attention to your life.

If you want to pour the sand in a garages, there is still no space for the small stones, and even in the ball of golf.

And this is also the reality that is happening in our life, we prioritize the small things.

Just like reconciling with the television and phone, even if there are senseless, those who are fearless and there are those who are fearless and there are those who are living in life, of envy, jewelry, and physical abuse, of alleged rape, friends, and no meaning of argument.

If all your time and strength are being spent on small things, you have no time to remain or space for the things that will make you happy.

Instead of a waste of small things that have fun with your family, play with your family, play with children, travel and visit your relatives, take care of your family and close friends.

It will be avoided for a set time to clean the house, read your neighbor, read the newspaper, read your friends, and watch on television with a neglected time that will not be returned again.

Take care of all the ball of golf, things that can be taken care of and the small stones of life will be taken care of.

This is what they should pay more attention, At if these cannot be done, what is left is sand only.

And it is possible to set aside so that your life is really important.
One student asked, "how to make chocolate?"

The professor was able to pay and have a healthy answer, "although the busy in your life is already full, you still have a space that will be distributed."

Remember that each day is a gift.

And the quality of your life is your gift to yourself.
