Lady Maroons failed to enter the SEA Games.

Of Ka Christian Marty.
Lady Maroons center named Wong has shown his strength and strength but his 13 points and 12 rebounds were left behind by UP Lady Maroons.
UP were able to surrender to De La Salle University Chiefs, 64-71 in the last encounter for the second round of the University Chiefs) Women's Association of the Philippines (NAP) Women's Office of September 8 in the Mall of Asia Arena.
The Lady Maroons and University of Sto. Tomas Morato will present for the last debate for the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, Maroons.
Archibers and Marie Scott was able to stop the encounter in the encounter in the encounter in order to improve especially the Archers with a score of 65-57 to provide for the win.
It was considered that Maroons guard named Bea Daez who was immediately arrested by 13 points including three three three but had decided to leave their 13 kilometers per hour to be left behind by the end of the line with a score of 29-35.
Maroons was held by the 10-0 run through their thunder-like rains so they can show their hearts and return to a score of 39-35, there was only six minutes left in the third period.
Archibers (Trisha Mostoles was sentenced to end up in the third period to fulfill the 18-6 move ng Masang ers with a score of 53-45 after the bark of Maroons.
Maroons is still preparing for the fourth period after being defeated by Archers center Ara Abaca of the 20th line of Maroons towards their ninth success.
"Idatas, which was able to be held by the Our Lady OPLAN), was found to be a point lead to Iric Arriba," said by Wong by the US for Our Lady Otto Becker, "she also added.
Daez was able to donate to 15 points, 3 rebounds and 5 square ts, guard Germans themselves to Luna up to 12 points, and 11 rebounds and 11 rebounds for Maroons.
The wins of UP arrived at 5-8 in order to fit in the fifth position while the in La Salle College was raised in 9-4.
The University of Santo Tomas is going to face the University of Santo Tomas on September 14 at almost nine in the morning at the Mall of Asia Arena.
