editorial: 'joke' takes precedence than truth!
one of the things liked by many Filipinos from the elected president, president Digong Duterte was his lack of pretense.
saying what he wants to say even if others disapprove or if it would boomerang to him afterwards.
he does not care!
this was the president Duterte who spoke the day before yesterday who admitted that in the five things he states only two are true and should be taken seriously or believed by people.
because the other three are purely nonsense or only jokes.
he just wanted to be funny.
which is why it is no wonder why every time a word is said by the president, his staff gets flustered, especially the communications group of Malacañang, on how they would explain it to the people.
which ones are the truth and which ones are the joke in the statements of the president?
this is hard for the country.
the president should understand that his speaking engagements are not a comedy bar every time he faces the public.
his every word is looked forward to not to find laughs but to listen to what his commands are, how he would resolve a problem, what position will the Philippines take on an issue.
every blow or released word of a president should be taken seriously because these are the policies of a country.
his every word, like a law being followed, specially by his loyal supporters.
it is allowed to be comedic and funny but not on serious topics.
especially if it involves the relationship to other country or about the extrajudicial killings, peace process and peace and order situation, drug personalities, bad cops, inflation, tax and many more.
even campaign promises have what look like 'joke' only.
take for example the 'endo' which until now is just spoken word and what was given to contractual government employees is a P2,000 bonus instead of regularization.
there is no news on coco levy which he said he would immediately give away to coconut farmers upon getting seated.
it seems like another joke is the additional P1,000 for senior citizens because there are a couple of elders complaining that there is still no adjustment in their February pension despite the promise.
'the 3-6 months elimination of drug, he admitted he cannot do.
which ones should be taken seriously from the president when 2 out of 5 of his statements are silliness and funny acts only?
