child's right one ad circulated all over the internet recently, for a job opening in a job called "most difficult job" in the world.
according to those who started the said "job advertisement", many clicked the online ad, but only a few asked about the said job opening.
imagine that what they're looking for are people who will take the "most difficult job in the whole world."
those who inquired were even more shocked that they were called for an "interview", because the job is 24/7, with no vacation, and will work even during lunch and coffee break.
the job is very challenging, according to those who interviewed the online applicants.
what's required is dedication and constant availability to support your boss in the said job.
you can't complain and you need to always have a sharp mind because intelligence and concern is what's required for the said job.
some of the interviewed can't believe it; there were some who were almost mad because the said job opening seemed like a joke that even did a formal job interview online.
the questions of the interviewed: what kind of job is that, not humane, and illegal treatment to whoever gets chosen?
and their eyes got bigger when it was mentioned that there will be no salary in the said job.
before they got to react violently and cut the online interview short, the interviewee asked them if they wanted to know who currently works in that position.
because they were curious who are being scammed by that kind of job - the most difficult in the world, no vacation, intense dedication is needed, and most importantly, no salary - their question is "who are the people currently working like this?"
the answer is - mothers.
it was realized that the job ad is an online prank to celebrate Mother's Day.
the interviewed didn't get to be mad.
but, all of them, boy and girl, teared up.
right.
our mothers are working on the most difficult job in the world, with full dedication, 24/7 on duty, without a break, and without salary.
Happy Mother's Day.
