PNoy, heartless to the poor a planned destabilization is rumored today outside of Malacañang because of the non-stop increase in the price of goods under the Aquino administration.
some say that the feelings of soldiers whose families suffer in their current situation are revolting because of the lack of action by President Aquino's government with the continuing increase of the price of gas, rice, and other primary needs of Filipinos.
it is not the former officials and personnel of the Armed Forces of the Philippines who first revolted to have People Power 1 and 2 who are leading now but the new generation who suffer due to the government's lack of attention on them.
according to them, those in the Aquino government like the KKKK and some department heads continue to amass money but the president is taking no action to charge them while those like them who maintain order in the country still do not receive blessings like a small wage increase.
supposedly since President Noynoy took seat their salary has not been augmented and some benefits that were promised to them continue to be delayed.
these soldiers also say, smuggling in the country continues but President Aquino cannot find a solution to the short supply of rice, garlic, onions and other products while many imports are just stuck at international ports under the Bureau of Customs and will rot soon.
instead of letting the rice and other products rot, why won't PNoy order for these to be released and distributed in public markets to have some use, especially to the poor whose spending money is just limited.
but because the president is heartless to the country's poor, he does not care whatever happens, especially if the price of goods and services continue to increase, because his advisers and enablers are skilled in teaching him who to blame the problems.
they will surely find a political enemy to blame for the events.
but the time will come when PNoy will run out of people to blame so he will be forced to expose his allies and colleagues in the party.
according to those planning a revolt against the current government, businessmen influential to the government buy huge supplies of NFA rice and mix it with the more expensive rice they sell.
President Noynoy should ban the non-sale of NFA rice in private markets.
a rice store must have more NFA rice for sale than expensive rice, aside from the government having a monitoring team against illegal sale of rice mixed with NFA rice.
maybe instead of NFA rice rotting in warehouses they can benefit the hungry and poor citizens.
