to help you (()) .
<no-speech>
that's it (()) my only -- if the school is also responsible because my child was bullied .
she was hurt and then she had a wound .
her wound was sewed in (()) aah .
there was a wound .
where -- where was she wounded ?
was it on the face ?
yes .
on the lower part of her eye just above her cheek .
ah ah -- do you know -- do you know Aling Lerma our laws are very clear about that .
our law says that if students who are minors that are at school or even outside school but under the supervision of the school if they're injured the first to be held responsible and an emphasis on the first is the school or the administrator of the school or the teacher in charge or everyone of them for the injury of the child .
that is why the responsibility and obligation of teachers is very high .
it's up to here .
they will be presumed negligence if there are any disasters inside the school .
so for example that Grace for example -- for example is inside the school premises and she gets a lump .
what will be proven in the court is that my child is a student in that school and when she went outside she already has a lump .
will you no longer prove what the teacher did ?
because the law has an assumption in that situation that the teacher was negligent .
now when is it the responsible of the parent ?
mm mm .
it will be an accountability of the parents if the teacher has nothing to pay the school has nothing to pay and the administrator has nothing to pay .
that is called the subsidiary liability of the parent .
I see .
so attorney do you mean the parent of the child who is bullied and has acquired physical damage needs to file a case against the school ?
oh -- that is the last -- that is the last course of action .
I see .
but of course in all dispute there should be a dialogue first .
but if there isn't any dialogue for a settlement because people do not admit then perhaps that should be filed in the court for those who are liable should be accounted for .
Ma'am Lerma were you able to talk the parents of -- those who bullied your kid ?
yes .
the -- the -- school were you also able to talk to them ?
<no-speech>
yes but the school puts the accountability of the liability to the parents of the child .
you know -- you know well it is understandable as stated by the law that they are primarily held accountable .
yes .
so they are passing the responsibility to one another .
they are passing the responsibility to one another Ma'am Lerma .
you -- you should be the one who needs to be careful here .
you should know what the law states very well .
I will repeat .
on the damages acquired of someone in minor age the student should primarily be held accountable the school teacher administrators of that school and if those people or institutions have nothing to pay to compensate the damages the parents are secondarily held accountable .
that is it .
so -- the teacher institution the school and the administrator .
administrator correct yes and the parents should be next .
yes .
if they have nothing to pay you for the expenses it will be on the school's .
but if the school proves that they have made -- appropriate action .
it means the -- the due diligence the necessary safeguard to avoid it and it still happens then perhaps they would be saved from the accountability .
that's it Ma'am Lerma so can we ask for a compensation for the damages ?
oh yes you can .
you can -- you can ask for that .
Ma'am Lerma do you have something to ask (()) ?
<no-speech>
that -- that's it .
so you can -- that's it the school can because the parents of the child seems slightly (()) they are not %incomplete
they are also having difficulty in %incomplete
because of finances .
also the principle Ma'am Lerma the parents have really the primary care for the child .
but if they are going to the give their custody -- of their children temporarily to a school for almost a day it is on the care and management of the school those who are taking care of them will answer .
that's it Ma'am Lerma .
