Wednesday, August 14, 2013
relocation plan of the government, condemned by the squatters
press release
relocation plan of the government, condemned by the poor squatters
suspend it yet until there is no guarantee in work, livelihood and social services
"the housing project of the Aquino government in his Philippine Development Plan (2011-2016) is sculpted on the quote, "life is beautiful with a house and livelihood," believe it or not but the poor agree in their theme but it seems that the officials of the government involved in Oplan Likas are turning their backs," statement by Jhun Manlulu, President of Pinatag Neighborhood Association (PNA), an organization of residents beside San Juan river in Tatalon, City of Quezon.
Manlulu, a former OFW who is travelling in his tricycle, reacted when he heard that the first group transferred to Muzon, San Jose City, Bulacan is obligated to endure the insufficient supply of water and electricity.
"if summed up, the lack of water and electricity is the welcome to their miserable situation, because the lack of opportunity in work and livelihood where they are transferred.
surely, agony is expected to all residents which the government wants to transfer to these relocation sites," warned by Manlulu.
Manlulu added, "no debate, the riverside is a danger zone and no sane person is going to choose that place for his family but the government has no other plans aside from transferring us from a dangerous place to a more dangerous place, where in fact, this is killing our livelihood and family."
the residents of Tatalon are believing that the government needs to suspend the eviction and relocation programs yet because it has not been giving work guarantee, livelihood and even the bases for public service and infrastructures are insufficient to say that the relocation sites are decent and humane.
the residents also believe that they are only going to reconsider the relocation if the Department Department of Interior and Local Government, National Housing Authority and other agencies completed the basis of requisites for a decent and humane living.
"a faltering failure is waiting the whole housing program of the government not because they rushed the implementation of Oplan Likas but because they have not given value to the most important part for us to live, the livelihood because we need to live..
even the governor of Bulacan issued a moratorium in the entry of poor families because he knows that the local government does not have the capacity to accept numerous people while nothing goes into the business to create livelihood and opportunity for livelihood.
do not be shocked if there are reports that those who are relocated have been transferring to Manila to search for jobs there," Manlulu explained.
Manlulu criticized the quick implementation of Oplan Likas in San Juan last week.
"the scheme of Secretary Roxas, Soliman, Singson and other local officials in San Juan to look handsome is revealed to be a scheme to become ugly.
all smiles in front of the cameras as if they have done something good but the only thing they have done is to force the residents to relocate to a more dangerous place to live.
Manlulu is calling to his co-leaders for the poor in various organizations not to fear the statement of the government officials and join forces to strengthen their voices against the corrupt relocation program.
supported by other organizations for the poor, Manlulu pleaded and other residents of Tatalon to join in the protest if the government will not suspend their program.
