teachers should be supported: I received a press release from the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) where head of the agency is encouraging returning overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) who are licensed teachers to teach in the country's public schools.
it was stated in the press release that under the program "in the Philippines, you are the ma'am/sir (SPIMS)", overseas Filipino workers who passed the licensure examination for teachers (LET) are allowed to apply to be able to teach in our public schools.
the SPIMS is the reintegration program for overseas Filipino workers who returned this for the past three years and had experience in teaching for the past five years.
while those who taught for more than five years ago or those who don't have experience are required to undergo an online refresher course.
according to labor secretary Silvestre H. Bello III, the program aims to give decent and regular jobs to past overseas Filipino workers who came home to become public school teachers.
the secretary also said that the program would help mitigate the lack of teachers in schools around the country, especially in provinces and remote places.
however, the press release is laughable and twisted since it is obvious that its only objective is to get publicity and there is no interest in putting the contents of the news in action.
we noticed this since there were no other figures mentioned, for example, there was no mention on how much the salary of the teachers would be if ever they will teach here.
we know that there is a stark difference in the salary of teachers teaching in other countries, most especially those who are in rich countries like the United States and Europe, compared to the salary that the government is capable of giving.
the press release by DOLE would be more believable if they already included the potential salary of the teachers and a comparison against what they are receiving in other counties was provided.
I would just like to clear that I am not against the program because if the government will be able to provide a decent salary to our teachers, they would have no reason to leave and be apart from their families.
because its already certain that Filipino families would be the beneficiaries but the government needs to provide the appropriate and right salary.
open line/Bobby Ricohermoso
