aside from flower shops surely families and couples will also rush to hotels and restaurants this Valentine's day .
oh don't worry because either you have a tight or big budget there are options for your Valentine treat .
patrolling Yvonne Camlian .
<no-speech>
do you already have plans for Valentine's Day ?
if you don't have a date don't worry .
you can take your family or your friends in your valentine's celebration .
on this day of hearts you will surely get excited from the promos and packages of hotels and restaurants .
for those who want to staycation in the city there are discounts in hotels right now .
<no-speech>
here at San Miguel Street the Feb-tastic promo of a four star hotel is featured .
there is a twenty percent discount in all their rooms from five thousand pesos to four thousand pesos only .
they will also be serving a barbecue dinner and valentine menu this February thirteen until fourteen .
the ambience is very ideal for lovers' .
so if you come here on valentine's you can really feel that love is in the air .
affordable is the valentine offer of a suite at Sampaguita street .
you can stay overnight as a pair or as a family in their superior room .
with the cost of one thousand eight pesos until one thousand five hundred fifty pesos inclusive of breakfast .
here at laurel street also promo rated are these morocco rooms .
if you want to go solo it is around seven hundred eighty-eight pesos per room for the standard single room .
nine hundred ninety nine pesos for the family room .
for those looking for a place to eat almost all restaurants have their own gimmick like an eat all you can promo with inclusion -- entertainment .
in a food place here at national highway there is an increasing number of reservations for restaurants for their valentine's day blow-out for couples group of friends and families .
they will ensure that whichever -- whichever is desired by the two in the couple and you enjoy the food you also enjoy the day .
there is a buffet which costs four hundred fifty pesos already good for four persons .
also this restaurant serves an eat-all-you-can for an amount of five hundred pesos per head .
it is complete with seafood .
we also have chicken and also pork .
then has dessert .
so for -- really for the family .
worth it .
they are really full .
does not need to spend much .
always have a Valentine day treat that fits our budget just be wise .
beyond any celebration .
it is still important to be with the people important in our life and make them feel our love .
Yvonne Camlian .
