the alleged use of biological warfare by the rebel group New People's Army or N_P_A will be investigated .
that is after the land mine that exploded causing the injury of four soldiers in Pantukan Compostela Valley was discovered to be mixed with toxic .
supposedly it is possible that the land mine was mixed with toxin from snake venom as well as human waste .
Raffy Tima has a report live from Quezon City .
Raffy .
<no-speech>
Jessica it is only now that the Commission on Human Rights heard of the use of (())(()) needs to be thoroughly investigated (()) .
<no-speech>
the military is used to facing danger .
they are ready to catch bullets and be used as pawns for the bombs from the rebels .
but it seems like they were not prepared for this .
the explosion of a land mine mixed with toxin in Pantukas Compostela Valley .
seven soldiers were injured and because the shrapnel of the bomb supposedly planted by the New People's Army includes poison the soldiers sustained bigger damage .
the wounds ma'am they really look like uh ma'am they really mixed a lot (()) of chemicals ma'am .
because uh ma'am the skin seems to have really burned ma'am .
a former rebel who is now a member of the CAFGU supposedly detailed the origin of the toxin in the bomb .
(()) .
(()) .
(()) .
in the doctors' examination the bombs had enterobacter cloacae and streptococcus (()) .
some of their effects are lower temperature of the patient and gradual loss of oxygen in the body that can result in cardiac arrest .
if it is not prevented it can spread to the whole body in the blood stream like you can have sepsis and can cause your death .
the doctor we talked to explained that it can affect the patient via injection .
but what if it exploded and the uh those uh were ingested by him right ?
that can become uh become cause of disease .
it does not go through the skin .
according to the Commission on Human Rights the use of toxins is biological warfare .
it is a serious allegation and needs to be investigated .
it is supposedly a clear violation of the agreement signed by the C_P_P-N_P_A and government of the Philippines .
in their case if it can be shown that first of all there's already violation there in the used of landmines and then they will add toxic uh materials and waste .
this puts them in question with respect to their the uh the integrity of their forces .
the use of chemical or biological weapons is strictly banned under the International Humanitarian Law or I_H_L particularly the Geneva protocol .
even if it still needs to be proved that the N_P_A voluntarily included bacterial infection in the bombs they used the very use of land mine is already a violation .
when proven the Armed Forces of the Philippines can report the C_P_P-N_P_A to the United Nations or to the Hague Netherlands which mediates peace talks between the government of the Philippines and the communist group .
A_F_P Eastern Mindanao Command already ordered all their units to help in the investigation of the P_N_P so they can file charges .
<no-speech>
according to A_F_P Jessica they will pursue the collection of evidence in order to file charges to the uh culprit behind the land mine that supposedly contains bacteria .
even if there have long been incidents of land mines in the forces of the rebel group it is only now that they experienced being infected by a land mine that exploded Jessica .
okay can you please repeat the name of the bacteria found there in the shrapnel from the land mine Raffy ?
Jessica according to the doctors who culture these bacteria they are enterobacter cloacae and streptococcus agalactiae .
these are supposedly the bacteria usually found in our intestines and can infect when they contaminate other people Jessica .
okay and it is dangerous right when mixed because it will go to the body hit by the landmine and mix with the blood .
what kinds of illnesses can cause these bacteria ?
<no-speech>
well Jessica according to the doctor we talked to they are (()) it cannot be seen but it is rich in these two bacteria .
and it results in dehydration of the body and the blood gets poison this is what is called sepsis and if it is really not treated it will end up in septic shock and the patient will have a cardiac arrest and can cause his death if it is really not treated in a hospital Jessica and let us just emphasize it is only now that this kind of weapon was revealed or existed if there really is it is already confirmed (()) the doctors in Davao already have a report right they identified the bacteria it is only now that this happened right Raffy ?
you have covered the military for a long time .
<no-speech>
yes Jessica we hear about land mines but the use of biological weapons because the C_H_R considers it a biological weapon we haven't heard of it yet .
even if the use of poison uh is done being done too Jessica by different sectors .
but this use of biological weapon through these bacteria found in the stool it is only now we have heard of it .
but according to the C_H_R it still needs to be investigated especially because according to the doctor we talked to it is somewhat difficult to happen because the one uh the two bacteria we mentioned earlier has a life span so in order for them to be effective they need to be placed there in the bomb some less than an hour or less than two hours before it explodes so it is more effective and it can't easily infect through wounds .
it really needs to be ingested so whether it is the real cause of the soldiers' poisoning should be really investigated .
okay and can I just mention that every time there is a demolition the police complain that they are thrown bottles containing dirty stuff including human waste .
this is somewhat similar in any case what will the C_H_R do with this incident ?
<no-speech>
actually Jessica earlier when I talked to the C_H_R the staff themselves experienced something like this in an impending demolition .
they were there to observe and in order to see what will be the result of that impending demolition .
their very staff were thrown human waste .
well what they did is of course immediately return to their office and bathe .
fortunately their uh did not become sick here in this case there is uh definite .
here in this case Jessica the suggestion Jes the suggestion of the C_H_R Jessica is if it is proven to have truth it needs to be reported of course file charges on the culprit but should be reported to the U_N or to the Hague in which it mediates between the government of the Philippines and the C_P_P-N_P_A here in our peace talks .
they should be the ones to receive complaints so the C_P_P-N_P_A can be said to violate the uh adhering to the International Humanitarian Law Jessica okay thank you very much Raffy .
