comply with the regulations of the people's government regarding the election campaigns
Communist Party of the Philippines February 17, 2013
translation of: abide by the people's government guidelines regarding election campaigns
all candidates and their parties joining the election on May who plan to conduct their political activities inside the territory of the People's Democratic Government should follow all the ruling guidelines and make sure to obtain permission from the authorized revolutionary committee.
these guidelines are assuring that the reactionary election will be done without violating the rights and interests of the citizens and in a peaceful, orderly and beneficial way for the citizens.
the candidates and their representatives are permitted to enter the territories of the People's Democratic Government to be able to campaign if they are going to follow the guidelines in relation to the conduct for political campaigns in relation to the reactionary election.
they are prohibited to bring along their private armed goons or military, police or paramilitary aide.
they should not be tolerated to scare, threat or force the citizens or use violence against the opposing political camp.
they should not be allowed to buy votes or bribe the leaders of the communities in exchange of a vote.
they are going to follow the schedules set by the local committees to avoid in overlapping the schedule of other candidates and for this not to be the cause of hassle in economical, political and cultural activities in the place.
they will be encouraged to do a face to face dialogue with the citizens in order for them to have a chance to listen to the complaints of the citizens and express their opinion and spread their platform of governance.
the People's Democratic Government has a right to prohibit the candidates with serious crimes to the citizens and to the revolutionary movement.
included here are those downright corrupt officials of the government, those with severe cases of abuses on human rights, drug lords and those people who are running and giving protection to the criminal syndicates.
will be prohibited also are those candidates who are using the election campaign to let the entry of spy agents of the military and police in the areas within the jurisdiction of the revolutionary authorities.
these guidelines are made in accordance to the plea of the Filipino people.
long have they been victims of rotten electoral system.
under the reigning system, exterminating are the dirty reactionary politicians, tyrant landlords and brutal warlord and subjugating the citizens through force, threat and bribe in their push to be elected.
the reactionary election has never been about democratic discourses, instead, these are being decided on by the armed force and wealth to force and bribe in order to sit on power.
if already in power, these reactionary politicians are using the bureaucracy and the oppressive instruments to intensify the suppression and in taking advantage of the citizens.
the surfacing and having a People's Democratic Government while there is still a reigning reactionary government of huge landlords and bourgeoisie buyers is giving an instrument to the citizens to face the reactionary elections, fight against its most brutal and anti-democratic aspect and can get benefits from these.
in implementing these guidelines, the People's Democratic Government effectively lessen the incidents of violence in relation to the conduct of reactionary election in the places within its jurisdiction.
in the past years, the reactionary regime and its armed forces are degrading these guidelines encompassing the reactionary election in the places of jurisdiction by the People's Democratic Government.
objective of this destructive campaign is to cover the truth that the revolutionary movement effectively fulfill its obligation of stately power and that same stately power is hugely known and respected.
despite of those anti-revolutionary propaganda, the candidates and political parties are coming closer to the revolutionary authorities to comply with the guidelines and rules of the People's Democratic Government.
the meetings on national, regional, provincial and local ranks are freely conducted to discuss the problem of the citizens, the platforms of the candidates and the programs and rules of revolutionary movement.
those meetings are giving opportunities to discuss the things of possible cooperation and coordination including the support on agricultural production, raising the profit in the provinces and advancing education, literacy, taking care of health and other programs of the People's Democratic Government.
part is the rottenness of the reactionary election and reactionary bureaucratic system, of subjugating and advantageous reigning system which has a goal to fail the Filipino citizens and replace it with a real democratic system of governance.
within the places of jurisdiction of the People's Democratic Government, the said system of democratic governance is fulfilling its duty and progressing where the citizens are making a real democratic election to elect their officials and representatives from their ranks and participate fully in the political and state actions.
