heat stroke and the oven MRT and LRT
citizens affected by heat stroke because of the severely hot weather are increasing.
many pets, like water buffalos and cows, are also dying because of the extremely hot weather.
they also get heat stroke.
but what is worrisome is the heat stroke that affects people.
because if you do not die, your family, even your neighbors, will get dragged into your distress.
a big loss.
for farmers, the death of their partners in farming, the water buffalo and cow, due to the hot weather is a big loss.
because farmers use the water buffalos and cows in plowing farm fields, towing their carts while shopping at the market, selling their products and hauling their products, like boho and others, from the mountain.
next to this is the farmers' use of machines, which do nothing but eat up their earnings through very expensive petroleum products and parts.
this is where the difficulty of having no partners is felt by the farmers.
heat stroke in humans.
it is severe when heat stroke affects people.
if you do not die, you will be paralyzed for a long time.
and if you are the head of the family or supporting your family, you can just imagine the kind of suffering that your family will experience.
it is okay if you are rich and the needs of your family isn't your problem.
but what if you are just a common citizen?
or what if you are living from hand to mouth?
I should have just died.
for a father or mother who is seeing his or her family suffering, he or she would just usually say, "I should have just died."
because getting sick with heat stroke is associated with a child dropping out from school, crisis in electricity and water utility bills, crisis in buying medicine and hospitalization and other crises like getting kicked out of your rented house or housing paid by installment.
with difficult times right now and with the government itself admitting that poverty and hunger is really widespread.
15 years of progress.
son of a bitch. the government is saying that it would take 15 years before ordinary citizens could feel what they are boasting about as the progress of my beloved country.
15 years?
how could this happen when some Filipinos manage to be among the richest in the world in just four - six years because of the Philippines' progress?
or if you are a senator and congressman, or in the Palace of Malacanang, it would just take you months or years to be safe from the crises that we already mentioned.
with the number or enormity of stolen national funds from the government.
right, Madame Janet Lim-Napoles?
in this case, those who get affected by heat stroke will have to wait for 15 years before they can have the money to buy medicine and be safe from the crises that we mentioned.
son of 15 wasps! can you please shut up.
heat stroke at the MRT and LRT.
the complaints against the MRT and LRT, brothers, happen daily.
many of its cars do not have air-conditioning.
does their management know that many are having difficulty in breathing and there are some who collapse because of the heat in the cars of these trains?
this should be checked by the management of the two railways.
but it is the greater duty of the government to ensure that the passengers are safe from sickness.
the government needs to convince the management to put an air conditioner in each car.
if not, the passengers should not be packed tightly as if in a can of sardines to avoid any illness, like what is created by the hot weather.
in other words, brothers, vans should not be allowed to be overloaded and it needs to be ensured that passengers are able to breathe and will not be squished like sardines while they are riding.
corruption in the LRT-MRT.
perhaps the citizens would not experience so much crisis in riding the LRT-MRT if there was no corruption in the construction, maintenance and improvement of the railways.
like here in the new cars that are supposed to be for the MRT, it was allegedly filled with corruption.
and its result, it would allegedly reach three years before all the cars for it gets here.
this means that the cars are faulty, and for three years many would feel hot inside them.
there is no news on what people from the LRT would do, which is complained about even more by passengers because of the lack of air-conditioning in many of its cars.
President Noynoy, what is this?
we might be alarmed when this LRT-MRT becomes the cause of death or severe illness due to heat stroke.
demand versus MRT-LRT.
there really is a big possibility of someone getting heat stroke in the MRT-LRT.
can they be demanded if their passengers get sick?
how can the government help would-be victims of the stove-like LRT and MRT?
or are the people on their own?
