Ricky's mistake
many has already written about the controversial interview of Ricky Lo, showbiz columnist, with Anne Hathaway, famous American actress.
aside from Lo's friends in showbiz, there are more people who bashes him than those that defends him.
what, what was his mistake in interview with Hathaway?
I think, in the content and form.
on content, you can see that Lo's questions are personal, unprofessional; it was more about Hathaway as a person and actress, and not about the film.
perhaps, what Lo was thinking was how to sell the film and story, and he thought in terms of personal, hence, he also asked a lot about Lea Salonga.
on form, being direct was Lo's scheme, jumping from one subject to another, without going deep into Hathaway's answer about the film.
in her irritation, Hathaway's answer was sharp in Lo's last question. it really seemed that Lo wanted to hear himself more rather than what the interviewee was saying.
what's disturbing is Lo did the interview gracefully; you can feel his authority in the Philippines.
he was oblivious to Hathaway refusing to answer his questions that seemed to be very personal.
he didn't change his way and questions, asserted his habit in television with artists in the country.
as one of the biggest reporters in showbiz, with his power and riches, Lo represents the way of local industry in entertainment.
he treated his interview with Hathaway the same way he treats his interview with artists in the country: digging into personal life and with impatient form.
and with Lo's mistake, you'll be able to see other mistakes of showbiz in the country: first, depending on the personal life of the artists to sell a film and other projects.
second, the excessive authority of the powerful in showbiz - the columnists, managers, and stations of television - dictating the artists.
almost simultaneous with the interview with Hathaway, the issue about Kim Chiu, Maja Salvador, and Gerald Anderson came out, even implicating Sarah Geronimo.
other suspects that this is to sell the television series of the first two.
GMA 7 also filed a case against Sarah Lahbati for saying anomalies about managing artists.
just think about the what the artists go through.
they need to play along with the made-up stories about their personal lives just to sell.
they need to be respectful to the powerful people who deducts their incomes, because they can ruin their "career" - and others really gives threats such as this.
there probably are problems like these in the showbiz of US, probably not; I can't say.
what's sure is the authority between Hathaway and Lo are of not the same level.
Lo can't destroy Hathaway's career, like how he can with the artists of the country; the problem is he acted like he can.
and Hathaway retaliated.
because she was seen in the Occupy protest in US, and supports the campaign of One Billion Rising against violence against women, there's more basis to think that she wasn't just irritable that day.
perhaps she wanted to make a point in front of the unprofessional interview of Lo.
funnily, it seemed like Hathaway retaliated for the Pinoy artists.
she was able to do that the local artists can't.
oddly, because the industry of US entertainment where she came from is also responsible - for putting films and television shows of Philippines in crisis - for what the artists of the country are going through.
