bottles, news papers, business and the Abu Sayyaf: every time the Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG) commits cruelties and crimes, the military operation is intensified - not only to defeat but to eradicate the ASG.
and that is the exact command given by President Benigno Aquino III to the military and the police in Basilan after the ambush and murder by the ASG of the young 2nd Lieutenant Jun Galima Corpuz, who just graduated from the Philippine Military Academy this March 2014 and his five men.
even the governor of the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) Mujib Hattaman and the twelve councilman of the provinces that belong to the ARMM are calling for an "all out war" against the terrorist ASG.
but there have already been multiple comprehensive operations against the ASG since 1993 and until now they haven't been eradicated.
we understand the outburst of emotions from the commander-in-chief and the councilmen of the region of ARMM.
but the army is aware and our fellowmen should understand that completely defeating the ASG is not that easy.
since 1993, when the first comprehensive offensive by the Navy-Marines against the ASG was launched, several men from their ranks have already fallen.
and for the following years of the operation with the Army and Air Force, they already killed known leaders such as Janjalani, Abu Sabaya, commander Robot and others.
but instead of disappearing, the terrorist group persevered and became more violent and daring in their criminal activities.
the ASG beheads and neuters the soldiers they have killed.
the women that they capture, or like then take by force, are raped.
and these detestable crimes that they commit are sometimes recorded in video and uploaded to social media.
the criminal activities of the ASG, including kidnapping for ransom, are expanding.
if the first recorded kidnapping case of the 5-year old Luis Anthony Biel in 1993 was in Basilan, they are now venturing into different places to look for kidnap victims.
with their roots in Basilan and Sulu, the ASG has already reached the Sipadan Resort in Malaysia or the Dos Palmas Resort and other places in Palawan.
they only release the captives after the ransom or "board and lodging" payment has been made.
and allegedly, the latest reported ransom payment reached P250 million for the release of 2 German nationals who were kidnapped in Palawan and brought to Sulu.
the question now is, is the military able to eradicate the Abu Sayyaf?
if the only and dated strategy of the military is that only the military will act to eradicate the terrorist group, they are doomed to fail.
we need to see and know the true "face" of the problem which is the ASG.
the "eradication" of the ASG, like the command given by President PNoy, is not only an issue of armaments and ability (however, the ability and the modern armaments of the terrorist group could no longer be discounted).
thanks to the vast amounts of ransom money they use to buy modern armaments.
equipment that can stand off, if not overpower, the armaments being used by the government forces.
besides the fact that the ASG is already well versed in the mountains of Sulu and Basilan, it is also easy for them to mingle and live with the citizens.
most of the settlers there are their relatives who may be benefiting form them or sheltering them or both.
there are problems and deficiencies that compel ordinary citizens to join the ASG.
examples of these are the lack of proper education, poverty, or lack of sources of income.
and the worst is the widespread of the new, secured, and easier way to earn a lot of money - kidnapping for ransom.
and for places that are struggling like Sulu and Basilan where it is in the culture of our Muslim brethren to own armaments, the promise of money and arms is an easy way to convince citizens to join the terrorist group.
currently, kidnapping for ransom is almost becoming an industry.
seemed to have become more organized and already have a system to follow.
there are people who are not really members of the ASG that kidnap victims themselves and bring them over to the ASG camp afterwards to be turned over in exchange for a small payment.
the professional negotiators of the ASG will be the ones talking with the local government (or to foreign governments if the victim is foreign) to facilitate an exchange of the victim for a specified amount.
similar are the dealers who after collecting bottles and newspapers bring them over to the junk shop in exchange for a small sum.
and the junk shop will be responsible for bringing them over to Manila in exchange for a huge sum.
a lot of people want to become "dealers of bottles and news papers".
if not, how can one explain tourists like Martin and Gracia Burnham who were kidnapped in Sipadan, Malaysia or the two Germans having their vacation in a resort in Palawan being located and targeted for kidnapping?
this means that the ASG probably has accomplices who are at resorts and give them tips on who to kidnap.
the terrorists are clever.
they are using the stolen money to buy the trust of the struggling people.
in exchange for the money, the people are sheltering and defending the ASG who, in their eyes, are like "Robin Hoods" - stealing money to distribute to the poor.
if the problem with the ASG is this complicated, how will they be defeated and eradicated by the armed forces?
that is what we will discuss tomorrow in this column.
for your reactions, send them to edarevalo90@yahoo.com or tweet @atty_edarevalo.
a mariner's point / Attorney Edgard Arevalo
