Pangilinan is not needed in BuCor
because the director of the New Bilibid Prisons (NBP) Retired General Gaudencio Pangilinan, has been away for months, there are many mysterious happenings in the said national prison in Muntinlupa.
anyway, even if Pangilinan was there, the anomaly and corruption could not be stopped, what about now that he is on leave?
naturally, the entry of paraphernalia in NBP is continuous such as drugs and fresh meat or women selling momentary pleasures.
who is the mastermind of this kind of activity?
of course, the ones who used to benefit from the activities in which officials and members of the BuCor profit a lot of money from.
according to some text messages, from the inmates themselves, the employees of the jail are making foolishness here.
they can easily escape from Justice Secretary Leila de Lima who is not watching them for 24 hours to patrol.
and why President Benigno Aquino is forcing not to remove Pangilinan from his position when he is not effective here?
he has done a lot of mistakes in the agency where he is gaining profit from, so he is also a hot item in the eyes of the media.
if former Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency Director Undersecretary Jose Gutierrez was made to forcibly resign, why could he not do it to Pangilinan?
it is not true that he has done so much to make him win in the previous election.
even if investigated, it is not only the widespread of drugs and prostitution which have worsened in jail when he sat on the position but also corruption such as the purchase of whatever instruments, favoring catering services and even the transfer of inmates to the colonies are done to be profited from.
the friends and acquaintances of Pangilinan were given favors during his time.
upon taking his seat, didn't he assign to his former classmate Colonel Rolando Maclang the negotiation with the rich Chinese who are all imprisoned in the national jail because of drug cases?
they sent other prisoners to far colonies and in the end, they pleaded to make an arrangement to them to be brought back to Muntinlupa.
and so, not only coins of money went to their pockets but millions.
they also took the small money of the prisoners who have the ability to go to the office of Maclang, appointed by Pangilinan as his right hand, in exchange of special treatment or freedom in jail.
it was exposed that Rolito Go can go out and enter the jail to gamble wherever casino in Metro Manila and even outside it.
even the families of the prisoners who are visiting need to put a guard and even the mayors are delegated by the officials of the national jail to get an interest.
so it is already time to stop these kinds of wrongdoings in jail.
needs to appoint an official who has a heart to stop the corruption and can act on his duty even if there will be some who would be crossed over in the change to be done in the BuCor.
