another crime of Palparan
by Teo S. Marasigan
August 18, 2014
speech that wasn't delivered in the picket in front of National Bureau of Investigation last morning of August 12.
friends and family! Major Genereal Jovito Palparan has another crime to the Filipinos, aside from the many extrajudicial cases of murder, kidnapping, and other violation of human rights.
and that crime is in line with how he violated human rights. he did this brazenly, and bluntly, almost as if announcing it.
he comes to one region, and the violation of human rights will increase there.
but he says it without a blink of an eye, in front of a camera, that it wasn't his people who killed, that there were no missing from the military camp, that it wasn't his fault.
in one interview, he said that he only gives "inspiration" for the violations.
he also was unstoppable in giving excuses for this - along with the tyranny in villages of ordinary people.
in one State of the Nation Address or SONA, Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo even praised him.
there was a time that it became ordinary for activists to receive text messages about co-activists that were recent victims of murder and kidnapping - in consecutive days.
the photos of the murdered and kidnapped; sometimes even with bloody corpse- the mother and father, wife, children, sibling, friend, and co-activists was all over the media, especially the alternative media.
friends and family! Palparan is insulting us Filipinos!
every murder, kidnapping, and violation of human rights is a spit to the face of the town.
he slapped to our faces that we can't do anything, that we can't stop him, and that we don't have any power to hold it against him.
but this morning, friends and family, we're standing here in front of NBI to prove that Palparan is wrong.
Palparan is wrong!
government of Noynoy Aquino will not lift Palparan unless there are strong protests and disapproval of the people to the Pork Barrel King because of his corruption in the government.
Noynoy is searching for a way to smell good to the public, and is further condemning Gloria as the enemy, according to him.
let's make it clear: the people doesn't owe the government of Aquino for lifting Palparan; this has been a long time debt of the government of Aquino to us!
Palparan won't also be lifted if it weren't for the efforts of the people in many years to unveil him as a murderer.
Palparan won't be lifted if it weren't for the efforts of the people in many years to fight Gloria, a cheater, corrupt, fascist, and puppet.
let's remember: warrant of arrest was drawn to Palparan when the Aquino government wanted to show how serious they are in holding Gloria responsible.
friends and family. our protests to achieve peace and to hold Palparan responsible doesn't end here; in fact, this is just the start of of our protests.
we need to assure that there will be no special treatments for him, that he will be sentenced guilty, and rot in jail.
what we want to say: there might be no true justice for the people under the system ruled by some rich and powerful, we can make them responsible in different ways, especially the biggest murderer of the town.
regardless of how slow the wheel of justice for the people will turn, we can make them pay!
this day, we have more proof to say: because of the continuous fight of the people, because of the stronger fight of the people, there will be a day for the fascists. they will have their day!
long live the people who fight!
we continue to shout and fight: justice, justice, justice!
18 August 2014
