eroticism in words and images
by Rolando B. Tolentino May 5, 2012
a review of The Dance of the Two Left Feet (Alvin Yapan, 2011)
in indie cinema, usually there are only two models-commercial, which follows the template of the genre and narrative development, that has a calculated brilliance because it is in indie cinema, and a higher production value, similar to a commercial movie; and neorealism which is a day-in-the-life-of that has a capacity to give a bold social commentary, be gritty in everyday details, and is open-ended in concluding the narrative.
Alvin Yapan is introducing, perhaps, what could be the third model, in his The Dance of the Two Left Feet, the literary mode.
on the other side, this is on the level of abstraction and metaphysics, or has the capacity to discuss the universal and trans-historical truth and the theme is about life and love.
on the other hand, because the chosen literature is rooted in Filipino culture, this is anchored on the societal and historical condition of the country - in film, the contemporary nation.
the literary mode has the capacity to temporarily unload the baggage of indie cinema - as anti-thesis of the commercial cinema, the marking of the contrary possibility of the indie even if the trajectory or/and the formula to give social commentary is commercial - and discussing the aspect of citizenship and nationhood which is not yet in its shadows.
it works and succeeds because the bet is in the level of idea and concept, similar to if and maybe, something like this will be talked about. in the exploration of Yapan, as a scriptwriter and director, in the literary mode, the characters and their conflict in life are shown as figurative: a theater teacher and dances to live alone but gathering strength in the imagination of a forced but temporary community of classes; a rich male student who is aspiring to gain points from the teacher and used his ability to enter her dance classes; and a poor male student who has desires for his rich classmate.
they are only able to talk in literature and dance, or double-speak.
using the utterance and discourse of feminist poems, the eroticism of words and images are utilized to express the real feelings for each other.
in the movie, the double-speak happens between the parallel editing of the two scenes: the scene where the poem is recited, and the scene which is the context of the recitation of the poem.
Jean Garcia and Paulo Avelino in the film, "The Dance of Two Left Feet" cannot tell their true feelings for each other.
in the poem, this is expressed, and through dance, this is seen.
abstraction contextualization abstraction until the last scene of the movie, the unrequited love of the poor man, Dennis, the insensitive rich man, Marlon, has a connection to the epic dance of Humadapnon - the matching of strength and war which ended in a close-up shot of the two without movement, aside from the Marlon's one tear flowing out.
there are some issues pointed out by the film: the class issue of the different individual agencies of Marlon and Dennis, and the different recourse to their predicament and feelings; and the queer utilization of the feminist poems of Rebecca Anonuevo, Joi Barrios, Merlinda Bobis, Ophelia Dimalanta, Ruth Elynia Mabanglo and Benilda Santos as deep mental reservoir of real emotions, especially of the homoeroticism of the two men.
the power of the literary mode is its capacity to make abstraction of the conditional narrative, and if it is, it will have a space to breathe from society and history.
its limitation is closed with the possibility to go out of the cage of the literary mode, literature and arts itself.
this is also observed in the film through the one-dimensionality of the characters, and the rendering of its subtle acting and transformation is chased in the last minute, which only happened in the last two scenes of the film for the two men.
I am not saying that the actors are not good, but the foundation of their character in the narrative is based on the figurative level - as a way of mental conception of the universal and trans-historical theme.
in the film, poetry, dance and arts are the repositories of real feelings.
the moment of eros and eroticism happens effectively through seeing and observing, in the sociability of the characters reverberated through poetry and dance.
eros is signaled through a slow motion as a rhythmic tool to lengthen the sensation of the moment.
Yapan knows, as a teacher of literature himself, the limitation of the literary mode.
therefore, in the closing credits, as a Brechtian self-reflexive gesture, he included a production footage.
to connect the dismissed social level, then, a reminder that the what has been witnessed is only a film, that the context of the literary mode is society and history itself, including its creator, the author of the film.
the film of Yapan is an important intervention because it has an offering of something new, and from here, the potentiality of the literary mode can be enriched.
additional effectiveness of the cinematography of Arvin Viola, editing of Mai Dionisio and music of Christine Muyco and Jema Pamintuan. the Dance of the Two Left Feet truly glittered, and it can be said that this film is important in the golden age of indie cinema.
