removal of Filipino from college curriculum was protested against.
by Tomas U. Santos - August 21, 2014
the university explicitly protested against the order of the Commission on Higher Education (CHEd) to exclude Filipino in college in accordance with the new curriculum of K-12.
as a response to the language problem being faced by the country regarding the exclusion of Filipino in college, the university, led by the Department of Filipino, joined in the celebration of the "Month of National Language" by holding the Research 2014 and Language Rescue on the 4th and 6th of August at the AMV College of Accountancy Multi-Purpose Hall.
the Research is a free symposium established by the Pambansang Samahan sa Linggwistika at Literaturang Filipino (PSLLF), which aims to gather and encourage teachers, professors, students, scholars and writers of Filipino to join and be involved in the research of various experts about the changes and evolution of the Filipino language.
on the other hand, Language Rescue is a movement with the theme, "Thomasian for the Filipino Language and Patriotic Education", which aims to explain the current language issue regarding K-12 to everyone.
the protest of linguists against the order released by CHed, which is to exclude teaching Filipino in college in order to give way to the improvement of the knowledge of students about science, mathematics and even technology, became the main topic in the two discussions.
this is in preparation for the upcoming integration of countries, who are included in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in 2015.
explained by CHEd, this is a step that is needed for Filipinos to easily cope with the surge of globalization.
as protested by Melania Abad-Flores, professor of Filipino in the University of the Philippines-Diliman (UP-Diliman), it should be remembered that globalization does not only bring benefits because it makes a country lose its own identity with the rise of foreign ideologies.
"the Philippines is already small, and we are also scattered. we already have no concept of being a 'country', then we will be swallowed by the concept of globalization," said Flores.
she also admitted that since 1987, there is still no law designating the Filipino language to be used as the language for teaching and learning in order for the country to be united.
"this language will be the one to give us knowledge, courage and strength, which would serve as our principal investment as a country," she stressed.
according to Ramon Guillermo, also a professor of Filipino in UP-Diliman, if Filipinos think that the English language is really the language that would push the economy of the country and would bring progress and prosperity in the life of every Filipino, we should have been prosperous a long time ago like other countries.
"it was in the 1990's when Filipinos started to speak English. it was said that English is the language for globalization. if this is the case, where should the Philippines be today if we have been speaking English for a long time?" he said.
Guillermo also added, progressive countries are able to maintain the study of their language until college especially in Europe, one concrete proof that one's own language is not a hindrance to progress.
"their own language did not become a hindrance for other countries to become progressive, so we Filipinos should think that the Filipino language should not be an obstacle to development," he said.
for Aurora Batnag, president of PSLLF, it is important for everyone to learn and understand that the use of language is not just for communication, because its greater function is uniting and unifying the Filipino spirit.
"let us not waste the success achieved by the Filipino language in the past decades. let us continue to think, write, publish, research, discuss using Filipino in all levels of learning," she said.
Michael David San Juan, professor of Filipino at DLSU, said in agreement with Batnag, that it is through the national language that the citizens who use and support it are fully known.
"this is the language of national discourse, the language of ordinary people, the language of democratized politics and the masterpiece of regional languages in the Philippines. therefore, this is a reflection of our collective identity," he said.
