the hiring of an interventionism expert as US ambassador to the Philippines is an insult to the Filipino people
Bureau of Information
Communist Party of the Philippines
August 01, 2013
translation: appointment of interventionism expert as US ambassador insults Filipino people-CPP
according to the Communist Party of the Philippines, the hiring by President Barrack Obama of the US of Philip Goldberg, an "interventionism expert", as next US ambassador to the Philippines is a mockery and insult to the Filipino people signaling the worsening meddling and military intervention of the US on the Philippines that aims to further strengthen its control in the country and in the Asia-Pacific region.
Goldberg is set to replace Harry Thomas, US ambassador to the Philippines since 2010.
he is currently Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and Research under the US State Department.
"this is a big insult to the Filipino people that the US government is set to send as its ambassador to the country one considered persona non grata (person declared not allowed to enter a place) in one country," said the PKP.
the PKP stressed that Goldberg was dismissed as US ambassador to Bolivia in 2008 due to implementing interventionism and acts of subversion against the government of Evo Morales.
the Morales government of Bolivia boldly insists on its national sovereignty against the interventionism and foreign economic domination of the US.
the US government is famous for conducting illegal interventions in countries led by governments against the domination and imposed US regulations.
to pursue its political and military interests, the US carries out interventionism including funding and arming of opposition groups to control, destabilize and remove the political reign of governments implementing and insisting on national freedom like the governments of Venezuela, Iran and North Korea.
also, the US government carries out interventionism in countries ruled by puppet regimes that serve and push for the interest of the US.
the US gives military, financial and political support to these governments to subdue political oppression, especially those anti-imperialist mass movement with a wide mass base.
the PKP called out the Aquino government for accepting the set hiring of Goldberg and for refusing to open discussion on the dismissal of Goldberg from a diplomatic role.
according to a spokesperson of Malacañang, the Aquino government does not see any insult in the hiring of Goldberg as ambassador.
"the Amboy government of Aquino is even very happy for the hiring of Goldberg because it signals the increasing interest in the part of the US to cooperate with the Aquino government to secure the control of the US in the Philippines and further strengthen the Philippines as a military base in the Asia-Pacific," said the PKP.
"the hiring of Goldberg is part of the intensified effort of the US to set up hegemony here in the region in the tight cooperation of the puppet Aquino government."
"the hiring of Goldberg, who served as official spy of the US government, as ambassador to the Philippines is also a sign of the US plans to deepen its intervention in the Philippines," stressed the PKP.
"in the past three years of the Aquino regime, the US government has been given increasing military access to facilities for docking and landing its war ships and planes and even set to have exclusive access to parts of Subic and other major docks and airports."
"in the planned installation of Goldberg, the US promised increasing military support to the Philippines from $30 million to $50 million," stressed the PKP.
"it is set to even increase the capacity of the AFP to launch armed control of the Filipino people."
"in having strong military and political support from the US and the hiring of Goldberg as ambassador, the armed forces of the Aquino government is set to taste more intense brutality and abuse in implementing terrorist war of its Oplan Bayanihan against the Filipino people," added the PKP.
