CamSur PESO once again offering jobs abroad
January 15, 2016 Danilo Abad
City of Naga, January 15 (PIA) - more than one thousand laborers are needed today in the countries of Qatar and United Arab Emirates (UAE) through the Camarines Sur Employment Center and Lead Resources Management.
according to Sha Torallo, chief of Camarines Sur Public Employment Service Office (CamSur PESO) almost 280 male service crew, 700 female service crew, 50 waitresses, 50 car drivers, 50 line cooks, 30 receptionists, and 80 male cashiers are immediately needed today in the said countries.
Torallo said that the special recruitment activity happening will be held this coming Monday and Tuesday, January 18-19, 2016 at Capitol Main Building Lobby, Capitol Complex, Cadlan, Pili, Camarines Sur starting 8 o'clock in the morning up to 4 o'clock in the afternoon.
the applicant needs to bring the following: comprehensive resume with a detailed description of jobs, two pieces each of a 2x2 and 1x1 picture.
original and photocopied school credentials like form 137, diploma and transcript of records. valid passport and if possible bring a certificate of employment as proof of knowledge of the job chosen.
for additional details just visit the office of the Camarines Sur Employment Center in the provincial capitol or call telephone numbers 477-5858, 477-7468 or 09198775952.
you can also email or Facebook account camsur_peso@yahoo.com.
meanwhile, there is a huge opportunity that CamSur PESO will also offer those who want to work within the province of Camarines Sur and City of Naga. through Stretch Distribution Incorporated, located at Obiedo Warehouse, corner of Almeda Highway, City of Naga future field supervisors, field sales personnel, office staff, accounting staff, drivers and delivery helpers are being accepted.
the other companies looking for staff are Palino Lubes Trading (PLT) of Zone 4, Concepcion Grande, Naga City and Topserve Manpower Solutions, Incorporated also located at Geronimo Building, Barlin Street, Naga City.
this important announcement is part of the service of the provincial government as priority development programs.
(MAL/DCA-PIA5/Camarines Sur)
