almost three hundred colleges and universities wants to raise their tuition fees the next school year .
nine to ten percent is the average of those who wants to have tuition increase .
but according to the Commission on Higher Education or CHED a consultation is first needed from the students and parents before increasing the tuition fee of a school .
live from Quezon city Lala Roque has a report .
Lala ?
Jessica now is the season of graduation but it seems that parents need to think and save because there are many schools that has already advised a possible increase in tuition fees again in the next school year .
I am telling you tonight %incomplete
Kay cannot help but to cry while telling her experiences .
Kay is now a third year mass communications student in U_P Diliman .
but instead of worrying about studying she is worrying about her tuition fees for the next semester .
only one year left so that she could finish her schooling but it seems like this chance has become blurry .
she is tutoring as a side line to help her parents but their income is still not enough for their whole family .
as a proof she still has debt in the school .
I personally loaned in (()) and I haven't been able to pay now .
I am not sure if I will still be able to study next semester .
this should be a basic right which is not being given to us .
it seems there are a lot of those like Kay who struggles with the dream to graduate .
because currently there are almost three hundred colleges and university which notified the Commission on Higher Education or CHED to increase the tuition fees next school year .
an average of nine to ten percent was said to be their requested increase .
but according to CHED this does not mean that they are allowing all to increase tuition fees .
not all schools are allowed to increase right ?
because some of those that already increased last year could not increase for now because it could affect their enrollment .
but he admits that it seems that their strictness lack especially with private schools .
well let us appeal to that as much as possible if they can still delay that they should do that first because many families are somehow struggling financially .
<no-speech>
CHED chairperson Patricia Licuanan has released an order that from school year twenty thirteen until twenty fourteen schools should conduct consultations with the students not only about the tuition fee increase but also the miscellaneous fees .
it could be remembered that there are some schools which use miscellaneous fees to increase the matriculation .
state university usually people should be expecting tuition fees to be cheap but now it is too expensive .
they should not really increase annually .
why ?
because it is also hard for the parents that what that if where else can they get the payment to the what to the school .
(()) .
(()) Jessica CHED executive director Vitriolo has explained that in April is when they will be knowing how many and what are the schools that will really increase matriculation for the school year twenty thirteen to twenty fourteen Jessica .
Lala could it not be possible for an earlier announcement or their announcing of having the intention to increase the tuition fees .
because now when the school year is almost over -- everybody is now busy .
those children think that the semester is ending .
the parents are not %incomplete
there's not enough time I think to consult them because the school year is ending .
(()) Jessica but we have some schools that has already talked to now that the school year's ending they already advised the parents that there's a tuition increase in the next school year that's why there were reservations in some schools .
rather it depends on what the school will do .
Ched explained to that there should be a consultation for the students even the parents in the school soon so they know what they will face in the next opening .
March is okay seems like too late .
you'll meet the parents the students that'll be difficult .
mhm that's right Jessica .
many are literally crying as we can see because of what they're experiencing .
some of the ones I spoke with earlier still have debts and are problematizing how to pay .
and now there's another probable increase that's why they have a really big problem Jessica .
thank you very much %incomplete
