respect him so I get my inspiration from my dad .
and like I said maybe it has not really sank into me yet now but -- but -- but definitely I know I will miss him and I know I will fell all the pain .
and -- and -- and it's something that I have to endure .
something that I have to let go through .
but my dad has always been an inspiration to me .
and I will always look up to him .
<no-speech>
he has been my my rock .
so %incomplete
my -- I -- I -- in the book I actually called him my hero .
because to me he's always been my hero because I'll -- there's -- when I was a kid I was still a kid nobody believes me that I am Dolphy's child .
so %incomplete
even if the face is so similar ?
even I look like him seems because they do not know so .
they do not know that -- that Dolphy has other families what they know of is the first family right .
so what I really did because they do not believe me what does he say ?
that my child he said okay I will fetch you tomorrow .
so he fetched me at school went down the car he brought with him his mister Slim Mercedes -- Mercedes Benz .
-- he arrived in Ateneo .
he went down .
and I really flaunted him in %incomplete dad let's look around .
we roamed all around -- all around Ateneo bring me to your classroom .
I brought him to my classroom .
so he was seen by all of my -- all of my classmates that time .
that's why -- after that time something felt different because at that time they were teasing me that I was an illegitimate child illegitimate child .
something like that .
that's hurtful right ?
of course at that age you're not thinking about that that I'm an illegitimate child ?
dad why -- am I really an illegitimate child ?
he said that's nothing .
there's no -- there's no illegitimate child .
you're my child how can you be an illegitimate child .
something like that -- that was his .
that's why when I flaunted him of course after that the perception of -- of my -- my classmates at that time changed .
totally changed .
after that I was like a star in school .
and that is the beauty of stories even though you have many siblings they always say heh he shows all his love for you .
you .
