news F_M .
and talking about beach tennis the one promoting is on the other line of the telephone .
enthusiastically promoting this sport is none other than Miss Lotlot de Leon .
good afternoon Lotlot -- miss Lotlot .
hi Tito Ron good afternoon how are you ?
wow fine and I understand there is a beach tennis clinic again later right ?
there is in sand S_M by the bay beside Vikings at Mall of Asia .
yes .
so I hope all who wants to learn how to play this newest sport that we have brought in the Philippines just go -- all can just go there and welcome to play .
yes and that game is exciting ?
perhaps before we talk about that is its difference ?
what is the similarity of -- of tennis and volleyball perhaps I should first miss Lotlot how how did it come to your mind to bring that game here and introduce it to those who like sports ?
it happened I have a friend from a foreign country and then he said are you playing beach tennis ?
I said what is beach tennis ?
he said it is played on the beach then you have a racket then you are using a tennis ball .
so I became interested in that .
I searched for it and googled it .
then when I saw it I said wow this is possible for us there in the Philippines .
especially that we have so many beautiful like the beaches .
that's right .
we are full of beautiful islands .
so why not I said why not bring it here in the Philippines .
yes and it really fits nicely for us ?
and also yes what is its difference from regular tennis aside from the playing court right ?
the -- the lawn tennis depends on how you play on concrete or on a shell court or grass court right ?
but beach tennis is definitely on -- on sand right ?
but what are the differences in the rules what are their differences ?
<no-speech>
so to make it more simpler uncle Ron if you know how to play badminton okay then you know how to play tennis bring it to the beach and play it there then it's already beach tennis .
yes .
because here a racket is used others are made from wood and the others are made from carbon fiber but the ones that we have here in the Philippines are made from wood and it's imported .
hmm hmm .
then the scoring is like tennis but the game play is like badminton .
so don't we like playing badminton on the street even though the ball is dragged by the wind ?
yes yes really .
right ?
so here your ball will no longer be swayed because what you use here is a tennis ball .
tennis ball .
so even if it's windy outside and the children or the teenagers or those our age just want to play at the age of %incomplete
<no-speech>
thank you we're the same age .
you will really -- really enjoy because it's really an outdoor game .
yes .
yes the ball is really the same as the one used in tennis right but depressurized -- please explain what depressurized means depressurized means the ball is light .
because the usual tennis ball is slightly heavy .
if you smash it with a racket it can go a little bit farther .
alright oh .
yes .
but the the ball used in used in beach tennis is just also like a tennis ball but lighter .
if you smash the ball it exactly hits there on the opposite side opposite side (()) where you have thrown it .
<no-speech>
and then I have also read Andre Agassi and then Steffi Graf the couple have also taken an interest here ?
yes .
all the famous tennis players are also playing that .
I think considered as professional tennis players in terms of the sea and they want to take rest and they cannot play there their regular tennis game .
so they are playing this beach tennis .
hmm .
is this for -- doubles only or does it have also singles and has %incomplete
when you were having a clinic so I have seen there are three .
three a side so seems triple .
yes leisure games Tito Ron can be for three .
okay .
like if only for a bet but if we are discussing a real tournament and you want to do that in a competition with other group it is good to have mixed doubles and singles is also possible .
<no-speech>
its court is as big as like a volleyball court eight by sixteen .
and then its net is too high one point five meter .
so if you want singles it will be divided in the middle and then you can play singles .
for doubles the whole court will be used .
uhm and then the scoring like this one match is good only for one match -- ah one set ?
ah is it right ?
yes yes its regular is one to fifteen thirty thirty five forty then match point one point .
then in each first side for example you will be the one who hits the ball first three times -- three times you will serve ?
will -- will hit the ball if you cannot get it it will be changed in the opposite side -- opposite side .
hmmm like in badminton it really needs the -- the ball to be always aloft ?
and when -- it hits the ground it should not fall down to the floor .
because if it slips off to the floor that is the score of the other side .
yeah right .
seems the rules here are simpler right ?
not complicated and what is good there it is fun to play because (()) I really have a question I am a badminton enthusiast .
I really became sexy there in playing badminton not so of a tennis player .
because I really want to play badminton .
and when I started playing badminton before I really lost (()) pounds .
wow .
just by playing badminton in three months .
so if you -- if you can just imagine this beach tennis is more -- I become active because you play it on the sand .
so really good for the health because it has a cardiovascular exercise .
and you will not really notice you are already sweating while playing .
yes .
so it is fine even on the knees because the sand is soft anyway .
jump or fall injuries are less here .
you will not get hurt because of course if what you will fall on is sand it is very safe .
you saw there seemed to be well the game was a bit acrobatic right ?
like you will fly you will jump and then will dive will fall on your face on the sand like you will see a lot of action .
yes .
so for example when they search for a beach tennis they will surely enjoy because it is a fun sport it is a fun game and then while playing it after you finish playing you will yearn for it because it will apparently unleash your activeness .
and then if you are a competitive person if you like to compete this is also a great sports play .
hmm .
well last Sunday when you had a clinic and the first beach tennis mini tournament you had guests who are players from the National University from University of the Philippines from Saint Benilde .
and those national players too like Marian Capadocia .
and most of them played for the first time like from lawn tennis they shifted to beach tennis and they adjusted quickly .
right .
that's why it's satisfying because our true athletes like Miss Marian Capadocia are encouraged more to try it too because it's really fun .
it is a fun game it is a fun sport not -- you do not need a lot of triviality to learn the game .
yes .
what you only need to do is you have a ball you have a racket then you go there and you just play just passing the ball until you no longer know that you are playing at the beach -- that's it that's beach tennis .
recently there was an Asian beach games in Thailand right ?
was beach tennis played there too ?
I'm not very sure Tito Ron right ?
but we really are pushing for beach tennis to be known here in the Philippines .
yes .
and what I really want is my dream is for us to form a group that would become professional beach tennis players that we can send abroad to compete internationally .
so that we can have someone to raise the Philippine flag of beach tennis in other countries am I right ?
especially us Filipinos we're very competitive .
right .
and then we're really good so once we set our hearts into something we will always win .
that's why I believe that beach tennis if learned by Filipinos and if we get really good players we will win instantly abroad and we won't have a problem .
you know in watching last Sunday I can feel that this sport really fits our fellowmen because (()) you don't need to be tall .
you don't need an expensive shoes because you have to be on your bare feet .
and the energy of the Filipinos really fit this sport as long as you're quick and good at placing right ?
right also because we're sharp .
Filipinos are brisk in moving .
<no-speech>
that's why for example in basketball you won't be outweighed by the -- the ball right ?
it's necessary that you're also like that in beach tennis you need to concentrate and stay focused .
-- positive anyone can easily learn this and they will really like this game .
and hopefully Tito Ron because it's twenty sixteen the International Federation of Beach Tennis abroad they're pushing to include beach tennis in the Olympics .
oh my that's really great .
twenty sixteen so hopefully as early as next year we can form a team for us to have a representative in beach tennis in other countries and to -- you mean to be regular sport or regular event in the Olympics is that the proposal or will it be just a demonstration sport ?
yes .
actually we're getting updates from I_F_B_T International Federation of Beach Tennis because they're the one doing business in other countries .
if our group forms a team we'll join there and see which tournaments and championships we can join abroad until we can reach the Olympics .
okay now we have plenty of tennis coaches but do we have regular beach tennis coaches ?
actually now the one supervising the team (()) Professor Keith Tobias .
he's a U_P professor of Human Kinetics in U_P and it's really heartwarming because their support is at the highest level .
hence altogether we unite to push beach tennis .
so eventually we're also announcing it here Tito Ron when we really have a place that we can go to .
and if they really want to learn we have one place tell them where we can find us and then they can play beach tennis .
similar to what we're doing starting now in the sands of S_M by the bay .
okay aside from the sands in S_M by the bay here in Metro Manila are there any other beach volleyball court .
because what's good here is what we've been using in the past for beach volleyball can also be used for beach tennis .
what I know is in the past we've already had a tournament in Philippine Sports Commission in P_S_C .
they have a Rizal Memorial Stadium Tito Ron that is a beach court used for volleyball tournament last year .
that's it -- actually it was just this year .
I think you can go to Rizal Memorial Stadium Coliseum to ask because they have a beach court that can also be used for beach tennis .
I think U_S_T has also built something like that if I remember it right .
yes they have U_S_T have (()) I think .
don't quote me Tito Ron but I think other universities also have sand court that can be used to play beach tennis .
that's very good .
meanwhile there is no problem in coastal towns because of course it is amusing that there are also some when you noticed last Sunday at sands S_M by the bay did you see that children aged nine years old ten years old wanted to learn and it is gratifying because we don't know it but these could already be our future athletes right ?
so I'm really encouraged this has no umm age range Tito Ron so anybody can play .
yes so maybe in the future you will also have something like age group competitions right ?
there are .
actually they have levels .
they have what is called G_one (()) .
the fourteen-year-old's those under eight years old they each have their own level of tournament .
okay you mentioned that this game is simple and you only need to have a racket have a ball not needed of course shoes are not needed but how much would it all cost ?
for instance you will buy a pair of rackets and the balls around how much would they cost ?
the initial investment for a prospective beach tennis player .
right now what's available here is around three thousand but that's already two rackets with a ball included .
so of course you can't play alone if there are two of you you already have a -- a racket for that amount .
then you can use it for a long time .
until if you really want to be professional beach tennis players maybe later on we will also have beach tennis rackets made of carbon fiber .
wow nice and hopefully these rackets are available right ?
at Toby's Tito Ron we already have tennis rackets available there .
so if they visit all the Toby's within Metro Manila we can already buy rackets here .
there .
and well I understand that you have your free beach tennis clinic today and there will also be some on the Sunday after next on December twenty-eight December twenty-one and December twenty-eight we will have one too .
then we're still working out some other beach tennis clinics still at sands S_M by the bay .
we will just finish this holiday season then we will announce a new a new date for the beach tennis clinic .
wow that sounds really nice and maybe let's talk about something else shall we ?
do you have showbiz commitments that are slightly Tito Ron I have a movie I'm included in Kugot and Aswang chronicles .
it will be shown at the M_M_F_F December twenty-five .
so hopefully they will watch out for it .
I also have a show in one channel that airs every night hopefully they would watch out for that too .
yes .
ahh it's good that you can squeeze in this promotion of beach tennis because you are still active in showbiz .
yes .
no Tito Ron (()) I really do believe in this sport .
I don't mean to insinuate but I really believe that they -- this sport which is beach tennis will be huge and go far here in the Philippines because we have a lot of islands we have a lot of beautiful beaches that it is impossible for you not to play .
that can be played anywhere here .
that's right .
and well thanks a lot -- for joining us here in Action Sports thank you Tito Ron and I hope to see you in our coming beach tennis clinics .
yes maybe that will be next -- next -- next Sunday maybe -- because I also want to play .
just last Sunday you should try you'll really really enjoy it Tito Ron .
I just wasn't able to try last Sunday well because I was not wearing shorts .
yes as long as you come in shorts and slippers then that's it we will teach you how to play beach tennis .
yes .
and it's fun to annotate it too right ?
because I also tried being a commentator before right .
it also seems easy and exciting to annotate .
-- the action is sometimes fast-paced unlike with regular lawn tennis where the rallies are long and sometimes you don't talk as much .
but here you always have something to say because it is full of action .
(()) me Tito Ron .
okay maybe just one more question what is your Christmas wish for this sport and also for our athletes ?
for our athletes I wish that all of us would get all the support of the government because the Filipinos are really very good .
I believe that the Filipino athletes %incomplete
