Saturday, February 02, 2013
let us serve
you are able to give even without love, but you are not able to love without giving.
sympathy
this happened after the destruction of typhoon Sendong.
nuns of one church knocked on each door of the fancy houses in a large subdivision, to ask for any help for the less fortunate affected by the the typhoon.
one nun was let in to the living room by the owner of a house without faith in religion.
he offered two thousand pesos, if the nun is able to drink one cup of wine.
the nun was taken aback by what her condition will be, in case she accepted the offer of the man.
even if the future reputation of the nun was at stake, her hesitation was only short, because P2,000 is equivalent to many kilos of rice and the fullness of the hungry.
the man immediately got a bottle of wine and poured a cup.
after the nun did the sign of the cross she quickly drank and emptied the contents of the cup.
and after setting down the cup on the table, without any interruption challenged the owner of the house, "and now, sir, if possible, one more cup for the same price!"
the man was shocked and obliged the challenge of the nun.
and when the nun set down the emptied second cup, the man, whispering, brought out P4,000 from his wallet.
lesson: do not challenge those in need so that you will not lose in your foolishness.
service
a famous psychiatrist gave a lecture on mental health, and after this started to answer the questions of the listeners.
there was one who asked, "what do you suggest a person must do, if this person has serious anxiety and deeply troubled?"
majority expected that the psychiatrist would answer, "consult a psychiatrist!"
in their shock, they did not expect his answer: "shut your house, go to a place inhabited by our squatting fellowmen, find anyone with a real need, and do anything to help this person."
lesson: peace of mind will only be chanced upon, if the mind is focused on serving.
valuing
if a pail will be filled to the brim by means of drops only, a lot of time is needed before it is filled.
even if it is seen almost full, it is necessary to add more drops to be able to say that it is already full.
and eventually, after it is filled ... with only one additional drop it will overflow.
doing good is similar to this.
many of us are able to accept even a simple act of help, but it is a huge inconvenience to show or make felt our appreciation for it.
it is very difficult to even pronounce the short word, "thanks."
as if a bone is preventing our throat to release our thanks.
whereas it is greater appreciation to say it rather than receive, because it is like a prayer that will allow to gain more blessings.
if with a short word for gratitude we are lacking, what more if there is effort expected from you?
do not be selfish and stop the blessings allotted for you.
keep in mind that those who open their palms receive rather than those who close it.
lesson: if you know how to value, you are valued.
