replay: youth and people movement in 2011 to the accompaniment of pop songs
by Vencer Crisostomo, January 21, 2012
the youth and the people's movement for change last year seemed like a grand "baby you're a firework".
while "everyday I'm shufflin" and people are struggling in poverty, today "I feel like not doing anything" of Malacañang to the grievances of the nation. that's why they are fed up with things "just the way you are" and the protests roared with "boomburumbumum".
because of the worsening crisis, it seems a combination of picket protests, campus strikes, transport caravans, planking protests, occupy and campouts increased because of "someone like you" that "Moves Like Jagger".
MRT / LRT fare, Oil Price Hikes Soundtrack: Price tag (It's not about the money) / Party Rock (Everday we're shufflin). in the early part of the year, "everyday is shufflin" the looming increase in prices of oil, electricity, water, tuition fees, vegetables, MRT/LRT
"It's not about the money" because of the very high price, there is really no more money and pockets are empty.
that's why everyday these suffering were struck with protests. in the early part, the youth led the Strike the Hike Movement and the activities against the increase in MRT and LRT fares that was eventually retracted by the government because of protests.
transport strike and people's protests against oil price hikes were launched one after the other.
the pinnacle of the protests was the public mass action last May 1.
anti-budget cut strikes, fight for education soundtrack: born this way (jingle link) dance step: planking at freeze mob
"because education / is our right / stand-up scholars for our nation no to commercialization / and privatization / stand-up scholars let us fight"
we get "gaga" about the reduction of the budget for education and public services.
thus, the youth and the people addressed the budget cuts of Aquino with protests after protests and a national strike.
more than 20,000 people participated in strikes, planking, freeze mob, and long-march in the whole country.
the youth also protested against the high increase in matriculation and miscellaneous fees that forced the Malacañang to promise a new tuition policy (which until now, by the way, there is none). the Commission on Higher Education was exposed of inaction that appears to be "born this way" in favor of capitalist-educators.
there were also successes after the resounding protests at the University of Santo Tomas (UST) against the no promissory note policy and the closing of the Philippine Maritime Institute (PMI).
Clinton visit protests soundtrack: hey soul sister / just the way you are "I don't want to miss a single thing you do" of no protest - was the promise of the youth at the arrival of Hillary Clinton in the country.
"sister" brought the further extreme intervention of the US here and "friendship" of the US and the Philippines through maintaining of unfair treaties like the VFA and others.
that's why "when they saw her face face face" her convoy was ambushed and was yelled at the organized form in person.
their appeal was to change the unequal relations and "just the way you are" is no longer possible.
Ka Roger tribute soundtrack: firework "baby you're a firework." ComradeRoger Rosal's life was really passionate so when the nation heard about his passing, honor and tribute were offered by the nation, various sectors, the poor, members of the media and the youth.
ComradeRoger was an important inspiration and example to those who want to fight the rotten system and the activists desiring to live simply and be a spokesperson for the oppressed.
as long as the system is corrupt and the people are poor, there are many ComradeRoger who will give light to the darkness of the night and will shed light to the people.
fight for Luisita soundtrack: the lazy song farm owner mode of Noynoy Aquino: "today I feel like not doing anything" about the distribution of Hacienda Luisita.
due to the strong insistence and opposition of the farmers and the people, the Stock Distribution Option maneuver of Luisita was thwarted and the Supreme Court favored its distribution.
in spite of the order of the court, "yes, I said it because I can,"  Noynoy supposedly wants to give "just compensation" to his relatives.
isn't it enough, the suffering they gave to farmers with the land they stole, that they still want to earn?
they should be given "nothing at all". occupy Mendiola / campout soundtrack: Superbass (boom boroom boom boom) it seems the chest of Noynoy Aquino was pounded with "boom burum bum bum" by the Occupy Mendiola Plan or Campout protest of the youth and the people last December. the goal of the action was to fight the rotten system of the few and foreigners in a few days stay in Mendiola and to occupy it.
Malacañang quickly deployed a multitude of policemen before the planned protest even began and was violent.
the youth and the people were not shaken, they asserted their rights and they continued the camp-out in various places in Metro Manila.
in the end, many saw that there is no difference between the Aquino government and the violent leadership of Arroyo and the need for a massive action and bold fight to change the rotten system.
accountability of Arroyo, worthlessness of Aquino soundtrack: someone like you / moves like Jagger. after a year of the obvious agreement of Aquino and Arroyo regarding the unaccountability of the latter because of the absence of charges filed, the conflict of those in power intensified when Arroyo "moves like Jagger" and nearly escaped because of Aquino inutility.
Aquino scurried in his last few moments and was exposed that they could speedily file a case, something that they didn't do in the past 500 days.
until now, only light charges were filed by Aquino against Arroyo and it seems there's a special treatment with Gloria's hospital arrest.
to divert the attention from his mistakes, and to look like he is serious to make Arroyo accountable, Aquino campaigned for the impeachment of SC CJ Corona.
environment and tragedy soundtrack: party like 2012 / teach me how to doggie while it was almost like the end of the world for those who were devastated in the tragedy, Aquino was exposed to have been partying and teaching how to doggie in the Palace.
Aquino has a greater liability in partying and allowing big mining and logging companies to feast using the resources of the nation without respect and consideration to the lives of the Filipinos.
2011 was victorious and meaningful for the youth and the protest movement.
a greater victory awaits the youth and the people in 2012.
it is not yet the end of the world.
the big battles to end and change the social system are just beginning.
