announce may I ?
sure go ahead .
during -- during July fourteen -- this coming July fourteen there will be a free seminar one whole day to be given by the P_C_A Philippine Coconut Authority .
yes .
in Kapampangan Development Foundation building that is a new building there in San Fernando .
<no-speech>
there in the M_B_P building behind the behind McDonald's there at the old g road .
those who like coconut who have themselves listed or are still going to be listed anyway just residents of Region three .
region three (()) because we cannot distribute there to those who are not from region three .
yes .
Pampanga and the rest of Region three you Sir can ask for free coconut seedlings to be planted .
and the seminar to be given by the P_C_A on July thirteen that is for a whole day Sir then we will be taught how to plant seedlings how to take care of it and how to intercrop .
there .
is that a one day seminar ?
it's just for one day because we will list them down if they haven't enlisted yet .
they will make a small drawing of how to get to their place because we will go to them .
uh huh .
then they will say how big their farmland is so we can tell how many they can plant .
you're that (()) .
then the speaker of the P_C_A will -- will say what type of intercrop is possible .
<no-speech>
okay that will be on July fourteen .
July thirteen yes thirteen thirteen .
okay .
thirteen .
July thirteen there at (()) building .
fourteen or thirteen ?
fourteen .
<no-speech>
one three ?
one four .
ah one four fourteen .
fourteen .
okay there at (()) building sir .
there at our new building K_B_L Livelihood Center which is located at the back of beside McDonald's on the old (()) road .
at the exact intersection of San Fernando ?
yes at San Fernando (()) crossing the intersection between old (()) and -- and McArthur highway .
this is a new building given to us by our chair (()) .
(()) .
yes so that's why we call it M_B_P building .
then (()) we will inaugurate our (()) clinic on July fourteen .
and the services there are good sir .
this is the first time for the entire Asia Pacific to have this .
the name is Disability Clinic .
but %incomplete
