Filipino hero in foreign land Filipino - guardian of peace in other country!
when I went to Chicago once, I met a Filipino police there, Detective Edwin Dantes.
Edwin's family is raised in Cabanatuan City.
his mother is a nurse and his father is a police in their town.
when a hospital in Chicago petitioned his mother to work there, their father followed.
in the year 1969, at the age of seven, Edwin reached and started living in Chicago with his two siblings.
they are petitioned by their parents.
he studied on the said country and grew up there.
and even though at first, he had a difficulty in adjusting with the language there, not long after he became used to it.
Edwin did not have a plan to become a police, but somehow, it is already been in his blood because when he was in college, he already thought of entering the military as member of the security police in air force.
"in the beginning, I was in the air force, I was at the Clark airbase for four years," he narrated.
he chose to be assigned at Clark Airbase Pampanga because he wanted to go home to the country.
after his assignment at Clark, he went back to U.S.
there, he thought of becoming a police.
in the past, he was assigned in suburbs as a patrolman, but he was transferred to Chicago.
from Edwin's story, I realized that the experiences of a police are not a joke, because aside from studying and entering the academy, various physical exams and training need to be passed.
"when I went out of the academy, there is an FTO (Field Training Officer).
within three months, you should be accompanied by an FTO before a one-year probation," he said.
he has entered different departments, included here are the street crime and fake program unit and tactical team, with a goal to remove the gangs, drug and guns on the streets to lessen violence.
from being a patrolman conducting preliminary investigation in a case, he became an FTO and shared his knowledge and became a guide to new policemen.
not long after, Edwin's hard work bore fruit because from being an FTO, he was promoted and became a detective.
Edwin needed to undergo training and studies again from detective school to gain more knowledge on the job that he would be handling, and because of perseverance and hard work, he surpassed those challenges.
the work of a detective like Edwin is not easy, because, aside from the possibility that the criminals he has arrested will go back to him, a heavy duty is also put on his shoulders - to serve the nation and make sure the citizens are safe - but if there is a heart and compassion felt for the service of the people, whether on his own country or not, no matter how heavy the duty might be, it will become lighter.
