Saturday, July 9, 2016.
my neighbor: reflection for 15th Sunday in ordinary time year c - July 10, 2016 - jubilee year of mercy
"and who is my neighbor?" asked by one scribe to Jesus.
this might also be a question that is timely right now.
almost every day there is murder reported.
many of them are said to be a drug user or pusher.
a plague to society.
useless.
cause of criminality.
a threat to peace and safety.
so some say that it is only right to eradicate them.
it would be good if they would just go away.
it's okay for them to die!
I am certain that this is not who we want to consider a "neighbor".
if our mentality is like this then we are no different from the Jews in the time of Jesus.
they also have some people whom they cannot consider as their "neighbor".
since the beginning of history they already considered the Samaritans to be their enemy.
they have a conflict so deep that they even avoid stopping by their lands.
when Jesus was asked by the scribe, "who is his neighbor?"
Jesus narrated the parable of "The good Samaritan".
we already heard this story.
about how the Jews intentionally avoided their fellow Jews who needed help.
only the "enemy" who was a Samaritan, stopped and showed mercy to the person that he should be avoiding!
it was not Jesus' intention to embarrass the scribe.
what he wants is for them to understand that who they consider as enemies are not lowly creatures and may even surpass them in kindness.
which is why the response of Jesus was also a question: "who showed compassion to the person who was stopped by bandits?"
the scribe could not directly answer Jesus because the Samaritans were their enemies.
sometimes this is also our attitude.
we have difficulty showing love to those we consider enemies.
we find it difficult to forgive people who have done us wrong or have caused us resentment.
we cannot accept that they are also our "neighbor".
the message that Jesus wants to show us is clear: our neighbors are the people who need mercy, our understanding, and most importantly our forgiveness.
the commandment of the Lord to love God above all, and our neighbors the same way we love ourselves, is not just a commandment that is written in the Bible or in our catechism.
it is written not on paper but in our hearts.
it means that it is very close to us because it is within ourselves, a part of our being and of being children of God.
the drug users and drug pushers should also be treated as our neighbors.
many of them already surrendered.
maybe some of them are our relatives, friend or someone we know.
are we ready to accept them as our "neighbor"?
or maybe in their confession they might feel to a greater extent that they are outcasts and are not accepted in our society?
in this year of mercy or jubilee year of mercy, the challenge for us is to show the mercy, understanding and deed of God especially to our neighbors who need protection.
it is not a solution to kill them or wipe them out from the face of the earth.
let us respond to evil with kindness.
let us replace violence with peace.
let us allow a culture of life and not death to prevail!
