We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Gun-shooting and legal battle in China
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
In the last news, it is not just Surveillance ships and the fish ship of China was seen in Scarborough or Panatag Shoal.
China has one big gun boat.
War was in war.
And our BRP Gregorio del Pilar has a corresponding reward to those who are also there.
This means something.
The two countries are both serious in their claim that the said island is their territory.
China is a giant, the Philippines can't do anything if he has war with China because of this.
And the Philippines can no longer do anything if he will first launch a war.
Because, he did not even have a plane warship.
This is a helor but it might not return to the exhaustion of gasoline in just going to the place.
Most of the caskets were only flying because they were only thrown away from the bunk shop from the Vietnam war.
This Navy is just one of the ships.
And what is painful, it seems that these will run out of diesel or bunker Fuel, which is why it is the sea.
Our coast guard are so vast to gain weight.
They might be first to sink in a little bad weather rather than the boat that is being brought to a basin or pond.
On the other hand, China has airplanes, ships and other weapons as well as the weapons of the Americans and Russians.
With the number of their soldiers, they just pee, then, the Navy and coast guard might be followed.
We are not single men, Bro.
We only have toy guns.
Where is Uncle Sam?
The only hope is the help of Uncle Sam, of the Americans.
They sold us by the warship BRP Gregorio del Pilar who also dug up from the dried shop.
They are also selling us by armalt.
They are also the ones selling us by those who are from the bunk shop also of helikes.
And when we have a flying fighter plane, we also come from them.
There's an actor calling on that plane.
But some of the Americans are reconciliation with us to help the Philippines and the United States if there is a war with each other.
That is why, the Philippines was sent to the Philippines in Korea, in Vietnam and in Iraq.
It seems like the boxing of China and the Philippines is lurking in Scarborough Shoal.
Despite this, the peace of the Americans is deafening.
Maybe, they are deaf and blind to the government going to China and the Philippines that's why they have no reaction.
But what is certain is that, the Philippines will not rely on help in the time of war.
They have not even a cent of Americans to get carried away from us to help the Chinese.
Now, do you look obvious, Bro?
There is an exercise, now, Balikatan exercise.
But the target is that those who do not agree with what we mentioned now.
Child of tokwa, what is that?
There should be no war even when, we do not want the war.
Everyone should joke about diplomacy and peaceful dialogue.
Even if we have a strong military force that will be influenced by four in China.
Because if there is a war, funds will be consumed for the achievements of the people, our lives will be consumed and there will be many killings.
Our lives will not be normal if we are all going to help the things that we will do and we also berates that this is also happening in China.
Through the United Nations because we do not want to go out war in the Philippines, especially since the Scarborough Shoal is very close to us and we want a peaceful and assured relationship with other countries, the government of President Noynoy Aquino is moving to filing a corresponding case in the United Nations.
Under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea or USLOS, we have the right to Scarborough Shoal to inherit this.
This is due to the jurisdiction of 200 mile exclusive economic zone according to USLOS.
The Philippines will file a complaint against China so that the international court needs to be decided on the case.
There is only a problem.
What if China does not want to cooperate.
Is it possible to decide the corresponding court of the UN in favor of the Philippines?
Because the court is really hard to decide when they would not allow the enemy.
With the criminal case, the court will only decide if the opposing sides appear.
The problem is if they are not charged, that is why the case has been archive.
The government shows that there will be a case against this proposed exemption in the Philippines and China and won the first in the case.
How will the Philippines let the control and property in the islands after?
That is why we do not have a force to yard the islands when the Philippines flag has been built there.
If this will not be done, Bro, the arrival of the singers in the area and may not China be the next fired anoOor any complaint or comment, please call me 14303333.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
While
While
While
