Peace to fight
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Such a waste that the New People's Army will not be solved immediately to the call of President Rodrigo "Digong" Duterte for the ceasefire in the war.
It can be recalled that Pang was first declared.
Digong of the ceasefire against the NPA on the day of his State of the Nation Address but it was revoked because of an ambus made by the rebels in a group of armed forces of the government in Davao del Norte.
The President gave an extension for the explanation of the rebels in the incident until 5: 00 in the afternoon two days ago but the NPA still failed to respond.
On the other hand, the NPA said that the forces of the government conducted an operation despite the order of the ceasefire of the President and they just defended themselves.
In the end, Joma Sison said that President Rodrigo "Digong" Duterte was able to finish first because it was 8: 00 in the evening before the declaration of the NPA ceasefire or three hours before Pres.
Digong is the unilateral ceasefire.
In the middle of these events, it seems that the intention and steps towards peace talks will not lead to nothing but the ceasefire is just one of its content.
No one else displaced President.
Duterte on his steps in what he wants to end the civil war that has already killed 30,000 people since March 29, 1969 that the NPA will be strong.
The person who took it back to the ceasefire were the policies on how the ceasefire will be implemented and it is normal for the order to continue the fight of the forces of the NPA.
It is part of the fact that the President is not taking advantage of it while we are still the scheduled conversation between the rebels and the government in Oslo, Norway for peace talks.
The President also did not leave the appointment of the leftist groups in some high positions of the government.
So, there is hope that the search of the way towards peace and unity of both sides will still push through.
There really are those who cannot avoid incidents or mistakes that are also happening even in the way like this issue.
It remained in one of the things we are looking at which is still a big possibility of having an agreement with the leadership of the communist Party of the Philippines, National Democratic Front and NPA for this.
They reveal the difference between the President to other past Presidents that are really different from the interest of the masses and the country.
The President now, in their opinion, can accommodate even the first step towards change in society that they want to happen.
"If the current president has a big impact on the millions of poor people they are fighting for.
Together with the restrictions of millions of poor are destroying the policies of contract that will rule the greedy and opportunist capitalists against workers and the big reason for the suffering of them.
There is also the right to correct the destructive and illegal mining that has a twin who will increase the protection of the miners than the protection of citizens and nature.
The President also shows a strong conviction against the meddling of foreigners in governance in the country.
That's why in our belief, the other group is still holding on the belief that there is no reason not to push up and achieve permanent peace for the whole country.
Matches and gasoline This in these times, the matches and gasoline are just next to each other.
The revolution or war is like gasoline that is easily caught on fire.
Now, the revolution or war is resting despite the problem in the ceasefire.
Hopefully, everyone does not handle matches and it will be more not to make a margin and throw gasoline to the fire matches.
Digong said: While both sides of the dead are in great need for each other, what he sees is the pitiful situation of those who are widowed and orphaned and the country that has long been struggling because of war.
He added that if both parties will not do it now, the hatred of hatred for each other is not prevailed.
Peace in support will only mean everything is the call to ourselves that we won't be a hindrance to unity, unity, peace and extensive change.
We should also avoid getting out of matches and threw it to the gasoline of the revolution to get caught on fire on each other.
The 30,000 killed in the war and the more people who suffer and losing the future because of the revolution.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
