Monitor dengue, leptospirosis.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
While there is a collision of many about politics, Bro, we should give attention to the diseases that go to us this rainy season.
Especially dengue and leptospirosis.
Although they can be treated, many are still dying and of course, many have been used to hunger and suffering.
Especially when the majority of those who are struck are poor.
Another record we look at some records, Bro, about the disease.
This August, there was a hit of dengue, 2,166 in Zamboanga and with 15 were taken by Lord for them.
Those who are struck and dying in other provinces are still different.
We are following leptospirosis and there are reports that died in Bacolod City.
But in October 2013, what happened was bad that started in the month of January.
There are more than 131,000 cases of dengue and the 470.
In leptospirosis, there is a case of 1,964 and has taken the Lord to 307.
That is how dengue and leptospirosis are.
So we should not be complacent, especially this rainy season that our illness gets worse.
Almost both of you studied, Bro, those assigned to hospitals that are sick of dengue and leptospirosis.
The death of the patients reached three weeks.
If the patients can live, the cost of expenses for three weeks is severe.
The expenses here is moderate to 30 million pesos.
But for the poor, it is only for the poor while the rich has spent hundreds of pesos to millions.
What if the two were hit, three or the whole family?
Except for the expenses, fare, money and payment for those watching.
If you are a worker, there are two or three months of salary.
That is why you are sure that you are going to run for the usurism and Indians to ask for help.
And that is on your debt.
20,000-P40,000 in the funeral parlor, you are already dead, you will not be forgiven by the funeral parlor.
In the provinces, you can't use a funeral home and can no longer be blessed by the priest who also accept the drop of Holy water to your corpse if you want to be frugal.
Just call Manang and you will send a rosary within nine days and you can give you a coffee and rice cakes only to give them until 40 days.
But there is really additional expenses "when you got unlucky in the hospital.
You will pay to the hospital of 20,000 pesos Plus extra expenses for taking care of the patient, this is also the payment of the funeral of you.
The expenses in the wake will still be increased.
So, in total, Bro, you will finish P40,000 to 80,000 pesos.
If you are a job to minimum wages, for a few years, you pay for your sick or death?
We are already approaching the news and coming to us who are asking for help.
Many cases cannot be released in the hospital because there is no payment without payment, even in the morge if he was unlucky.
If your corpse can be released, many will be shackled because the victims will not gather at the right time for this.
That's why it brought her too much work.
Someone is running for captain, mayor, Gob, DSWD, PCSO and others.
In Manila, a relative is carrying a death certificate to ask alms from jeepneys drivers.
Why would it be a burial if there is no death certificate from hospitals, municipal and others because of the lack of payment.
Luck is the ones being helped by those who are just dead.
So, if there is an end of the police, you are dead.
As soon as the burial will end up.
Oh "isn't it, he cries?
What are the things to do?
To prevent or lessen our illnesses or excessive suffering from these diseases, it is good to be ep-esep well.
First, do not go to barangay health centers so that we will know the symptoms of these diseases.
If we have symptoms, we need to go to these centers and consult.
Do not rush your guts, especially if children, elderly, pregnant and sick are the symptoms of them.
If you will only take action if it is an emergency, you are dead.
Second, the knowledge will help a lot on how to get these diseases.
According to him, from mosquitoes is the dengue while from the urine of rats and other animals.
But how to eradicate or avoid mosquitoes that are in our surroundings and how to fight the leap that is really spreading and spreading especially in the flood?
You will also sleep.
Third, don't forget IT.
Our fellowmen, neighbors and others are our household help in defending these diseases.
Others will run around us in the hospital, we will surface at the time of need and ready to help even if there is no replacement.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Ultimatum / Benny Antiporda
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
While
While
While
