An injury order that we will be with this fraction Morning sick colonel Benjamin house is a jackpot of Filipinos, and we are talking about one hundred nineteen Filipinos who will happen for this coming.
There is money to a good morning, question how beautiful morning Francisco is also the good design.
To our followers that you will visit the graduation day, thank you for the coming you will be visited by the graduation day so that we can give emphasis on the upcoming you are a way and twelve anniversary of our military services because of the thing that is noticeable in the cecellate we have one hundred nineteen anniversary in March twenty.
This will happen in Fort Bonifacio.
Taguig City and those who are primary to visit our president.
Or we failed to reflect him 'all-six years because he has been giving a lot of money to the Philippines so he can see a lot.
What is especially to us in a program that we need to show not only to him including our countrymen.
We know that it is one of our military services as a priority; we can give us a bit of alcohol to the ranks of our US military strength; we can give us a little bit of alcohol, we can give us a bit of alcohol, and even a statue of fifty six thousand you Are for carving Bible.
But short or later but I am a bit stronger that I have a lot of rice, but just a few seconds, that is why he is using the shelf and has a proposal in Europe.
A tornado or another world Class that you will not be able to give the response of another popular group, what is God bless now, we are called armored personnel.
Bravo robbed or killed twenty one hundred pesos from the United States for an additional Plus six.
He has a demon in the controversial system that means that it is the ones.
Legal go.
Software
You cannot see the heads of the people because of the remote control inside his grave.
He is talking to produce more than two thousand.
She ordered a video clip.
New registrations
Yes, it is a little different kind of being approved to run for America in the two.
Now, there is a hundred twelve anniversary and what is your theme this year and yes, it means that we have a copyright now that we don't change the changing of the Perpetual jackpot.
There is a jackpot that is estimated to be serving the people secure bring you a lt; it is really the work of the Philippines many songs, if you notice the number of our community activities because that is one that will be given to the profession building and security two hundred people in the competition.
He will buy.
Three Persons to make sure that your bad attitude
According to now, we are still focused on Internal security.
But Our Rules Soriano is preparing for external threats or we are having plans, ltttt; how to develop the good excuse this New Year now, and Filipinos, what will be expected by our countrymen who are listening abroad to understand.
It's because it's because it's not like before that I will know what the Commander we will think now is that we have called orbit refreshed.
He Added that there Are my FRIENDS call me answer that we have a vision of twenty-twenty.
Twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-five went down the phone point.
Will we still have a vision to be world Class armida in the national pride.
But we give the ambition of that to three supervisors.
What is happening now is the change for the same day.
We are in that way, he is the one who called the change that could be allowed to be two thousand twenty-eight or'clock in response to the penetration of the government if our government will be approved.
Ltt; httt; by Eclipse will have an air defense capability that means that someone enters our interests that can be editors.
We are going to expect Amie our because it is a world Class or he also has a ltt; ttt;
Thirty are the hashtag.
A sermon, what you can see is a world Class that will really be the definition of our countrymen.
Is we still a few of our members now in the Philippines serving the Philippines carmelite because we have eighty five thousand a day Ara Ara.
There are not yet a nationwide Story series of all in the entire Philippines, there are troops to say.
Thirty five thousand all.
I just finished my graduation of forcing Academy and some were added to you.
Events that you know that we all know that I will hear anything that I'm not just driving that boss; it is a ttt; what we have right now um-a-attend, one of the thirty two former officials and lttt; what we have had right now um-a-attend.
Just like the aside from the Philippines military Academy.
We also have other sources that we have called an officer candidate school at the same time.
So there are other sources of this trip website, it is said that there are three hundred observers.
So those interested in College graduate students Are interested.
A visitor website, too much of the requirements that we prioritize, "wow, thirty-Plus that will be the message to them or adviser when they enter the Philippines Arvin, you know that you are thirty-Plus that we have included the illness, wow, they are asking for a lot.
Is it really different when the question is, sir, why do we have an insurgency, sir, what should you advice to us, lttt; what our Commander who is my cellphone next is really different.
Abdomen and abdomen.
Yes, in the city every outing or moral responsibility.
A time
The MORE.
Don't just talk about it; httt; it's all that he combined with more.
So right, not just within the basics improvement in the chest.
Who will buy because going to do they Are right now there's been declared that we will sell to the boy next Month in different units of reformed bisexual that he reached to you, I said that it's almost every time they need to go with you.
So we, what Ram is behind the program is the public officials we have called officers.
Course, in the regular-record we have in College graduate, twenty one and five six years old.
Filipino citizen
Only according to the Height requirement is five.
Five zero six.
In our statement that we have been five or four in the officials now that we have done five zero.
Five feet the Height.
Ltt; hes by gt; again
That's the symbol of the materials that was submitted open and there is all.
Tired of the candidates, you will have been able to cut it, Maricel has been caught by the archbishop leaving cottage the others that they support one coptt; httt; we're going to call for Active duty.
Fltt; httt; and yes, bad news, yes, but you know how good news will be received by the people according to what they want to hear that and when you entered the training of the officials approximately twenty thousand to take home pay.
When you became an official, he was almost almost ignored.
Yes, there is a minimum that you taste sponsored by thirty two thousand six hundred pesos, which is really a bit of standardification.
In monitoring of cellphone New tourism is the natural resources he housing.
Karylle Kardashian Opportunity to travel nationwide bird international
So many benefits and another more best, ltt; ttt;
He is given an Opportunity to service like me not all given an Opportunity serving the station.
Bring your side a different kind of edrich or inconvenience which is called how long they will get along with.
You will return to the glamour, especially if you are graduating from College, it's difficult to have a lot; you will be able to go home for a year that is far from the family of what they want to enter, you know, that is why there is a need to sacrifice for those who want to enter here, you know, that is why you have a different job and when you start Work.
It is really effective sports sports that you will be compromised.
But if you are pro, you have been reluctant to use ltt; tttp; very straight interview
A normal delivery van of a person
Ltt; htt; we are also analyzing a cheap soldier who will buy teh Fair.
You should be more older than a great initiation or part of being able to find a challenging for being an official of the Philippines.
I have after that, her remains are not stomach; that is why it turns out.
Ltt; httt; tttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; / ttt; ttt; / ttt; ttt; surely four
With his very large or needs of the citizens, beef, Our fast growing a country in intense exercises.
Can I be allowed?
The music you are giving is five, we have an actor.
October external is the Internal center of temptation (ltt; htt;
We are ready to offer the number of soldiers because what we can do is what we can do if this is what we can do if this is what we can do if it is ttt; is it that what we Can tell you right now we are taking the developing Country to stop.
It is for us to be happy in the time, because we are happy to know the ones who are able to make a big event on what is happening here, what we are going to see the Philippines is really the funds that they are going to look at the Philippines, we should always do that for a foot of okay and totally Wednesday with the right hand of the message related to our upcoming anniversary.
To our countrymen nationwide, we are listening to our national team.
Liza.
Journalism at the debriefing is our anniversary in March twenty.
Fifty television, this is blind to the conversation, of course, do not allow him to be invited to me, based on him.
Juan is already extremely strikes.
Martin right away serving the people securing action.
Will always do that they will always be with you.
Ltt; and hopefully by this year so that we can make sure the problem like before in front of fishing is ratified that we can only do that with the support of everybody so we hope that we will be able to fulfill it because of the conversation at a restaurant with trash.
The friends of our US military spokesperson, we have watched it.
Good morning.
