The Philippines will bet on the swimming category of the Rio Paralympic, Ernie tear some people twenty years first to be part of the request of the Philippines sports position for every project bird.
Espie before he became a part of the national team, which is seen as a mattress or a good sign with the athletes of different countries, told me that he is expecting that he will pass a medal in the country because he will pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he will pass the medal in the country because he will pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he will pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he is going to pass the medal in the country because he will pass the medal in the country because he will pass the medal in the country
It is very difficult to do because he is tired then.
Shakespeare finished.
His brain is in trouble when we visited Orly in his training he does not mind the strong rain.
And he continues to swim.
Compton believes that this determination will be a big help in their desire to win so you can see me even just a simple workout that he will have a hard time to reach it.
Achieve this day when I heard going to the Philippines that I will live together for this in the Philippines.
To the people who believe in us?
You're going to be the first to bring me that I will not forget that I am not very sure.
And that's why.
.
They will be able to take the story about the lord.
Who gave talent for us.
