Editorial: The ISF is a big challenge!
Vice President Leni Robredo explained yesterday that it is not just construction of agriculture to be the solution to the problem of informal settler families or ISF.
He visited various Housing projects in the past Housing czar and he was crushed by what he saw.
There was a vacancy and one was forced.
Abandoned.
No one wants to live.
Waste!
If counting, billions of pesos is spent on housing projects.
How did it happen that many have no own homes and will persevere to sleep on the road or under the bridges but do not want to live in the vacant housing project of the government?
A new match?
Just like "there are vacant jobs and new graduate students.
Many applicants and there are also vacant jobs but the two problems are not similar to it.
This is also the situation of the housing project of the government and ISF that will try harder in Metro Manila and big cities.
That is why VP Leni is talking about, just do not build a house and roof their heads.
They need, in the community where they will transfer, there is electricity and water.
The economy is important.
It means, there are businesses that they can attend.
It is also the main ingredients for a resettlement site or housing project is the cheap transportation and near public school which will serve as a "playground" of their children.
Even if they are homeless and ISF, they are also thinking of course of the situation of their family in the available relocation.
It should really be, they can live in a new house.
This will be complete and their ambition and dreams for the family will be fulfilled.
Not even if there is a roof, there is an automatic bite of those who will be transferred to.
If this is how big the problem of a Housing czar, it is sad that instead of increasing the budget of the office of VP Leni can be cut off.
Despite this, the Vice President gladly accepted the smaller OVP budget in the coming year 2017.
But hopefully, the "Housing program" will be given a separate fund "even if it is not directly placed in the office of VP Leni.
There is a lot to do with this problem.
Others can't even see, the "Declaration" of Metro Manila or the transfer of ISF towards new communities outside the city is copyright in many problems such as the congested traffic, problem of environment (pollution, garbage, flood) and even the crime rate.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
