Jaclyn, true national actress Jackie Lou, that is annoying By Alwin Ignacio October 9, 2016 and the last of my Favorite "minor" actresses, a tie between Suzanne Gonzales and Vicky Suba.
Will they be the two of them?
The cameo of Ms. Suba in the working Girls where She deli-vered the tric lines in Spanish and "the name of Vilma Santos in Pahborrow one morning.
Ms. Suzanne, in his appearances at Danny Zialcita class.
Ms. Chanda Romero, with emotional Connect and impact on me is his role in working Girls and the success definition of Her character, "You have to be a Good person first."
She's the best Mother of Eric in My Husband's Lovely.
Jackie Lou Blanco, who is in My Only Love, is unintentionally discovered by Ate Shawie in their scenes.
He / she was getting stronger when I will wait in heaven.
Until I was annoyed with him, because, his credible Destiny Rose.
Gladys, the talent Si Gladys Reyes, short, sweet and impactful is the role of the effective baudio and Barber's Tales.
And not because She made This republic of ours proud because of Her Cannes Best actress win care of Ma "Rosa, it is an idea that you see Ms. Jaclyn Jose in Macho Dancer, tails, even in ghosts In The City.
Icing his Victory in Cannes
Jaclyn Jose is really the national actress of the Philippines.
Even if they are not included and accepted as the last movie Queens like Nora Aunor, Sharon Cuneta, Judy Ann Santos, Vilma Santos and Maricel Soriano, that I will not be able to pay tribute and awards are all actresses of note.
High-caliber women who are truly skillful.
All of them have been bruised, intrigued, maligned, pounded, scarred, taunting but they remain beautiful inside.
This is the A-list actress, Ms. Hilda Colonel.
Until he was as Insic where he didn't let the acting national treasure Mona Lisa.
The French peeps in Cannes cannot believe that he is living in the squatters area.
He was enchanting as Anna in the coming of age romantic classic of film master Mike De Leon, if you are dreaming of Ka-wake.
Another artistic collaboration is the triumph of Her mentor (Lino Brocka) the vandalism of her and revenge on the spelling of the original Angela Marvel.
With her romance with director Danny Zialcita, make English a few speaking lines on how Kado was Minsan.
Because, Her character owns a hospital and fencing the recreational sport.
He fed Bea Alonzo on The Mistress with this sweeping line, "avoid my husband.
Tagalog "that is for you to understand."
Hilda Colonel is indeed, Hilda Colonel.
"I will not replace it for Rio Locsin, there is nothing else for me..." part of the singing of Hotdogs in heaven has a tribute to the unique beauty of Ms. Rio Locsin.
True, She was a bold starlet but in time, Locsin proved to everyone that she is not the only the perennial sex marriage.
She Can act.
She is an acting force that you feel.
Because, his performance is always true.
In millennials, watch the two throwback essential Movies of Ms. Rio.
First, as a blind masseuse in Manila By night aka City after Dark where Ishit Bernal plays his director.
In his story, Director Ishma, before taking care, there is a lot of instructions, a lot of motivation that will be given to you so, I, as an actress, I absorb everything.
"It is embarrassing to be here, given to the suggestions that you are over," you can't give "what he wants.
"The reason I am, I remember everything.
And, I give IT my interpretation, according to the vision of Director Ishma.
There, take one of my scenes with him. "
And another, Haplos.
As Auring, Locsin was both child-like and coply, innocent, provocative, powerful yet to Help the rescue.
Cherie, Diva of the local showbiz In all Her villain roles opposite the Megastar Sharon Cuneta, Cherie Gil showed all of US how to become the villain.
I have to give Her credit for being the reason why there is Lavinia Arguelles Honor Rolls we every holiday season.
Cherie is the one who has a gravitas to say the long line that you know She meant IT was the fun wing of such a riol.
Then, the movie Sonata suddenly greeted the cinemas, as if Gil and director Peque Gallaga and Lore Reyes of the Maria Callas of This world.
As Regina Cadena, an aging opera star WHO lost Her voice that resulted to the collapse of Her career, the death of Her relationship with Her version of Aristotle Ontarmac and the heartwarming friendship She shared with a precocious provincial boy, Cherie became the fulfilment of a Diva on the verge of a nervous breakdown and how sweet, innocent, pure love for Her and the Nick ot time.
She was a wildily confused, damaged the destitute, all fire and ice, Thunder and lightning, hale the brimstone and Cherie DID give Her all, Her very essence to become Regina.
Cherie Gil is the "Diva" of Philippine showbusiness.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
