The weather bureau is like a taxi.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Even if you call PAGASA, the truth is that we do not see any hope in our weather bureau.
The taxi, by any other name, is still a taxi that if you need it, there is always nothing and if there is nothing you need.
A Rose is a Rose by other name.
A chair is a chair even if there is no one sitting there.
It is better for the first time.
Color coding is no longer needed to know if the weather is bad.
Now, PagAin has a Thunder warning.
The bad thing is that, millions of money is the budget of MORE and asking for additional.
It is not the fault of the people.
They want to look at the sky to be noticed if there is a bad weather.
Maybe there is no hope for the people in heaven, in heaven that they have been placed under corrupt government.
Before, if there will be a typhoon, a siren is needed.
Not a siren in the sea, but siren, or hugely needed.
Life is simple then.
The government does not need to spend on the wrong forecast, with phenomenon such as color coding to typhoon and Thunder warnings.
Just one sound of the siren, we already know typhoon signal number 1.
Two sound if the storm is stronger.
And three if the storm is terrible.
Now, we are just hoping on radio and TV that is dependent on PagAin who is hoping for fate.
PagAin said the storm will come.
If not reached, then we are lucky.
Wow, naturally, and of course, you don't need the weathermen or the Upc and the Secretary of the Department of Science and Technology (DOST) to know if there is a storm or nothing.
But the typhoon now has a different name or name.
The typhoon, before, is a typhoon by any other name.
Now, there is a LPA or low pressure area and there are monsoon Rain still.
Before, the strong rain did not stop.
Now, the call of PagAin is a miracle.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
