Firecrackers until the province of lumps of the bandits Abu Sayyaf.
The government troops attacked them.
The armed forces deployed armed forces to keep the civilians in significance if it is.
According to the knowledge, according to those who are visited, especially when they are visited by the damaged victims.
He said.
We are now here now in Camp Aguinaldo, we are now here in Camp Aguinaldo because it has reached a total of nine yes dead in the encounter that happened between the police and the military against the suspected bandit group abu Sayyaf.
This includes five bandits three soldiers including a police officer and a police officer who was wounded in the combat that is possible.
Reports, but now, there are others arrested by the body of the authorities while it is very clear that the operation against the bandits still continues, especially since there is still no assurance if some of the bandits stormed the lumps.
Around six residents in Inabanga Bohol was replaced with six soldiers and some armed men in the area.
Some residents of the authorities immediately complained to the authorities and when the soldiers and the police responded there that the encounter happened in the office of the Philippines bandit group abu Sayyaf.
Ltt; ttt; ttt;
We.
Based in Basilan, they kidnapped the tourists in the two thousand resorts in Palawan.
Included were the couple who told Martin and Gracia Burnham.
Last twenty sixteen to the island Garden city of Samal is kidnapped.
And in his attack in Inabanga Bohol, the spread of the bandits is still wide.
Tourist spot is the province of Bohol and there is a cloud that was planned by the Abu Sayyaf to conduct kidnapping in the area where tourists are going to the house of another where the encounter was happening almost sixty kilos from the capital of Bohol Tagbilaran.
Fight for general form of the armed group
He sent an additional forces to keep the civilian in the shooting.
According to PNP Chief stone dela Rosa, it is still being investigated if the armed group is hostage.
In the SUV
Before the hint of a dog that he thought was the oppressed in Visayas because of the intelligence report of the bandit group's plan.
But the complaint of civilians was allegedly a big help that's why they were able to finish the bandits wait, it is natural.
That and all.
Our supporters of police possibly tanned.
Information about suspicious people
In his repeated example, he is in good example.
There was only a noon yesterday when the residents in Inabanga Bohol were noticed by the three group of abu Sayyaf in the river, or when they saw that there was a weapon of them, they immediately reported to the authorities in the clearing operation of aya three, they were repeatedly reported to be recovered by the military and they even got an explosive device.
The military is the most part of the afternoon, especially the famous tourist area near Tagbilaran, and the island.
The participation Mike, thank you very much.
