Children, teachers who responded to a conversation with DepEd, disappointed with the response of LuMinister.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
The children and teachers of the alternative schools of Lumad in Mindanao are dismayed that they cannot be protected by Education Secretary.
Armin Luther's military attack
Save Our Schools (SOS) Network, groups campaigning for the protection of schools from the military attack, which seems to have been hesitant to protect the children.
According to the reports of abuse by soldiers in their communities and schools.
Talking to a conversation yesterday, December 2, the SOS Network to LuMinister about the represented by the department memo which is allegedly used by the military to represent their schools.
But according to Madella Santiago, tags of SOS Network, it seems that it is just the same way that agreement with LuMinister in the negotiations of the group to Assistant Secretary.
Tonya Umali last week.
"This is the first face of Secretary.
This is after two years of negotiations with the officials of DepEd.
But after a while, he said that we still need to give him the complaints of military abuse in schools in Mindanao, "Santiago said.
In a conversation, LuMinister listened to the complaint of teachers and issions from the Tribal Filipino Program, alternative Learning Center for Agra tural and Livelihood Development (Alcadev), Salugpongan Tatarning Center and the Rural history of the Philippines with schools in Mindanao.
They announced that the military left the schools of indigenous people in Mindanao or convince President Aquino to leave or prohibit the military to use Catholic schools.
"I try to convey the issue but I do not know if I will put an end," Luther wrote in the group.
He also said that the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) should answer the issue of the funded school of the rebel New People's Army the alternative schools of the Lumad by the secretary to fix the documentary on the complaints and give them a copy.
He will also call for special meetings of the Inter-Agency Committee on Children in Armed Conflict (IAC-CIAC) to table and discuss the complaints.
Born last year was the IAC-CIAC, by virtue of the Executive Order 138, to focus on charges of violating the rights of the children, during the time of the armed conflict.
This is composed of government agencies together with the AFP and DepEd, but in the leadership of the Council for the Welfare of Children.
According to LuMinister, this is the right agency to resolve the cases filed by SOS Network.
"Our agreement (SOS Network), DepEd will lead and we will be a bridge to reveal all their documents and statements and we will turn it back to this (Europe) Inter-agency," he said in midfield.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
The secretary also insisted that there is no need to have a new memorandum.
It is said that there is only a need to add or amendment to be strict in implementing Memorandum 221.
"Actually, he is not a new memo, because we have an Eclipse of 221 (because) the basis has been presented there: First, non-private, NGO, or the public to enter the guidelines," Luther said.
But there is a exemption for "non-military activities" like "Brigada Eskwela" and needs to be according to the guidelines.
For SOS Network, this is unlikely because part of the counter-armed program of the government is the "Brigada Eskwela" and other civilian-military operation.
It seems that DepEd abandoned his responsibility to protect the children.
According to the separation source of Pinoy Weekly, he does not want to mention any name, it has been given a copy of the documentary on the complaints of Thailand.
In the truth, the Inter-agency gathered in October and the case of Salugpongan was included in the table.
Also, there is a separate mechanism of the United Nations Children's Fund (Unicef) for the "six child rights violations" stated by the UN and included in the Eclipse of 221.
According to the said informant, he was given a copy of the IAC-CIAC.
The organizers are wondering why the response of DepEd is not taking the action and repeated response of DepEd in the cases.
"It is disheartening," Secretary said.
LuMinister in dialogue.
After he learned to listen personally to the child and teacher, he will pass the process of the bureaucracy in resolving it, "said Gabriela Rep. Emilia de Jesus, who also sat with a conversation.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
De Jesus also said that LuMinister needs to face the matter because the security of the children and teachers are at stake in a conversation.
It is said that LuMinister did not have the safety of them in his refusal to leave the military in the community.
"He should show his strength as secretary of DepEd, who is for the achievements of the child.
"We will hold him accountable for the department if something happens to these children," he said.
The SOS Network added that although they are disappointed, they will pass it to the department the documentary about the violations of the mixar and insisted the trash of the Eclipse of 221.
"We will do our part and we are expecting that it will also be done by Secretary.
"His commitment and not to pass it to other government agencies is the resolution of the problem that we put on him," Santiago said.
The SOS Network of Manila, the campaign of Lumad and human rights groups in Mindanao to bring in Manila is the issue of widespread violation of human rights in Mindanao.
More than 300 Lumad who travelled from Mindanao in Lavoid Bonifacio until the International Day of human rights on December 10.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
