For J, a new acquaintance.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
By Marjohara Tucker, I am really shallow.
I do not want to receive expensive gifts, flowers or any kind of shape.
I said, there are only two things that would like to laugh at me: No matter what kind of chocolate and pub - "the small white cloth that can be bought on the sidewalk.
And yes, rice.
It's because my friends agree to not eat rice whole week.
That's why I will just wait for that after the week and finally, I have eaten rice again.
They are giddy with each of them.
That is what you feel when you see it.
Or they're talking to.
It is shallow, but happy.
This is not similar to what I am feeling when I am in a rally or that is why he is talking about issues in society.
Or "I Can teach workers, or talking to farmers."
There is also a different kind of feeling "that is the happiness of moral, happiness that makes feelings.
Maybe it is more correct that I feel giddy when I see it.
"Those who want that I can stop every time we run our eyes, or I will receive a message from you.
"I know that there's nothing to do with that," I'm not the same thing, but I'm really happy.
You're getting tired of that.
Because he is always thinking.
Between the tasks, my smiling face surfaced, and I will also smile.
The other day, I did not notice that I was just smiling while riding the MRT.
I looked at the bad man in front of me.
Why did I costly your feeling for you?
The truth is, it is not yet known.
Maybe because you are just happy to talk to you, and you are very open to things.
If possible, we can no longer end our conversation.
But it is also happy that even for a moment, it is bad.
I do not know if all the excitement that you will give to me is going anywhere.
I also cannot read what is in your mind.
Or maybe I just don't really want to read.
Because it is also scary.
My friends said that I am going through five phase because I am going through something like me - discovery, happy phase, rejection, acceptance, and moving on.
And IT's really happening, so maybe, I'm afraid.
I am in a happy phase now, and if I am, I do not want to leave this phase.
And because I do not have anything else to do but write, I will just let all my request to you.
I have tried all the gimmick to express the feeling - from being a terror and sensual until he is in front of him and quickly.
Now, it seems like what I want is like a gimmick, her older brother who will leave roses in the guard of Vinzons for one of the artists of Kule.
Older brother who has a good smile, in case you read it and even if I read it and there is a little hope for you, it is just a celestic in front of me.
Just leave KuoGuard in Vinzons.
I am waiting and hope.
Hopefully, there are all giddy things.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
