The acquisition against K-to-12
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
The students, grade 10 of advised National High School, woke up early but not to the familiar classic and building of their school.
Together with their teachers, they will be removed from the streets, to silence the garbage for more than two years in the essentiveness in accordance with the program Kindergri-12 years (K-12) of the government.
The successive protests against K-12 is Emmanuel Asis, grade 10, and president of the Supreme Student Government (SSG) of advised.
For him, this will not answer the long and deep problem in the Philippine education.
This is just a burden for the poor.
"Poor students are mainly affected, will shoulder the additional expenses," said Asis.
At K-12, the students spent two new years in Senior High School (SHS) after the Mandatory year in Kindergarten, six years in elementary (Grade 1 to 6), and four years in junior high school (grade 7 to 10).
At the age of 15, Asis is one of the main gathering of opinions about the program and come together with fellow students in their school.
He is with them to attend the first gathering of students, teachers, parents and other sectors who are against K-12.
Roll call consists of different schools and communities called the stop K-to-12 Alliance to lead the campaign to allow the program to be implemented next year.
"This is a massive association of parents, students and teachers, from level school to the definition of a distance of all from the most low levels until the highest," said Louie Zbusy, chairman of the Manila Public School Teachers Association (MPSTA).
Anna Marinas, grade 10, and president of SSG in Sta.
Lucia High School in Quezon City, the lack of preparedness in their school on the matter of facilities, and the teachers "Higher sections, we are being given a modules, but what else?
What is the lower sections that need more dules so they can still send their studies? "According to Marinas.
The aim of K-12 to make the Philippines a globally competitive country, which is the only country in Asia with a 10-year Basic education program.
In spite of this, the budget for education is not increased, compared to 6.42 percent in Thailand and 5.94 percent in Malaysia.
"I myself fear for additional expenses as a parent.
In his allowance, it is already difficult, then the daily expenses.
"There will be a new sacrifice for students and parents," says Juver Marquez, who has two children who will be hit by K-12.
In the data of the Alliance of concerned Teachers (ACT), national alliance between teachers in the country, with more than 1.95 million youth expected to enter the SHS and the remaining almost one million will go to private schools.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Meanwhile, the "voucher system" is being served as a "voucher system" to give assistance to the parents: A government of P16,500 pesos to P22,500 for students who will go to the private SHS.
But there is no assurance that it will be accepted by everyone.
According to Marquez, who is also a teacher in advised High School, "the salary of our parents, of the workers is not increasing.
What happens is that the ability of the citizens to get the services will be lessened. "
"If the K-12 push through, the pair of colour (will be) another privilege for our student.
"Education should be the right," Marinas said.
IT was on the other hand, suggesting that teachers now feel the danger brought by the implementation of reform.
Teachers in elementary school were worried about the closing of their school, which was built by the SHS.
The butcher Elementary School in Quezon City, for example, is set to be transferred to the nearby Jose Abad Santos Elementary School because the school will be made.
"We will be an Eclipse.
Instead of joining the facility, what they are doing, they will be transferred (the students) so that they will save.
"The parents and teachers, even if we have complained, the principal said there was nothing to do because he decided to" go out, "one teacher said.
"If they really say that there is enough funds for K-12, there is nothing.
"They are looking for schools that they can buy," said one teacher from General Licerio Geronimo National High School.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
They are also complaining about the lack of Pilot testing of the program posted on the transition period of 2016 until 2020.
In the transition period, the number of students in college will fall.
According to the first data of the Commission on Higher Education, the more 78, 318 teachers and employees of the whole country are in danger.
But the new data released on 25, 090 is very worried about the worries of critics.
"We are questioning the basis of why they are not" the figures, "said ACT Teachers Representative Antonio Tinio.
It is also removed from the outline of the reform of the Filipino, Literatura and Philippine Constitution in college.
The Mother tongue will be used in the first set but English will be in an indoctrination after grade 3.
"Our history as one of us race and a country are dismissing and will not point to our youth.
"This is the same national language," says Benjamin Valbuena, teacher and national chairman of the ACT.
"The students' call to dismiss the restrictions that will not respond to the needs of the Philippines, said Asis.
The first time for Raymond Palatino, chairman of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan-Metro Manila and former representative of the Chamber of Kabataan Party-list, is exposed to the pro-foreign orientation of K-12.
One reason in enforcing the program is the work of those students of training and ability to get a semi-skilled job.
According to Palatino, the technical vocational courses that are assigned to the needs of the strength of other countries - caregiving, copyright, housekeeping, tailoring and others.
The program will also be given to the students at the age of 18, when they will work legal.
"Inaccurate name is K-12, this is TESDA in high school.
"Our students are given skills not to become globally competitive and to develop our own industry, but also for Manpower needs of other countries," according to Palatino.
"Instead of posting it in March, we will still wait for two years.
And then after grade 12, someone is waiting for a job with us.
How can they say "that is now, even College graduate, unemployed.
"The fall is a call center agent, or the jobs that are not suited to the course where they graduated," Marinas said.
As a resolution, the aim of the drastic national alliance to tackle not only the ranks of teachers in the city, as well as in the provinces.
The ACT initially passed the petition which contains their complaints about K-12.
The stop K-to-12 Alliance will also lead the form of the curriculum for Basic education - according to them, will come from teachers in different parts of the country and will pass through thorough study.
"We all live together, in Congress, in court, on the streets.
"While there is no decision (the Supreme Court), and even if there is still a decision, we will not stop until we won't succeed," says Valbuena.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
