Strong campaign vs the benefits, pulled the members of the health.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
By Pher Pasion February 9, 2012
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
These members of health are furious because of the Aquino administration's frustration with the benefits they are asked for.
(Pher Pasion) "Policy decision" will decrease their left benefits.
This is the response of the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) in the call of the health workers to recover the plan to reduce their left benefits.
In a conversation with the health workers, including the Alliance of Health Workers (AHW), DBM insisted that they can lessen the benefits of these members.
It is said that this is based on the Department of Health Memorandum Order Number 2012-Eclipse 2 which is ordered to lessen the alawans in the laundry of the employees.
Under the said memorandum, the said alans will be 130 per cent to 150 pesos.
Meanwhile, it will also take care of 50 pesos per day of making 30 pesos in allowance of ordinary employees in institutions and programs of the government.
DOH also said that the memorandum is based on DBM Budget memorandum Nos. 107 and 112 giving rules in preparation of budget for different agencies in the year 2012 and 2013.
"If the government's aim is to remove all the benefits of Magna Carta like what the representation of DBM in the previous consultation and meetings, we will not allow it to happen," according to Emma Manuel, president Emeritus of AHW and the ologic technologist in Tondo Medical Center.
The health expert explained that Manuel is anxious, causing the "anxious and demoralization of the law that are going to go directly to the law."
He also said that like other citizens, the health workers and services are already being affected by non-stop increase of goods and services, and they need any additional benefits given by the government.
AHW, the command of the DOH and memo of DBM in Implementing Rules and Regulations of the Magna Carta of Public Health Workers who were update on Nov.
1999.
It is stated in the said rules and regulations that the government needs to allocate 150 per cent of laundry allowance and 50 pesos per day (or P1,500 every month) that will be implemented.
They also said that "this is contrary to the provisions of the Joint Resolution number 4 or Salary Standardation Law III (SSL III) that prohibits employees, joining the benefits stated in Magna Carta" the said orders of DOH and DBM.
"If you want to lessen why not those in the top?" According to Dante Perez, who uses health from the Philippine Orthopedic Center.
Perez also said that the (majority of) officials in the government was not in the hospital for treatment.
"That's why they cannot see it and they cannot feel the situation of ordinary patients.
"They do not feel poverty in public schools," he said.
Perez said that the day might come that there will be no health care in the Philippines if this situation continues to low wages, lack of benefits and lessen.
"We can't resist to leave those who need our service even if our salary is low.
Yes.
"When we entered service for the Filipinos but do not let us go," Perez said.
For Amalia Magno of Amang Rodriguez Memorial Medical Center: "It is very painful to think that we loved our job in spite of low wages and poor conditions, but we did not love this government."
Protest calls for AHW to fill the hospitals in different form such as hanging streamers, ribbon and even noise barrage in order to have a "atmosphere of protest" in resistance to the said disaster.
"We have grown old in service.
But we do not see any changes but continue to extort and suffer, "said Remy Ysa of Tondo Medical Center who has 38 years in service.
"We will be organised and charged by the government of this government.
We don't have any reliable.
"Life and livelihood is being removed from all of us," said Your.
A big protest of these members of health members will prepare for February 14, Valentine's Day, in Mendiola to call the Malacanang.
"Full patience when it comes to the health sector.
But all patience has a limit, "Perez said.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
