Medicine for looking down and scabies.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Doc WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Filipino Star Ngayon) 124; Updated November 20, 2014 - 12: 05
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Looking like looking (head lice): The medical term in looking up looking like you.
Looking like a small insects and color brown.
Looking like a sharp hand is looking like a cocktail.
When we are infected, it can cause our hair.
What we see is white-white that sticks to the hair is the eggs of looking like Lisa.
It is also called an egg or egg.
Because of looking down, the patient's head often gets mad.
It's as if they have an Eclipse.
There are also pimple in the head, neck and shoulder.
They quickly infect the looking.
If you have closed your head to a person who is looking like something, you can immediately move up looking like you.
The things that are often defined by looking like looking like a look, dresses, sombrero and stuffed toys.
This has been boiling water in boiling water and exposed to the severe sun.
It is hard to kill those looking up, but here are the ways.
Get used to eat hair - get the hair to get thin or cut off the hair so that no one to catch up.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Use an opportunity to remove the eggs and looking like hair.
Buy Kwell shampoo, generic, Persons 10 mg.
Basically the hair, put Kwell shampoo and allow hair for 10 minutes before rinse.
Be careful not to go to the eye.
Repeat it after a week when looking up looking for a week.
Don't be stubborn.
Be treated like looking up and infect others.
Scabies (scabies): Scabies is coming from a small animal, which is called Sarcoptes scaback.
It has a lot of scabies on the body of the people and animals like dog and cat.
When in person, scabies can live 1 month.
If there is nothing in the body of the person, this is still alive until 2 days.
Because there are families who are crowded in the house and beside him when sleeping, it quickly infect scabies.
Be careful in using a towel, pillow, bedsheet and handkerchief to a person with scabies, and you might be infected!
It has been scabies, charged (wrist), foot, sic and breast.
The appearance is like a small pimple.
The person is hiding in the skin-folds or between the fingers of the hands and feet.
It will be a lot of scabies and it will be more painful at night.
Sometimes, the skin is the root of his skin.
How will they be treated?
Buy Kwell Lotion, the generic name is Permanent 50 mg lotion.
Follow the direction of its use.
Take a bath first, then apply the Kwell Lotion in the whole body, from neck to foot.
Let lotion on the body for 8 hours and then take a bath again.
If it will not be consumed, apply for 1 times the next day.
Remember: Follow the direction of the use of Kwell shampoo and Kwell lotion, because it has a side effect when you have too much things.
Everyone has scabies in the house should be treated.
Because if not, there will be a two-quarters.
It may be scabies.
Avoid looking like it.
Maintain clean body.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
