That's why when Dina's father passed away as the eldest, who served as the mother and father of their family for a week, just three days to go here, why do we do something to do that?
Also the main livelihood of the mango tree.
The hashtag was dried by the water in a secluded and dark part of the forest.
One.
Which is just after the onslaught of typhoon Lando in Mindoro, which is why they have only able to bend.
The residents are aware of classes as the biggest need on this day.
That's why they helped the young woman that his boat will be filled with water.
When we passed through the forest, we passed the kind of teacher, but Dina did not look back and continued reading reading.
Landed.
It was declared true when we started in treating it.
The rocks were hot at the feet but Dina did not mind the need of the need.
You will be able to spot the stones.
We are just reduced if the five months in the old-heor and this is due to a fee of water.
You should put it in your pocket here.
.
No matter how strong, no matter how heavy, they will not stop walking.
Sometimes, he did not complain and just stopped the responsibility filed by the trails.
This is the time when you want to complain because the weight of you are carrying over the length of a long flight but when you see the rich people, even if you are thinking that they do not have a right to complain because they even get a smile in the middle of poverty.
Joy.
We can help you.
Ready!
.
After two hours, we went to the two hours where the products of those were bought.
Careful with every piece of banana that Dina will hope.
Ltt; httt; tttt; a hundred pesos to those who have become severe is one twenty one to the python here.
World No.
But in the end one hundred forty four pesos is his earnings.
What will you give there to one hundred forty four pesos.
.
Medicine and then.
The next painter said that you said rice earlier at first that we will give everyone help.
One hundred forty four pesos for the two hours of taking the mountain at ltt; ttt; a few tablets which can be bought by small money.
No matter how big his earnings are full of hope is the young lady.
He was happy to walk more than an hour towards the nearest pharmacy.
But when we reached the selling of medicine, what will fit the only two ltt; ttt;
Ha!
It is only two pieces of antibiotic that Tina bought his money to his mother, what you always say to me, you can always ask me to buy the medicine so that if I buy rice, then we are giving rice sardines just to know if he will go home to their door.
For teachers who are concerned that the call of duty is not a box in the classroom.
.
The department of education recently told the teacher that his sacrifice is over, Labo.
I grew up in his position and he can teach in the mind of a better and better school where we can leave the mother of the principal of the country district that's why we are really in reality of life that you are getting older and the one who is going to go down.
But the teacher ani did not accept the new offer and he chose to stay in a secluded part of his bad before when you have been assigned to a public school teacher, you are thinking about money for my own yes mother but now that I left them immediately so that if I left them immediately so that if I left them right now, those who taught me to be left behind me.
He said that he is not a doctor, he is not a doctor who is common or powerful leader of the government but he has power.
