Health FRONTIERS: Things that cause pimples, I have been tagged and fierce in my face.
How to avoid this?
The tags often see the teenagers but anyone can have it.
There are women that are having this because of the hormonal changes related to pregnancy, in terms of cycle or stop birth control pills.
Three things have something to do with the formation of the tags - the excessive production of oil or setum, the aggressive shedding of dead skin cells which are irate with hair follicles of the skin and the increase of bacteria.
Every hair follicle is connected to a baceous glands that is making oil.
Oil serves as lubricant in hair and skin.
It appears in hair follicles or pores.
If this is too much, he blocked the hair follicle of the dead skin cells.
This is the start of whiteheads or blackheads.
The tags are bargaining hair follicles that are swollen or with infection.
The cause of excessive production of oil is not known but it is related to the hormones, bacteria and the use of other medicines.
Dust is not related, greasy foods and chocolate in acne.
It is still being studied if high-eating foods like bread and chips in the tags will have an effect.
To avoid academics, do not touch it or watch it.
You just shared the infection and you have a scar.
Wash the face twice a day to remove the oil and dead skin cells.
Use a calm cleanser or ordinary soap.
Avoid being washed away; this is also bad!
In order to reduce the excess oil, use OTC academic cream or monarchy, which is mixed with acid.
Do not use thick Foundation or makeup.
Choose the powder cosmetics instead of cream products.
Remove the makeup before sleeping so that the hair follicles could not block the hair.
Throw the old makeup and always clean the soap on the makeup brush or applicator.
Use a loose dress so you are not sweaty and have a acne.
Avoid a narrow backpack or helmet.
Take a bath after exercise or strenuous Work.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
