It has been more than two months before I get married and the authorities are going through a new year and the authorities are going through it for the next year that they were ordered by whatever they want to donate to make it continue.
The firing of Christmas and New Year is part of the Filipino culture, it is believed to be turned away by a bad and new hope in the New Year but the wrong use and factory defect is usually the cause of disaster, so as early as now, the client has already started the protection of the campaign to prevent friends related.
They gather hundreds of refugees and distributors in different parts of Mindanao one of those who attended to him aside from the requirement to get a permit for them to have a new knowledge to those who are prohibited and to stop the sale of fireworks.
There and navigate.
Void of seven
They are holding their liver to avoid this.
Included in the mountains in the feast of the authorities of security, ensure that the former is planning to pay attention.
Title super grandfather atomic big Trianghead Mother machine granders Silva cold garlic Goodbye Philippines atomic bomb five four ojie and like Rizal.
Let us go in a proper proper is because it is too much cats.
They order an explosive content of thirty four zero point program.
That kind of contest.
Fireworks that is prohibited by our law in the properties of 70.
According to Republic Act seven one eight of you are the law through Moises the person who is caught selling.
Anyone who caught selling will buy and the fireworks will give tribute to illegal fireworks that could go to prison for six months to a year and will curse twenty to thirty thousand pesos.
Since the picture, is it still selling prohibited?
Just tell Fatima's revelation that they only have a depressed area where they can sell.
That is why our readers that are given attention even in some places, isn't it that even those who are in other areas, that's why they do not know that if they are able to talk to the manufacturers not to support the imported products that should be used by the department of Trade and industry the sellers of firecrackers.
It is our product.
Belated as well as we already have the so-called group product standard.
Ha!
With that.
Five months of the standard that should be maintain like that.
Ha!
It is our unit that we are better with illness, right?
We also know it.
Match that Jan, seven hundred thirty and children aged five to ten years old are still affected, which is why the call of different groups is better to use alternative fireworks like horns to secure the welcoming of the New Year.
How do I staff yes.
