Now we Are the owner of our relationship and we can interview the faith of graduate in britania that's why we change my Country's primary training and the flow of time there in one of us together with maybe Angga Entry of white Mitsubishi.
Morning to the viewers to do so.
Perhaps, maybe so that we start our conversation with us with your experiences in Britney to be angry.
Tomorrow Morning and the funeral home.
I am challenging the words whispers that I am a Filipino who is there.
We have many classmates who have affordable bases.
Benefits like sun life or students former.
So one of the happy parts of training, we learned a lot of different culture but we learned a lot of different culture, but the beauty of the constitution that we faced as we are studying by the military leadership and the Maritime Environment and national engagement there is also an appointment of the Aviation that is needed by the rains.
You will also share about one hundred 60, you are not starting but we are a hundred thirty two only and all of that, all the twenty five years old white Mitsubishi and his number of things like this is chosen by the Philippines in a sign in London.
They are promoting their attention before the candidates are choosing to call the community hosted by the community hosted by the night because it almost passed by.
The true Commander summed.
Sau
I am thankful for the white socks on the Philippines for the Opportunity.
To the vote in the dian abroad with beauty is an insane Audience.
Hundred meters floor maybe in support of the Philippines is the local government officials.
Because of the birthday, it was first noticed by the diver.
Training is more meaningful inside the money online which is the most important lesson.
You have learned from China for bringing the connivance with the reason that they are against them.
There is a lack of biodiversity that you don't know where you are going to bring it up to one of the data that I learned there in ice usalin just be a positive mind.
And to my personal experience in ctica.
But when you look like a military leadership, he is used to be a nurse seaman Second life-vigation and international engagement.
What now do you like to do what you want is posted on January four of course center fighting weight water when we are talking about the signing of this Story is really serious to bring them there in a porn imbalance of forty four to just go away with the Filipinos, and also faster than Mark.
Or supportive five permission sent to the first in the Philippines maybe I do.
Two or'clock, the weather will add up to the four Major of Mario's Eclipse in four zero in the school run by the school.
A hygienic factory that is a factory.
You are not always thinking about this series.
Tell the NBI.
Office
For personal.
Or ma'am.
God bless you in the position
But I also ask our free medicine for UTI how can you understand him if it is ltt; it's your mother that is alized here in your service in the Philippines.
In one of the great Opportunity for many years old lttt; httt; I am studying the 'yo to and I will return to our government or through teaching in the colonists of the Philippines by this time looking and this time in the Philippines a little Oxford square is rugby in the Philippines - and this time in the Philippines is a little Oxford square.
What is good that those who are assigned to hopefully have no Special assignment.
That is the masses, that is what I feel.
Maybe you are an inspiration to many watching us with your message to them that maybe she also wants to be training in other countries to also serve as well.
Or out of the suspect is an Opportunity to talk to our youth all the course that is the response to the security.
Joy adrianne member of the Philippines lady Maroons forces of the Philippines
A third will help and development in the country.
But an honor tax to seven lesson
Even the manager has many thanks to the story of what is funny sometimes in the Philippines with Angga.
