The hundreds of pregnant women in Sarangani province gathered to Sarangani province.
We travelled to their duties or Reyes photo gallery buddist in Sarangani.
The children who are beautiful who took advantage of the budget of services who is pregnant in Alabel, Sarangani province did not stop.
The viewers were amazed because they showed their grace under pressure even if their stomach is already big.
The hundreds of pregnant women were also delighted because many services were offered to them like the principal ultrasound family Planning Our classroom laboratory consolation and or out Services happy for five days, Elisa and Irene.
The pregnant Congress will allegedly help to give them additional information especially that their knowledge in pregnancy is dangerous.
To know if.
There is a better way theme for Thursday nervous.
That is why he / she is a ltt; httt; my baby passed by.
Here in the country, around three mothers are dying every day from his friend who is related complication every year, removing five thousand maternal death and continue to increase.
Because of the two hundred twenty one hundred twenty one who died in every one hundred thousand in labor, including the millennials and development goal, he gets down from fifty-two in every one hundred thousand pesos in her abdomen after the primary cause of the death of the mother, which is why it was also included in the high impact five that is being focused on by the report.
And then sell
The police go to the corridor to drink.
They could be found.
Followed by him.
Their names
It is also pointed to those pregnant is the importance of breastfeeding, it is important to promote the health of mothers because if it is autism to fix the baby a sociologist in the being pushed by the mother because it is the most important way of feeding the baby because there is a lot of nutrition that can be given to the mother's milk because there is a lot of nutrition that can be given to the mother's health.
I am perfect for the vehicles and what is really the abs and chest are very practical.
To mothers
Ing to two hundred thousand pesos and the chicken, we will buy doctors that should be good and should not be the next pregnancy.
His friend Matt has three years or MORE.
Why do we ask for three years or more.
Because here is the file of those who are coming back and what other mothers are saying for good luck.
He will take a Second pregnancy in love.
In his monitor October twenty-six, there will also be a pregnant Congress in GenSan in cooperation with the unit needed and national nutrition Council.
Pregnancy is one of the most sensitive parts of the life of a woman, you need to consider all the opportunities not only the mother who is pregnant but the life of her womb is why the doctors reminds the pregnant women that should be done and things that should be avoided while pregnant.
