We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Alarm in Syria, fears of migrant workers
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
By Darius Galang February 9, 2012
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Map of Syria in the Middle East
Air strikes on any day last week in Syria, where a War in ousting the president of the Country, Bashar al-Assad.
The country is currently in Alert Level 4 because of the conflict.
In the midst of the chaos, many Filipinos are in an uncertain situation until now it is hard to go home because of the failure of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the embassy of the Philippines in Syria to take care of their welfare.
Syria's situation at all, criticized by the Overseas Filipino Worker (OFW), in the leadership of Migrante International, the role of the United States for the quick aggravating situation in Syria towards a war-civil war.
The US and its allies have direct meddling in the Internal discussion of the country.
"Like what happened in Libya, the United States formed a coalition to oust (Syrian President Bashar) al-Assad.
The forces of US-NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) is lurking under the alleged humanitarian mission.
But the United Nations and the Arab League is blessed with the military and air strikes in the said country, "said Garry Martinez, chairman of Migrante International.
Democrats fear that the bloody attack of the US in Libya will possibly happen in Syria.
"The call of the citizens of Syria for change, which they think is useful in their Country.
"But any force has not made both parties, and the citizens of Syria should allow the citizens of Syria to resolve their issues," Martinez added.
He is pounding on the government of Migrante International to help the OFWs caught in the war in Syria.
(Contribution) grief of the OFWs in a press conference yesterday, a few women who have been able to return to the country have been able to return to the country for their plight in the middle of the conflict in Syria.
The content of their stories are the difficulty in escape from employers, lack of food, and lack of communication to loved ones even inside the embassy of the Philippines.
According to OFWs from Syria, their employers did not allow Filipino employees to go out of the house.
Accounts of coply Mae Cruz, from January last year was the suffering of OFWs trying to ask help from the embassy.
But when he reached the embassy, they were still imprisoned.
"It seems that we just let us go there that almost don't have food to eat."
"There's almost a year there and haven't been able to go home," he said.
According to the OFWs, a small amount of food given by the embassy, is that they have contributed to a small piece of chicken.
At once, they have eaten a rotten Meat.
"IT's really difficult.
"You can eat what you don't really eat," said Elizabeth Golong.
Due to the intense war in Syria, Filipinos who are working there are in danger of danger.
It is also difficult for communication because the cellphones of the OFWs were confiscated.
Arnulfa confirms that he is not able to talk to his son Analyn, who is now in Syria.
Martinez asked, "why did our embassy denied their tools to be used in communication with our countrymen?"
The story of Jocelyn Orpiada, who was included in the default center is a fellow victim of rape.
"When he was able to go out to go to the embassy, and rode a taxi, he was raped by the driver and threw him in a crowded place in Damascus.
"Luckily, he was concerned about helping him and brought him to the hospital, he said.
It was said that there was no investigation that happened and was not yet caught who raped the said Filipina.
The DFA argues that Martinez criticized the DFA in the inappropriate treatment of OFWs in Syria, aside from the lack of fixing papers and quickly return to the Philippines.
There is a deployment ban in Syria since 2009.
But in Migrante's estimation, there are more than 18,000 Filipinos who were able to enter illegal.
In the conversation of the representatives of Migrante and some relatives of the OFW to Ricardo Endaya, Executive Director of the Office of the Undersecretary on Migrant Workers Affairs-DFA, it appears that the department has a fund to buy the remaining contract of the OFW who were handed to the deployment ban.
But it appears that their work in the country continued.
It also appears that the embassy is given a "working permit" by the embassy who are illegal.
Endaya also stated in the meeting with a 1096 OFW who made the process to go home.
Endaya made sure that there is a corresponding budget for the airfare of the workers.
The total deployment cost reached $2,000 to $4,000 in every OFW.
But the burial of the OFW who is allegedly due to the slow positives and lack of budget.
Two batch only, with a total of 798, has returned to the country.
Endaya also denied that the civil war has spread in the entire Syria and needed a thorough return to the Filipinos.
As of now, there is only a repatriation effort for Filipinos who are in the cities of Homs, Hama, Idlib and Daraa.
Martinez met him.
"They are saying that" peaceful "and" not complicated "in other areas, even if we have fellow countrymen who have registered to go home.
Do we still wait for violence to spread in other places?
What is the basis of Alert Level 4 in the entire country of Syria? "
The call of the help of Martinez challenged Pang.
Benigno Aquino III to have an immediate release of a position about the situation in Syria, for the sake of thousands of Filipinos who were left there.
"If ever President Aquino supported the steps of the United States, and he will not release a position that is against it, it's as if he is also the tear of death to our countrymen who may be criticized by bombs from foreign forces," he said.
The call of those who came from Syria is simple and fresh in memory is being attacked.
"Elizabeth was begging," we are calling the government to help those left in Syria especially those who are still not able to go out of the house and have not committed a way to go to the embassy. "
Migrante also commented, that the DFA has not given any financial assistance for OFWs who have nothing to go home but themselves.
Aside from this is the lack of real integration program that will give them work.
"We will never get tired of calling the Aquino government without support to the Filipinos caught in chaos in other countries, and do not care about the lack of livelihood in his own country," Martinez said.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
