The Aetas and Beminine, boards of Best actor Cherry Pie, Best actress By GORY RULA July 22, 2016 SUCCESPUL finished the recent 1st ToFarm Film Festival which was born by Doctor.
Milagros How of Universal Harvester, Inc. and Director Maryo J. delos Reyes.
Finished one week of film fest awards night the day before yesterday at Makati Shangri-La Hotel.
Star-dded said IT was attended by the prominent artists like Lorna Tolentino, Edu Manzano, Jaclyn Jose and Cherry Pie Picache.
The movie Pages of Zig Dulay is won and Councilor Kanticipated Palay of Maricel Carrick, a farmer.
The Best picture is where Zig got the Best Director trophy.
The story of life and love of a Aetas is being discussed by the movie PagEclipse and the true Aetas who took the starring Zig protagonist.
The famous Aetas, Garry Cabin, won as Best actor, Bembol Roco, who is starring in the movie Pahome Fifth.
The story is fascinating because after the movie, he is back to normal life in Zambales with his wife and children.
He is asking for the awards night because he will win Best actor, but he said he will not reach because the river is increasing in them, that's why he will find it hard for a tragedy.
Documents.
How to Universal Harvester, he was fetched by the helicopter to attend the Ceremony.
She had a Best actor trophy even if she is not an artist.
It seems that he does not intend to continue acting because he prefer his normal life in Zambales.
Director Zuma apologized to them because their lives in Botolan to complete the said film.
Cherry Pie is the Best actress from the movie Pai Phillips.
You have seen too much enjoyment when the said award was accepted because he had been "not making a movie and She had an award.
"Like the first time I received an award.
It's been a long time and for me on a personal note IT's very Special, because, the long time I didn't receive a movie, and this is one of the first.
"It means a lot," the great actress said after she accepted the Best actress trophy.
He was a bit emotional in his acceptance speech because he offered it to her dead mother who still misses her.
Now, she is more inspired to make a movie like Pai Phillips.
The festival director, director Maryo, was happy to announce a week at the ToFarm Filmmaker.
The six entries in SM Megamall premiered.
They will start to receive entries for the next ToFarm Filmmaker.
But they will have a ToFarm Songwriting Competition which is still for our farmers.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
