Health FRONTIERS: Chronic kidney disease what are the symptoms of kidney disease and how to avoid this?
I am afraid because my sibling died because of this.
I am saddened with what happened to your sibling.
You did not mention what kind of kidney that he got, but I think this is chronic kidney failure or chronic kidney disease.
Our body's kidney is the clean of our body.
He clean the dirt and excess fluids in the blood before it came out of urine.
With the chronic kidney failure, the rocks are gradually destroyed.
Because of this, garbage has a savings on the body.
It is possible that you cannot feel or have a little symptoms in the early stages of the chronic kidney failure.
What's worse here is that this illness is not obvious until the damage of kidney is already big.
Some of the symptoms of the chronic kidney failure is a little or no urine which appears in the body, pretending to be patient, vomiting, no appetite, weakness, fatigue, difficulty in sleep, swelling of foot and bureaucracy, decreased mental ability and itch.
Diseases that cause chronic kidney failure is diabetes, hypertension, enlarged prostate, kidney Stones, bladder or kidney cancer, cystic kidney disease) and destruction of huge veins that bring blood to kidneys (renal artery).
Aside from this, there is a big chance that you have a chronic kidney failure if you have a heart disease, smoking, fat, high cholesterol level, with family history of kidney disease and 65 years old and above.
If your illness, the doctor will try to slow the progression of the disease by treating the underlying cause.
But when it reached the end of Stage kidney disease, dialysis or kidney transplant is needed to live with the patient.
To avoid chronic kidney disease, help your kidneys through avoiding alcohol or lessen what you drink.
To the man, take only 2 alcoholic drinks a day and 1 alcoholic drink a day for women.
Don't drink many of the counter-counter (OTC) medicines such as aspirations in, expose and acetylene.
It is bad for kidneys.
If you have history of kidney problems, consult the doctor if they can use them.
Keep a healthy weight with regular exercise.
Reduce if needed.
Avoid smoking and go to the doctor if you have a disease that can ruin your kidney.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
