FDA: Be safe from eating
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Doc WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Filipino Star Ngayon) 124; Updated November 15, 2012 - 12: 05
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has the advice given to the leadership of FDA Director General Dr. Kenneth Hart-Go.
Dr. Go is a conservative, toxicologist and public health expert.
According to Dr. Go, the public needs to be careful in buying food and preparation.
This is to avoid disease Food and diarrhea.
Buy food from known stores.
We can't assure the cleanliness of the meat, ham, and Hotdog that are only made on the side.
Examine carefully that the fish will not be bought and a chance to buy.
Put a mark on a mark and container the ingredients of food like salt, sugar, and oil.
Put a mark on household things like soap, cultural and gasoline and gasoline.
Do not allow the said bots to take care of it because the poison in your food might be inserted.
Avoid buying burns or passed products.
There is no truth in the belief that the expiry date of the product will be given a few months.
Read the contents of the canned goods.
There should be a label (English or Tagalog) and it is clear what is placed on its mark.
Read what kind of product, which is made and until when they are safe to eat.
Don't buy the canned goods, which is possible because it is possible that there are small holes that can be used by microbes.
Do not mix the meat of the cooked meat.
It is possible that there are microbes in the meat that will go to your food.
The crossstove, knife and container of food is very good.
Be clean in your kitchen.
Clear your belongings.
Do not allow insects.
Wash the vegetables and fruits in the flowing water.
9 (Upi)
Cook the meat.
There is a need for blood to be seen in the cooked meat because it is possible to be the cause of microbes like E. a, salmonella and worms.
10 - RT News
If the food is not consumed within 2 or 3 hours, it will be returned to the refrigerator so that they can't equal.
11 (Upi)
Do not repeat the heat of food.
Just get enough food for you.
12 (Upi)
Wash your hands before eating and before prepare food.
Being careful and clean is our primary fight for Food and diarrhea.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
