Hour sibling: Sipping the situation of Special Education in the country
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
By Eclipse Rufina Plamenco
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
"Ate, when will you go home?"
My younger sister Yodney was shouting and repeatedly asked when we talked to the telephone just past.
More than a month has passed before we talked again, so as my romance, she has been answering several times.
When he got tired, he returned the phone to my Mother without permission from me.
The entire family was very happy when Yodney was born.
It is different from their brother's color, he inherited the white and smooth skin of his Mother.
To our siblings, he is the only one who has a deep breath on both cheeks.
But to all of us, it was the only one trying to grow up like ordinary children.
He was three years old when the symptoms started to appear: Sometimes, he was suddenly minor volcanic activity of no reason, cannot speak properly, and seems to understand what the surrounding him is saying.
Subsequently, we found out that Yodney was a Special child.
Nevertheless, I did not think that he became a burden in my life.
It is true that he is still restless every time there are visitors in the house, but he is always staying in the computer and watching YouTube videos.
Sometimes, I will be surprised that he will be happy and washing our clothes.
Yodney spent eight years on Sunday.
In every smile, our family will be moved to tears through ordinary people - to study in a school, have friends, and face sadness and happiness in life.
The first step in 1999 advised the doctor to study Yodney in private schools in Manila offering Special Education (SPED), to improve his condition.
That's why when he was four years old, he was transferred to our parents from Samar.
Divided the SPED in two types of students: Mentally gifted; and children with disabilities such as blind, pipi, deaf, and with developmental disorder like my sibling, according to Ma'am Mirla Olores, SPED Division Chief of the Department of Education (DepEd).
It is not the same to find schools with cheap tuition and proper facilities for Special children in the Philippines.
In fact, in more than five million Special children in the country, more than 230,000 are also able to study the SPED, according to the record of DepEd.
The Mother says, they were even lost in searching for schools near our house.
In the end, Yodney entered a private school in Ortigas, up to 600,000 tuition per year.
The family could not bear the expensive tuition, so Yodney was transferred to another school in Mandaluyong.
Even before the first, the expenses are still heavy in the pocket.
In 2004, my sibling needed to go home to Samar.
Second in the five-year study of Yodney in the private school, he learned to mention his name, bumasses, wrote, holding a spoon and fork, and subsequently, formed a simple sentences.
In 2010, we put him in a public SPED center in Samar a few months.
When I once secured Yodney, I thought about the condition of other children who were not able to study in a better school.
Will each other be given attention?
For example, Yodney says some of his teachers suddenly came out of the classroom to play.
It is said that my sibling is smart, right to answer when asked.
There is no consideration for the 381 public SPED centers in the whole country, but cannot hide the shortage of these teachers that will focus and be equipment.
Not all SPED centers in the country have equipment for every kind of disability, says Olores.
Even if the SPED Division of DepEd wants to evade their services, they are still having a hard time brought about by the authorities that can't be addressed by the government.
According to Olares, although they've aligned the budget of the SPED this year to 12.80 billion from 12.15 billion in 2012, it remains lacking in order to increase every public SPED centers in the entire country or to buy valuable items such as Braille writer for the blind.
In the experience, the facilities in private schools with sufficient teachers - as if only those with money only have a chance to lighten the studies of the "espeyal" loved ones.
The last choice aside from a small budget and lack of teachers and professionals, there is also the issue of rightly pointing at the Special children.
A sincere training for teachers is needed about the right teaching and dealing with different cases of Special children, additional UP Cc SPED Department Head Dr. Edilberto Dizon.
"The one of those who prompted me to study the SPED is because my child is a Special child... most of us are studying because of our loved ones," said Kristina, a doctoral student of the SPED at UP College of Education (UP. C).
But Professor Myra Tantengco of copc said that most of the work of other countries will still prefer where wages are bigger.
From 2005 to 2010, there were 2,768 Filipino teachers flew to the United States, where the teachers of the SPED, according to the National Statistics Coordination Board.
Olores added that the therapists of Special children working for the public SPED centers in the whole country can be counted among the fingers.
Compared to P130,000 pesos per month of salary of teachers in the US, the teachers received in the country are small, less than P18,000.
"But we are urging our students to serve the Special children here in the country," says Tantengco.
Meanwhile, the SPED Department of UP planned to lay down the administration of UP to have a educated "inclusive" for special students at university.
"We believe that the education of the Special children in UP will benefit if they will be included in the regular scholar of the country," Dizon said.
The preparation and big courses will be spent for this, says Dizon, but if the UP and the government will focus on this, this is a step that will open education at university for all.
As a university of the country, it will serve as a good example that the UP considers the proper action that can be followed and imitate other institutions of education.
However, it will only lead to failure in any desire to improve the SPED in the country if the overall condition of the justice system remains tragic.
With the continuing and diplomatic order of the government in the education sector, it cannot be avoided that even the SPED is often based on private schools.
After all, a small gift to the birthday of my sibling is to study and write articles about her condition.
Until now, we are still hoping that the day will be experienced by Yodney to live normal, and study in a cheap but dequality school, where he can learn how to learn and will discover the mystery of life.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
