Avoid sweet drinks.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Doc WILLIE - Dr. Willie T. Ong (Filipino Star Ngayon) - August 5, 2015 - 10: 05
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
If you are too much weight, with diabetes, with high blood pressure or want to be healthy, follow my advice: Avoid iced tea, soft drinks and other sweet drinks.
Significantly in your weight.
Do you know that a glass of soft drinks has 7 teaspoons of sugar.
If you drink soft drinks, it is like you eat 7 teaspoons of sugar!
Also like the iced tea.
That is all sugar that's why the sweetness are terrible!
According to the scientific analysis, drinking soft drinks can cause diabetes.
He quickly beat and have a stomach.
Even "No-sugar" or "Lite" is your drink, there is still danger.
Because the diet of soft drinks is mixed with calcium in our body.
You can suffer from osteoporosis.
My advice is just water.
Pineapple juice and others if you are overweight, my advice will also avoid fruit juices.
Orange juice, pineapple juice and various juices.
It is high in calories and sugar even if it is said that it is "unbeaten".
If you drink a lot of juices, you might be "Fat and not fit."
I do not know where the belief that the pineapple juice is good in high blood pressure.
This is not true.
Medicine, diet and exercise is a bait for blood pressure.
What kind of fruits is possible for those that get thin?
Apple, pears and a little banana is possible.
Mango and grapes are prohibited because it is too sweet.
If mango wants, it is only a cheek that can be eaten.
Grapes are only 10 pieces of most.
Avoid Coffee and energy drinks, it will be better to get the Coffee drinks.
Especially if there is a halo of cream, chocolate, and full cream milk.
Do you know that the equivalent of a capsule and whipped cream is three plates of rice!
Energy drinks are also bad for health because it is high in caffeine.
Caffeine addict and count the heart beat.
If you have high blood pressure, energy drinks is prohibited.
Your blood pressure may increase.
So friend, only water should be drank.
Remove the soft drinks and iced tea in your life.
You will get thin and you can avoid many diseases!
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
