We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Churches of the content (In-45 outside)
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Sally also did not let them take pictures of Jason beside the giant "working flower clock."
IT consists of life plants but moving like the orig on the clock and gives the right time.
She was in touch when they arrived in "Small water falls."
Very romantic.
It is a deal for the students who want to spend time in that place.
They were happy to take pictures too.
Yet the two were sweet and sometimes they couldn't help to tup.
While the two were having fun, Sally noticed something.
A man who seemed to have been watching for a while ago.
It cannot help but look at the woman to know.
His eyes widened when he got to know and he was not able to avoid it suddenly.
Edward... cousin of husband Jude.
She is with a woman but it looks like a Filipina.
He smiles when he noticed that Sally was looking into him.
The woman was forced to approach him.
"W: Why are you here?
"Where Are you going to Work?" He asked.
"Two years old."
"And I was close to the Country!" He said.
Jason came to them when they saw them talking.
Forced to introduce a woman with his companion.
"Jason, my friend here in Taipei," he recognized Edward in his companion.
The latter introduced himself as a close relative.
The two men shook each other.
After this, Jason went away from them to have a chance to talk.
She just posted a picture of the nearby.
Sally is buking.
He knows that Jason saw them while pointing at it.
What should she explain to Edward.
"You could not resist, what!" The man said.
"You find a hobby here in Taipei."
The woman looked at the man.
His eyes are pleading.
"We are the same.
You saw the Taiwanese woman who is with me?
She is my husband here in Taiwan.
"When I go home, we have done two," said Edward.
"Will you tell Jude that we met here in this restrictions?" The woman asked the man to ask.
"Why not?" Edward answered.
"P-Please...."
"Don't worry."
So I editing the story.
But do not take pictures with my wife about what you have seen when you got married! "The man said.
"Thank you!" Sally said.
Their conversation ended when Edward was with a nanny.
The man said goodbye but took the cellphone number of women before they went away from his companion.
When they were gone, Jason returned to his side.
"Your cousin might be talkative in the Philippines that you saw a man together in strolling in Yangmingham, the young man said.
"He said, no one is right.
"He is also doing a miracle here," Sally answered.
"How can you be sure?
That is a man.
No one will lose him even if someone finds out that your cousin has a miracle.
But you, you are a woman.
"You will lose a lot of time when someone finds out that someone is with you here in Taipei," Jason said.
Sally did not make a sound.
The man has a point.
Especially that he is not the real cousin of Edward but his wife Jude.
He suddenly worry about it.
The young man took advantage of the opportunity to put the plan on.
"But do not worry.
If your husband will be angry with you and breakup with you, let us do our relationship permanent.
"We will get married here in Taipei, Sally," said Jason.
Pursue.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
