What are you seeing there around your house with your internal organs or comments that you have a favorite to know but how?
Ltt; httt; tttt; green mountains in the blue skies every day is to win towards the town of the chopping ian Mountain province a mountainous region in Norte, this is where the young Bishop was born and Solenn became the color that would greet each other everyday but the color of the people slowly disappeared.
He is able to find out a siren that was missing for me.
Now, what can you see now?
.
The hashtag is far from the hospital, the child was not treated early until it was affected including his eyes.
Because neth was blind to Mark the decision of the parents of the child, she reached to school without a steady Process in their area.
But the child is deliberately pursued by the child, she was trying to come from her sibling going to school.
I will be able to take a rock on the road and I can see in class even if he does not see the lesson in the feast, yes botique, the mayor sentence of sima to ha.
Sorry position.
.
She would have the burden even if I am complete with her sibling because and maybe I can be taught as a regular teacher even though I can be able to ask him to answer but I can't see how to write a lot because I can't see that it is still a first time.
One morning, a good news comes with a news that changed in the dark world sexy back then, when Mama's arrival is full of mango, and then I have already killed me and then my mother asked him to study at night, he said to me that I want five to go after my trip.
.
The good news came from a boss before position for the blind Eclipse lt; this is the research that gives free education to children blind to visit the employer.
In endless love, the situation free of food and residence will not only be free but most of all, I have been seeing if it is not free.
Ha of course.
Two years Ago, he said: 'There's a lot MORE.
Beautiful.
He ext his help.
Another invited him.
He stayed there.
When you come here to us, what can you feel these cases here.
Who is studying to be happy to be able to study.
Law is not blocking it.
In love, we should not have disabilities so that they can stand up on their own feet, they are tightened to use alone to wash your own plate, yes, that is tired.
Do what you are saying, maybe because of the severity of what they really do as normal as they have been ugly Class status in happiness.
I am visiting the best but with Beijing over or under me, they are free to finish without fear of an invitation to go to the party.
We saw a threat.
Finals, you are kara.
Simon
Ate.
And then you just saw me know me.
I sat on what kind of bad odor, yes because the disciplinary employer of course, that's why they are using hearing as well so that he will get to know me that he smells of seven.
The children were very creative so I thought that I salute the teachers who taught the children.
The love brought me to the Second floor of dormitories to meet the picture of the children.
I am shocked with the open and energeous; copyright.
One six, why is it that some treat those who are in the house, which is why it is said that one hundred twenty three years I am, what is one hundred twenty the wine spices.
Sixty thousand one hundred twenty three divide by seven ha is the answer.
They said if they will respond to the money that you should not think to give Jose
The Wally four forty one Universe 3 3 five-five, thirty-five, shouting bye to the doctor of the hospital to my sister.
Four four centers for some are dragon the fight of 70.
Now is his partnership.
Wow!
The hospital will be fulfilled at a counter.
To come together.
Sixty three divide IT by seven four.
Dash seven fifty-two thousand five hundred eighty nine.
As a rat, there are nine people like the children she teaches after she was hit by measles, it was still a child when he was hit by measles, that's why I was not able to go out of the school, that's why I was jealous of it, that's why I was jealous of it, that's why I was jealous of it, that's why I was jealous of it, I also wanted to study but I really wanted to study but I cannot do anything.
Thirteen years old marta of the latter was holding and made a book since he approached freedom on the occasion.
On the other room sweet music in what I heard or during the new month, you have been plunged but he will not watch and the piece that comes from the guitar of a blind teacher.
Who is Rolando most wife of ditse mark and music teacher.
By:
My two eyes were not born blind to my pillow since he was a young man, Rolando when he was completely blind after an operation, that is why the doctor turned out that I didn't know that it was not so very sweet, because it seems that the first thing that I have lost it so that you might fall down so that you might fall off.
Rain thought that it was the end of his world but everything changed when she knew everything ha ha.
