There are almost four decades of life not only by the residents of Pampanga and even the people in Pampanga and even those from other towns, apple there in their family is the third generation that he is only faith in your mother, why are you so many of you.
Or we all know.
Because I am the way I do not know how to curse and curse.
They are all greedy when I was taught to teach me that only a moment when you learn to be afraid when the bacteria that you have been aware of in the morning that, in your fate, ate Jam in treatment, he said that I had a big responsibility.
I do not want to like that, "I said.
Little, my goodness!
Now, I do not want to write, I cannot move or go to my mother coming from what they are doing before.
Alright.
I will take care of what I said to the different illnesses that Apollo and for them are different ways of taking care of what we are doing in our country, which is why her father decided to bring him to Quiapo there to joke basketball here if the child goes.
Because I was near.
It is easier to know that and then we got used to it.
It would be better if you will lose no one who will lose the burial of a brother-in-law that he used to pay their illness.
I love that.
Watch!
Llanes.
After it was given to the grandchild of the egg he immediately brought her to her altar to marry her.
Don't drink softdrinks that is chilled.
Then water with a mixture of colds due to your throat.
Or stuck to your mind on his throat.
Ltt; ttt;
Htt; ttt;
Is it okay to anyone?
I am not able to deposit the pain I was riding on my arm every week, many people go to the house of grandchild there but sometimes they go to him especially when needed.
Her grandchild Boni helps his own wife, it will be hard for the people to give it right, it is the mud giving medicine without prescription from the doctor, isn't there others who are pleading for them because they feel pity.
And there are still a lot of things that I am doing because it has been a long time.
In the appearance or dismissal of others, his method of changing his ways to change because there is no calendar, it might cause other witnesses of vomiting and diarrhea that might lead to math.
When we went back to his grandchild, he was able to go back with his wife, whom he was hurting each other, because the patient was suffering from apple the patient while he is trying to resolve alcohol from this because he will know where it is.
Dillon is preparing the one to release the blood of the chicken.
That is why each will improve the buy of a chicken.
Apple has pushed off the part of our house so that he can see what she will bear.
The most gift of the whole body went down there until it is here.
You are praying for massaging.
They need to be implemented.
Just like that.
A point
What became the pain that her stomach hurts, then they are free.
Only water is just a report envelope so milk.
May we find it to see you.
She is yellowish.
Then rinse it, you cannot force it well.
They are being cut off before Jane said that it can be counted as no one else if the victim is already old.
There is also no expected regardless of the abstract from what he has helped to save their health after he is the head of bakya using it to remove the remaining pork barrel part of the body of bacteria and after that, they have already gone.
But why gained weight in the early times that we still have to be treated in a hospital although our department of health can say that treatment is free, but of course, there are many additional expenses such as buying medicine for the doctors in public hospital to buy.
Toro Indians to you so that most people and the faith faith have no fixed payment here is based on donations.
Because of the lack of medical assistance from the government, some of our countrymen are not able to find a doctor in this way of treatment that we can see, but most of the patients are being treated if they do not help to live a good term, but most of the patients who are being treated if they have a decision and be checked by someone who has a decision to consult immediately.
The closest.
They have shown this.
Party to smile seems to be finished.
That to them, they are getting caught when someone is sick, especially those who are over in life but because you should not gamble your health.
From that, they should be killing those who continue to be equal.
