BINYKO... followers of Christ: Reflection for the Feast of the Lord's Baptism Year A - January 13, 2014
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
The year 2014 is the Year of Pictures or Year of the Laity.
The "LATEY" is not the coming of the mass of late!
The "laity" is those not included in those appointed or infamous as ministers such as diakono, priest and bishops.
In other words, they are the "usual baptism" who can share the mission of Christ!
Who should have been deceived?
A catholic an old rich woman approached the priest and asked if his pet dog was baptism.
The priest shouted, saying: "Woman, the baptism is only given to the people and not to animals!
It is not possible that your pet dog is baptism! "
The old man replied: "Is it that Father, it's a waste to donate a million pesos for the church.
Never mind, d'I will just go to the church of Aglipay fabulous! "Simultaneously.
Sarcastic, the priest and said: "A woman, come back... why did you say that your dog is a Catholic!!!"
What is the meaning of the baptism for our christians?
Although it is a big difference in the baptism that we accepted in the baptism given to Jesus by Juan Bautista, we can see it with the same lessons.
The feast of the conversation with Jesus is called the second Egyptian because Jesus introduced himself again.
If in the first ECB, he stated that he is the founder of the world in the second Estates, he introduced his "identity" as the "son I am glad of God" who joined our anticipated situation.
This is the message of the feast today: First, Jesus who is the Son of God, who has no trace of sin, is joined in our marriage through accepting the baptism of Juan who is a baptism of regret!
Second, with the revelation of Jesus, he started the mission to be referred to by the domination of God.
And third, he stated that he is the one who is the one who is absolutely delighted by God.
What is it pointing to us?
First, we hope that we will appreciate our baptism, where we promised to turn our backs to the sin and live as the real Son of God's Father.
Second, we hope that we are praying that we are Christians through a life who is decent and pleasing, let us try that in all moments, we will always be happy to be happy in front of God.
It is easy to be a person but it is difficult to follow the people.
We can also say that it is easy to be Christian but it is hard to be Christian.
It is easy because water in the head is needed.
It is difficult because it means that they do not want to help yourself and living like Jesus who is full of sacrifice and service to others.
Hopefully, it is not just until "baptism of a Christian...
Hopefully, we should be the real children of God, sibling of Christ, I am absolutely delighted by the Father!
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
