If it is said that there is asthma or what we are calling Asia that means there is hope Airways in our morning because this is where the purpose of the early is thick, which is why it is not easy to visit the air.
Because we feel difficulty in breathing and tightening in your chest.
There is also a pipe and sometimes it seems like someone is going to head to our protagonist and then it gets weaker and one is not a joke.
Fltt; httt;
Negligence but what's good is there are ways to avoid this.
Currently, the cause of asthma is still not certain but it is said to be sure that his remains are like in the case of the family Isabela.
The woman he said and his two chikes were Alex seven years old.
And if it is only about ten months, they are even more than ten months.
There is really a hit in the family.
Of Rizal, I am probably six years old when I have a chika until now, I have already brought asthma.
All of us are siblings and we all have asthma.
When it comes to asthma, he has a unique belief back then Marilou and in the most likely beauty of some of our Kapuso is the only medicine for asthma.
A Filipino who has to put a little water on the glass then drink it that happens, but I have not yet tried.
But the question
Is it true that the medicine for asthma is the buzard.
I am here for treatment for asthma or conglomerate.
Is Saturday.
Basing on their studies that if we use medicine, can really help children with problems like this.
After all, asthma is not really treated but it can be controlled so that it can be controlled by the use of the bulizer.
In the case of Bella's family, their bulizer is old there because she talks about it in using it.
It is possible to drink banana when lies down and because the congested, it will also be good if there is always a good if there is always something that will always bring them.
But it seems like an asthma attack is the best to do to avoid the so-called Mocha Girls.
First, we have called xander Angeles, including here, no one else but the dust.
If we inhaling the passport I will cause an invitation to other week, it will lead to a constricted flow of the wind.
It is also included in xander Our there in the so-called so dancer Hoy the small-hairs of the animal, this is where they are in mind that they are their help with the eyes then they have controlled the band with another challenge.
There is also something called by author Our Jan Jan course of smoke and pollution.
That's why the Kapuso should be happy with the new survey wearing the sour out of the house so that they will not be imprisoned.
Also included in the Audience is already being called by the collections of our plants.
There are food that may trigger as much as said by small others.
Peanuts and 3 3.
Describing support for the influence there is a painter if we do not cover the style of chemicals in the body and that is what they can give.
Reactions to Global voices
As of now, there are new Mary already known for the experience of a serious case of asthma that is called on computer plastic, where there is a lttt; to repeal the patient's mouth to his lungs, the letter will deliver radio easily and Albie reason for me to contract the Airways and return to normal.
But for now, this position is still being studied and will not be given to all aspects of this aspect.
