A passed away by the Supreme Court's constitution by the EDCA Enhanced defense cooperation agreement between the Philippines and the United States to discuss the benefits brought to our country this morning is the assistant secretary for certificate of which even my own part of the Philippines, how can you join the assistant secretary for certificate of which even my own part of the Philippines, how can you join us in the morning.
It is okay for our audience, can you explain this date of date.
White space gallery and Enhanced defense cooperation agreement is the content of it is ltt; httt; / / ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; httt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; httt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; httt; ttt; tttt;
To prosecute their ability.
Either individual Fltt; htt;
Each one of them?
They are together to prosecute their skills for ltt; ttt;
Ltt; htt; by security challenge, you are absolutely not wanting the two countries there.
EDSA practical winners are looking for the cause of death and forced to do something.
For you, our country has the problems we are facing outside or in our neighboring countries.
The age of how will this affect the problem that we are facing but basically, it will also be able to pass through support example, it is only one capacities building towards the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the Philippines two hundred eight responsible and changing the
Countries, yes.
We are the Region of those who say that there is a lot of course that don't forget.
Exercise is an interactive issue yes, sometimes I think that Plus the tradition of exercise smiling from the Antipolo home of hamor heart to four Our neighbors is when they enjoy their enjoyment.
Yes.
Nonstop and Joy libed Are everyday to buy a cigarette in a poster, which is being used in a condo building that he is while should not allow anything to more.
Put positive things without a result when it comes to what we are talking about now if it is legal, the Supreme Court has ratified the economic benefits of this issue.
Do not.
Out if you have a possible creature.
Ltt; ttt; they will have their own conclusion
And that practical music according to the witness Our economic use.
According to us, we said director.
For Our friend ignorance.
Agreed on activities.
Going home.
I, Cecilio, that they are going to have a petition again and what they are saying is their doubts that they might be abused or by the cell in our country.
Because of what has already happened because of the abuse in EDSA.
Or EDSA
Just like what I said earlier that he is indecency, that is why it came from visiting.
And what is there in the visiting forces agreement are the ways but the good thing happening now has risen.
Ltt; httt; creates a government which is called off Implementing Rules and Regulations.
Regarding the visiting forces agreement and that cover both Our visiting forces agreement to distance the visiting forces to learn from the forces agreement with Australia.
Ltt; ttt; ttt; long, the document is a off-line, perhaps we will throw the aircraft examples of this.
Viewers before they entered it, that is where they entered there in a thorough Beth overnight.
Breathing Process actor and well.
A departure for the peso like tomatoes there, httt; httt; the department of national defense is not very giving comments that we are leading the airport because this is part of your carly giving him a story and it seems that those who can enter the lttt; particularly those who can go to school.
I specified that the government's camps will be used.
With what the airplane that he obtained, the aga-aga of other countries that are in the care of the United States becomes the target of the text of you so in the Philippines, should we worry about it.
Because there are two people who want to and have a different situation in the Philippines properly, who graduated from there straight or in personal problems in Mindanao when there were two course, the blood that was able to get away from those who sit there, the company driver like actress Princess Ahbok, not the way I went to defend against those who were able to go through, but they were a sort of numerical blessing that was able to pass but also drive to the point, i suggest.
It's that it's a yes that the half-blood sleepless Nights over the entire story visit by an extremist attacks when it will be given to Bangladesh as a driver if not.
So, I can ask her.
Httt; htt;
EDSA is still fighting here in the training of our soldiers to the humanitarian actors in their strategy and how big will be the position in the fun of our soldiers.
And police Are taking training.
There is cause.
It is prohibited now.
Position girlfriend material related to triple a recurrent, once we get off the Recruitment of ltt; htt; after three of the statements that can be left.
That I will bring it again, but we will watch the statement that we need to go back to the next train so it means that we will be much faster than going to the training because it means a little more faster than we will go to training because it is a bit more effective.
It is a puzzle when I was able to tell our fellow countrymen just when I was able to find Tacloban how three years after a washbasin.
And wash our friends of the Americans who are still helping in reaching the age of the native avers.
With the victims
American soldiers, how can you stop the filibuster that we have, the lawyers that I ask earlier, what is my limitation on their relationship with the training that they can't compete with Aura is the bad only to restore our country, coptttt; one of those discussed.
It appears that the government of the Philippines is really strict.
Monitoring
And that's also beautiful.
It also wants.
Already.
If there are problems that are like this is complicated by ltt; htt; about being strikers in the monitor there in their area.
It is a bad heart as if it is in doubt that the ship, especially on the ship, are not being told.
As an end, you should break away from the lttt; let us be smart with schizophrenia, what are the benefits of our country for this in EDCA and all of you.
The EDCA is going to be good to me, the EDCA in your ate is the person beside me which is becoming a dangerous defense treaty.
Meanwhile, the suspect was also given to the trial or building by the organization.
They will go to become a writer partner in the usual dose, it will be possible that there are different things that I said so beautiful.
Sermon or past, serve as a practice area, titled: Htt; ttt;
Let's it?
And this cemetery is important.
And that is the project we continue with all of our partners.
Starting with a simple hemorrhoids is the standing of a cheap grass agreement while the relationship is growing; there are many different things.
Crime in the video, which is our liver-controlled defense treaty by a priority Enhanced defense cooperation agreement is really a disestation that becomes the people in relation.
Thank you very much for the informal.
