Is the "Filipino time"?
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
By Tomas U. Santos - January 30, 2014
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Upon arriving at the technical meaning of time, only one should be followed by the standard.
But if talking about the Filipino culture, the scheduled time may be later or not.
What should be followed?
On the first day of January, the Department of Science and Technology-Philippine Attack, Geophysical, and Astronomical Services Addtation (PAG-ASA) will run for a single standard of time in the whole country.
This order is trying to change the tradition and it has been a resolution for the "Filipino time," a mind that is an hour of restricting activities or tasks.
According to Mario Raymundo, the engineer of the Astronomical Observation and time Service Unit of PAG-ASA, one of the main objectives PhST is to prevent the negative connotation of the Filipino time from being too late at the time, wrong discipline, and nullified the time of our fellowmen.
"What is often too late for things will cause many wasted opportunities, said Raymundo.
According to Augusto De Viana, the chairman of the Department of history of the university, there is a good thing produced by the new one-time country.
"We can save time and the Filipinos] will be productive in holding activities and other meeting because they already know when it will start and finish."
Aside from this, it is just timely to change the negative consequences in order to cope with the Philippines in the study of neighboring countries.
According to him, my professor is also an increase of Filipinos not only in the field of business or service in the country but also the real humane of each other.
Meaning of the Filipino time, Jose Rizal also mentioned to his famous novels titled "Noli Me Tangere" and "El Filming" the importance of Spaniards in their position by directly extending the occasions like the governor general and other personnel in the novel of Rizal.
However, De Viana said that the negative definition of the Filipino time will never be considered as part of the culture of the country.
According to him, the concept of the Filipino time came from the colonies of Spaniards in the country.
From their frequent holding and gathering, Filipinos noticed that it is too late if the most important people in society have arrived.
Because of this, the Filipinos had a resolution for the minds of the Filipinos that the most important thing will come.
When the Spaniards left the country, Filipinos were able to get their practices to express themselves again to inform the majority of their importance.
Since then, although it is early to wake up, those who are known and those who are capable of taking advantage of the arrival of different meeting or will be good.
When the Americans are conquered the country, they noticed the latter of the Filipinos so they gave it a negative meaning that Filipinos do not know how to appreciate the time.
They called it a "Filipino time," which has become a habit to use and became part of the Filipino culture.
In the ASA as an official timeker several times a proposal implemented the government of the country to avoid the negative consequences in the Filipino culture.
The Philippine Standard time (PhST) first started on June 2, 1977 through Presidential Decree Number 1149 by former President Ferdinand Marcos, saying that the PAG-ASA will be the official time service agency of the Philippines who is responsible for corruption.
After the order was approved, the Law Pambansa Blg was immediately implemented.
8 in the year 1978 which was appointed in PAG-ASA as an official timeker of the Philippines.
But although the law that will strengthen the PhST has long been implemented, it took 35 years before the implementation of a strong and critical law regarding this.
This is the Philippine Standard time Act of 2014 that President Benigno Aquino III signed last December last year.
Through this, all the clock in the country is isi in the official hours of PAG-ASA.
A ratification of the campaign of PAG-ASA called "Juan time: Pinoy Ako, On-time Ako!" According to the National time Consumousness week that started the first day of 2014.
This was done with the help of different organizations, particularly the mobile communications companies like Smart and Globe.
"So now that since 2014, we hope there will be changes in the behavior of the Filipinos when they give importance to the time of their fellowmen," said Raymundo.
The law is subject to all the national agencies of the Country - including state Universities and Colleges and government-owned and controlled corporations, all the local government units, all private stations, television and radio, and all private corporations or agencies in the Country.
Even in Unidersidad, there is no reason for the people to be too late because there are GPS clock in buildings based on the atomic clock of PAG-ASA.
According to Raymundo, the amount used for the implementation of this law depends on the General Appropriations fund of PAG-ASA.
At present, they have paid 7 units in Malacañang and 4 units in PAG-ASA Regional Services Division.
He said, the total project will require the celestial clock that costs more than 50 million to be implemented in the whole country.
At present, the PAG-ASA wants to intensify the placing of time display in all establishments and buildings in Metro Manila where it is also a container of Network time protocol or what is called Global Possible System (GPS) where the common people will include their clock on PhST.
The implementation of PhST is a big step to avoid the negative definition of the Filipino time.
"We hope that this is the start of the proper use of PhST.
This is also for the future of the Filipinos.
"The time is important because this is calling for discipline, proper relationships, and the most important of all, this will be a sign for us to start giving importance and respect for the time of our fellowmen," he said.
According to De Viana, it is not only the government to lead the fixing of "Filipino time," it is necessary to cooperate with every Filipino in order to be successful in the implementation of the "Philippine Standard time."
"Let us remove the old concept of the Filipino time that is always pickled because it is not good for the country," he said.
J.V.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
