Classes in Zamboanga City have not yet been allowed to open this day, the operation of the military continues against the emotional every action we find out the latest report there from our colleague Jorge Bandola while in Zamboanga City's George predicting the events there.
Showbiz, like I said to take off the military operation against the suspected forty-five members of the Moro National Liberation.
.
Photograph: Global voices
For a little more in the part of Barangay Holy catalina and barangay watchmen after being shot.
By the guard, but I am expecting a lot since there that classes will open now that the crisis management committee will open here in the opening it rains, especially in the school near bad weather; htt; conflict areas here in Zamboanga City, he said, Doc but nood.
Or is our supervisor stared at this week.
The Zamboanga dog.
Of course, of course, of course, this is still dangerous.
For teachers and students.
Four schools were directly affected by the fight.
The rebel rebels destroyed them, according to the doctor well.
Only students were not allowed to enter.
The teachers that you can see in your television screens idea does not need to report starting today and in the whole week, the classes that have been reported to the teachers for under them will be opened.
The debriefing management session is trauma.
They will focus his whole week in debriefing.
Session at property management, especially the photos
Which was directly hit by the war, he said, "Oh ten thousand.
Those who lost their homes or homes after they will burn the table of catalina.
Their houses more than eighty teachers were also hurt because of the four schools destroyed by the war.
In the spirit of elementary school, you can see DepEd sets four rooms to lease ankle debriefing session with the teachers.
Although a road is not affected and the high schools in Zamboanga is not affected here in Zamboanga.
It is still not possible for this to be able to study because of the series of threats and planting of copise explosive device.
That is possibly the cause of the rebels or supporters.
He also assured that the department of education will directly help the teachers who lost their homes and cannot grant this help through the load.
Direct financial assistance according to him and the government will give it.
