Be happy even if there is a problem.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Doc WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Filipino Star Ngayon) 124; Updated July 30, 2015 - 12: 05
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Doc Willie, I just ask what to benefit from a depressed person.
I think so much and sometimes I Can't sleep at night.
I feel like my heart and my mind is tired.
I hope you can help me.
God bless. - Linda Hi Linda, many people are sad.
In fact, about 10 percent of Filipinos had depression.
I know it's like it is hard to fight the sadness, but you need to!
You can do that as long as you are persistent.
Here are the things you have to do: 1).
Have support for the family and friend.
Mara - a healthy person is coordinating with their relatives.
It's as if they have no friends anymore.
You have to bring him back at least.
Be humble.
Apologized.
Talk to your friend and if possible, live with a close relative.
2.
Read, watch and listen to a happy show.
Do not watch drama, crying and horror on TV or movie.
You might be lonely.
Also avoid the news on the evening, because it is full of blood and killings.
That is bad for the mind.
Just watch comedy, cartoon and entertainment.
There is help in depression.
3.
Be busy with tasks.
Work and fill the time for the whole day.
Do not bystanders in the house because many are going to enter the mind.
Do not pity yourself.
I tell yourself, "I can do that.
"Clean me!" 4)
Exercise and eat right.
Even if you have no appetite, try to move into action.
Be victims, jogging or walk at the mall.
Eat nutritious fruits and vegetables.
You can drink Vitamin B Complex to stop eating and face sleep.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
5.
Avoid cigarettes, alcohol and other vices.
There is no goodness brought about.
Your depression will worsen.
6 (Upi)
Help others.
Visited the sick.
Our feelings are given to helping other people.
Help those poor, sick, imprisoned and elderly.
This is the secret of a party.
Try to help others, and your depression will gradually be removed.
7 (Upi)
Pray to God.
What is the problem?
What do you need to fix your attitude?
Oftentimes, we should also change.
Let us admit it and ask for help from God.
Let us pass the problem and resentment towards him.
He can fix our lives and remove the sadness.
8 (Upi)
I did not immediately stop drinking anti-depresant because it has a side effect.
If depression is really severe, you can consult a psychologist or psychiatrist.
But I believe that you can fight that, friend.
Good luck!
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
