We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
The victims
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
I do not know why I woke up last December 31.
Last day of the month and last day of the year 2016.
After 12 midnight, Oh, 2017!
New Year!
On the eve of my column.
I do not know why this is the command of my mind to write.
And I don't know your taste of it?
My mind is asking every time there is an occasion.
Christmas.
New Year.
Birthday.
Fiesta, etting.
It seems that the person's preparation is more serious during the eve of the event that will happen, isn't it?
Spears will focus on the attention of those who are preparing.
Any occasion, happiness or sadness, shower in preparation of your will - happiness or sadness?
"The very day, they are busy.
Like the feast, you will not be cooked for food for the visitors.
As well as Christmas and New Year.
To her birthday or grieve, eve is governing everything.
It is true, "isn't it?
On the eve of the New Year, I prepared nothing for Buena Noche but a small part of our family.
There are those who are ready to go down.
Kalancow
Tinolate chicken and sweet.
"That is all.
But the feeling is severe.
What will be brought to my life, in our life of the New Year after Bispears?
For me, Bispears is governing our hope or what we're hoping for what will happen on the day of waiting.
Another, the Bispears are saying if our preparation is right, the occasion is right.
After Bispears is the day of the set.
Have I completed what is right now?
If they are ready, the arrival of the visitors are happy, that's why they are happy?
Is my preparation for them?
Did I give the right taste for them?
It's amusing, isn't it?
You are too busy yourself on the day of Bispears just to make sure that everything you are doing is complete.
You have to spend, tired, you are still tired of yourself because your preparation is not right or lacking.
I came from my writing.
I do not know if it is right in your taste.
After this, I tried to drink water and had a coffee.
Also thinking if the ingredients cooked for the New Year is right, my family will be satisfied with what we shared - during the time of Bispears and day of happiness!
Photograph: Ed CRZOLA
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
