We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
The RH bill and doctor vs God
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
If the RH bill will be finished in the Bicameral Conference Committee or Bicam of Congress, any day will become law.
"That is if President Noynoy Aquino has signed the bill immediately.
The gallery is the partnership of congressmen and senators who will be disturbed by any trouble or mental version of the legislative chamber and the Senate.
The law 15 days will usually prevail or be effective after it has been published in official Gazette or the newspaper there is a national scope and if there is already a laid Implementing Rules and Regulations.
There are laws that have been implemented for a long time because of the lack of results.
MADIDISCO but the anti-RH bill might have plans to stop the preservation or implementation of the law through their wish of a Temporary restraining Order against it.
Together with this is the petition to dismiss the Supreme Court to dismiss the law in various reasons such as violation of the Constitution or other existing laws.
Term TRO and decision if the Supreme Court will accommodate the request for the anti-RH bill, no one knows how long it is.
If you have a memory, the Anti-Cyber Crime Law was sentenced with six months of TRO.
The TRO may also last until the Supreme Court has a final decision.
If this will happen, nine will take the law before this will be implemented.
That is if the Supreme Court will favor the RH bill.
The implementation is nine-nine because of the long Court in making decisions.
It might be the time of making decisions in Vizconde massacre that lasted almost 20 years from the regional trial court until the Supreme Court.
Extensive change if it will be implemented quickly, there will be a massive change.
Especially in having children.
Based on the words of the pro-RH, with the volume of condom, pills, IUD or an autodevice and other drug ban that will spread to the barangays, there will be a treasury of pregnant women walking on the streets.
It's because the government plans to make the distribution of the companies against pregnancy.
Especially in the ranks of the poor families who are said to be "a hobby of making a child."
Hehehe!
Vasectomies and ligation might even have a massive campaign for vasectomies and ligation like what was done during martial law.
The man can no longer be pregnant by vasectomies because of cutting down or a string where the slump was thrown.
The same is that the woman who was cut off was not pregnant or tied with a sperm.
Even if there are news that there will be ok due to vasectomy and ligation.
Let us remember that there is a reward of 50 pesos to every patient who can bring the Guy and ligation.
God is not a trend for the quick change of belief in pregnancy.
The day will come that the word "God" wants to be a trend "or" giving God "pregnancy or" pregnancy. "
Everyone intends and the lord there are their bodies.
It is also the author of a boynn or a couple of having children and a number of them.
They do not need to consulting or pray to God to have a baby.
Doctor VS God Mas effective as doctors, nurses, midwives and pharmacist consultant and suffer from God on this issue.
Many will be knocked on, God is not answering if the one needs it.
If the followers of the Lord who are priests and nuns are the rabbit, maybe those who are going to have a partner because the priests and nuns have no husband and child, they are against the RH.
Hehehe!
Maybe it is all TRUE and resolution that they can teach and ask them to do, they said.
Is it scary, you have a lot of houses now with hidden condom?
There are more condoms and other restrictions in pregnancy in the preservation of the law.
And the couple and adults learn to learn from using them.
The children in their birthday are cunning the condom.
But growing up and coming to the age of courting, sat down, many will experiment with sex.
And they will have confidence to make a secret to their parents because they will have their things in safe sex.
If they will say that there is a lot of raincoats.
There, the lives of the youth went out.
ABORY is the need for a child and the youth are not ready for "responsible parenthood," they are looking for an abortion.
Is there the RH's answer here?
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
