We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Poverty, caused by the increase of crime November 12, 2014 Written by Vic Reyes Published in opinion Read: 8055 many of our countrymen who do not think but spread fear and fear in the public.
They are spreading rumors through social media.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Recently, reported on social media that there are already confirmed cases of Ebola in the Philippines.
Like what is expected, the gossip gave fear to many people in the country.
With the number of netizens, including the child, the gossip quickly spread.
It is natural to be afraid of the public, it is not unknown to everyone who is very deadly in Ebola.
In fact, he killed a scarcity of 5,000 people in some countries.
Most of those who died from the disease of Ebola is in West Africa.
How can you not be afraid, except for the said disease, almost half of those who are suffering from the virus are glaring.
The alarm, we have a lot of workers working around the world, including those in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea.
Justice Secretary Leila de Lima said that those who have been spreading through social media can be imprisoned because of the Ebola virus.
De Lima ordered the National Bureau of Investigation to find the people behind the spreading report that the Ebola virus is in the Philippines.
The Department of Health (DOH) denied the said online report.
The report has been viral for several days.
The scheduled arrival of Filipino UN Peacekeeper contributed to the fear of the people from Liberia.
The Eclipse will immediately be brought to Caballo Island for the quarantine of 21 days.
After 21 days, they were only sent to their respective houses.
The quarantine is aiming to ensure that the UN-eeper from Liberia has no Ebola virus.
After 21 days, the Armed Forces of the Philippines will be given "Heroes" Welcome "by the Armed Forces of the Philippines over the remaining 19 months of the Aquino administration, it is better to address the attention of the cow in poverty, unemployment and non-stop increase in price of goods.
Let us not forget poverty is the number one reason why the crime in the country is increasing.
Many people have committed crimes because no one is feeding and buy medicine for their loved ones.
Until there is the poverty and lack of work, the government will find it hard to stop the increase of crime and corruption.
Because of poverty and lack of good jobs in the country, most of our countrymen are forced to find work abroad.
Another painful truth is that many parents, especially in the government, are compelling their daughters, who are married or just look for a new foreigner.
Sometimes, we can't blame the youth who agree with the elderly foreigner.
Even if you are educated, you will find it hard to find a good job and good salary.
If you find work, they are still actual.
It is rare for those with work.
Before the new employee completed the six months, he removes it so that he will not be permanent.
We repeat, until the poverty is there, there are also various crimes.
Are we right, President Aquino?
Complaints and reaction: MMDA, you might have to put the footbridge here in EDSA / Munoz.
In front of the chapel of Iglesia Ni Cristo.
Concerned senior citizen of QC.
I believe that the stripping of the three liar to be ador.-SC in Sampaloc, Manila will also come.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
