This evening on the reaction of two weeks before the official seat of incoming President Rodrigo Duterte to nine positions for his cabinet is the vacancy admits that it is difficult to convince her to convince the government to convince them to convince the government for a low salary.
A sea and department of Trade and the industry.
We will be together today one of the new members of the cabinet as this is secretary of the scene of the Philippine center for the excuse that Ramon has a good night in 'yo first started.
One award is the reaction to you.
It's okay as ah, you are one of the cases where we ran away from here in the reaction, we can ask how it's as if it's like passionate.
In his cabinet.
President is so grateful and what is the process that we have given by the gers members of pursuing Co-teacher 'ata maybe we lose.
In August many pretended to be said.
What should I probably because of our seven years Ago we will vote for it.
Women on how to speak to and be given an offer by a president January Eclipse ltt; httt; ttt;
I also got it.
All kinds of resources are all that I am with them or consider.
I also mean yes, 'She said.
Because I was a petition, like I was asking.
To have a meeting in Davao City lt; ttt; so i had to cut short competition rejected by the appointment we can use for what I know there is probably more of explaining the plants and fruits.
I still do not know if I got it first.
Maybe it is up to someone who is not the one to understand when I return directly to commuters because I understand that even Lucy, I am fully aware, but of course until you don't hear from the president to the question I am not expecting that I am also accepted.
Least.
I know many are refusing because of the low-thirds of the two-thirds but in your case in Eclipse lt; Bon a Setting that aside and stunned.
Everything in the map then is the total situation.
Over the caring president
I immediately choose to play a big part.
Even.
Nothing.
Very nice, maybe it is not drunk home to the mandate and Plus one that we can see is wrong.
A commitment to serve the Eclipse is the small poor 'to come in with a new business.
We really have a much effort to sell copycat masses for the country.
Maybe I am tired, that is why I am tired.
We would like to drink there, # ltt; htt; I care about our viewers what is really the situation of our country.
Small and medium scale is the Solution of your appointed call on small businessmen, what are really small businessmen and what is called medium to be attracted to or yes Tom.
A older brother in an unidentified businessman when the doctor seemed like a findings.
In many of your youth, it will go to donations and to decide with an off-up with a former ltt; htt; out or maybe around eight hundred and nine hundred thousand pesos.
Nothing.
Nineteen-six percent
There was a shout of ceremony of the right to point that he is just giving up to nine points six percent is mico.
In the filthiness of the business here in the blog, we should say that we talk about it.
My twenty one percent Mark is about five peso is the definition of the ingredients.
Three million pesos is the kilo; httt; ttt; Capital and capital of athens and Solenn arlt; ttt; disputes
Dado and all the employees
Or what are these businesses, including those who do not have a store of different store eatery before the soap, many others, and we might say that some of the businesses that are not yet included in the Philippines, but some of those who are not registered under the County how do you want to be interested in them before but those who are convinced to have a payment for tuition and those with advice to register.
It's as if President will try to Tupi and be super sexy.
Your medium will be signed with fifteen million peso Excise student to the teacher, what is your return after the Eclipse of fifteen wants, there is a big table without or the capitalist relationship with the family.
They kill their sales even if we still have a lot of discussion.
