Where is the military offensive against abu happiness not only the isolated area is the enemy of our troop which is also possible for defective weapons.
This is the reason why more than fifteen soldiers were killed in the encounter in Patikul Sulu last month it was paid for second-term reason.
August twenty nine fifteen soldiers were killed in the encounter in the Abu Sayyaf in Patikul Sulu.
They all came from the company of twenty-fifteen, right?
In the report of the military, they will fight the waiting soldiers who are really waiting for a number of soldiers.
But there is still a problem that's why the soldiers are at a disadvantage.
These are the guns of the soldiers who died in the abu Sayyaf.
The complaint of the soldiers, many of the guns fail.
While it is raining a bullet from the abu Sayyaf, their guns are having problems.
Most of the ones ran, and the new issues of a dog did not go out in the afternoon.
I said.
The guns might not have problems that might not be that many have died.
Two days after the bloody encounter sent by the investigating team.
The eight assignment was examined.
A case every machine gun and an empowered the Bible
No one hit at first.
But when IT was moving.
Fltt; and another white Bible does not really go out because the part of the skin ltt; httt; magazine captioned two of the damaged imported ', especially his end of the barrel.
Yes, he should have been in terms of the ltt; htt; ttt;
But if the new Arthur and Eclipse will be discussed, I have not seen any defect in the dance sport of our country.
The investigation of Filipinos said that there are two main reasons why they fail and have problems with the soldiers who got involved in the abuse of the soldiers who were able to take care of their guns because of the continuous operation against goodness and second, some soldiers use Petroleum jelly as a lubricant gun that should be used to how many will be used.
In our investigation, it seems that the troops have been operating for a long time.
There are a lot of dirt and garbage is the greatest thing we discovered, the technology is what the gun Are there for a really tendency to have a speech reported by the soldiers about their plans of turning them out.
The gala sport was examined by my plans but there is no problem to remove the FRIENDS of our soldiers, ordered by the Philippines to replace the bullets with new previous plans to follow the reason.
