Credibility of the 2013 election, questioned, questioned?
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Broken CS machines.
Long lines.
Missing name on official list of voters
Missing signal.
Wrong quick counts.
This is the scene of the election yesterday, May 13.
Not included here are the incidents of violence, harassment, and other irregularities, from voting until the closing of voting, sending a result of the votes in the precinct until the Commission on Elections (Comelec) in the local and national level.
In some of the worst places in Metro Manila and nearby towns, the tap and volunteer of Pinoy Weekly witnessed these problems.
On Twitter feed from the hashtag # Buvote2013, we were also reported to monitor the anti-continents like Bulatlat.com, Tudla, Kodao, Davao Today, and others.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Reports of conservative groups watching the election also entered the province.
Through reports, the appearance of the election showed that the irregularities and problems were shown.
More than an hour after the elections closed, the Parish Pastoral Council for responsible voting (PPCRV), official citizen arm of COMELEC in the election, the Partial and unofficial results from 1,418 precinct.
With the outcome, it was seen that more than 14 million votes of the candidate for senator has the highest vote, Grace Poe.
The election's reaction was immediately confirmed, that the statistical possibility of having more than 14 million votes.
"(T) the PPCRV-KBP transparency server flashed on national television a numerically surprising total of around 10 million votes for the top senatorial spot while reporting only a total of 1,418 precincts.
The erset is significant, as a maximum of 1,000 voters per precinct should only yield a total of around 1,418,000 maximum votes, "Kontra daya said.
The PPCRV revoked the said count, and it was said that there was a format that was supposedly done, and they have fixed the said problem.
The Kontra daya reported that Smartmatic immediately fixed the source code in their part as a reply to the release of a huge vote that is not realistic.
To adjust the vote; less than 4.8 million votes were taken by Poe after the Adjustment.
But the PPCRV also did not explain how to get this figure.
It can be recalled that this happened last 2010, when it reached a point that the total registered voters reached 153 million in the counting of the Philippines before.
Smartmatic immediately fixed the source code.
Suspicious for the Kontra daya is the sudden fixing of Smartmatic in the source code that is used in counting and processing of votes.
According to them, Smartmatic should be buried from the source code, and this can change the source code.
This is despite the lack of real source code review of counting the consolidation (CCS).
"(T) he public Can never know the Smartmatic's system for counting the canvassing of votes really.
It appears that they can also change the source code on the spot, which makes the Whole election system a questionable exercise, "said Kontra daya.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Meanwhile, the suspicion that an official of Smartmatic should add to the data center of the PPCRV in the Pope Pence Center in Manila before the wrong tally in the afternoon of May 13, the AES Watch said.
Ernie del Rosario, IT expert of the AES Watch and former IT director of COMELEC, said that the presence was worrisome in the afternoon in the PPCRV of Albert Castro Rico, which is a global service direct of Smartmatic in Asia Ocean.
He is also the project manager of the foreign technology supplier in the Autonomous Region for Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) in 2008, and one of those signed on the contract for the poll automation between Comelec and Smartmatic.
Nelson Celis, Co-convener of the AES Watch and former president of the Philippine Computer Society, Del Rosario.
He said, "Smartmatic has no business dealing with a citizens" arm that should exercise Independence especially from a foreigner.
Mister Castro should explain what he was doing there. "
"This is no other reason I know why Smartmatic's top operations are, and the PPCRV will be able to know from Smartmatic's CCS (consolidated counting system)?" Said Celis.
Del Rosario said that any connection with a foreign company in the operation of the civic arm of COMELEC in the election is suspicious and should be serious to investigate.
Del Rosario of Comelec technical working Group in Poll Automation in 2008 resigned because of the fact that the COMELEC or the officials of the COMELEC regarding the quality of autism elections should be implemented.
In the press conference by the PPCRV today, Henria de Villa said that the presence of Rico of Smartmatic should not be an issue on their data center.
It is said that Smartmatic should really have been there to observe the process.
Ana De Villa Singson, media director of the PPCRV, said that they will also be found in the actual data center for the transparency of Smartmatic.
In the reports in midya and in the statements of the PPCRV, they seem to say that the problem with the wrong tally should not be an issue.
The COMELEC also said that "small fraction" only of 78,000 an S machines in the same number of polling precincts were destroyed.
Comelec Chair Sixto Brillantes said that up to 200 were destroyed.
The scene of the Pinoy Weekly, of election-dog groups and even more than "small fraction" is the problem of the recent election.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
