Zankle hesitated with Bela?
(Similar to the ex-Bea!); on top of the ratings of the shows Dreamscape Entertainment reporting.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Posted by: Peter Ledesma, January 30, 2017 in Showtime
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
LAST Thursday, the Dreamscape Entertainment team on the leadership of the business unit head, Sir Deo Endrinal and Ma'am Julie Anne Benitez to celebrate his birthday three days Ago, Coco Martin and well attended the surprise party.
Said mass was thanking the Dreamscape in Ibrook, and all of their show from 2015 and this 2017 are all high-ranking ratings and every show of the said TV Production loaded with commercials.
FPJ's is the Promise of Coco Martin is a consistent number one of the prims starring in the latest nationwide ratings of 37.8%, 39.5% (Rural) and Metro Manila with 35.3%.
The ratings of the double Kara, which premiered in the last two weeks and hit 35.4 percent, the Pilot of the new present story in WANZ Presents "My hair Lady" which takes the way where Loone Andalio together with Jameson Blake and Mark Oblea.
And the release of "My Dear Heart" super proud is the entire team because its ratings in Metro Manila has reached 31.5%.
Even if the drama series just gave birth, they talked about it immediately on social media and often number one trending on every episode, especially the Pilot.
The ratings of the soap on the survey of Kantar media was about 31 percent in Urban.
The latest news, especially the scenes every night at My Dear Heart.
Especially during the scene of the character of stars Nayomi "Heart" Ramos; taking on-looking parents, Zanjoe Marudo and Bela Padilla as Jude and Clara; and the grandmother of Doctor.
Margaret Divided, the best heart-on who are all good performances.
Discussing the news that Zanjoe and Bela are getting along together and said that the two are getting along together.
The rumors were announced when Bela was brought by Zankle in watching a concert of globally famous around Coldplay this April at the Mall of Asia Arena.
This is why the mortong actor immediately witnessed his new leading lady because he also has a big similarity to ex-girlfriend, Bea Alonzo.
Well Good luck to both of them gyptian!
Xian Lim is happy to Welcome him by Bea Alonzo on "A Love to LAST" actor who will be a rival of Ian Veneracion in recent presscon for Xian Lim, who will enter this week the character of "A Love To Last" as a man who is a childhood friend, and he immediately Welcome Bea to their soap and thanked him the Pretty actress.
"Thank you, for being here," he says with him and impressed with him because even if he is a big star, is priconic and real to yourself.
Exciting the Premiere of his character in the ALTL.
"So happy to Work with Her (Bea), wow overwhelming with the whole cast especially the family of Andeng in Batangas.
They are the usual scenes of the actor because she went back to Batangas to show Andeng and glory to four her real feelings for the maiden BatanguCavite, who did not have to express that because she has no one to offer a good future.
The problem is building a good relationship with Andeng and her rich boss, Engineer.
Anton Noble when they lived in Germany for a business trip.
So Good luck that who is going to win the heart of Andeng?
In his performance as a third wheel to Ian and Bea?
He said there was a reason "when he entered the scene and he did not just put it in.
But if he will be raised by Andeng and Anton, it is just fine because it means he is effective "to his performance in the series.
We can watch A Love To Last, copper and "My Dear Heart" which love to watch all the televiewers in ABS-CBN France.
TAKIRA Mae KaY Bae MIGGY in "TROPS" Porke gets closer to Bae the gy in "TROPS" even if the suitor Bae Kenneth, who loves him and is serious with him.
Taki is very annoyed with the woman who sticks to the gy, Mandy (Shaira Mae dela Cruz) and he was really annoyed every time the two were seen together and called Mandy's boss.
Taki also does not want to associate or involve the said Girl that he feels that he / she has a big likes to Eclipse that what he does not know is that he is still in the heart of the young man, which is why he is already in the heart of the young man, Kenneth.
And then there's a boyish (lesbian), 'She said.
Well, it is not impossible to happen to develop a gy here.
But the Taki (Kenneth-Taki) team and MiKi (copgy-Taki) team continue to wait for the lovelfe of the three and they want their chicken to end up together.
TROPS watched Mondays on Friday and 11: 30 A.M before Eat Bulaga on GMA 7.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
