For Danish
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
By Amelyn mice several months passed when I saw newspapers the news that this was a student of UP who committed suicide.
What are his parents?
"I am also a parent because I am also a parent and I feel what the children's parents feel like that.
It is painful for a parent to be criticized as if they do not have any action to injure the needs and tuition of their child.
I am sure if this child hears the accusation that "that is his parents, he is probably angry.
I am sure that they have done something - they are not lucky to achieve what they want to give to their child.
If the government is also responsible for the education of the youth, they should not reach that situation.
I have no child to think about suicide or stop studying because of not able to provide for his needs as a student.
I believe that no parent will not do anything just for the needs of their children.
I am one of my parents, who will do everything for the future and dreams of her child.
I do not care even if I judge me by other people or tried to stop me.
I am not a perfect person.
I also have a bad feeling in life.
But the important thing is, I have a clean goal.
Not everyone he is seeing is suspected and not all suspects are true.
My child "is my child and I am ready to be brave because he is only able to finish studies.
"I will not allow it to suffer because he has a payment for tuition or no fare to enter school.
The child was deeply hurt by the events, which is why he could not handle it and he finally killed his own life.
I hope we have learned from what happened.
"We don't know where the strength or weakness of our children until they experience a severe problem in life.
And painful, too much pain, of feeling for a parent, if they cannot do anything more than what they have done and accused them that they are irresponsible parents.
Four years have passed, he took up and nine months from now, my child of ums will be cut off.
I do not want to spend money for him as a parent, because he is hardworking and has dedication to studying.
That is why I need to persevere and make it hard to keep on, sell a load, sell a load, sell the old clothes - all that I tried and even writing, I will be able to earn money.
I am doing this because I am a mother who has a simple dream for her children - I see that they have a good life.
And least, even if I lose the world, they will not forget that their parents are not responsible for giving them proper education.
If the government should be the same as a responsible and good parent in French people like UP, this is a big help to those like Kristel, to those like my child, and for many youth.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
