Although we are often young or not getting angry about having a good impression or worms in the stomach because the court was able to stay in the middle of the court, he said that the clogging of these for five to be able to handle it.
In his imagination, it seems that there is nothing more than the children beside the road in the seven of them they are undergoing, it is a good time to have a way of having a river that was eaten on the ground, these were white and white.
There is an Irrigation system.
And above.
Name of my father
Then so that he was throwing the rope so that Lucy Quinto is carrying a knowledge.
Here.
They are happy if the man titled the water supply of water canal and in the middle of playing, it is sad that this child is sad despite the innocent body.
It is possible to get the disease from water from the water.
And so.
Food.
The talent
Coming from?
In our daily Dolores, you are still playing.
Die for the sake.
I am not getting sick.
The three-year-old child was closed by her which he thought was not dirty because he said that he had a pet in the stomach because he said because I saw a worms thin and long vicious.
This child reached more intense because of the amount of his care, they went out of the mouth and nose when they drink the spirit of people at night that will be held in deer.
It is hard to make sure if they were cheated by.
One favourite.
Power power!
It's a shame that I really succeed in my knee.
In a survey made by the university of the Philippines and department of forty four percent of children in public schools in the Philippines are positive for having worms or counseling session equivalent to almost nine million youth fifteen to twenty percent to 70 percent.
Overall, forty-seven percent of the children said 70 percent of the children.
Some of your care becomes the cause of it.
The continued nutrition every time the lack of weight is lacking in the height.
And weakness of the performance in the school different kinds of worms can live in the stomach of a person from the thin and short dress up to the spirit that you can get the chance that you will get the chance that you will get the chance that you will get the chance that you can get the chance that you can get the chance that you can get the chance that you have or open wounds to enter?
Yes, then, of course, if it went to his dad, he continued: 'Before you get the nutrition.
Don't eat you first to get worms but it is too intense; there is a lot of horizontal or the child I thought by many at the entrance.
According to the doctors even if the hole of the body is perfect, even the hole of the body and the worst condition, the worm came out of the way of wind in the old leaps there and cause a newcomer we are calling for.
This night, someone can post or personal observations in the river.
Or I think I haven't seen anything but possible.
Yesterday, for example, this is an example of the common worms in the stomach that lasts until two preliminary light but because of the quick egg for a long time, it is possible that the patient will be buried in the end.
With the traffic problem, the teachers and the people are full of traffic.
The authorities of the children what should be done so that many of our schools have no rational comport.
Go forward instead of the things that I have nothing but I also said that I am also having an agreement and then we went to the gym Centennial at least we have to talk about the amount of more than 70 percent of the number of children or the Filipinos.
Compared to this time, what the Bible says will go down to forty percent, but they will return to each other again.
On television
Twenty percent
To get down seven.
But Cedric should be free, can it be free to get the health center, what is it that we can see it earlier in the release of this tablet that Chua bulalo for the children that they do not think of this is a medicine for the children not to think about it because it is a good thing for the children to fight the problem of the authorities that they have placed to stop it because it is a good thing for the children to fight the problem with the authorities, which is why there are some parents who are afraid of View MORE resources here for children not to think that this is the medicine for those who are eating, the authorities say that it is good for the authorities to stop this problem, the authorities said.
It is natural for them to drink this kind of reaction.
They said that the money they said would not always be like this, even if they have grown old, the worms are not going to research on the impacts that will find and find ways to come out.
Life is easier to selling father's life.
Dominic.
I should not tell the parents that if worms go out rather than stay in the body of their children.
