They need to wait now for the arrival of the person who will agree with them.
The weight of the draft was not a joke because he was able to do it before there were times that it reached more than eighty.
There was a lot of people who will be able to read it from it, we will be able to read it for a huge amount; it will also be able to report it to the vehicle to deliver what yes sale or the Coco to be sold as materials in making furniture and things in the house.
After almost half a day of working, the truck would not come to get their lower phone number.
Even if they are not sold by friends, they do not have a loved one.
Because there is no income on that day, the salt of some rice for lunch is perfect.
It turns out that lifting my body too cold.
Sometimes it is saying that ten are destroyed.
Ten years have passed since his mother left his bed in his bed.
His father was not there when we followed it as if he is currently looking for me.
No one was able to finish their family's education, the reason why the pocket of the warlord made a way to enter the school of bringing too tired dinner when it seems to have arrived.
Before me.
I said, when I left myself, you do not have a problem.
He said, maybe my father was able to finish their conversation, maybe help but for work.
The friend of Wally is Jessy eldest to us by his sibling.
You.
What is the crispiness of this.
Parent
You twenty-twelve when the father of Jessy, who was a taxi driver in Manila since paralysed half of the people who knew he decided to go home to Albuera Leyte, was there not a job as if he expected to go home to the world working.
I stood up.
And working as a house helper in Manila is the mother of Jessy sends them money big help in the start of the red bra.
Only his youngest sibling is studying in elementary.
In her breast that you are studying, you will not be able to study the truth, no one has no money from going to school fare, then there is also no one who has dreams of Simon receipt if you will be able to return to school.
But?
There is a special needs of other family to remove the specialist until now his condition is not yet identified.
You will reflect what kind of women now.
You will only have money if you do not have money without food.
Allocate a bonfire of many of the youth who are not able to study in the study made by the international Labor Organization and even add up to the agricultural sector, including the populism, which seems like a momentum that the process from the mountains are the most dangerous support for any age.
There are programs that will be wrapped up with the goal of helping the youth who have been locked in an early hard work and college tuition program, where are those out of school Youth we have a native of Dondon for authentic, copttt;
Currently, according to this, their program is still a target to slow down the number of child workers in the country.
Our economic situation, we really need to study by the national government that we have a sustainable Opportunity to have each family, he has a person or Contact Food security and no security singing in a new government now, he is really studying the future we saw as if he was preparing to go to school.
He passed by school from searching for the group that he sees as a way to reconcile.
Do you not think?
Us!
Ask.
Struggling with no jobs
For Jessica, he needs to set aside my dreams first.
The climbing mountains will continue to stop the bones, even if the body does not know about him, the beauty of your life is hoping that it is a Solaiman.
I am just eleven years old that you have done something to do to because they lack support for him.
Whatever job is right now.
Poverty remains a problem of the country, which is as long as it is not addressed, there are people like Martin and beaten who continue to attack a bone for a small income.
