While waiting for lunch lunch, Jack showed me the severe effect of your el in his eyes.
Ha!
Ah, it's good to buy one hectares of Amazon that is now slow if the thunder is high.
When it comes to an unequal harvest every fifteen days is the program.
No matter how much he helped.
Five of the things that he noticed eight indocked that he will take care of it.
I hope that this is when he fought with the help because of this scene where our livelihood is being searched for by the whole land, to be able to be able to be able to continue studying this year because of typhoon Yolanda.
This is our livelihood in studying.
An old jeep of corn is also not able to survive in twenty years of opinions.
The remaining whole courage was injured coming from me in some record.
Breaker
Both of us dried up in the net; we went back to the nipple lunch.
Ah.
Ltt; ttt; yes, it is not yet clear when the woman is set to be sent first.
But I am sure that they give him a few months as long as they continue to worry about him.
Meat of rats with little bruises on bananas!
This is the translation of the family to give thanks to nine gay men who are discussing the severity of your body, you can also see it in the black guides in the very banana, ah, it's a banana peel into it.
This kind of dish is not new for the family.
The fairness said while you are sitting dead, replacing you.
Really.
It seems that he does not have the fate of her parents because if he does not have food to eat it and rely on it.
Eating mice, what is that because you are hungry.
They are doing the building there for it.
Wearing a question that he is always singing to the old feeling that the spider is always eaten by a spider that is getting more intense when I read more intense when I read me inside the young man.
The drought adviser and crew no longer new in the province of South Cotabato where if we are talking about the effect of the group, you are really going to hit the Aklan Ojust like phone depending on my friend.
The month of September was just entering the month of September last year to pray for the rain to wake up the bestfriend big truck, which is why there was no planting of corn.
This is said to be a solution that a portion of the people who were showered through planting because of the clouds when they have a goal Setting out of the month of January when they have a goal Setting out of the month of January, we were not lucky to have a livelihood at the time of January when they will fall down in other places, ttt; htt; we are avoiding that.
And what happened was never expected.
The attendees are not attentive between the hungry farmers of the police who have a duty to take care of it.
After graduation, there was a place to live.
Almost every year, the answer to their province is not carrying a nature to study and when there is no face to the residents.
But their only wish for this kind of violence.
A new shooting that you are talking to and the execution of the protest as a result of the bone.
Trumpi as the negotiator for the farmers should be the anniversary of the nineteen-twenty-eight, the farmers should be able to enter the warehouse of electric vehicles to get rice sent home, says ltt; htt; gt; gt; gt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gtt; gt;
Because of this, the farmers are imprisoned together with her head.
We were twenty-nine and we have long been bail but many of the abnormal companions were sick.
They were acquitted because of the resolution released by the court against Papa Dong at three o'clock at nine o'clock, people who have the right to open the province, you should have been able to have a blackout in the province to answer that we have been able to have a blackout in the province but then they have been able to have a blackout in the province that is why they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but we have been able to join or say that there was a blackout in the province that is why they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but then they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but then they have been able to have a blackout in the province that is why they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but then they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but then they have been able to have a blackout in the province that is why they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but then they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but then they have been able to have a blackout in the province that is why they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but then they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but then they have been able to have a blackout in the province that is why they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but then they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but then they have been able to have a blackout in the province that is why they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but then they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but then they have been able to have a blackout in the province that is why they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but then they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but then they have been able to have a blackout in the province that is why they have been able to have a blackout in front of it, but we have
But after a shock to what happened, that is why the need to prevent violence that we have even started with trouble.
Hello
The location is marked on the map because the area of any activity coming inside are being monitored.
One day before the remains of Darwin was brought to the final resting place, the uniformed police who approved Gil was the front part of the car.
To a police that we have talked to, they are monitoring the influx of hundreds of people from regular burial and sympathize with the family of Darwin below east condolences but also cooperation with the farmers now who are involved with the victim, then need to be ttt; I am also victims of experience here.
The central finger of the group of copena and the Philippines farmers are the farmers of the Philippines that they are not spreading video of rice.
In their position to the Suppliers, they will love and say that the calamity fund is going to be charged.
They know that they entered the reporters.
With what the malicious is saying, they are going to collect the rice in the calamity fund of the government.
It was only January last year, including the declared under state of calamity for some advice on the north of calamity before we have no images so it is not a mystery that it is not the office of the municipality of the barangay who has a shortage.
On the day we have something that has been presented.
We are the buyers of rice but you will be first in the barangay to think 'brush with the gay.
After giving up giving up the help received by the farmers in front of them.
Ltt;
Your survival
The partnership of abram i-renew, the crowd cheering operation which is being held by the government to stop it again and tomorrow there is no more early.
What is ttt; htt;
They are risking their great part of a little help but I experienced hunger that they faced.
It was where I used to form a hurricane.
Which is not impossible to end up with laughter and laughter because it is not for the people.
Will the life of the followers of the blood will not be restored.
But it is a vacation to give and this will give way for a long term solution to the problem of hunger and poverty in the health, they feel that they are peaceful and far from violence.
Good luck.
