The two soldiers are out of time while the twelve soldiers are wounded in the advancement of the boy in applauding South Cotabato, and this is also the one who died of the harassment of the organization in the burial of this world that is behind the attack in a torn position.
Today, the relatives of the two soldiers who died in the explosion of a caught in the explosion of the caught in South Cotabato yesterday, it was also left by twelve people who were allegedly continuing to be observed in the hospitals there in the north South Cotabato, according to twenty seven in the Country, the armed members of the employee in the burned patrol base in Barangay danlag, applauding the day of the burial of the dead Entry Commander of France and decide as Commander volleyball.
The deceased lasted for four hours of February and one CAFGU was killed.
After what we came after the department, it seems that it is a landmark that is already indicated.
Our apartment is intended for the reinforcements that there were no reinforcements last one day.
The conversation with what happened.
That is why there is no such thing as well.
'If we go to the palm where both of our colleagues have pleaded not to name the deceased and wounded in the case to be brought to the security of the family believed to be 70 years of what we believe Arnie was behind the attack on the department and detonated the point that was moving there, the 70.
By DepEd ALS
So on the onboard investigation, we still don't really know if they are really the ones.
About the incident.
This is as a describe as their name.
70 MORE plastic
Now that the attack of the rebel will surrender, sir John, the authorities are calling for more alert and observant to talk to us police station there.
For those that you cannot see, yes.
You should wait for the barangay.
We all have a reporting system while six members of the Entry surrendered to the troops of Saturday's thirteen pantry Batallion including you Marc twenty-seven years old, and we were twenty years old and we were twenty years old.
The only one who allowed him to speak, they could not take the consecutive gunshots so he realized that he needed to surrender.
Recently in the delicious birthday.
Together with them.
I was first here in the tree of their conversation.
Resident of fight against the government
Ha, I read that he really loves the box office in the box office.
Their co-workers in France twenty-five were killed by the soldiers, Commander regular price Commander, you Jay embudo entrance and members or elements of Carlo Tenorio daniboy head to cigarettes, that is why you should be Jonas Model intelligence Ocampo Neil and colleagues.
This Saturday, Commander Bicol is also brought to his final resting place.
Rey my child to you.
