Meanwhile, Filipinos, but the unique symbol of the celebration of their favorite and happiness will be the second anniversary today.
One of those awarded the award was among those who responded to the encounter that happened in Mamasapano Maguindanao.
The father offered their anniversary to all the soldiers who risked their lives just to protect civilians against bad elements.
Lieutenant John does not have a delivery to show up to every soldier that the officials are being carried out by their display of heroism and even their assigned position for the country, which is usually not seen by the public.
In Orly's data, up to one hundred and two more soldiers died.
More than four were wounded in the two thousand pesos.
While in the past two months this year, the personnel and five people died and five people were killed and almost two hundreds were recorded injured due to their work.
For him, this is just a proof that their job is not a joke because their lives are at stake in order to defend the country.
Even defense secretary volatGazmin has given tribute to the heroism done by each soldier not only in tackling any disasters.
Ltt; ttt;
Included in the Second Lieutenant Raymart Mateo, when he was thirty to one of ten officials awarded the award, Matthew was awarded the gold cross medals, the leader of the 60-diversion of zeres company of sex and underwear diversion to answer Amie they were the first to enter the encounter site in Mamasapano Maguindanao last January twenty five who admitted that the entry of the area was not a joke.
Matthew says that it was the first time she entered the place and when they found the eighty four of them drinking water and food for their first fame, he did not have any official what their mission is except for us to forget and they learned the hand of the target as evidence.
Matthew further added that almost half a day, the eight corpses of the Mamasapano massacre was taken out of the Mamasapano massacre.
Twelve are wounded and thirds to the first that they have no right thanks to us because it seems true that they do not know.
I got the first to be surprised which he said that I thought it was the respect of the chest.
I was able to enter us in the evening.
I really should answer that.
They asked for water from the water.
There will prevail in the biscuit.
And then the troops to carry anything like that?
Native who told us they have a target.
The truth is that you have left us.
Eight years later in the spotlight.
We have anything.
Ltt; hes: Gtt; hall and Intramuros
Roof, there are rumors that are whispering about.
The Katipunan was called by them.
But I did not know.
Matthew is very small that there is no truth about the issue being accusations against them that a gun was lost.
Despite of this, they cannot be affected because the evacuation of those who got the first two were successful.
The first time we received an award, where he was the third of the high award given by the Philippine Army's leadership to the soldiers.
Aside from Matthew, some officials of the group are honored only about that person Our culture best local government and the lord to give recognition to their contribution to the heroism.
For the television of the town
