That sound and collects the warehouse of bullets and explosives.
We pick up the owner of Fort Bonifacio.
Twenty-five are wounded including some who responded to the area.
Meanwhile, the condition of the two soldiers are critical to be seen as a possible cause of the fire.
From Fort Bonifacio there is a effort by Marisol abruple.
Manager, if you think about it earlier, the firefighters and the revolution in their work were said to continue, but what they experienced earlier, they thought that the end of their lives gave a severe damage to them not to burn but for free because of the attack.
The translator of Fort Bonifacio is almost covered with thick smoke this morning.
The firefighters who responded to the blindness of the fire inside it was the burning building because the explosives and weapons served as horny moments later.
The explosion was heard inside while the heart was thick.
This was followed by the consecutive explosion.
The fire reached the third alarm that lasted for more than thirty minutes before it was put out and not in the explosion almost no December, which is why it is certain.
The chief of the explosion in this office of the football of Amie is also obvious that what we will say here is the list of explosives inside the warehouse.
I have been going to visit before the basis of those who are on display, that's because the voices of those who were explosive.
But I repeat it now because they do not have a lasting cap.
It is affectionate like this.
But when they were subjected to ensure my poke exploded.
Is IT deliberate.
The port has mentioned the port of Cristo with tian Tito Vir out which is possible to cause an explosion.
They also found out that there are contents under the burning building but it was said that it was not turned out or even asked to go to their eyes wide.
Using that.
Because we are in our country.
They are protecting them, we are in the war.
Those who exploded.
Magsaysay if no matter how bad Marcos exploded.
They are newspapers.
Twice a distance of the participants of the participants.
Netflix is doing all'n ltt; ttt; there are members that are doing.
He explains:
The camp seems to do not happen.
We do not know how much is that.
Post conference.
The capability of the abdomen here inside a lesbian will still be investigated.
In total two hundred five wounded, there are already two soldiers, while there is already a three-time perception of five eight, a strong explosion sermon.
And that's going on.
We heard that there are times.
Some of the rocks were suddenly thrown into a wall that might have arrived.
Bomb
When we saw a lot of dropping people.
With those right.
The poll was Sheryl but it was only ten minutes away from the burning building when the strong explosion happened now that he finished with a wound on the head and body.
Will she be picked up.
Stay here.
By little, we don't have two minutes.
Here, Bro was the strongest.
Or?
We don't know what happened.
His companion, ate, was able to run away but saint.
But he is hoping for the early days of the pregnancy like debriefing or what was gone; htt;
Ruling to us
It's as if you would like to greet you a lot.
The one who is already being treated at the Filipino teenager Hospital is already a seven of those who were wounded while six were rushed to the asea medical center in V Luna one in the hospital of Makati and one in Taguig Pateros district hospital.
'There's a lot earlier that we Can expect some of the tables released here in the system amily.'
Which was also brought there in Pasig, but he was left hanging by the patients but they should be observed in the twenty-four hours so when it was said that they still needed to observe it because there was no ability to be transferred to the Philippines in our hospital, although there were injuries that they still needed to be transferred to Taguig Pateros hospital, although there were injuries that they still needed to be transferred to Taguig Pateros hospital, which is why they needed to report that one of the expenses that he was going to be transferred to Taguig Pateros hospital, though there was a number of forcing armies there in the volume of weapons and explosives.
Which exploded and burned down by the fire, I remember because there are trees; hes and ttt; what call it to their bombs are things in the study which sometimes cannot explode.
There is a problem with that that our military has a long time and now there is a burned large volume I Can just imagine.
Yes, you know that it is really one of our unit of Piolo gay who is really twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-year-old
The hot weather of the berra is living with stored weapons and explosives and we know.
It is possible that there is a fire that is really hot and there are only explosives that are in ordinary building stupid.
Yes, that is what the teacher says, they are looking at it now if there is a violation of the Ocean to consider that there are some stored here in the Ocean, which is considered as a high order exclusive, because if it is really a high order, this is really a high order exclusive.
We know how strong its effect is, but even if the Filipinos are telling us, they are helping those who are helping them, they are sure that they follow their careers where they should be placed, but they are saying that they have been stored and it's so hot that it might be a day ordered by a freego there.
In the explosion that became the Brother of the fire that caused the explosion many thanks to you.
