"He wants, we are still happy and in his mind, he will recover..." - Director Carlo J By GORY RULA January 19, 2017 last night opened the wake of the producer of Golden Lion Films, Donna Villa.
I joined Manis Lolit Solis, who went to yesterday afternoon at the Cosmopolitan Memorial Chapels in Araneta Avenue, Quezon City.
The chapel was just being prepared before, Tita Donna was still preparing for his coffin.
Direk Carlo J. Caparas also arrived with her children.
They are preparing the mass before cremated.
Tita Donna's wish to be cremated first before opening his wake.
There was a mass attended by the family and close friends.
Director Carlo J clarified that cancer of the uterus was the cause of the death of her husband.
"I did not sink to me that Donna was gone," says Director Carlo J.
"You know," that's how he is brave.
"Even if there is a fever, I could not remember that there was a lot," he said.
Director Carlo J explained what happened when Tita Donna was diagnosed with cancer in the uterus.
It was too late when they found out this is already severe.
In the CT scans, there was found a lot of myoma in the uterus of Tita Donna.
This spread and they do not know if it can be prevented.
Direk Carlo J does not know what he will do when they talked to the doctor.
Direk Carlo wants to be operated and remove, but the doctor told him to be operated if possible.
"I fell there, then.
That is what the doctor said if possible.
"I don't know how to tell him," the copist and director said.
They said that the couple were able to talk and, Tita Donna asked for a favor for no one to know even the close friends.
That's why the people from showbiz was surprised when she found out that he passed away from the disease of Cancer.
The speed of the event.
But in the past few months of the hospital he put in the hospital, more than a month, here is what happened to her.
Since Tita Donna went to the hospital, Direk Carlo J. although it was not left by Direk Carlo J. although it was last FAMAS Awards, Tita Donna was forcing him to attend but she cannot leave her husband who is in the condition.
"He wants to remove the tubes in his mouth, so that he will be the one who will go.
"He even told me, if I was in the hospital, he will leave me to accept the award.
"But I do not want to.
I need, join him.
That was still what he was thinking, then.
"In his mind, he's going to be free!" Thank you "to.
He does not want us to be sad.
"He wants, we are still happy and in his mind, she will recover," Director Carlo J. believes that it is hard for him to accept what happened to them.
He still does not know what he will do with Tita Donna, who is his partner in everything he is doing.
"Last night, when I go home, I still see him.
I am beside him for 29 years in all of our trips.
"We have been together for 29 years that he is the only one beside me and in everything we are doing, I just follow him."
She needs to go out because if he will give up, he knows that his children will also give up.
Until the wake of Tita Donna and the request of them to put it away from her parents, that's why they are going to bring it to Cebu.
Director Carlo J is almost finishing the movie venom on drugs and she has not thought of how he will finish it without her husband who is with him all the time.
We sympathize with Director Carlo and everything that Donna Villa left.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
