How will stop smoking?
By Brother Rom November 21, 2016 Dear Brother Rom, Kami's wife is a New wedding.
My father-in-law is kind.
She said that we lived in their house first.
My relationship with my husband is fine, except for an issue.
His father is fond of smoking inside the house.
My wife told the father-in-law that I have asthma and allergic to the smoke of cigarettes.
I told me about my family, because my grandfather died from cancer in the throat and the root is too much smoking.
My father-in-law is listening and smiled.
He continues to smoking inside the house.
I cannot be criticized.
I avoided him at home.
I don't want to have a crack in my dealings with him.
Brother, what is the good advice on a chain of smoker?
How can we say that?
How will stop smoking? - Jim Dear Jim, first, an old man like your father-in-law is usually not listening to the person who is younger than her.
Second, you will not be by your father-in-law, because he is home and he can do what he wants to do.
The most good thing you can do is to live on a separate couple of own homes.
Smoking creates nicotine.
Nicotine is terrifying, which is why it is hard to stop smoking.
Even if your father-in-law wants to stop it, she cannot do it, because it is possible that he is a nicotine addict.
His body is always looking for nicotine.
Smoking is one of the biggest causes of illness and death.
Every year, thousands of people die due to smoking.
Smoking is the cause of 50 diseases.
This is 90 percent vein of cancer in the lungs.
Even the people who are not smoking are affected when inhaling the smoke of cigarettes.
It is bad for a woman pregnant.
The smoke of cigarette is causing pain to a baby, and sharing a boy and a woman.
What will be good advice to a person addicted to smoking?
First, he needs to see and admit that smoking is bad for his health.
Second, repent for destroying his body.
Third, he decides to stop destroying his own body.
Most of all, he will be humble, he approached God and hinging him to give him the strength, because he cannot stop smoking through his own strength.
Get to know and see Lord Jesus.
He Manangan, with the strength of Lord Jesus and secured the conversation, he said: "I could face any situation through Christ's help to make me" (Filipos 4: 13).
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
