Because of extreme poverty, some students are forced to go to school because they are complaining.
This has a big effect on the ability of students to learn according to Unicef.
Tina Panganiban Perez
Spain
Every day when ten-year-old John Paul was waking up, he always asked for the food of his complaining stomachs.
She often entered school in school.
She is not able to think well that is why it is usually a female classmates.
I was mistaken for them.
In the study of Unicef, if there is a lack of vitamins and there are those who like the saint that will be affected by their ability to learn.
We're going to call coptt; htt;
Sugar, that is why it is working that's why when he is in school, those are affected.
The ability to concentrate while teaching his teacher even if she was able to go to the school program of his school in Payatas.
She also does not have classes in normal.
That's why even if it is part of the sixty million students in the whole ground that night, he goes to hunger, he is not included in the half million Filipino students who were identified by the department of education DepEd as the delivery system or those with body mass index that are not suited to their age and other programs that are not suited to their age and other programs that are not suited to their age and other programs that are not appropriate to spread and risk them.
Private companies individual organization Fltt; hes by John Paul is the delight of the 70-nine assistance act which aims to provide a book and nutritious food everyday for all students in public school whatever their weight is.
But while it is not here.
The two friends of John Paul because they are part of the school's room to overthrow the eatery, when there is a child who is going to enter the eatery, they are really pitiful on what they need to happen, but it is not enough that a glass of chamucism is eaten by the children here according to several times.
The scheduled polls of DepEd is filled with coconut meat and vegetables which should be coptt; htt; meet the wanted requirement for the mother and the nutrients of the child.
One of the white things that should have been half of his requirements, they will meet with those in the open government defense of DepEd in the definition of alliance that is why those who will benefit are limited.
Last year, seven thirty-six percent of the total number of them by Moises, a child is very high in the program.
For third to all.
For that day, the child will be able to perform a brilliant possible nest.
Jokes and school breastfeeding program if triple sim two four months of our lives.
What is it?
We will be expecting but the good news that President Noynoy Aquino sets a billion peso for the coming July, so that all five hundred thousand similar questions about the participants of the program will join the program.
DepEd believes in attendance and the siopao grade will be lessened if the children will be given enough nutrition.
This is for the expected hope of the country.
Tina Panganiban Perez
