We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Medicine for AIDS and citizens against traffic and floods
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Tweet
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
There are some people who were only injured in the previous storm Gareth.
In the province of Quezon that happened when there was a tornado in the town of Jomalig.
Of course, there are some who understand the house but they are still thankful to the Lord for the lack of casualties from them.
Let us be thankful and nobody has died while we are still being treated.
Severe traffic this Saturday brought by typhoon Gareth in Manila, the traffic got tangled.
It's a good Saturday and the millions of students in elementary and haul are not inflated which are usually bished by their tremendous vehicles and public.
But the point here is that traffic is severe.
It is good that the authorities continue studying how they will fight the severe traffic, especially the flood that is the source of it.
How can the people help solve this problem?
Different kinds of help May will be able to do some things to help the flood and traffic as well.
First, report to the authorities the deliberately sharing holes of the drainage just to earn in a school school or so the citizens will be forced to ride a surge or tricycle.
Second, is it possible for the people to arrest the tricycle drivers with the surge, tricycle and motorbike who are collecting payment for expensive fares in time of flood?
Third, how will they fight the creation of a swimming pool on the flooded roads so if there will be a vehicle that will give them a dealer?
Fourth, can the police and traffic enforcers can push through the middle of the road?
We are saying this because if the traffic is voluted because of the flood, the police and traffic enforcers are disappearing.
Fifth and for motorists, as long as we can condition is to condition our vehicles and make sure that we have enough diesel and gasoline so that we will not stop or going crazy over time of traffic and flooding.
Sixth, we are pointing at each other to throw the garbage to those who should be covered and not anywhere.
Remember that even small garbage like uploaded cigarettes can also return.
These are just small things, Bro, but they will be double or will be able to do this to the people.
The only difficult thing to do is "a pushing for the police and traffic enforcer to fix traffic because they are disappearing.
New leaders but the government officials have a lot of responsibility or work in the problem of flood and traffic.
Now that there are many growing management in our government, what are our expected answers to these two problems mentioned?
Are they going to be the same with the rumor that they have no quarrel against traffic and flood?
Hopefully, in their pledge on duty yesterday, the traffic and flooding will be included in their immediate care.
The advice of the new leaders in different positions in the government are being attacked in the position and exchange of people in them.
From high positions up to the police, they have been attacked and replaced.
But we want a new leader to say how they will fire traffic and flood.
Just how fast they were fired from the firing of the people of their opponents who are taking their position, this is also how they can solve the traffic and flood?
I hope!
The two problems that we mentioned are very conscious.
For example, workers are tired of their job, they are tired of too much travel.
It burns especially those standing in the packed buses.
Do you know how hard it comes to standing passengers, especially on the parts of women, the traffic in 2, 3, 4 or 5 hours and evening or dawn when they go home?
And will you also learn how to walk a kilo of kilometers in flood and holes of roads if traffic is not moving?
Or you senators, congressmen, governor, mayor and other officials, speak and act quickly against traffic and flood.
"Non-AIDS Sabi of the World Health Organization, will be tested to use the discovered medicine against HIV / AIDS.
Someone WHO said, it is not yet sure that if those with HIV / AIDS will finally recover but it is really possible that HIV / AIDS can reach the virus of HIV / AIDS.
However, the medicine is not free and has a payment to spend on developing medicine and widening of treatment to patients.
Here in the Philippines, thousands have HIV / AIDS.
But in the whole world, there are 34 million victims.
For now, around 10M is the target to undergo treatment of someone WHO is just unlucky not to enter here.
They are fond, except the innocent and infected.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
