The view is that an expert a Professor, yes, is that we are giving more awareness and related to heart disease, not love here.
Love is the pain in the heart cardiac town related diseases and we will find out from my foot what will really be the potential reason why people have a heart disease.
Young and old women and an open door, introduced our time to our guests this morning, doctor Antonio, Jordan, from the officer the fragrance of the College of Medicine together as Professor buttercup, what is your friend's language about this in your advocacy to help people who have a heart disease, what is the first because we are here to increase the many causes of heart disease.
Blood diabetes and then
Being overweight maybe, but we want to discuss this morning.
This is the cause of heart disease while our President Filipinos have discussed what we don't want to see what is happening in the Palacio which we are talking about, because it's a lot of things that is really anxious about this time because there is a lot of people who have been affected by traffic in our health, it is probably a lot of ways that many people are affected by our health.
First.
Of course,
Ltt; ttt; gttt;
Thirty thousand a year. Ttt; ttt; thirty thousand seven three one.
The accident Sevilla second is the pollution in the solution but the effect of it is very big and we thought all of that.
But according to the world health organization, not only but also a stroke.
And heart disease and equal one third of their from Pollution Are from heart attack.
Yes, one person is just a busy Fltt; for example cancer.
So that is the one who is not a third in the lack of exercise.
Because we are all going to ride a car going to work.
We want the vehicles in front of our destination.
For Filipinos, it is prohibited to walk even before the lack of exercise is another Major.
IT's TRUE.
So that's the three.
Ltt; httt; lack of exercise in the population is a huge impact of the traffic in our health, wow, how now that we have been victims of the house even if there are still two viand of Filipinos, what you have launched today, which is part of your advocacy to help a lot if we are still in a traffic situation or here because of life.
So we have a house.
No!
.
Like the movie
It is right that we complain about traffic Eclipse ltt; htt; we should start talking about it.
Time to do something about it, there is no one to do so that we can intervene here with our proposal, ltt; htt; ttt;
The program means that it is not the only car on the street.
Ah, that is the cause of traffic Eclipse ltt; ttt; the port of the street is not for the car.
The purpose of the street.
The people are full.
So not only car should be included.
Bicycle Erwin a and other ways.
Our Foundation
Ah, it is sacred.
From five days.
In the lungs of em answer and Bolivar along the quarter Mexico, we want to prove that Ben will be invited.
Ah, what is there?
Fltt; ttt; demonstrate the department of science and technology for their electronics
Fine.
People can ride free.
There will be a short reason why the man is here because they have a lot of idea how to make the frame of a bike breaking to us by the news.
And then it is possible that we can walk and strolling by people.
Roxas Boulevard, it is also a survey either from Pasig to ano Manila.
When we riding a car-kill meter, we are speaking at the same time and how can he convince the public to use a bicycle so that the news of the people who were riding his motorcycle got the right.
If prosperity is needed, there is a lot of people using a bicycle a bit proud today's post.
It's like those who are riding a hero in treat is their way home because we are going home with different people in a bicycle for exactly the clock, which is why we are going to get the contestants for their bicycles.
And provide.
Motivation to slow down competition
Save us in bed toothpaste.
The starting point is fast, even if it looks like a good care until Quezon City, thirty minutes in twenty forty minutes.
I was faster than the car.
As long as there is a dedication line, it is not what's important is that you will cause death because it is important here, ltt; Mike 'in aspect and the Production aspect that if they have done the yellow line for it.
So they should also give a bike Trail exclusively.
Because you know, ltt; httt; here's the street because I am in the streets because I am still in the streets what every day I see that there are still a lot of things that I have seen as a bike lane.
But what happened is a dance reason because we have a lot of strikes on the drivers.
It is not disciplined for the provisions of the number one enemy here in Dapitan and as our enemy, when it is traffic in here, maybe they don't care what religion according to my also does not have a shame.
Or isn't it a crunchy 'when he is going to the office of Mother, they are just confused by the newscast Jack Jack, that is the student who will enter the office wearing a bike to enter under the vehicle'.
Also built, it is okay that the problem in the bike lane is not just a different vehicle.
There are also times when the vendors use garbage in the trash can.
It is not a lot of people who try to make a short story one more successful in Iloilo City.
If you go to you, it is very beautiful because they Protected their bike lane.
Separate ltt; tttt;
When it comes to the law to protect our victims, what is not monitoring is the call.
Actually, there is a pollt; ttt; exciting by the warden about this ltt; exciting order seven-four no one is indicated in the executive order to represent the territory.
Boarding house
So not just a bike, even the identity with that, yes.
Only one percent of the population on cars
And that's that.
You're leaving the streets there to one percent now, we need to open it to the people.
It is a better fins for those in public Transport bikes and then walking, there is also a new bill that Senator Pia cayne and Co-convert a new bill that they are calling for is a joke that they are promoting it.
A diversity vacation of transporation is having a bike lane.
In a public Transport system use of a deeper and what is a way for Chance for and then juice or ha.
Low Carbon emitting by Lyft electronically, you are already doing the department of Science and technology how long the movement is, and then the most giving emphasis on what will happen in return.
They stopped for a long time when when we started a sermon adviser to a student show, Diliman when I started August twenty-sixteen.
Yes, yes, but now, I do not want to be grounds in the advocacy that is due to it.
But there are also some elements that is why there are many students who are interested to defend the court who have been there in Dubai, that is why the taxi is over here we started it as an Eclipse in our country that I have a lot if I just want to ride a bike.
But these are just an excuse that is why there is a shortage.
It is dictating what we can do all the way and maybe the most purpose you can do is a waste of success especially in the Sering bike that is there.
Let us make a remains in thirty Aparri in the healthy first right.
We really have a dedication sideline unless there is really a lttt; to implement the predicate online is Second year, there is no one that we are riders because of undisciplined drivers we are together with.
Write members.
We are looking for others or look for them in movement, the Unity on the way is the Unity of the road calling there in the movement of kisses that started by lttt; one year Ago.
Toc, many of the health Professor and doctors who joined here are decent because they have not forgotten what was said during the contestant of traffic in the health.
We are busy in treatment provision for diseases after billions of dollars to buy medicine, we are forgetting that there are simple things aside from medicine that is promoting our health.
Super prerye Vivian
It is only six hours in the library seven over eleven there, hopefully it lasted and hopefully there will be more people involved in the Pasig City Quezon City not only Manila in Pasay there are okay so that will be on but it seems that there will be a way or our country will be on the monument but it seems that there will be seven in a road or our country.
We entered there just to go there in the opening Ceremony.
Plaza Mexico but people smell anytime if you go.
This is what's going on.
Okay, we are okay with our nanny, I will visit you no joke.
There is a booking fight for us or two or yes to say that there is money yes but it is too late to the people.
Her abdomen is painful because it is too much.
What love you love?
How is that a wait, what is the medicine for me too much love to cure that.
