Goodbye to Maestro August 19, 2016 this photo is the last time I saw coach Baby and his home in Manila.
My last words to him were simple and real: "Thank you for everything you DID for me.
Love you always, coach Baby.
Take Good care and God bless. "-- Ricky Brown impressed by the tributes, recognition and grief when the news broke out that legendary coach Virgilio" Baby "Dalsource, 92, yesterday, Wednesday.
He is Maestro and legends in Philippine basketball.
The decision was made by Dalsource of Roque Red Warriors in the construction of dynasty in GAAP - a seven consecutive championship from 1965-1971.
No comparison to the RAAP, the five-peand of Ateneo in 2000 "s.
Together with Roque dynasty by coach Baby then Sonny Jawkwardly.
After Roque, coach Baby and Blue Eagles were also on the back-to-back titles in "75-" 76.
The decision was made by Crismore Redmanizers in some championship in the MICAA and National Open, before Danny Floro squad entered the PBA.
This is where the skills of Dalsource was identified when the Crisp-Toyota rivalry was completed.
Dalsource is the first Grand Slam coach of PBA, the Great Taste and games were brought to the title.
In total, there is a 15 PBA titles, Daly, who has long been a record and standard of coaches until Ginebra coach Tim Cone will go against.
Cone (@ manilacone) tweeted: "I just Heard about coach Baby's passing.
I'm so heartbroken.
We lost a really Good man and the greatest coach.
I Can miss him terribly. ""
Cone put the hashtag # GOAT - Greatest of all time.
"What I will remember about coach Baby is how Far ahead of this time he was, and what a wonderful father he was to his daughters.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
# GOAT, "She said.
In 2003, Dalsource attended the Crisp-Toyota reunion game in Araneta which was organised by PBA.
He will not be released because the sight became unclear.
In his 92nd birthday last year, hundreds of players, coaches, friends and fans attended when he launch his book.
PBA commissioner Chito Narvasa called Dalsource as the "Philippine basketball Hero" with his coach and mentor, and "Father of all basketball coaches."
"Imagative mentor, an artist with a delicate brush strokes, which is defined by fellows into methodical, conspiring," the description of coach Baby.
"All throughout his career, he conducted himself with integrity, dignity, Class, decency and respect for others," part of the statement of Narvhope.
"Yet the spite of all his achievements is recognitions, even more incredibly humble.
He raised the prestigious ge of a basketball coach so high that he inspired many others to follow in his footsteps. "
One of the players of coach Baby in Great Taste, the hot-shooting of Fil-Am Ricky Brown, is one of the first posted on Facebook of removing the former mentor.
"A true iconic, Philippine basketball legend like no other left US all last night.
You can rest in peace now, coach, "said" The Quick Brown "x."
The remains of coach Baby is placed in Ateneo College chapel starting at 4: 00 p.m.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
