In the week of the national fist, but the question is this is why our siblings know this to Jerry fate.
Good Morning we are here in the ermin Garcia here in EDSA and then come closer to know our siblings when and who is the enemies of fighting Senator Manny Pacquiao.
We need and who is going to fight against Pacquiao, yes.
Boyfriend
You want to say who is and needs the fight of Manny Pacquiao, I do not know.
I do not know the money Pacquiao failed enemies, I do not know who and the fight of Senator Manny Pacquiao first is open to not being abused because they are super excited.
Week thousands of advertising, sir bargas, first name
Ha!
A joker and everages are just angry or names of the woman.
Nobel does not marga.
MORE than words
Offered.
Zero
Nine
One Factor of the land in Juda needed is the advertising of Senator Manny Pacquiao?
He is also beautiful with his pet Margot, which is happening with God, we have an end that I do not know that you are talking about it, sir, it's good that it's okay there is a good thing that Senator Manny Pacquiao is advertising with Jessy lungs too much and a good lesson.
Of course because of that brother, there is still a free handshake and grats.
And that is the latest from this in the ermin Garcia who will be solved.
Slumped.
I was already working suddenly and strengthen the attack on the ring of the fighting Senator to talk to the line of the telephone everyday criticism Food removal, Mister Denise the prince of good noon, sir.
That's why it's better.
Cunningham
Why is it that some Filipinos don't know much about Pacquiao's fight compared to the previous fights.
Just go to you, what seems like the interest level compared to the previous fights.
Maybe I can control that with it because first of the ttt;
What is the hasht; hes by the teenager
No.
In the laboratory in the evening, I asked that that is the headache that we decided by Pacquiao.
My name.
Or what's next?
I'm against me.
It means, Tito okay, who is the former content of the ltt; villa money Pacquiao, maybe the store we still have but it is true to rest but at first, it is true that we are still living together but at first they are still living with a teenage boy, who is not the highest compared to his previous opponents.
Or Mister Indonesians, based on what you have seen in the training of Pacquiao in the movement always said by Freddie Roach said by coach Freddie Roach that ice water has done a good red alert in the wet Slt; ttt; in the form of Pacquiao today, how big is it going to enter.
Pacquiao, I thought for this fight to be with don or I have not seen any training but go to when we are calling me how we are the one who have talked to how we have talked to, but I told me that I will not name anyone but I told me that he was worried about the week '.
What will I do, there are two or three cows training schedule that money has been a concert, but copttt; htt; ttt; / ttt; ttt; / ttt; ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt;
Here, but it seems that this will be easy if we are open with his mommy, it is still there that they will be able to fulfill the explanation that they should prepare for it.
Of course the training is painful, which is why it means to me that yes, casual lightly; we are heavy here if ever if we look at that.
But it is not true that I want the intrigues, yes, this is for the money when it comes to this fight.
Ltt;
Everything should be the protection of your husband.
Ha to me?
Because the hotel Centro us is nothing.
Flour, I can see that Pacquiao town is convinced to visit or if there are four-month-old baby cars in the opinion of Pacquiao, but if I already have a four-month-old baby cars in the opinion of Pacquiao, but if I already have a ah, I think that I am not representing the focus of money Pacquiao in the fight against and decision money.
He is the juicy gers, which I want to be harassed.
