The moon and gun is still good.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Reporting by the moon and gun at EB Maj about the partnership between Chris Millado and Ando Ranay.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
The "month and gun" of Chris Millado often mention as one of the classic Dula who are against the Philippine US-Marcos and one of classic patriots.
When it was shown this year, there were friends who told me to watch, because she was beautiful and even cried.
That is why I watched, and I did not fail.
The "month and gun" consists of five stories of people who fought against the dictatorship, particularly during the fight when Senator Ninoy Aquino was killed on August 21, 1983.
In his message to the souvenir program of Dula, Millado said that he wrote in 1984, time even the UP School of Economics, saying that the country's severe crisis.
In different parts of the Dula, the faith of the time: Laktown, August Twis-One Movement, yellow confetti in Makati, missiles with the call to boost the election and picture of Ninoy, and others.
But it is good for Dula, the stories are meaningful in particular time that they represented.
The first, about this round of siblings, activists and workers in Laktown when the latter arrived in Metro Manila.
The second is the story of the woman Imagis, a national minority, with the help of a woman who also chilling him about the military's murder in the basis of the accusation of the New People's Army or NPA.
The third, the negotiations of a socialite to his housemate about his interfering with the anti-Marcos family.
The fourth is to be fetched by a female activists in the body of his NPA, the mourning for his death, and this is a reminder of this.
And fourth, the arrest, interrogation and misconduct of the police to a student activists.
The immediate notice of the Dula is the script.
The character has a secret and life, the stories of their lives, and the story of the lives they presented.
Millado said, "Lahore of the character... is based on the actual person I met, worked with each other, met with a moment, read and heard from the secret meetings, our speakers, and barricades."
It can be seen that Millado observing and sunk in their joy, grief, love, drama, kaku and other emotions.
This is probably the aspect of the "moon" in the title.
But what is also good in Dula is how the part of this personal and political crisis - that is not just the anti-dictatorship, but in the struggle for the implementation of the society.
This is probably the aspect of "gun" in the title.
Dula entered the personal not to move away and be imprisoned here, but to whom he will have shown on personal stability in the collective struggle, and politicians who will struggle.
That's why you will bring the Dula to the different emotion - in a way that is careful and there is a part of it - to bring back to the activists and revolution.
Here, it is strictly implemented, they do not make a shield, the month of personal life and the gun of the political struggle.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Made the ability to be moved to the story about the woman who got the dead body of his NPA.
He passed through a severe question in principle and struggle, but it ended up to a strong wave here; in the feeling of being together with many; in the assumption of being a companion of many; in the assumption of the lack of meaning of his life and death but he went on the understanding of its significant significance.
Many of those who are at the same age of viewers who take advantage of awareness is the margin of tears and hear the control that he inhaled.
This is probably the most painful but the most sweet Flying kiss that I saw in my whole life.
The great script, a third of the great performances of the actor in the experiment of Ando Ranay.
Angeli Bayani is very good at the young woman who is being called.
His speech, as if IT is, but IT's a different language.
The founder of the priest, JC Santos, is not able to answer what he is saying, but you will understand clearly, with the help of some sustainable words and marubb emotion.
Many asked after: Is it really the language of Bayani?
Because it came from the heart, and branded the heart.
Mayen Estana is also very credible to play the young NPA.
He was able to show the love, sadness, anger, sadness, loneliness, mourning and the different emotions in that scene.
Married couple, mother and mother, activists responded.
Jackie Lou Blanco will also lauds the young socialite - made a business wearing a bath.
He emphasizes the long theologists and he emphasizes the audience when he shows his character, which is probably!, or a one of "They of Manila" now: His thoughts on the struggle, and others.
The model of his performance was Maita Gomez, activists and former NPA, who went out of the picture before the story started.
Maita became aware of the First quarter Storm in 1970 while the character of Blanco was in the early 2000s, but any amazed Maita will be worried about the performance of Blanco.
Many interesting and able to think of Dula.
This is brave to show the dangers and sacrifice of the activists and leaving the common, but it is also clear in showing contention, stories, memory, being cunning to the enemy, and other courses in facing and althcare.
Brave, though it is also careful in carrying information especially in relation to the counting of the woman who kidnapped his father until the husband's husband pretended to be the dead, until the discovery of the written biography of student activists.
What is said to be the immediate reason why the Dula will be able to contradict the president of the US-Marcos dictatorship which is preparing the path for the burial of the Marcos in Malacanang.
Also add up the memory to strengthen the fighting in the widespread murder and violation of human rights under Rodrigo Duterte.
But more than that is the value and effect of "month and gun."
In Response, Millado took a picture of a period of strong and strong struggle - not only against the dictatorship but for the entire rotten system - and to feature the said picture today.
This is also like the commemoration of the earlier generation of activists and leaving the FQS.
Our knowledge and understanding, we give inspiration and humilience about what they have done and it is possible to achieve that it is possible for now and Lam!! Carrying in the future.
Who will be the one who said, you can't make a poem?
It turns out that if a work of art is very beautiful and very credible, there is no explanation or study enough to make an idea.
People should experience this.
So I'm telling everyone: Watch the "moon and gun"!
And it is better to tell those behind the Dula: Padaccording to the entire town!
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
While
While
While
