What we are after when we started fighting here since last night, a patient added that they were only forty six after they were rushed to Jose Reyes memorial medical center of the patient who are related to the firecrackers.
Is it because of the welcoming here in the school in twenty years, he will be able to walk like the hospital be seen in the video.
It is a strong sibling rushing here are the different cases' they took it with many or most of the things written in this, they were rushed because of the accident because many of our countrymen immediately drunk that's why many of them had injuries.
The students were able to drive away and hit the other at five o'clock when the student and other cars were returning because they saw yesterday because the doctors said that it would be more.
He brought it to the hospital because of his stabbing to go again because we have a lot of fellowmen especially in Tondo and other parts of Manila that they have been drinking, that's why it ended up in crime and you were hurt because all of them were given proper to us.
Jose Reyes medical center and most of them were able to go home, Bernadette and the leader, who is known to remain here in the hospital.
They need to cut their part of the body to the host the fingers cut by my finger due to pointing a plapla, according to the last news.
Round round
Entered a patient.
What is the case?
Hit because of the noise of fireworks.
I Can verify that he was just walking but something broke out that was rarely known for example.
To five four zero hit simultaneously like other wounded.
That was rushed to the hospital.
With his father back then.
I said.
On the face of the forbidden Alex in what we saw earlier, he is focused on his face but he is taking care of him and to anyone else, she also got home.
Diana is always going to go here and still be careful.
Our celebration just ended and there are still many fireworks and legs last night in welcoming twelve thirty who possibly exploded.
Arroyo also advised and reading materials that this can be seen by our family in the attacks around which did not exploded last night to avoid this kind of class.
Nine o'clock, the children are being attacked by some police.
Should I be.
Two started last December twenty one is living here only to be youngest.
Alcohol, I was holding him by my mother when the incident happened that she was advised by not yet known.
About this problem but the wound of the child is still severe, but of course it hurts the policy that he went up to Adam after being given first aid to the hospital.
Before they celebrate this child, the eggs prepared for operations were used when I have forgotten.
Rotten.
Or they might be cooked.
The name of this Flt; htt; one is in a camp that was recorded in the past a child, I should forget the music that can still be used.
We saw yesterday when they were children when they experienced a night at night.
In their home before he answered last night.
