Corruption in an epidemic of measles
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
The Department of Health was struggling with its outing against the quick spreading of measles.
DOH is now calling for all other branches of the government to help in the fight of the disease that can return and deadly.
Among those implicated by the DOH is the Department of Education and local government who helped him.
Even the private doctors, nurses and other medical professionals are also called to help.
DOH says many medicines are saying that there are many and sufficient vaccine against measles.
But it is only now that this becomes clear because of the ranks of barangay health centers, the statements about the lack of vaccination should be ound.
That is why, many of the barangay health centers are going to walk for a vaccination in spite of the truth that every day there was a child who was born to be born in the set time.
It appears that the DOH or the government is lying or the government itself is about having enough vaccination for the disease without certain medicines.
No doctor, there is no nurse experience of all the excessive lack or lack of appropriate health professionals in barangay health centers.
"If there is no doctor, nurse or others who have sufficient knowledge in reconciling with the health centers.
That is why, even if there is enough vaccine against the disease, there is no one to make a deal with a set time.
The barangay health center did not count on the finger which is only the "Mother leader" or no idea of taking care of the volunteer to man them.
UNA, the complaint of many mothers, is not just showing the health centers, especially the doctors.
Instead, mothers to go to private clinics of the doctors, even the doctors of the government, to be vaccinated there.
But you should pay much.
Where is the use of medicine for the vaccine of the "government doctor"?
Is the government's free supply or supply companies so expensive?
Included in those who are paying for are not only the medicine for the vaccine but only a few belongings, bulk, consultation and very setting.
The lack of vaccine to admit it or not by the government, the people are not able to make their lives comfortable.
The families in the barangay will be counted among the fingers at the barangay, saying that life will be light and they can get a vaccine in private clinics or hospitals.
That is why, the father and mother are forced to find a source of income to "finish" just in daily expenses.
Especially now that they have spread contrast, which can be sure that they will be able to order for five months and it reaches a year before they find the refrigerator of the work caused by contralization.
The government itself is the subject of contrast to its creation of the law for this, called Herrera Law.
Because of the need for them to live with their family, the mother or father will not respond to the call for a vaccine that is being held so that rare in the drop of rain.
Family driver, among those who are having a hard time to promote the families of the drivers of tricycle and jeepney drivers.
Everyday they are crying because it is difficult to earn for their families, especially for food and money of the children at school or taking care of them if they are still young.
They are crying because of the suffering of expensive diesel and gasoline in their income and the police and traffic enforcers who live in police are still growing.
They make the remaining electricity, water and others.
Meanwhile, government products, electricity, water and other batting needs are now due to the very high taxes that the government will collect from here, except the cheating of the company owners or have control of the said business.
The lack of life in the life of the government is a big reason why they do not go to the health center to get a vaccine, especially when they spend time with the programme.
All of them is blaming each other, blame the government for the people in the spread of calamity.
The government says the mothers and fathers are negligent and this should be blamed why they get sick, the children of them get sick or die in measles.
Change is needed to lead the government for the change in response to the disease of measles.
Among the things he needs to do is pretending to be hanged in corruption and negligence in the health program, employing doctors, nurses and others to take care of the people.
But he should focus on its policy on tax, petrol, electricity and other causes of poverty and illness.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
