Eleven of the crisis in Zamboanga City, up to one hundred and nine were killed in the fight of emotional spiritual Factor and the forces of the government while almost two years have been wounded in the evacuation center according to TV and good the department of social welfare and development considered a day that a humanitarian crisis is experiencing now in sadness here is my report.
For the first time since the fight broke out in Zamboanga City, the airport earlier opened a plane earlier in an airline.
We are about to share some of the residents of Zamboanga.
Because you will be able to come home, what happened to you so you could forget to be beneath.
Ten days, Jesus is the woman in the vehicle.
We were also able to get along with the department of dancing to take a Break to the victims of significance.
We have to stay in a briefing today to the children against all Hong Kong which is available by the young old but mostly the children because they were social in resistance to them, the time when we arrived in Zamboanga City earlier this morning when the strong rain suddenly poured out.
After almost two weeks that the airport of the bank is closed, the bank will agree again and we are included in one of the first flight that came from the city.
Let us decrease the airplane.
President Noynoy Aquino is there to welcome the passengers and conduct inspection at the airport reserve, every person in their personal life is still not here so we should be sure of responsibility.
There are some stores open especially in areas far from the fight.
But the downtown or the center of the Zamboanga peninsula is still the same.
Especially since the firefight continues in some barangays.
And there Are some fires again today.
We got hit.
Until March however, he returned to add words.
We will again have an advice about the traffic jam.
It is really nothing for the two to meet in cigarettes.
Many are like her who are looking for life instead of sulking in the evacuation center.
Our siblings are the whole day on the beach and a chance to catch fish.
So that someone is feeding their family if you love him but she will be angry if there is nothing.
Nothing.
You know now that he is close to touch.
The volunteers commitment are a big help to address the needs of the affected residents.
Even the personnel of the red horse hit last Friday in the middle of the shooting.
Back to work.
Yes, I know the report.
No.
But
You are two of you there.
The land in front of the kneeling gay doctor and does not need to remove the one I saw beside me.
It was ttt; he was crushed on his face as the first step toward when we left the place because I was speaking for the Second floor Second expression that I saw him being a bit far from the commission wound, of course, what would be the first one.
As of now, the authorities hope that the sacrifice of those from Zamboanga is still a little time and their lives will go back to normal and we are giving ready to expose.
70 thousand pesos
We have three supplier here in the news, but ten thousand from the Philippines pesos so that we will accompany you until you recover and, but this is probably the worst of the number of those who will be able to return to their history and in their past but this is probably the worst of the number of those who will be able to return to their history and in their past but this is probably the worst of the number of those who will be able to return to their history and in their past but this is probably the worst of the number of those who will be able to return to their history and in their past but this is probably the worst of the number of those who will be able to return to their history and in their past but this is probably the worst of the number of those who will be able to return to their history and in their past but this is probably the worst of the number of those who will be able to return to their history and in their past but this is probably the worst of the number of those who will be able to return to their history and in their past but this is probably the worst of the number of those who will be able to return to their history and in their past but this is probably the worst of the number of those who will be able to return to their history and in their past but this is probably the worst of the number of those who will be able to return to their history and in their past but this is probably the worst of the number of those who will be able to return to their history and in their past but this is probably the worst of the number of those who will be able to return to their history and in their past but this is probably the worst of the number of those who will be able to return to their history and in their past but
