Health FRONTIERS: Don't come why two months of delayed "the mens?
I have a pregnancy test but it is negative.
Possible that my pregnancy test was wrong?
They are being treated differently.
Menstruation is possible to start every 21 or 35 days and it can last for two to seven days.
For the first years of menstruation, a long cycle is natural.
While the woman is getting older, the separation cycle and becomes regular.
It is called "regular" menstruation when they have the same length every month.
But it is naturally changing sometimes.
Our period has a light or heavy, painful or not, long or short but it is still normal.
If the mens, there are many reasons.
If the menstruation is stopped, it is natural for you to think that you are pregnant, especially if you are sexually Active.
It is easy to see in the pregnancy test.
But the home pregnancy tests that can be bought from the pharmacy can be mistaken depending on your use.
A false positive (who is saying that you are pregnant even if you don't) can happen if you have a test after taking a Ctility drug with human choric gonadropin, you have a property that is there or topic pregnancy.
A false negative (saying you are not pregnant even if you are pregnant) is possible if the time of taking a test or open your pee is wrong.
To be sure, do this in the morning or in the first week after you missed your period.
Follow the Package instructions to avoid false readings.
Repeat it after a few days.
Better still, have a blood test or have a pelvic exam.
This will confirm whether you are pregnant or not.
If you are not really pregnant, the delayed or missed period may result in eating disorders, too much weight or too much exercise.
Another reason for a long time is cystic fibary Syndrome - a hormonal disorder which caused the profit of the small cysts in the village.
This can also happen to women with mature properties.
Missing periods Can also be caused by endan triosis where tissue that is inside the uterus, outside.
One of its symptoms are Severe physical pain.
Another possible cause of anti-inflammatory disease - infection of reproductive organs.
Meanwhile, the utting fibroids - non-cancerous growths in the Country, causes heavy rains and blood between time.
Drinking of birth control pills can help so that your menstruation is regular.
But do not do this if you think you are pregnant.
Consult a doctor to examine you and know the real reason of your problem.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
