It has been a long full of crisis in Zamboanga not only the soldiers who were stuck in the fight against journalists who also helped in the dangers names of Egypt.
This is how many of us have been in the media during the height of the crisis in Zamboanga.
Take the information of our job like soldiers who are also near the center of the fight.
These are the locations of copra makers.
Santa catalina at the back of us that seems like they are using a name here.
Criteria for the top of the crossing children.
For those who have passed through the walls that are on the top of the road.
Now.
She seems to have been knocked down and suffering.
A few minutes before the mortar was hit on our position that wounded some soldiers, I was able to interview some of my colleagues who were hiding yes, ytype of secret to the program wanted in the joining fee before listening to the cover of these situations, that's why pray for his shield.
It is ironic.
At the same time.
The gunshots got angry at the opponent, asked where to come from.
They are going to make a way to fight the walls that they really do not know that they will be hit.
In these times, the work of photos and video journalists can't be invaluable, if we have a reporter that they are comprising the video watched on television and photos that can be seen in newspaper internet a person here.
You will face me and everything we will face in our work we need to just pray for the beginning now.
We will hear the Lord of the teller will be heard that will not be complacent if you don't need to be impatient.
With the difficulty of life at the level, it is very dangerous for what you have to comment here that I do not like this.
It is cultural.
It is very dangerous.
You're going to call me here and I was just hidden.
What I can do is that they noticed a while.
It was on the live report from a crowchline use of the latest technology in the field of a digitel mobile yes God requirement that is just as big as a child NATO, which is why you are still a family man, that is why we are already a family man, that is why we are still a family man, and we are insisting that we are being together in Baguio.
Mother.
Sometimes our life seems to be a soldier in the front line to bring truth to the worst we cover what of course, it is a curse that we can see.
The enemies of the land will also return to us to achieve the socks that we are hiding behind.
We work hard that we do not know when it is the first baby to say that the children rarely come out there.
