The 82-year-old history of the CEGP
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
As an exceptional and oldest alliance between the country, the College Editors Guild of the Philippines (CEGP) celebrated their 82-year anniversary of writing, fighting, and on the side of this year.
Since it was established on July 25, 1931, history became a witness in a few decades of fighting the CEGP inside and outside the university.
It started with four pubs before, the group has reached more than 700 yards from more than 60 provinces in the country at present.
In its long history, the CEGP has represented individuals to recognize the Country in a different field.
Some of them are Helena Benitez, Renato Constantino, Abran Sarmiento Jr., Antonio Tagamolila, Emmanuel Lachey, Ma.
Lorena Barros, Armando Malay, Lourdes Simbrain, Isagani Yambot, Satur Ocampo, Teodoro Casino, and many others.
And most of this, interfering is ongoing - and not witnesses - exactly the CEGP in forming the history of fighting the people.
On the condition of the site that won, like in the past few seasons, the campus press will be facing threats and challenges.
According to Marc Lino Abila, the national general secretary now of the CEGP, they recorded more than 250 violations of freedom in journalism at the University of San Carlos in Cebu City this April.
Some of them were libelled by Jesusa Paquins, head of UP Outcrop of the University of the Philippines - Baguio, due to the alleged blog article two years ago.
"The court issued a warrant for Paquins in August last year where he managed to post bail from the donations of organizations and friends for his temporary freedom.
The case is currently being heard, "according to Abila.
The CEGP also shared the libel case against Roque Dawn of the University of the East because of its lamb issue.
They collect the publication fee of the administration since last year (2012).
Earist Technozette is facing "Amang" Rodriguez Institute of Science and Technology (EARIST) in the threat to close the tour since March if the adviser is not accepting the administration for them.
"It was stated in the memorandum released by the administration that the adviser has the power to interfere with all aspects of the restrictions from choosing the person who knows that it is a limit to the use of funds for the curriculum," according to Abila.
The operation of the Philippine Artisan of Technogical University of the Philippines (TUP) -Manila is temporarily suspended because of a blind item, the director of the student affairs of TUP-Manila has been identified.
The staff also had a difficult time to enact its staff, which were all critical writers on the policy at university.
"We also face the editorial staff of pubs.
It also serves as a burden to the condition of the pubs that their student enrolled in the condition of a lifetime against them, "according to Abila.
Removed from the process of the publication fee is The Chronicler of Polytechnic University of the Philippines (PUP) -Taguig today.
The administration is also not recognized as an official who will vote for The Chronicler.
There is also a threat to close the custody of the University of Cagayan Valley.
The CEGP has already filed a complaint against the Commission on Higher Education in Cagayan.
They continue to talk to the administration at present.
The screening of the publication fee of the students is The Angelite of Holy Angel University (HAU) in Pampanga from the removal of the administration who collected the money they collected in 2011 because of the release of the law that they collected in 2011 because of the release of the government.
"Even the other pubs of students inside the HAU became a manual that they collect because of this.
They collected money that they collected for the operation of pubs since it resulted in low numbers that were being published in newspapers for students, "according to Abila.
Target against insurgement Dati, the military accused the organisations like the CEGP as a taste of armed rebels in the Philippines.
Once he clearly accused him or a member of the guilder of the New People's Army (NPA).
It was year 2005 under Oplan Bantay Laya when the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) stated that "Knowing Thy Enemy" stated that the NPA will consider the CEGP.
This is still ongoing under the Oplan Unity of Aquino, according to the CEGP.
He has received many reports of harassment from its members.
Even its officials in the national anthem of the CEGP is receiving harass.
"February last year when Surveillance experienced Surveillance of the CEGP in Samar.
Its officials followed up to the house of a gua (call to a member of the CEGP) to take the night off.
"They know that they are in danger then that is why they are controlling what they know from the media," according to Abila.
Marc Lino Abila, current secretary-general of the CEGP.
(Pher Pasion) according to them, there is a man asking the other house if they are there.
They were not able to sleep all night because of fear.
They were helped by the members of the National Union journalist of the Philippines (NUJP) in Samar to be safe to deliver the airport.
Karl Doceo, vice-president for Visayas of the CEGP, explains why the members of the pubs were included in the order of the military's order from the copy they obtained.
"A staff of Earist Technozette was followed by suspected agents of the military.
While the staff was allegedly walking, he was asked by the following him if he was a member of the country.
He denied that he is a member of the country because of fear and told him that he will not follow him, "according to Abila.
The Pioneer of Palawan State University (PSU), reports that the AFP has issued a referendum to their school, saying that the members of the CEGP will be released.
The selection of staff of the pubs were also specified.
As well as the report of those from Cagayan Valley.
Abila added that in their very celebration of the 82 anniversary of the CEGP, they have identified the agents following them since the morning.
They were followed by them until the venue of celebration in Visayas Avenue, Quezon City.
CJA scrap in spite of the harassment and threats to the campus press, the fight of CEGP is ongoing on blogging on freedom in journalism.
Abila added that the use of the campus Journalism Act of 1991 (CJA of 1991) of schools continue to suppress those who won.
The CJA was approved in 1991 to protect the restrictions that won.
But in the implementation of the law, the opposite happened according to the CEGP.
"Yes, there Are positive content on the law.
But the lack of penalty clause or punishment for those who violate the administration is giving strength to the administration to use the CJA of 1991.
If the admin wants to close down or collect the publication fee, or suspending a campus journalist because of its partnership, they can do it because they will not be punished by this law, "according to Abila.
The CEGP is being endorsed by the CJA of 1991 and the laws of the campus Press Freedom Bill of Kabataan Party-list in Congress.
But this will not be enough to stop the violations of the site that won, according to Abila.
The campus Press Freedom is going to be a big help if they will enter laws.
But even this, it will not stop the campus press freedom, as long as the educational situation is as long as the farmers, the farmers, have no land, as long as the political crisis, cultural and economists of crisis in society, "according to Abila.
History of interfering in the motto of the CEGP, "To write is already to choose" (Ang writing is one of choosing) the long experience of narrowing and on the ranks of the citizens.
According to its members, the CEGP has long shattered the "mile of another, sexuality or" tivity "in journalism.
According to Abila, these kinds of violations against the society that demonstrates the issues in schools is ongoing.
He said, the national issue is not separated from the issue at university so the journalists should not be separated from society.
"If we lessen the budget of education, will increase the bills, they will report on the site that won and does not want to show it on the administration.
Even in private schools, because for the education, various bills are squeezed by the students.
This post (this) of campus journalists.
"What now (this) of admin no matter how long IT is," according to Abila.
According to Abila, the experience of the pubs that can be applied when it becomes critical for the contents of the services of the issues inside and outside of the university.
"At present, there are still those saying that journalists should not be biased.
But experience and history are given to us who truly have to change in society.
And if you stay in the middle or position of those who get abuse and oppression, in the urgency, you are taking advantage and oppression, "according to Abila.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
