Fight in Zamboanga City according to the spirit of the terrorist attack in Zamboanga City.
Just this past midnight.
It is called Misuari breakaway group.
The whole report from our colleague will be the day.
Libra, you will be shocked from the camp.
A good afternoon to you.
I am sorry that you are left now by the Philippine military forces in Zamboanga City, they are taking a dormitory breakaway group who is now taking a dormitories in the five barangays but in the four barangays were the ones holding the Eclipse.
Fat like eggplant and Holy catalina.
Lieutenant colonel Ramon Magsaysay confirmed the chief public affairs office of the exit that they have not declared a mistake after they have reported about the area earlier this morning, no one was reported hurt in the incident.
But
The number of casualties in five where a member of before going to the group were reported dead in the Zamboanga City medical center that happened this September nine days of lunes, according to now, the military was still awaiting the order from the ground commander, bras Jocel Tito Trinidad when the military attacks it.
The negotiation of porridge is still ongoing and it is too hot to the group to resolve it in peace and to free free their hostages.
Meanwhile, one bomb exploded yesterday in his head when it was six o'clock in the evening where it exploded in Elgar deaf to the trouble.
They clarified that no matter how it is, it is only a dad incident and they still have no information on who is the responsible of the said graduate.
'It's not clear that this is not about the chaos happening in Zamboanga City where there is also a presence of energy in the area.
The torch is a nearby one in Zamboanga City's city where it has been confirmed by the ministry of Cory.
But for now, the authorities continue to investigate this about the explosion.
No one was reported hurt but assured by the leadership to hasten the place in five barangays.
Which is where there are five who acted as Commander of those who are hoping to be in Zamboanga City's start of the early morning.
Even here or military, this is his brother and the group will not escape.
Here is a statement.
