Ltt; ttt;
Their reaction is my goodness, positive feedback, which means four people.
The development of the Eclipse is affordable.
What is the story of your collective president doubt.
Ltt; hes: Gt; briefly, it is okay.
Tito boy with coptt; htt; councilor andrei Santiago last twenty ten
It is okay here in the morning and there is a need that you are not allowed to municipality in every daddy to have a coptt; htt; copies of what the public can buy.
It is right, that's why all energy Yuson of sipi is really right; it is just a fence that will go to the words that he is saying that he is ambitious, I am ambitious, I am a poll; it is also disabled and yes, I have a poll since six months.
My baby is my baby.
Also, my sleek.
July but it was not too obvious that I was operated by the way before I was studying.
When I was still in high school, he did not get dressed up with someone so I am not getting dressed up and run straight yes straight to my left with a batch, the doctor, my child, so it's just as if I need an operation again and replace it with your child, why do you need a family, isn't there a single wow.
Or maybe the first prioritize, that is the priority is that you are helping.
Of course the love life or maybe because of that or maybe because you are thinking that you have a disability, that's why I don't really have to enter my mind or have a love but I don't really enter my mind or have a love but I don't really have to go to settle down and go to the living room that I have gone to be in the living room, fifty years old.
I can still see it.
The wife in the cinema but grains of Ricardo Delgado.
Yes.
What is your disability or case a better morning, first of all of the audience on the radio, I have no money 'in the Pasig's disabled list of Pasig a blessed day and then I am four years old and I also had a folio.
I also did not become an obstacle like the press.
Live normal and I am currently a driver and rider of the motorcycle rider of the motor rider of the motor rider.
What puts the brace with nothing, because I do not need to go on vacation but it is not yet needed to go on vacation like normal, which is why it's good that the group is going to help those with disabilities in Pasig but it's good that's why we are asking those who became the officer because they were amazed.
You will be heard, if you really understand what is ttt; htt;
The situation of the people who is serving in the video the office is said to have been disabled from the video the office, which is why there is also a disability far for the entry of members and then those who have also become more quick in response to the needs.
If there is no disability, that will respond to them that they do not understand what you are feeling is right?
It is okay that you have a family Ricardo Diaz, the two sons of the woman.
Meanwhile, they are about to leave when you are ttt; ttt;
Or you are the courting you don't think that, aside from me to answer this because I don't really look at me because I do not really look at me, I still have a disability, but because I don't really look at me, I still have a disability, but because I don't think that I have a disability, that is why I also think about it.
The title of the post is able to make sure that we do not have any difference because you still have a gallon that I have watched in life that is why they have been telling him about the high quality.
Which is what the birds can do so report number before because there is still no law that you still don't know so what made you want to make it normal because it is natural for a person to waste the rape joke.
In five, he is now analyzing the others as if they are not both and most of whom I do not generally give them there, I will be pitiful because of that.
They talked with them because they are afraid of the rejection of this case, that is what they have made for them.
All Internal or it's good that you said that I did not look at my mind that I did not get worse.
So video develop the specific age of my age before in our place.
What age of you, httt; / tttt; / / tttt; / / ttt; / / ttt; / / ttt; / / ttt; / / ttt; you understood that while I have neighbors, I have the funds.
So I have one neighbor if he got on board.
It's because he is brave, but I still have a neighbor who will collapse.
It turns out that it was not while.
He was drunk.
That in his chair of the pocket.
What I can see is difficult.
That there is pollution that two are still alive, half a ltt; ttt; from the waist and down what you saw, I have had a motivation in life that I should not be the one to have a bicycle.
I forced my bike to take a bike while being buried.
Until I touched it.
Motor vehicle
I also took it and I can still bear it.
If they can do it until I started my guidelines in life whatever they do, I can do it here and I am interested here with Vladimir Amadeo Police community, and Secretary Vladimir the ltt; you will greet our people who are watching.
A prosperous morning to all of you.
You said, you are okay with Doc that is why others would resign.
A prosperous meaning, what do you mean?
Potential of no obstacles, isn't it like all, it is better if the story of the Eclipse is okay or then the story of your life is okay.
No.
What is it?
Before me.
From what is your disability, right?
Finished with my disability.
A genesis a enforce sect for bridal pregnant April, if you can easily injure yes, you lack the case, that is why you are not very concerned about the body to create something.
Ltt; hes: Gtt; low
You are not fond of milk.
Even before drinking milk, really, but to your family, you are the only one who fight.
