With asthma or asthma
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Doc WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Filipino Star Ngayon) 124; Updated February 26, 2015 - 12: 05
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
(Part 1) in the whole world, 1 of 8 children have asthma and 1 of 13 elderly people with asthma.
The symptoms of asthma is the difficulty in breathing, coughing and racked (wheezing).
Racked up the "huuu-huuu," as if there is a cat in the lungs.
The cause of asthma is the swelling and being sensitive to the small pathways of the wind in our lungs (lung bride).
When asthma attack, phlegm in the lungs will be increasing, so the patient is trying to catch a breath.
No permanent treatment for asthma.
But if you will change your lifestyle, the asthma attack can be lessened by 50 per cent.
Here are the things that should be done: 1).
Is there an allergy in the surrounding?
80 per cent of people with asthma also have allergy.
Think about what you did before the asthma attack.
Are you tired, dispatched, or seated on a foul object?
Writing this in a diary.
Avoid things when your asthma attack.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
2.
Is there an allergy from eating?
Because he often gets allergy in food (about 8 per cent) but this is also happening.
Beware of Food and atives, Food coloring, snack, alcohol, peanuts, seafood, egg, chicken, and others.
Find out where you have an allergy and avoid it.
3.
Beware of medicines.
There are people who have allergy in medicines such as aspirations in, penicilland medicine for pain.
The safe for you is just 1.
Consult the doctor first before drinking medicine or any supplement.
4 - RT News
Avoid pollen.
The summer (March to June), many pollen came out from trees and lawsuits.
Wear a face mask.
More pollen in the morning, before 10: 00 in the morning.
5.
During the cold season, there is sometimes mold and fungus in the bathroom because it is always wet.
Dry the bathroom after taking a bath.
6 (Upi)
If there is a vacuum, use it to take to the dirt in the house.
If possible, remove the carpet and rugs because it was very fast as captain of dust.
7 (Upi)
Avoid the pet animals.
Bathe the pet dog every week.
If possible, do not take care of an animal in the house, because they found a small hairs.
8 (Upi)
Open the window in the kitchen.
The severe smell of food can be started by asthma.
The smoke and smell of cooked onions, garlic and fried food.
Put Just fan or cook outside the house.
Next, there is an additional advice about asthma.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
