Loyalty in the pound: Reflection of the Gabi Day 2 - December 17, 2014 - Year OF THE PORS
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Is the loyalty of a person is measured?
There is a story of a man fond of pricing in his further marriage.
Once he became an interview for the wedding, he first talked to the man: "If you will recognize the loyalty of your future wife, how much is it equivalent to it?"
"Father, the amount of loyalty is Php 20,000."
The priest again asked, "eh, his being understanding, how much is its cost?"
"Father, his understanding is Php 10,000!"
"Here, the last question is," the priest said, "the beauty of your future wife?"
"Father, five peso!" The man answered.
"Why is it only five pesos?"
"You want to know, then do you look at my future wife!" The young man answered.
The priest went out and peeked at the appearance of the fiance.
When the priest returned to the room, he handed two pesos to the man together, saying, "Ito the two peso, you have something in exchange, only three pesos is the value of her beauty!"
Siblings, those who have their wives prices, are the beauty of your partner, how much?
If his value is just a peso, the call there is FIDELY or loyalty! Hehehe...
The findings came from the word Latin-FIDES that means faith.
I mean, honesty is possible if a person has a strong faith.
We heard now that the record of the right or Genealogy of our Lord Jesus.
After the length of the names we heard.
The many of us might be sleepy while reading it; but the message she wants: That God has never been faithful to us!
He became honest because he fulfilled his promised safety through history.
God became honest in his promise.
But this is a need for answers to us.
Our response is our lying to Him with deep faith, hope, and what we love.
It is true that we people have weaknesses in ourselves.
We have a heart of a two-year-old and usually cheating on our loving God.
The good news... God remains honest in spite of our ongoing infidelity and he will never cheat on him.
May this cause us inspiration to alise our love for Him!
Let us live with loyalty and do not have a heart of a two-two-two!
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
