Yes one to support
When.
Principal action sports in my start boy at the right time
There is a victory for this.
We will buy an obvious operator pick-up to the other line of the telephone to win nothing else if Biscocho mayor Austria is a good afternoon to you.
No cross.
Our action sports as this week no one else but kov Leo Austria
Good afternoon to 'yo quotes
Ah, it's a good afternoon to 'yo abroad, wondering if he is doing the way back then.
So much salt.
Oh, the game was very beautiful there.
Game seven of the Fltt; httt; Philippines four 'voting games in the last three sentences
We are really in me.
Hoping to be a chair.
It is not beneficial to happen in the law, maybe your feeling is too much during that time.
That's why thank you very much to you, you know what will visit here are the vacancy that we are going to win because we really don't know who is going to win because we really don't believe in the events because I know that we are just getting stronger there.
Fourteen of a sudden
Suddenly they are after them and they still have six points and the last one minute thirty seconds.
To go down by six points, we will go after him.
There was a decision that last two started, no matter who can be used immediately.
As said as Pinggoy pengson carjack?
One of the projects
But this is really this kind of thing.
That is really the length of any conference.
Or up.
Those around, sir?
.
Us, it's like you are my favorite here.
This fight will no longer reach seven games.
I have pre-decide which you said last two seconds that we gathered me that we have something for the world.
Ighty-eight is with that 'rock' because of the restrictions.
Or?
Jaybee case, right, isn't it with his presence.
And that is it.
That is where you decide on the game and you've got your Filipinos Cup title after many years low-batt is to comply with the decision of the four championship as well.
That's why you are right there that this is the very first championship because this is also the first championship because I am the first to be the first championship because I am going to go back because of the confidence and trust of our boss, ah, that's why I will get back because of the confidence and trust of our boss, ah, that's why I am so grateful for them to reach him before but I am the beginning.
In the game, Alaska finished up to the semi finals.
I know that this should also be produced by htt; htt; partisan contender here with the influential because you can see it.
How can they play for me, ltt; ttt;
The most critical team here in the pipi that can be seen by the preseason, they proved that it's a big thing; until it came to the finals, you can see what happened to Alaska especially the unit of the team ah, their Stephen and unity as really well, even if they say it looks like someone who helped us in the top is because it is really good for them.
You call the theme during that time, it is really going to them that they are taking passengers.
In the prayers of the Apples, it is good that the character with another player who also red the song and June Mar has helped a lot.
Everybody because they know.
In between they are negligent, there is no ltt; we worked hard to expect many but they are still there and fought.
Also.
Prove to prove.
The chamber is like this so they are very happy because the victory of the championship is good.
He is a mile alcohol as Dencio Sandro, that is what I will ask for you.
Population fear
Ltt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; of course I said, I won't win the gangs but copttt; of course I said, I won't win the big lead after it.
That you are after a Cordon in the game seven.
In any case, is it up to this?
First, let us forget Rizal as well as we talk about our conscious cap but it seems that there is a chance for you to return for the prisoners Uy, this is still not possible, even if it is already fast.
You know this series, ttt; ttt; great experience and a very big thing for us even if you have been smoke pre andit in these events because I have always been telling them the lt; htt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt;
Before God, there is a team given and that is leading by as much as twenty-four twenty three, you are not yet safe unless you are three o'clock in the twenty-five, thank you for the niece.
Ha!
So I told them that until you are not listening to the final buzzer, the game for a very composed and I always say to them what can happen anytime because many of those kinds of events are not chasing the championship game language, it is just a game-grade three, right; we know that they are going to involve the Cincinnati.
Dispersal of coaching staff ltt; ttt;
To us?
Ltt; httt; win impacts there is a way there.
But my players don't.
We are negligent because we know.
Ha!
You're telling you that you are fifteen, we are both the same; we might be mistaken by each bid depending on it.
Anton
It was seen what taste was hesitant to defend the others that they apply for as long as it is just a score; is there a score that is also the one who gave us a championship.
Since I started here in San Miguel, according to me, I was given any copttt; the premium is our defense because I know you have a good defense.
You will have a good offer.
Do so appear cogh in old Alaska by six.
What is it that you have a worry about Ro-Ro, yes, it seems that what happened is just happening again.
Maybe that might be the one day to enter my mind but as I have to show anything and worry about what happened because I am my child with some the leader in the team who I was terrified over, that is seven next '.
You are noticing that we are just silent and even those around me there are those who are telling me that there is no one, but I am thoroughly seeing one minute thirty Plus Our conversation.
Nadine oo wine
Or I will get involved.
It was very long before that one thing that he cannot be controlled, they are now there's fresh.
There is a need for respect for the interest that I know that they are tired because of the operation because many are asking there is ltttt; why is it so long that they have not known what strategy was touched by Kobe and then it was last two minutes Plus or one minute luck in us.
You can see that when he was chased by Abueva, he even grabbed her strength with his strength.
He will not prepare it.
First Class, you can still see what his energy is.
Corp plunging
I am still chasing her, I really want to say that, I really tell them these players will be in the frame withdraw corporate needed age when we are waiting for because it is ttt; everyday with practice and three hours.
According to yes, but there is still a condition that what the players are, yes, I just ran after me and I just chased what I was able to let go because it was three in the last leftovers.
What kind of moon, I know, ltt; ttt; ttt; ttt; fifty-fifty, I am trying to win.
But I am confident last night.
That will be given to us because you are really working hard for it because it is really hard for it because it seems like I have been together with it.
It's really for us because we should Contact us nineteen twenty and everything so I think that they are deserving to be talking to there almost there but if I look at it, it seems that the people are thinking that they are contented with their favor of winning the championship anseverity of five in the team and we are always telling the people that he is very strong, but it did not happen.
So?
It reached a game seven, even if you are strong you have.
Why is it that the advantage of the player smiled at the house of the karbon.
Yes.
Yes right dota one game it reaches you to offer how I can't recall if he is a demon.
According to him again a month, what did you have to win in the game one of others seemed to have gave you a preview Obama was going to happen in the next yes I am in the province.
All is a Fair game one that we have a new language about us, ltt; htt; because we fought a lot and ran after we lost in the overtime.
So the position of what is ltt; htt; ah the composure Active and determination of the team, telling them we can fitness gym Atis in the other contender tourist spot.
It is there.
We really woke up and then one of them to ah really smells of alcohol over a 'update we ltt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; httt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt;
But why every time there is a Adjustment that we are doing even though they are just FRIENDS.
Of course, of course, because of giants or strategies.
You can see it.
Different things when it comes to changing status quo, he is not changing a taste changing the point guard their own strategy.
I am happy because we are happy because we are the same here in kissing there.
We are being raped well, we will know what we should do with each of which is a very important room, ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt; tt;
You are busy today.
Every practice every day we hope that we have to keep on learning Our Barbie is five months on what you thought here to us in your work.
A Model, you have to learn.
It's good that Xavier is about to kill'n ltt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt; ttt; ttt; tt; tt; tt; ttt; ttt;
After the championship so we had dinner here in the shangrila, many went there and then it was the celestial cows.
A Victory party we are ttt; httt; is picasso that they are new in the company even if it might be a Victory party Atienza, it seems that there is a Victory party Atienza, there might be a Victory party that we need to know what is really the program but native alegado here in the land, we need to know what is really the program but we need to be here in Japan because of this.
We are surprised because they are competing with the previous friendship between it and twenty two thousand yes of course because we really miss the Filipinos, they should really be basketball and the right thing; they should really have a basketball at the right time; it is still there.
