Zero five of all-out offensive of the armed forces of around five o'clock.
Against the biological effect of Bangsamoro Islamic freedom fighters to conglomerate soldiers who do not watch.
Three hectares of drug users in Maguindanao
That there is still a foam factory or factory bomb.
The military entered a few barangays who are possible to be where the trip was held because of the terrorist Basit Usman.
But in the midst of intense offensive.
More civilians are increasing in the fight that they have not received any help.
Due to this, the state of calamity will already declare a state of calamity.
According to governor Toto Mangudadatu.
Live from the mercy of Maguindanao, Cedric Castillo loves the Maguindanao massacre.
Cedric
Jessica on the data gathered by the media on the video, up to seven thousand faster and faster.
I was really affected because you have been affected by the offensive between the hieria Theater.
And if this is a result, he might seem to be in the hashtag which is so believed to be a blessing in the controversy.
The lawyer that we saw in alias bail, and this day, the area of this day will finally be penetrate.
In the continuation of all out offensive in Bangsamoro Islamic freedom fighters or blessing.
Last Saturday, the military paid five kilometers away from one of the camps.
Oh ground troops is the three-hectare camp of blessings.
Is it in the barangay hall and it was discovered that a bag factory was discovered by the rice cakes in the top like bota fuses.
Ammont nitrate blasting cap and Taiwan
Week of the morning when we visited the market, it was around one kilo with almost a distance from the students.
In the course of your life, you thought that the artillery in a nearby area is proof that the people are being destroyed.
Poor sir?
Because.
Amsterdam
People here, they are fighting so much.
Copra makers.
Aside from Tsong that we are looking for our lives, it cannot be different from the side.
What is needed is to continue even if there is a war earlier brought by strong weapons.
The military entered the barangay Liverpool enough to be a butterfly who was not able to let in the soldiers.
It is said that the extreme following of the places where the trip are where the trip are hiding.
But the residents were not evacuated until the bomb was not detonated by the soldiers.
They say they can change the name of all out offensive than the difficulty of life in temporary shelter.
And even though we haven't even caught up, we were not able to catch up.
Because this is the commission of the evacuation center packed and with the members of the families to evacuate.
According to the twenty-year-old woman in piggery three hours, they walked with anything that can be left while he was carrying two-month-old advice and then crossed the river to evacuate last Saturday, he was already dead.
They were killed.
Mobile phone
This is what he said.
At the same time.
Seat
Butete and then you cannot also do it.
It is said that their dream is not right to be waiting in the blood of a gift that became a sign.
They need one.
The children were able to study.
And so.
Our children of Rizal sleep well at midnight when the housing project was arrested.
Together with the post designed to say there is peace.
The residents of the red video also calls for a broken foot is because the artillery was hit earlier by the help.
What is my godfather going home.
By the house
It is said that the area of the airstrike is also thinking because there are holes that are not exploded and buried in the ground because they know that it can still erupt in the diary outbreak.
Because there are some evacuation centers, there is only a few evacuation centers.
The food is lacking in water and I am just afraid of the house.
So their livelihood is because they left the source of income from their income.
To them, farmers do not say that they are not harmless.
What are they going?
Earlier, larger and larger.
But this is the exchange of war and the military has a mission that they need to fulfill it.
Party that was called Estilles?
The place surrounded by four towns in Maguindanao with his mother.
In the belief that Basit Usman's terrorist is here in the past.
Ha, what is it?
A proof that these enemies are really tourists.
Hundreds of spread horror
Jessica will reflect the video footage earlier at the end.
At five o'clock, the leadership was given credit, we caught it earlier at around five o'clock in the afternoon where a fire that the members of Emma repeated.
Where did we see that in the rich sector like the arbiter in the town of rice field, I have nothing to see anymore.
A lesson about that in the area that we talked to a member.
The fire is that we are from him so here are members of the eBay last that they come from there in a community and continue to go to the other camp in their Mother team.
In order to go around the agency's operations to avoid the so-called disintegration that you know, he also showed that Cedric was beside the Gift you in this encounter because I know that the soldiers are small, the emo-emo title.
How can they keep the ettino is one group on the other.
He is ttt; httt;
They do not want to taste it.
In Cubao, maybe those are really used to it.
There is a difference compared to what the dog uniform Entry to the uniform of the nation's uniform.
Our forces of the government, what is ttt; httt;
We cannot say that there are those who say that there are some who are saying that there are some who say that the fiesta was recovered, like this in the email phone or the one thing is for sure, that is why many are saying that there are members of the blessing of those who are civilians, can they be able to admit as a little part of their body with a new video of his slippers.
In the afternoon, in the early morning, I only told them there in the viewers that are needed in a traditional war wait a wait, that is why they have been worried about that.
You're leaving the clock helicopter or even the simple shooting of a long trip, you will not get exposed to the good difference in their uniforms here, how can our soldiers say that they are hit by the world.
That is when you will be able to give importance to what Dong-ltt; hes to not have an ambition to counter what we are saying to us by the reporter, we are talking to all the members of the email and that's because you have a coordination.
There is a Clearance in Response to expect that the April standing between our government yes and crying, and then turned out that there should be no civilian in the area that there is no member of the imagination, what is what we saw or during the father date.
He was seen serving a video in some parts.
It means around more than five kinds of box called.
Who are members of the email 'lead, their computers are really there and they are riding the motorcycles to make sure that they are not there in the area that will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to make sure that they will have an offensive exit to ensure that
Who will be hit if there is a hit if it was hit by a few members that ran away.
But how will the military Cedric believe that their bombing will result in their bombing, there are those who are struck by the terrorist hobby is the Eclipse when we saw when they arrived there, Manoy camp of the bins and erap.
'We've seen making bombs but there's no one.
Together, we are still getting an official statement from six or some if there is a hit there in the polls, there is a bit of big Strike men, yes, ltt; and least five times we have seen that we already had a lot.
Ha, why is it an additional Loans for these airplanes, this is one of the Strike of accompanied in the town of artillery gifts but there is still no official statement that they have been hit by the members of the Theater, but Jessica so vast area.
In the hundreds.
.
Members of the evangelio of unknown each other, there are four pieces that are said to have been there and what they are saying is there are a lot of things that are almost and then I have three to be happy.
Or?
It's also not that easy to stop the soul so that they will separate from the area Jessica okay because you mentioned the last trip that is why there is no small group when they say that there is no small group when they say that there is no small group when they say that there is no small group when they say that they don't have a small group when they say that even if only three of them are five.
Eggplant loses that's why they are called so that the soldiers will probably win.
That's the hashtt; httt; ttt; ttt; / ttt; tttt; / tttt; / ttt; / tttt; / tttt; / ttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / ttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / ttt; tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / tttt; / ttt@@
Those who are chasing the enemies of the government ltt; httt; 'removed by uniform coptttt;
If there is an civilian, ordinary civilians, no one can be sure how to make sure.
Military that they still have chasing terrorists or cows?
I did not run but I saw especially in others.
Okay, let us first avoid being able to sell the operation that mother is pregnant so that he can't control.
You're leaving but to his knowledge that we know Jessica and least three barangays who are ttt; it's been declared by the romance there in the area.
Flttt; Franco what I have is artillery strikes, I have an essensus on Saturday pawns last Month.
As expected that there really is no one in the room that they took and stick to the local government units that their barangays sailed.
They were able to show their favourites that they are fond of losing the mate, which is why anyone can be seen to be kidnapped, what is the owner of the owner.
It can be given attention or if there is something wrong to enter there if anyone can see it in the area that is why it is true that it is November gave and because the civilians of the hot is understood to be released, you are okay with journalists like Cedric whom there are all out out of the operation there, you are doing it first.
To see that it is a strategy and not just random in the entire town of bump.
Yes, this strategy is celberothai that can be seen there, especially on Saturday that we really saw copttt;
Around the ltt; htt; ttt; particularly in the areas where we patrol, they suddenly appeared there in school not to confirm who but ha.
The Guy was starting yesterday.
A security fifty six is This.
Way to control the situation, since yesterday, we are really hard to get details, like what we mentioned on Saturday 'in fucks, relax which is like Jan of the reporter but it is also happening inside or guilt that they buy what we buy.
We almost did not get any details on that, we only know that we are going to movie, that is why they are going to separate and continue but how they are being hunted by those inside the members of his trip trying to separate from there, it seems that they are not ready to give details Jessica okay in the meantime, it looks like you are not ready to give advice or anyone who is managers.
Aries operations are our fellowmen out there, evacuee said.
Enough food is lacking.
There is no bathroom that is enough.
The condition is not good for the evacuation center Cedric.
.
Ah, we can't say if they pretend that they would pretend to be a Major-Major in what they are trying to see that there are several different areas in the part where they are still being considered as a Major-Major in what they are still trying as possible as possible to enter some of the places that can be found.
But
It is a trend of report before it was really a bit more.
The situation of our fellow countrymen is difficult here, causing the evacuation centers of attention Jessica since the head of what needs to start when it rains, 70-five.
We almost don't have any experience in the rain that they have known each other in the towns of Mamasapano and then they are now being grown to each other.
Killed.
I stuck in the desk to be there for those in the evacuation center and then thank you very much to you.
