Blogil and fighting over diol
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
They introduced themselves, soldiers, as men of the government: The help of the Department of Agriculture in taking a sensus in Barangay.
Sinattan, Guinobatan, Albay.
They said they want to know who is the poorest family in the place.
But the movies they are saying, according to the pledged accounts of the civilians in the area, are who are supportive of the rebels.
There are some who are saying that who are the most poor in the area, they are also supporting the rebels, but even the rebel New People's Army (NPA) itself.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
"They used to base the barangay hall," said Fernando Palmer, farmer from Barangay.
Sinattan.
July 22, 2011.
The following day, the military started to divide the "poor residents."
During Fernando's time, to report to the military, he was no longer priests and went to the barangay hall.
But here, it seems that he was placed under interrogation.
When Fernando entered, a soldier dropped the door and she was seated.
The entrance to him, he should admit that he is a NPA, and he is the day "Ka Pando."
He vehemently denied, of course, Fernando.
In spite of this, the military forced him to hold a plakard that has written "Ka Pando" and "MGB."
Like a prisoner, like a criminal, he took a photo.
After that, he was asked to sign and cut the print on a blangling paper - to "clean his name."
Until the writing of this post, the military still remains in the place of Fernando.
According to the farmers in different places in Kabikrain, the privatization of their areas are widespread and stronger.
The farmers have no other way to express their objections to the presence of the military in the communities but in protest.
Like a voice last February 25, on the 27 anniversary of the uprising in EDSA, thousands of farmers and members of the militant groups in Kaol.
At the same time, in the four provinces, they shocked the removal towards the sensual towns in expressing: They will not have been airing on the set of guns.
They know their rights, and they will force it despite being choked, in front of threats.
In Guinobatan, Albay, up to 1,500 farmers and militants protested.
In Sorsogon, it reached 3,000.
In Bula, Camarines Sur, 350.
And in Daet, Camarines Norte, 300.
They are being represented by the civilians of the 20 municipality of the region who looked like the terror of Community Peace and Development teams of the military.
Included in the protests were the members and the leader of the military and the leader of the military against the privatization of Kabikrain, and others.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Vince Casburning of the civilians - they recorded 37 civilians - many of them are activists - who were murdered since President Aquino sat in his position.
In these cases, the suspect is all different elements of the military.
This is aside from the wide range of different units of the Philippine Army to civilian communities.
The story is littered with many communities in the provinces of Albay, Sorsogon, Camarines Sur and Camarines Norte.
"Many of us, are not able to work, leave their fields and houses because of fear," said Felix Paz, leader of Kilusang Magbufield of the Philippines in Kaol.
Tragic memories aside from the anniversary of the concerned EDSA - which can be taken away from the Marcos dictatorship, though the militants remained the first year anniversary of the massacre of the Mancera in Sitio Mapadded, Purok 6, Barangay.
Free, Labo, Camarines Norte.
It was February 24 when the house of the Mancera was fired by the suspected members of the 49th Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army, who was chasing the geries of the New People's Army.
Benjamin Mancera was killed in analysis, as well as siblings Richard and Michael.
"Kaspersport is not yet to achieve justice (for the Mancera) because of the culture of impunity that is happening in the country, especially in relation to the cases of violations of human rights," said Maricel Delen, coordinator of the Rights of Camarines Norte.
Until present, Delen said, the citizens of Brgy.
Free.
It seems like the camp of the soldiers members of the "Peace and Development teams" of the 49th IB is the barangay hall of the said barangay.
The troops of Charlie Company are part of the staying in Malaya and neighboring barangays who are hope.
"The Commander, 2nd Lieutenant Dominic Olayvar, is responsible for the illegal fulfilment of the military offices of the Rights-Camarines Norte and Kilusang Magbuzziod of the Philippines last November 22, 2010," said Delen.
In spite of this, and with the help of the organizations and citizens who are united for the wish of justice and fighting in the establishment, the wife of Benjamin, Leonone Mancera who will be held accountable.
Leonone, and the farmers protested against Fernando, who instead of being scared, they are offering rights and justice.
They learn to enumerate the voice, to fight.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
