From the top of the barangay we are free to think about the small hut houses are the houses of people but within the excavation of the permanent see here.
Forty-six years old.
The father of the child is Arnel.
It is not surprising that apart from the usual habit of Albert because this is what his father is looking for.
The difference is that instead of water to buy it under the ground looking for gold.
There is already more than two for the first time that singer Renato is mining.
Adam has not been hurt by his second home.
He / she was with his whole waiter if it was plunging to the well and the stones that the captain of gold would be destroyed.
It seems to be an ordinary house if the shooting has a voting meal and a way to join.
But unlike a house-hut security, it will not be felt in a shack in a movie that will make their own spirit that does not have a deep meaning.
Market that is not saving money.
Thirds of people's matches.
There are five veterans Hospital gano?
The couple is surrounded by pirate trees because the only support so that it will not be comprised by the top of it, it can be seen as a blue electricity and stretched below the well which gives wind to those in the bottom.
The groin was hanging on top of the moaning that he first had water for the sack of rice every ung of their votes from life.
Even before the time of the afternoon, the barangay is known to be free as a town that was loved by the thirty-seven of the students who were operated on the ground mining of coconut wine free but when the Work of the year of nineteen forty and closed was loved, but even the big company of the people's dreams were lost again last two thousand thirty.
Just six are the ones who reached the barangay free and even the residents who went to them, that is why the river that is currently full of life is about to die because of the chemical used in mining and the land where the first big mine is where it is manual tomorrow.
Because of this around the river of the barangay, the mining of gold and others are destroying gold and others are burying other things like this but their fear is that if the scenes are scenes, these holes might have a five-cent cause of danger in life.
For now, there are almost two hundred lives in the entire barangay every hole different is the owner.
I saw it obvious.
You will take care of us going to the bottom.
And then he will know the year that they have no bite to us, right, it is scary that I might have a hole then there is a bulk of what is the seller.
I said on this day that singer Ronaldo will fight again on the dark well, he will take the mud and have no end in the depths of the depths.
The patch.
Bato is the use of us in the work of us in the Eclipse.
Just what?
Beside him, it is very noisy.
As well.
Baru.
Cetty
Lead.
Without any support for his safety, they immediately went down.
That's seven days that's why it is not working for the vices that they hope will give an ice pick.
Case of seven people under the well in the city these many groundations.
After a few hours if they are over the ground, other grades will be prevented from the well.
A few moments later, the other companions of singer Renato have already raised the sack of the studies of other souls of the answer.
I even get a rock-lttt; copttt; it is likely that they only allocate these to the pussy.
Two piece and pounded stones that wounded that wounded the fruits, after this, it would be visited if there is no water from the breakdown.
The black gold that will get the seat of their Production in stores buying gold in their barangay is being given by the bank or not to go to the black market.
As of now, the Philippines is in twenty years in the country who has the most criticized in gold in the whole world pitch up to eighty percent that is given by the info in our country coming from the fourth year for one which included singers.
The chosen job was chosen but needs to take a risk for his intestines in the early days of the ability.
In order to step down the fire in charge that you would go straight at the same time, I would not be able to go straight at the same time so that it would not be easy to study the whole person, it turns out to come upon the grass then.
Marijuana
No matter how many immigration restrictions cannot be moved in fact, bisci another child is still trapped in big burns.
When you feel sadness, your child was woken up by your child who is his companion in stone.
We should make a mistake through the twins who are dead here is my birthday that I called for the top, I don't fully think of the half-grains of gold, as the equivalent of their lives of a family if I am still not talking to him when I was buried or collapsed, but what is it really difficult for him to do with him under the well, I still do not have anything to do with him under the well.
It came from the fish named Renato in the bamboo Quezon but it seemed that he was able to live in the litter of gold, which is why he chose to live in free with the family.
Their mother and child are not progressing there since they live in free and have mines of gold that changed when their family will be sure to be sure that their child is only a child of following the grandchild and that's why it seems that the children of the couple Renato and aling Candida seem to have drawn the fate like earlier.
Only the people to be depicted.
In the body yesterday.
Nothing.
She is against a tattoo.
They can be taken away from the food that singer Renato can see in going around the world even his children.
It is our future.
Japan is also there.
You will witness whatever you will witness even if you have a replacement.
.
