Ordinary citizens, are at stake in the peace talks of GPH, NDFP.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
"If we fought, we were bad.
If we just stayed silent in one corner, we are still bad. "
This is the treatment of the soldiers of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) to the Aetas in their community in Subic, Zambales, according to Nilo, a leader of indigenous people who do not want to introduce themselves to their own security.
In Tales from the ground: Compelling Reasons to Research Peace talks, Nilo is only one of the ordinary citizens who insist on the return of peace talks between the Government of the Philippines (GPH) and National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP).
In the said porum of Pilgrims for Peace and Song Cahrihl on March 19, various sectors have insisted that the two sides will need to be able to answer the roots of the armed conflict.
Nilo's story is common.
The soldiers were kidnapped and imprisoned by the suspicion that he is a member of the New People's Army (NPA).
The harassment was supposedly started when they built a group, government of the natives of Batiawan, to fight for the ancestors in the midst of the threat of a businessman.
"We just want to insist on our rights.
But we accused the NPA, "he said.
Similar victims of violation of human rights are leading the call of President.
Benigno Aquino III with a serious return to the peace talks.
According to Duterte, he would have been molested again because of the moving GPH from the earlier protests against the Spanish government.
Boris for the traction and Alliance in the statement of Duterte recently, he stated how the "historic meeting" of President Aquino and Jose Ma.
Sison, the founder of the communist Party of the Philippines, in Hanoi this year.
Sek himself.
Ronald Llamas, political adviser of the president, made his proposal in a press conference in Amsterdam last November 2012.
Lloyds promised Alan Jazmines and other Malaysian Consulate members, and that Jazmines will be the participants of the said meeting.
According to Jasig (Joint Agreement on Security and immunity Guards), Duterte insists on the release of the GPH of 14 detained Malaysian Consulate.
Back in 2011 he filed the Aquino administration for a general declaration for the traction of the Alliance, under the so-called Special track of the peace talks.
The Special track is the negotiation between the two sides to speed up the peace talks.
But according to NDFP, until now, the GPH has not submitted anything to a point-by-point answer to this.
Instead, Aquino only gave a short message that sells a ceasefire without a clear basis.
To discuss the proposed meeting of Aquino and Sison in Hanoi, the two sides gathered at The Hague on December 17-18.
The GPH of borne Common Declaration for National Unity and a Just Peace.
Duterte puts some of this point, including the lack of clarity on how to put the Committee on National Unity, Peace and Development which has been submitted by economists and conservative reforms.
The GPH also sets an immediate ceasefire, although the reforms that will be done are not yet applied.
Meanwhile, NDFP has submitted his own borne General Declaration for National Unity and a Just Peace.
He clarified that the committee for the reforms will be put on the same number of representation from the two sides.
The basis of the traction and Alliance are also presented.
Included here is the represented of all non-equal agreement and states that is against the national sovereignty.
As well as the real reforms in land and national indings.
"The Rich natural resources of the Philippines, the expertise of the Labor of the Filipinos and expanded market due to such Land reform will be mustered for economic development," according to the borders of Duterte.
It is also stated that a mayor will build the projects in the 11 industry, including the industry of metallurgy, electronics, energy, petrochemicals, Food Processing, and others.
The share of the large industry, 20% of the government, 40% of local investors, and 40% of foreign investors.
While small and moderate businesses are just for local investors.
Together with the program in reform in the land is the projects that livelihood in the communities to increase the production of agriculture, while projects in the industry are starting to start.
After the "historic meeting" but in the said meeting in The Hague, the representation of the GPH said that they are not authorized by President Aquino to sign any agreement.
Llamas became elusive when he asked the Duterte administration about his promise to Gain Jazmines and other Malaysian institutions that they are not authorized to discuss such things.
The two sides gathered again on February 25 and 26 in Amsterdam.
The Duterte administration is preparing a Draft Communizon for the meeting of Aquino and Sison in Hanoi.
But the GPH said they have no mandate to discuss the said borders.
The GPH is also at the table with his own borne declaration that the Duterte administration will again join again.
The priority of the Duterte administration is the placing of the unilateral and indefinite ceasefire in front of the declaration, which is allegedly destroying the entire outline of negotiation.
It is also stated by having the Final Peace Agreement, which according to Duterte, was neglected in the regular track of the peace talks, where there is a need to put the politics and economists to discuss the cessation of hosting or set aside weapons.
Duterte also said that the GPH does not want to use the word "real reforms" and "national indicialization" because it is allegedly tainted by ideology (ideally charged).
The peace talks collapsed when the Duterte administration who was only offered the meeting in Hanoi by Sison and Aquino to force it to abuse their side who agreed to the declaration of the GPH about the "non-ceasefire" in just one or two meeting.
None of the government declared the word traction and Alliance which was the first proposed by Duterte.
NDFP: Not closing the door
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
"We are challenging the Aquino government to study the two borders that have been distributed in February.
We have not closed the door in the peace talks.
"The sincerity is just needed to show (by GPH) their sincerity," stated in the porum of Randy Malayao, the Malaysian Consulate.
He said, the sincerity of continuous imprisonment of his fellow Malaysian Consulate.
Malayao was locked for more than two years, and was liberated recently because the court decided that the cases against him have no basis.
The GPH also invited the said porum, but no representation came.
Among the ordinary citizens who pushed the return to the peace talks, Estrelita Bagasbas, leader of the poor community in North Triangle, which is editing for business for business.
According to him, they can't sleep well at night because of fear that the police gather them.
He called for "justice for the poor," the government denied.
Two relatives of the victims of murder and kidnapping were also spoke in order for respect for human rights.
Marilou Mariano's wife, Doña Remedios Trinidad, Bulacan died last July 2011, when the soldiers of the AFP fired their hut, despite their scream that they are civilians and not NPA.
His son Norman was also injured in the incident but after this, he was still charged in the court of illegal possession of Firearms and frustrated murder.
Meanwhile, the wife of Marites Chioco, Rolly Panthers, a security guard who was kidnapped in October 2011 at the wrong thought that he was a superior leader of the communist Party of the Philippines.
Mariano and Chioco asked for help to achieve justice for their relatives.
Malayao promises that they are continuously calling the GPH to follow his earlier actions in peace talks, like the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights and International humanitarian Law.
As well, he continues to push the batting reforms that will solve the root of poverty and armed conflict.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
