Philippines - we are here this morning in our port calls and if there is no one else but the hetheor is the Far eastern university and I am at the back of the try sports icon of tamaraws but aside from being isport, if you know that they have a deep love to the yellow, why do we know that they have a deep love for the yellow ones here in the Philippines, let us know that this morning.
Philippines, this morning, we are with the director for community extension Services and fifty no one else but doctor who is a Good Morning Honey and of course the director for student Tagalog but no one else but making Jobelle case Morning.
Fresh-fresh is that we want to know what we are quick to know why the city is included in the sports icon who chose the city right because it is smart and aggressive in the territory when you said that he is protecting his family in his place for harming.
And so.
This is suitable for sports because it needs to be agile and aggressive in order to protect your territory when he saw Campos a lot of masterpieces from the national artist.
Our cunning wolf is made of server and the Tamaraw who can only be found in Mindoro is suitable for the level of ltt; spreading of culture but of course.
It is good here, but it is said that they are not just traveling some sports, if there is an effort to preserve the concert of this two months, what are the programs we are doing so that we are currently waiting for the research about it.
Our biology admit because center
With the Song collaboration not there war on the Song collaboration Thursday and Saturday.
We have a third spot now that we are calling.
To project
The tantos project are taking positions while we also want to be aware of all the students unit so that they will be distracted by how the funds are in the Philippines, which comes to the exit points of the taaws here in the Philippines.
In a thriving number of people discussing that, that's because they understand one hundred and he became four hundred pesos.
Now, but there are twenty twenty years that we will increase the increase of taaws in the feature, the project is already too old with the despair.
It is double.
The burial site is a guide to inform all of our abuse, what are the steps of the government so that of course it can help you, you have an expert.
To help us and compared to our research that we are fine president of a support aside from Our effort, we also have support in Mindoro to the most of our so-called manager.
Those are watching the right thing.
Two thousand five have launched a resolution to take a resolution.
A portion of horsey will be given to applauding.
And most are supportive of some needs of grades.
How can the effect like this to us?
There is also a documentary that has been made up to shots.
Just to know the reach of singing.
The university Paquito the campaign started in two thousand five hundred and twenty-six close-ltt; ttt; twenty twenty-one call, how are the photos Plus I am not allowed remaining years before hitting the dragon.
At present.
We send a way to send.
Existing project
We change what is happening.
Now.
Forward to set a reserve.
View.
Take on screen.
We are talking about the use of social media so that more people know about the Tamaraw is right because it can only be found in the national pride and hopefully that he will not be an excuse.
Filipinos see that we should take care of because he is part of our culture and others.
Our content is the thirty two of these bardresses and we also know that it is only here in our country that can be seen in our country, and if you want to coordinate, help or volunteer to increase what is bad for you to visit the page.
It is a matter to volunteer.
Your name now is for seven to increase the clothes and take a bath in the juicy for bringing the Good Morning Philippines.
