We will find the doctor the way to confront him on Wednesday will destroy my friends coming, yes to the protection of our simple and socialism in the programs of our government today, good Morning my hole Doc Ed.
Aljur was so happy because I am happy because you are here or the doctor who were able to get a high school in the university of southeastern Philippines in the afternoon, that's why I am happy to invite me here because it's a Good Morning to your all-year-old husband, that's why I am happy to invite me for our eighteen years old husband, you are close to them to save me.
So what UN problem in the Philippines is number one 'by hit by many dead and damaged programs or conditions of the office.
Many are destroyed or okay billion every year yes.
His strong rain came from the southwest monsoon or all souls as long as the clouds coming from Thailand Vietnam and then it was ok surprised if he was in the west Philippines.
The story of our actions and attendees.
Then, when I fall down, you can see me 'live television' in the hasht; htt; early warning system of hope that you will be able to try him in prison because he is just right, not too much.
Person but why did we not try or what the government is doing in the time of Gloria and put them.
National rice Production Council yes, you will be okay.
Or whatever it is, you will look sharp or sharp or not a new month.
There is no new idea of cleaning money then sometimes, ttt;
According to corruption, or it is okay for eight of those their money that will be a lttt; as long as there is corruption there in the crying and affordable of those who will ask for help.
But it is very simple why we cannot try the size of the damage to the Philippines, right, it should be shorter because he was there in the west Philippines singing that you can see that he is already dark and he is already dark.
If in the story, he is getting pregnant but he will not be imprisoned or he is just a stress of that because of the ramiety.
Ltt; ttt; I'm going to not sleep first before getting drunk in Manila.
Why did I not do it okay, I call those who are close to the Pacific Ocean is different.
It is exciting that it is a southwest monsoon that is yes, but the rain is big here in Manila when it is too many rain that is why it should be a month for seven days that means you look at the previous diver with rivers.
Bring you too much where that is coming from a close friend, lock you, choose Philippines.
When it comes to the sea when it comes to the sea when it is just right that you are just right in agriculture to drink all of course, it's too much expenses because you just display salt soy sauce, many of the jobs of people.
It is not good to have a solution to that # ltt; htt; we should find out that I have been able to have the water of his water for a few days, right, it should have been able to convince him to do anything in other countries or Garden to develop a kind of technology technology here so that we can use that it is possible that you can use the water and no.
No, though there is a graduate.
What are they doing?
There is no water from the sea that comes inside the taxi going to the sea not used to all creatures in water.
To save it in order to save that, they always pray that it is just once in the Philippines.
The stairs I am yes.
The lord is just beautiful because when I arrived at the same month Secretary of the police here when he arrived at the end of her Nobel paper notebook, you almost knew that yes, a long time for our OFW department of vinegar.
Enjoyable.
Their performances
The new secretary is very dry, this is a new secretary good that is why it is too many things that they are taking.
So that's how simple Matik family is just a hundred years old when you were showered with soap in there next to the many people who are looking for a lot of life, so many are looking for a lot of people who do not die many years later in control of the southwest monsoon and many will benefit from many who cannot die.
Your house will be ruined by the people here we do not think that they are not thinking there in Marikina that there is a liver, they know that if every year growing water is being placed by a music.
And the signature of the top is above.
Second floor, they don't get out of course.
Or even in Davao, there is a storm in Dubai new to write your house to put me Eduardo there in Pampanga what they did to the question.
Individual or biya, there is a house high, ttt; photos even at the same time to forget all the causes of gas for free.
Is this the person that is?
He will not live on the chin high.
Chinese Chinese
The tongue can no longer pass through the amazing threatened by Jeremy boat to have a food so that what the brain should do that simple, we know that it is the same.
Or?
We also have a lot of grandmother, what are we going back to the storm again.
You're going to call a storm.
The reason yes
Surface of the conversation often yes.
So that surprise ocean is void.
The air.
The heat of the air yes, yes, you know that this attitude was like this.
Even if she went to ask.
That is it.
Tol.
The typhoon from getting angry at Shaw South Pacific will go to the Philippines, that is why we can tell him that there is no lobbying.
So why not try that?
He said it is expensive.
The strength of the country that was affected by the telephone to contribute to Japan revealed, but all the moon can be helped by the operatives.
Of course, but it's clear according to everyone in the world, they believe that we can't do anything.
That is the number one problem that you have a training done to me in the program owned by our country yes, I said they will be training yes, and I will save those with interest Coco salt that is like the thick 'barbed blessed agriculture.
So?
They say why most of course, of course with the bosses I know, isn't you mentioned to me, you should take care of the examples of the Philippines now that the children will take care of it now that the children are okay with two five years old.
They left okay because they are growing or banking yes, and then the vermin capacities do not have a low bag which is missing in the Philippines because of the gathering more than three hundred million pesos.
The government did not say anything.
You're playing in the barangay, they have destroyed what they are doing with oatmeal and then the driver, you know that it's the finished buying of young lion drinking in a gay marriage.
They do not know a sample of the child for five years old to twelve years old.
When they hit twelve years old, they do not know it.
Why in the Philippines, there are more.
What?
It is not better that there are many television shows and you know Adam.
But you don't know you are not known.
When you asked yes.
Let us spend on the people today, you are listening or buy what you spent the ingredients.
In Bagumbayan, he is complete for two so ltt; ttt; ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt; / ttt;
We do not know that we just don't like Madrid, that is not just your money.
Or there are research there that you have no gay food in chicken.
Thirty percent add eggs
You feed the child to his child and then the Wish he has a lot.
I quickly grew up because they are just lacking in the information gers and why there is no cellphone sometimes the number one in the Philippines number one plague.
Ha flooded with the commercial actor actresses in the point.
Tito video, you know.
Isn't it right?
What is all that but ask what his son-in-law does not know.
Yes, he hurriedly went out of the backyard that he was just six after I plant but you have a training schedule that they can say about boarding something that you have been saying that my hard care is in the heart.
I help him because I am blind to the national help here without payment or twenty one years old that I want to give what I know.
If there is a swelling, you have not seen any studies if there is something.
And then I was able to speak more than I will do that free or look at this is aljo 'in what I picked up here, that is why I'm just picking up here.
It is okay to be hungry in the faces or areas or areas.
What we need is a form of formation or the most nutrients.
Natural Food in the whole world not to beat there.
No one to beat.
Thank you very much for the doctor xda later we talked after our graduation ceremony on the radio program, we will continue to someone else in marriage, thank you yes.
