The brain of the bombing in "land promise"
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
In the consecutive "bombing" in Mindanao last week, the children's children prevailed in the imagination of some of our countrymen.
There is a suspicion that one of its allies is Napoles or its allies in the government.
So that the media will keep the issue from ten billion pesos in scandal which is currently being feat by the public.
In money, connection to the government and experience of the former military officer who is the wife of Napoles, what we can say is.
However, it might be too much "extreme" this thing as a solution to their problem!
There is also a suspicion that this may be a type of destabilation not to struggle with PNoy like the chaos during the time of his mother, but also a non-stop quake on his tenure.
For if the bet of the palace is preparing to be preparing for 2016, Mar Roxas will prosper in the triate of Binay, Erap and Enrile!
Hmile, Enrile?
If possible, it seems like you have a mixture of "paranoia" that seems to be the definition of this!
Hehehe.
Just a moment, it is not the "justification" by Angregarding Sam du'n in their earlier warning against terrorism that caused the destruction of many of their embassy in the whole world?
May, but that is if there is a deep step that is being cooked by aydol Barrack Obama and his CIA!
There is also a suspicion that MNLF Chairman Nur Misuari is already having a tantrum because he will finally lose the charisma if he will let the "peace agreement" of the government and the MILF group.
Possible!
But, Nur is able to stomach many innocent civilians to die and get hurt just because of pride or ambition in power?
Can it be done?
Yes, it turns out that the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighter or BIFF is not owned by the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighter or BIFF.
Hmile, the difficulty is to hold the words of Ameril Umbra Kato because the course of This brain is still unlikely to be MORE likely than clearing IT!
Huh!
As of now, almost all of us are all espoused because we do not know anything.
Aside from the commentary on the series of bombings there in the "land promise."
But only one is sure, some demons will benefit from what they did!
Each of them!
Whoever you are, stop it, okay!
PNoy might be touted and thought of declare Martial Law!
D'It's all that we're all on the heels!
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
