We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Without comment, the joy in DAP will continue.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Senator Miriam Santiago said, the case to be faced by those who gave and receive Disbursement Acceleration Program may be technical.
In the technical versation, there is a use of the money or other property of the government on a goal that is different from the public purpose that should be used by virtue of a law or ordinance.
And this crime has a penalty six months and one day to two years only.
Minimum penalty Prison Coreccional
Now who are the signatories in releasing the funds of DAP that pulled out from anywhere and used to others or anywhere?
And who will receive?
IMPEACHABLE, Miriam is emphatically saying that the accusations of PNoy in DAP was impetuous.
That is why PNoy is allowed to undergo the impeachment process in Congress.
The problem is, numbers game or paramedics in the House and Senate should rule and not the nutrients of the case.
Right or wrong, yeally or bosses, no fault.
And he will remain in position.
In this situation, the children's children will remain in the care of the people and the people will suffer the situation.
A big problem is a big problem in filing an impeachment case.
First, who will file a case?
Second, if the discussion is record, Butch Abad does not want to release papers about DAP.
How about the evidences that will be used in the case?
Is the documents and testimony used by the SC in making decisions about DAP?
To who will file a case, the senators are not reliable because they are 20 of them to receive huge amount of DAP.
It is estimated that more than 30 million pesos to 50 pesos was accepted by them.
In the 290 congressmen, about 13 to 15 are not accepted by DAP that is about P10-15 each.
Daughter of tokwa, we have nothing to hear from Justice Sec.
Leila de Lima but the disclosure of the three senators who have been charged with the Priority Development Assistance Fund scam.
The three eggs will also be charged with DAP.
The three are pitiful.
Tsk!
Tsk!
Tsk!
Just resign, the face should also rule the government that is not passing through but Tuwid na Daan.
He added to the impeachment.
Even if it is clear that the votes in the Supreme Court against DAP was clear, there is no government official who is connected to the DAP that was resigned from his position.
Until now, they are insisting on what they are doing in DAP and it will be tested that they will be tested in filing a motion for consideration.
"Malacanang" is that.
What do we know that the SC reverse its own decision?
Because of the history of the SC is the reverse of several times on the cases that will decide.
Just like what happened to the case that many municipal officials want to be a city in different places in the Philippines.
What do we know that in the two-year tournament of the minds of DAP, they will be replaced with all the judges in the SC and will be in favor of them the decision in the end?
He, he, he!
DAP, the people of Malacanang and their allies are brave enough to fight their enemies in the SC because the SC himself released a decision that the DAP was not constitutional.
Because it is not constitutional, they will still be forced to continue the use of DAP.
What they will just avoid is what is against the Constitution which is done in DAP.
Part of this is the drumming of money from the agencies and use it in other goals.
They will also avoid making laws about taking and spending money in the country without the blessing of the Congress.
They should not allocate funds to pulled out from anywhere to answer the project under the programmed fund.
They need to make sure that there are too much taxes to explore before they will be able to use the programme.
You see, Bro?
The happiness that the people of Malacanang and the KKKK in Congress are thinking that they can use the money that can be used under DAP.
However, they will just be careful now that they might include enemies.
Their opponents are very good because they do not want to release documents.
And it is certain that they can showcase this even in the coming State of the Nation Address.
The drama: If there is no DAP, we should still be in Asia.
Now we are being considered by other countries that are not agriculture but also the newly implemented.
And because of this name, the achievements of my beloved Philippines is far.
Those who are hungry are starting to lessen, suffer and whatever fruit of DAP.
Where is the fruit of DAP?
Ngek! OOor any complaints or comments can be shared on the www.com.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
While
While
