Boobsie: Life is colorful!
"If my husband was womanizing, I was able to retaliate, I was womanizing!" - Boobsie Wonderland By Jojo Cabinet June 23, 2016 Pinili, to review Boobsie Wonderland because of our feeling that his life is colorful.
True enough, there are a lot of experiences that the life Story of Boobsie who was 14 years old when he went and worked in Japan as a cultural dancer because his family had his own life.
Without the knowledge of many, Boobsie aka Mary Jane Arrabis of Feeling Sexy of Eat Bulaga in 2001.
She wins Miss talent and third inner up.
"Big Brother Jose (Manalo) and Allan K. who contestant me before Eat Bulaga.
I haven't been comedienne, Japayi even before I was in Japan.
I'm a big player and a great dance.
"IT's a shame, I couldn't find" my photos in the contest, "the regret that Boobsie has been banned for a year banned from Eat Bulaga for joining the contest of CBS.
"I have a contract that one year in Eat Bulaga but it was cut off because there was a contest on ABS-CBN, we joined it," he said.
"I won in I Wanna Be, contest of Aiai delas Alas, I joined the woman Po Ako, contest of Tuesday Vargas, then gag show.
"I've always received the Eat Bulaga, I'm going to ban the Eat Bulaga," says Boobsie.
Boobsie married in March 2016 but pleaded not to discuss "partner" with a big contribution to This change.
Boobsie experienced luxuriously life but all of his hard work in Japan disappeared because he was addicted to gambling.
Boobsie has been buried in debt because of the puses and not in going to the casino.
He is thankful to God and in showbiz because he was able to pay all the debts since his television guesting and show are paid.
The naughtiness of Boobsie came out when she shared a story about his lovelfe and the Japanese she had a relationship with before.
"Numerous!
I am wise... it is good to talk to the Japanese because it is not an issue with them.
In Response, when they have sex with you, it is still painful for them to get carried away, wasabi! "The serious story of Boobsie that was followed by a crispy halakhak.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
; Seriously speaking, Boobsie experienced a boy and lasted the thirds of their union but they were not given to their child.
"Because my husband thought, it was already relevant, groin.
Hahaha!
"There are many instances (who almost be pregnant) but was not completed.
"We are married, we are separated because she is a womanizer, with vices.
We still see each other now.
IT hurts him (that I'm an artist).
They seem to be crazy, I am courting me again.
"I said, we have been separated for a long time.
Our relationship with our partner is too deep "
Why are you still thinking like that?
"I was the one who left her.
The news, womanizing, I went home to Dubai, I confirmed that he was a woman so I retaliated, he was womanizing, "joking but the fact that Boobsie was talking about.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
