Do you know 'te terrible' there, it's as if I am in the inside of what is ttt; ttt; hot spot
Ha!
There is inflation, yes, it's ten years yes, then 'andoon Martin said.
Which is ops a lot of gossipers.
Hello
There are really a lot of gossipers.
Ha!
Even if you just go to work, just look at work, then it seems that there are eyes that are looking at the video like I don't know what at night like a dog lurking.
Ha ha yes.
And then it was still a text that I could lead as a sale.
There in our neighbor, he said, "it may lead a ltt; htt; I said," Oh, you look at it, "I said," you look at you, you can look at you, that is your dog in us.
There, it is too much yes.
In yes, you are not there but there are still a lot of people who say, that's why there's a lot of food that is just cheap, or then there is a lot of people who live now, ah yes, there is a little Linda yes, right now, there is no matter what is really delicious, right?
I was trying to confirm that you might be looking at the mirror, crying and crying.
Ha!
Yes, but it's because they are cheap and cheap because I do not want to tell the neighbors.
I don't know what a lot of people, I don't know, I don't know what my husband was, because of course I was called to have been at the ltttt; 'i didn't know I was going to have a cellphone soup.
Sauce with a experience that is, Oh, he found out ltt; ttt; httt; htt; ttt; ttt; ttt; htt; htt; htt; httt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; httt; htt; htt; htt; htt; tt; htt; ttt; ttt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; htt; httt;
Yes, htt; htt; htt; Muslim, Haate's pride
Yes, we were at the sultry's pride, as if he said if he wanted to kill a person who killed my husband, I said that you might be the first one to tell him that I might be first.
One thing I do in the race is that you are dead.
Yes, I said, 'that is still there for me, a needle.
You will be able to make sure that you will be brave enough; ttt; ttt;
What is yes.
And then.
Ate Fltt; htttt; tttt;
Ha: 'There's no' yes'.
They are mad, because I say that they are the one who said that I am the one who told me that I don't understand I really cannot understand.
