There is a big part of the production of the coconut meat that comes from the future although the coconut industry is still living in the whole province two years ago, the coconut industry has been caught in the exhibition of the Quezon City in their annual demolition.
In the province of Quezon, not the eyes of those traveling to be full but also the stomach.
Intense offensive was noticed and Lucban.
You are wet and the will of Quezon because of the wide plantation.
Their primary product even before, no one else but the coconuts.
In fact, it is a big part of the production of the coconuts in the show there coming from Quezon but it has been put in uncertainty for the most important parts of the province.
Two years have passed by rats Kulisap, a coconut tree in Quezon.
One of the most affected is the town of refugees.
More than a hundred and thirty trees of coconuts five nipples, I mean, because since you will be affected by listening because yes, they are not able to go to school.
The set
Hit the nutrition of the news on the leaves and fruit only to wood.
It is estimated that more than half a million tree of coconuts were hit by the cocolis there in the process after the twenty-twelve Coconut education was able to recover because of us near a program we had a confirmation of the track of the cellphone of a dog semi to implement the rats because of the strong rain and wind and because of typhoon Glenda may I really help us.
Here in the annual many times, while the amount of Coconut industry is celebrated in Quezon City.
Started a simple Trade Fair in our discussion, bigger and engrande.
Across the municipal hall, the colorful and colorful.
All the things made from the coconut meat.
The wire that will prevail in your paraded blue.
The unique products of thirty-nine towns have also accepted the two of each other like the banog I sugar.
Is not just an epic people benefit from economic transfer 'control' from a banana life.
It is also ancient this year when the local government is going to be able to meet this like the celebration of Panagbenga in Baguio and burned in the caucous superstar.
There is a poem that states we are no longer in Davao and Mindanao on February twenty-nineteen.
To claim the top spot
For a long time, the tree of coconut tree contributed to the residents of Quezon that is why the celebration of many times in the church serves thanks and reminding the blessing brought by the tree of life.
Umali is able to finish it and this.
