60 of the significance in Zamboanga City, the forces of the military launched a agreed bird space but they are careful with the remaining hostages as human rights earlier, some of them, who then decided to surrender to the government live from Zamboanga City with author jun ba.
That is why.
Jessica slowly went down from the city of Zamboanga tomorrow, he will go back to pursue the classes in schools outside of the seven-kilometer distance from the family but despite the still unknown problems in searching for the remaining rebel fighters.
There is no sidelines of the 60 years of military who are believed to be in the likes of the forces of what they are carrying.
They believe they are thinking of the night to be robbed near Barangay mariki and barangay wardens are the same place that they were saved to be saved.
That's why they evacuated the residents of eggplants going to school.
A new fire broke out in the barangay.
The firefighters responded.
But they stepped back because of the shots that allegedly started with the drivers.
It was also not helped by the water that the police noticed.
The eight leaders of the position of Cory, who defeated the peace policy, surrendered earlier.
Together with their five teenagers, they said that the group said goodbye to the position but instead of fighting, they just decided to surrender.
That's what you are there.
Outside.
You are hardworking.
Do not be rash.
To look at what happened to us.
Like that.
Having a hard time.
Very intense.
Saying:
He even recounted that Malik was still alive and remains in the places of Barangay Holy catalina and Barangay Holy bar together with his left companions.
Meanwhile, four hostages were released to Zamboanga Peninsula that will be heard anymore when Malik lost a group of Malik.
According to their days of twenty twenty five positioning.
Eyes there was a hospital was released early this Morning, I was bitter here, he said only five.
Each of the two hostages were recovered by the light reaction since thinking.
And forty-nine-year-old lucita west with right words and relatives, James.
Included in the hospital is a member of the libeland the story will not end.
In almost three weeks of fighting the eight policemen and soldiers were killed.
Just a while ago, a officer recorded Justin back, Teresita sparked the report of the deceased.
The story of their companion in the country, the soldiers in Zamboanga voluntarily continued.
Batangas that she had told me that he had a hole.
He will be forced to make an explanation for the skin because he does not have a hit on the head with a group of stone-chin.
It is also a movie that is still the text of your profile battle.
For that.
Small caliber
Weapon
But it is in direction.
Caliber website five thirty-thirty.
This is also certain to be hit.
I penetrate.
The wounded soldiers are allegedly recovering and reduced to combat.
They visited them speaking of staff General Emmanuel Bautista defense secretary Mar Roxas.
A huge damage in the firefight in Zamboanga City in Barangay mariki true is the many houses in robbery.
No one was left in the hundreds of houses of storage and factories in which he will cover up.
It seems that the picture of the war is a disrespect of the war.
The walls of the house together with electric posts were flawed.
It was revealed that brother-in-law libolian politicians are crammed in Zamboanga sports Complex.
Oust the Badjaos these siblings.
But it seems that there is no difficulty in the situation of the mother who gave birth to a baby in the middle of corruption.
That is why it's a good thing here.
There was a lot to submit more than that.
Source:
It is really difficult?
The position of the Philippines Jessica has an accomplice in thirty are the remaining ones that they know is against their hunting.
They hold the less than ten happy Jessica.
It's okay Jon, I never heard that because I remember that someday, father, father, father, father, was even left behind because she was even left there with a news about him.
Jessica capture the news there, tt; ttt;
It might be included in those thrown out by Pareng Obama's father but of course, ltt; we still need to be in the towns from the authorities.
We can bring back to you the details that we have got there in our apology and we will not let it be in trouble in Zamboanga because it is okay Acuzar three office there almost two consecutive days.
Meneses and today's drama.
The surname of the deceased today's aljon
He is the Lieutenant governor of Jessica three consecutive officials who died in the fight that he explained to my heart Philippines that they should have fun, they should really have fun, they should have been able to go back to their troop which is why they really don't know that there are those who have different performances that are why when they enter a room or in a door, they really do not know that there are those who have some extraordinary officials, especially when they enter a room or in a door, they really don't know that there are those who have their own helmet, they should really be sure that they really have the power to go there for the protective gear.
It turns out that he really has a dog treatment for Jessica, not all that he is saying is that there will be no payment center and close FRIENDS that's why they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center here if I noticed that there was no payment center here if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center here if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center here if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center here if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was really no payment center, and even if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if they noticed that there was no payment center here if there was no payment center, and even if I noticed that there was no payment center here if there was a
It is also early that you can still think if my mind is risky; I think Jessica will surely hit the sidelines of heavy artillery, the explanation of the Office of the Philippines that they have a monitor on the sidelines of heavy artillery, and look if it is right that the troops are being hit on the sidelines of heavy artillery, and look if it is right that the troops are being hit on the sidelines of heavy artillery, they will look better if they are hit in earthquake there, so thank you very much.
