Bela Padilla, Camp winner, the heart By Jun Lalin August 11, 2016, has long been gone through the cast of Ang Promise of Bela Padilla, but about the action-packed series of ABS-CBN, starring Coco Martin was asked by other people during her interview at the press conference of the movie Camp Crame.
Feeling from others, the disappearance of Bela in the said series has another reason.
It's because you have a chatter then that one of his co-colleagues are insecure to him.
"Actually, I'm so thankful that I became a part of Ang Probabwe.
"The role I played there, but I even reached 29 weeks with the original, 8 weeks that I should be there," Bela explained.
He should not discuss about his loss to Ang Probabwe because it has been a long time ago and he is busy now in the screening of Camp Crame.
Even about the feelings of Camp Crame, it can't be said that Bela is heartbroken when it comes to lovelfe.
Going stronger is their relationship with businessman / producer Neil Arce.
Camp winner, ikanga!
Neil was one of the Producers of Camp Crame and is very supportive in the career of girlfriend.
What's good for Neil, even if she is also part of the showbiz world, he has a lot to Stage boyfriend Bela.
In the presenter of Camp Crame, the young man is not a part of the girlfriend.
Irene Villamor is the director of Camp Crame.
Direk Irene was not new in the movie industry because she has been an assistant director of Miss.
Joyce Bernal.
Co-director Antoinette Jadaone in the flop movie that relaks, IT's Just MORE.
If the relaks are not too felt, it's Just MORE, there's a very popular Camp Crame.
Aside from Bela, she stars Arci Muñoz, Andi Eigenmann, Yassi Pressman and Sam Milby.
We have known Direk Irene, who is also the assistant director of Miss.
Joyce, Richard Gutierrez-KC Concepcion movie For The First time of Star Cinema, took a lot of scenes in Santorini, Greece in 2008.
Direk Irene is happy with Direk Irene.
When we joined him when we got a Schengen visa to the Greek Embassy.
That time, Direk Irene wore a white long sleeve blouse and black pants with Direk Irene.
His former companion seemed to look like other climbers in buses that suddenly changed, which is why he will be treated with teasing that he is riding on.
He just laughed and laughed at the joke that after we applied for a visa, he was directly given to EDSA and will climb up to buses to preach.
When we saw each other at the press conference of Camp Crame, we embraced by Director Irene in the big Break given to him by Viva Films.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
