If you want, have a way SI PNoy in term extension.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
The voting was just finished in Yahoo Philippines about running or not by President Benigno Aquino III in an election for his second term.
Olats or losses by PNoy, Bro.
Majority voters do not want the President to remain in position with ex-Senator Ninoy Aquino and ex-President Cory.
Here is the result of the recent election.
A total of 47,058 people want PNoy to step down as President while 34,674 is in favor of his stay in position or power.
The question of Yahoo Philippines: Sharing Aquino be allowed to run for a Second term?
For favor, this is the line of words: Yes!
He needs more time as a President.
For contrast, here is the line: No.
He should step down in 2016.
It is PNoy.
A vote of 12,348 is the only thing that PNoy does not want PNoy as the boss of my beloved Philippines.
In other use, Bro, 58% are irritated with PNoy while 48 percent are lucky in him.
More than SWS, Pulse Asia Mas big is the number of those who voted here compared to those answering to the sery which is being held by Pulse Asia and Social Weather Station with 1,200 "respondents" only.
Whatever it means, Bro, you will take care of you.
But the election in Yahoo Philippines is open to the public, while it's just a garbage that will be made out by SWS and Pulse Asia.
Does it mean that the election in Yahoo Philippines is more believable than the "election" in SWS and Pulse Asia?
All of you are the answers or own beliefs and we do not scope it.
But what is clear, no one is talking about any mistake here.
As long as the election ended, it seems like a month.
With oneself, the camp of PNoy is being sent to debt.
Overall, Filipinos want to stay in the asydersson of Ninoy and Cory.
And this is what caused the news of the news on PNoy's second term.
What will be the voice of his boss, maybe he will follow it.
He said, hopefully PNoy will not replace Benigno Simeon Aquino III in his position to start 2016 until 2022 and more.
Because PNoy's party does not bet in 2016 because the masses is given a chance, the masses would not bite him.
If it will be bitten, "he will be bitten by truth in the election so that he will not enter Malacanang.
REMATE survey Access survey has been made by our newspaper Remate regarding staying or not by PNoy in Malacanang.
Our question in the past week is: Is it right to change the 1987 Constitution so that President Aquino will remain in position?
If you were able to find a lot of text, Bro, you will be surprised with the reaction.
Many are in favor of PNoy.
But more are against PNoy... this is aside from anger towards the Constitution so PNoy can do what he wants to stay in Malacanang.
In our conversation with the results, including what we cannot release because of the limitation on the time and space, around 75 percent are against PNoy while only 25% are in favor of him.
If you want, there is a way to travel by PNoy in the countries in Europe in these days, what is he about the issue of term extension.
Daughter of tokwa, he replied: "If you want, there is a way."
And until now, he continues to consolidate his boss's voice.
Who really is his boss, Bro?
Many are doubting who is her boss.
But many are saying something.
His boss is his personnel who are ready to give him everything that will be able to pass towards his likes of ignorance.
RETOKE SA Constitution is the most effective in the 1987 Constitution for the term extension.
It's because the 1987 Constitution is saying that it is a way for this toke.
One of the Constituent Assembly or the form of congressmen and senators as a duty to change the Constitution.
It is possible that they will take it together with resentment or separate, depending on what they want because they want to ignore the meddling of the Supreme Court here.
If this happened, it might not only be an extension of the change.
They Are trying to make a documentary on the government's system and disarm the presidential system.
"When this happened, Bro, there was no election in 2016.
And PNoy will become a prime minister who is most powerful in the Philippines.
Because of the excessive bribery of the lawmakers, the Prime Minister of PNoy will also be a lifetime and the term of his KKK or asungot will also be a lifetime.
Hehehe.
Martial law could also be included in the number of causes in my beloved Philippines from the kidnappers for ransom from the Abu Sayyaf and the New People's Army, the bombings will be repeated and blamed for all those "caused by martial law.
This is easier for the term extension because the end of the gun of the military and the police will be used for staying in the power of all those who are thirsty for power.
It brought her too much!
Hopefully, nothing will happen like this.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Apology / Benny ANTION
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
While
While
