In the midst of the fight, the problem of the residents of Zamboanga now is in the midst of the lack of water and services as well as the sources of money and livelihood, including the sources of money and livelihood to some soldiers who are suffering from the old and damaged things but they are regularly fighting for them from Zamboanga City there is a water source aside from rina.
Once again the curfew and copttt; it is the usual life of Zamboanga's life, it's just a packing of peace and it has been very affected that the daily lives of the tags as well as the batting service that is due to be affected.
The chaos and danger born is a healthy baby in the gym.
University but
Ongoing.
We will be forced to closed the Zamboanga City medical center because of trouble.
The child who was identified to be transferred to his mother in a private hospital is safe because of the lack of things.
The supply of clean water is also a medical problem for those who get money in the eighty-line line that is because the bank is closed so that the government's office is closed.
Even the livelihood of the residents look affected according to the store tomorrow morning.
Although there is some who tried to sell the market, no one buys.
Our sales of father is really cheap.
Because there is already there.
That is why we are cheap.
Super what all their sales are doing, you will not die hard to die from hunger because there is no one to eat it because it is said to be in the morning.
Open phone status no trouble
My decrease in the afternoon.
There was tension.
We have a livelihood.
Working.
Because they are not sudden in chaos.
In a guitar tunnel, including the former muhon.
Each has their own strategy to protect himself.
This man was used because there is still a pan while hanging.
There are those who do not punish in prayer the situation we are afraid of.
Because of this.
.
In the gun
I will not be evacuated but I can hear that the gunfire coming from you are already used to us.
Is that so?
Yes, how can we be punished?
Hide.
Safety.
Again the soldiers who made the pain again but despite the difficulty and danger, no one has denied the treatment of them.
They were able to cut off things using me in a bat.
There is also a hole hole to be like.
According to the last year if there is a number of bots if there are soldiers who want to cross with the old because they consider it as a good luck.
Based on the culture, the thigh is based on the culture, even me or what is always the hull of savings.
Yes, we have a superstition.
We organization.
Do not.
We saw combat boots in the old, that is why the state or there is a state of adopted in the beat of ctica.
Jessica tomorrow is a new day and everyone is hoping to resolve the conflict in a peaceful way and when the situation of the life of these tags is in a peaceful way, but instead of instance, I was still hospitalized in the middle of the place where I was hospitalized in the middle of the demolition.
It is said that Jessica was just totally abandoned by the hospital now because he is in the middle of Barangay Holy catalina and what is in favor for me because it is said that the patient needs to be transferred to a private hospital but there is a need to be transferred to a private hospital but there is still no hospital that can be shared by the patients and those who were injured here in the crisis.
He has yet to be famous for those who are not far from us if this is the hospital of every breath, they have a hospital like other patients there in the said hospital where others were brought to the anniversary of a heart of the hospital today.
With the patient who have been rushing because of these fights, Jessica is okay with the fight because it is closed almost in the entire city, how many depicts the income of others, especially those who depicting their salaries and how they locked myself in this crisis.
'Jessica chain reaction is lttt; 'i'm not able to control the sellers that they do not have income, they do not have money to buy food, they also do not have money to buy food.
Maybe it is very rare for the neighbors that we have talked to who is borrowing money first for some of their acquaintances.
It's only four days there that they are like this especially the suffering of people imagine how much harder April becomes.
Everyday, it will be added to the people that this might cause, especially that Jessica Zamboanga was able to endure because of it.
Big ha
Percentage of the sery that solve Mercado coming from Zamboanga is very effective this airport is closed, that's why we can take the impact of these conflicts in the economy of Zamboanga because he was able to endure the impact of these conflicts in the economy of Zamboanga because it was his cousin who was hanging on his head, the cover of the pan.
Thank you very much to you.
