Bible CHRISTIANS: Reflection on 3rd Sunday in copary time Year A - January 22, 2017 - Year OF THE Parish
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
On Sunday, we will celebrate Sunday's Biblia or Bible week.
This should start on January 23 and ends on January 29.
But for the reason that we will turn out on January 29, the feast of San Juan Bosco in our parish, I ought to advance now our celebration of Bible Sunday.
Why will Biblia is important to our Christians?
What is the meaning of Biblia?
There is one grandmother that reads Biblia and while he is reading her grandchild.
The child was amazed at her.
She came closer and asked: "Grandmother, I know what it means to Biblia!"
The old man was very happy and asked: "What, that's my grandchild?"
The child replied: "The meaning of the Bible is about five letters: Basic Information Before Leaving Earth!
When will you leave this world? "
What will Biblia?
What is the right reading and understand this?
Where should this be used?
In the past few days, a lawmaker used the Biblia as proof that God is allowed to death penalty because his Son, Jesus, was sentenced to death penalty.
Is this kind of thinking?
The truth is, even in the logic (logic), I cannot see the place to stay at this kind of reasoning!
In Response to boxing, This is a big margin of punches, instead of an opponent, the referee was hit!
What should be considered in the reading of Biblia?
"There is a" Bible Christian "who loves to use the Bible to know what the Lord wants to her especially in solving his probe.
Sometimes her business was bankrupted and like his habit, he will consult the Biblia.
He took it and closed the page.
He was shocked when he was greeted by Matthew 27: 5 saying: "Don't go out and hanged himself!"
He was scared and asked the Lord: "Lord, this is what you want to do?
And he tried to look again.
While his eyes were closed, he opened the Bible and his index was able to catch Lukas 10: 37 saying: "Have you got to do so," he almost passed out of fear when he opened the holy book.
What greeted his conversation: Juan 13: 27, "whatever you need to do, do it immediately!"
And you know that probably the next... he committed suicide!
The Bible is not like a "book of prediction" which is telling Our fate.
This is also not like the "Best Seller" book at the National Books store.
This is not only contains history or standards in good life.
The Bible is the word of God!
This is the book where God expressed his love and loyalty to the people in giving us safety.
In the Edinburgh we saw how Jesus was able to study the entire signings!
The Bibiliya is what was intended by Jesus to us in the current season.
Do I have an hour on reading the Bible?
Maybe there is a "summer price" in the Bible I was able to buy or the amount of dust because I do not find her in its place!
If I persevere to waste a lot of time reading the Wattad, why is it that a page of Bibiliya is not long term read?
They said: If you want a way... if you do not want, there is a reason!
Let us make a habit every day reading the Bible!
Let us remember that in prayer, we talk to God.
In reading the Bible...
He is talking to us.
When did you let him talk to him?
But it is not just enough to read Bibiliya.
It is more important to reading is the word of God's words and gender.
There are christians who are fabricated because they can just mention from memory of their capitalists and berries.
The question... are they living with them?
Even if it is your head from the first page until the end but you did not injure and expression of gender, it is just for you to "wang" who is making noise that there is no good thing to do with the safety of your soul!
Read, blocking and gender!
This is the way to be called the real "Bible Christians."
There are three ways to make God's words in our daily lives.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
