The military went through intense training following the declaration of all out war against the New people s army.
But they will be catapulted as founding chairman Joma Sison.
The Tito who should continue.
We get some news from jett arcellana.
He said:
Not only a simple training is done by the story of Quezon in Compostela Valley.
It is true that they are showered with bullets part of their preparation in the fight especially since there is an all-out war that they will be calm.
Our troops.
How to react on this scenario is on the set-up.
And then preferred in training that even the soldiers in Mindanao are ready to complete their things from the bureaucracy and the new heroes who Are reluctant to replace the sixteen-twenty-five that has been paid for.
Why?
Everton is stronger than a boss, a bit better.
The receipt to fight the anti-RH yesterday they attacked the two hundreds of members in Talakag Bukidnon that they burned the vehicles and construction, there was a difference between two hundred members of the empe of other vehicles and using construction companies.
They also killed the resident Warner atoy and held captive Teodoro Natividad.
According to someone who introduced himself as a friend of the empe bird Mindanao
An bandits was allegedly sentenced to death in fear of the civilians in the war happening now.
The civilians are getting involved, especially those who are afraid to lose their food as the order of the military by armed rebels, they will make sure that the three members of the twenty eight who were suspected to have been paid by two trucks at the mine in town Benguet, including the three alleged members of the twenty eight who were suspected to have been paid by two trucks at the mine in town Benguet, including the three alleged members of the twenty eight who were suspected to have been paid by two trucks at the mine in town Benguet, including the three alleged members of the twenty eight who were suspected to have been paid by two trucks at the mine in town Benguet, including the three alleged members of the twenty eight who were suspected to have been paid by two trucks at the mine in town Benguet, including the three alleged members of the twenty eight who were suspected to have been paid by two trucks at the mine in town Benguet, including the three alleged members of the twenty eight who were suspected to have been paid by two trucks at the mine in town Benguet, including the three alleged members of the twenty eight who were suspected to have been paid by two trucks at the mine in town Benguet, including the three alleged members of the twenty eight who were suspected to have been paid by two trucks at the mine in town Benguet, including the three alleged members of the twenty eight who were suspected to have been paid by two trucks at the mine in town Benguet, including the three alleged members of the twenty eight who were suspected to have been paid by two trucks at the mine in town Benguet, including the three alleged members of the twenty eight who were suspected to have been paid by two trucks at the mine in town Benguet, including the three alleged members of the twenty eight who were suspected to have been paid by two trucks at the mine in town Benguet, including the three alleged members of the twenty eight who were suspected to have been paid by two trucks at the mining town of
It is said that they will not be referred to founding chairman Joma Sison that the peace Talk should be continued.
In his statement, he said the third round of the informal was successful.
And IT is set to be a fourth conversation.
Sison's suggestion to the President to sing the negotiating position of peace advocate and other groups.
Sector chair already released.
