A pink caregiver in Israel was the only celebrity after studying in a prestigious singing contest.
Aside from singing, she also started acting on each other.
Emergency room
Wow!
We are still having conversations today in the morning, the twenty-forty Factor is a bit not champion with Oagree with Bernie but it is a Good Morning too, it is a traitor in the morning of what he is busy with now.
Ah, now that I just want to send just a Month Ago.
Ha, we have a show that I was forced to have a concern in August twenty-four.
In my cigarette in Tomas Morato in the week, for our countrymen to say Rose why you went to life.
Fltt; ttt; I worked with a thousand six of the attacker 'ata caregiver and after a few years before you joined the ex Factor maybe six years old.
Six-six years old I have been there for six years; I am worried that even the program gave you courage to pull Ogie to ex-Wife Factor what is just an accident.
I put it down before I joined the competition they were not able to go to school but there is still no one to kiss but it is still a small motorist that I am ltt; htt; tt;
I need to know first outside the war or like yes because I changed my profession and October because I know I will not be noticed, ltt;
Cavite, I also do not know that no matter how I can avoid being in my work if lord really wants to give you all your blood to sing.
And join you in mind.
Ex Factor yes is that exactly and I heard that it is easy to have something in singing if not even in acting because I will be together with the Israelites as an actress or finished what they want to release.
Number or really push the successful Rose.
Wait, what kind of dish that you are going to hold on.
Along came from a business my life.
Or really a smile from your portion if we review the regular diet while it is really busy, what is it going to go to you.
One can be allowed in the stages of the vote that is really hard for a week that will be taken away from the next week that will be taken away until the survival or if you make your strong strong.
But God laughed, we are not wrong with those who do not have eliminate every week.
We are really in a table, what your family said here when Spain wins.
At first, they were surprised.
Everyone saw the news.
I was a bit nervous because of course I know that I won't win because I might go with me because I have no appetite.
But it is also possible.
