We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Calamity and fear in Baggies
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
By Macky Macaspac April 30, 2013
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
It is hard to go to Baganga, Davao Oriental.
Not only because the trip towards Davao City is long and complicated, but because this became the center of calamity, of the devastation of typhoon Pablo, last December 2012.
And he has not recovered until now.
Although it is a natural calamity to hit the place, it has been a long time since the calamity has been run over by a calamity that has done: Negligence of the government, a lack of social, severe presence of the military.
After being visited by typhoon Pablo, the calamity happened, many people have made it: There are allegations that they have taken from those affected.
Including the temporary residence of the victims, it was reported that the fashions were paid.
Meanwhile, the local government is almost not working, the military has already ruled.
This is what a fact-finding is the humanitarian mission that went to the place recently.
Riding three buses from Davao City, taken by the people who were up to 76 people, including nuns, doctors, nurses, psychologist, forester and others who want to help the long, complicated trip to Baganga.
Included here are the public servants, including Pinoy Weekly.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Going to Baganga at first, the bus runs fast.
The haystack is cemented and is still paved.
The scenery is beautiful and pleasing.
But while getting away from Davao City and approaching the towns destructed by the typhoon, the scenery is changing.
Although the path from the spread of the storm is clean, it is still visible in the roads of this town.
Both sides of the haystack sparkles.
From the sparkle on the roof of the houses that was taken by a strong wind in the height of the storm.
There is a new exchange for the roofs.
There was a huge collision in some assigned the new house.
Even the crops such as banana, are starting to fruits, some of them are packing up, green-green with some wide rice fields.
The victims who have given the hand in asking for help is also gone.
But afterwards, we learned: They were still there, in their respective communities, struggling.
Even far away, the glitter of the galvanized iron of the iron sheets is slowly broken.
She was replaced with color-white cloth.
Tolda is being distributed by organizations and the roof of the residents.
Many also use old tarpaulins as roof and walls.
The tent cities in some towns where the group passed.
Also, many of the trees fell down, especially the trees.
They were still sprawled on the side of the wake and the mountains.
The report made by the three buses made a lot.
Exchange of mud and dust, the road is not cemented.
The flow of buses are also slow because of the slow road.
This is part of Compostela Valley to adjacent the town of Cateel towards Baganga.
Here, the group passed through a depiction of the military.
The group was not executed, it looks like the soldiers were surprised by the passing of three buses.
Because others are taking a bath in the face of the road and others are seated and just standing on the right.
"This is where," the house was burned, "said one contestant who is a member of the human rights group.
Others asked: "Will we stop?"
"No, we're just footage of the house that was burned."
The bus was minor.
The people inside the bus pointed at their camera, and went viral.
"Going to be held, let us leave," said the people of the military, even if it is dusty.
The soldiers were not able to do anything, they were just watching over the buses.
But one, quickly ran towards their camp as a school.
It is likely to be reported to those "higher."
The three buses continue to take the fins on the road.
Drivers make sure that the gap between buses will not be apart.
Because aside from the road, it is also the side of the ravine.
But more than two hours have passed, the course of the bus has improved, the flow of bus has improved, and the path is cemented, but the way the buses suddenly stopped.
This sexuality of the 67th Infantry Batallion of the Philippine Army.
The group is already in the town of Cateel Dispatching of Barangay.
They will need to adjust.
"The boys," ordered by a military that was strapped to the shoulders of the armalt and banded with bullets.
The men went down together with the nuns and leaders of the stronghold in Mindanao.
The negotiation started, while a soldier climbed up the bus.
He looked at her, it was not known if he was looking for something.
He will need to rest on the chairs and the left people inside the bus.
All of them are soldiers, wearing full battle uniform but there were no plate.
The nuns and other negotiators said the motive of the group, going to Baganga and will give relief goods and medical services as well as the group's condition of the victims of the typhoon.
The negotiation lasted.
The soldier's leader said: "Pasurgency is just jobs."
He added that the group will wait for their appointed officer and there is a request to pass the boy.
It is time to allow the group to pass through.
But before this, a motorcycle quickly ran away from depicting.
And almost 25 meters from the sexpoint, in the first hit way, a soldier who was riding a motorcycle was blocked by a logging truck.
The military ordered the truck driver to take his vehicle in the road.
After that, the driver quickly ran to the military, taking the key of the truck.
Aside from the spread of logs in front of the truck and the small space between the truck and the police it did not speak.
The contestants were forced out of the mission to carry the gs and remove the logs for the buses to pass through.
The nuns led in carrying; everything was help.
Lumarga
But not yet on the trip, the labies of the rocks were greeted by the road.
It is impossible to rolled out from the mountain and plunged on the road.
Obviously someone put it.
The suspicion of many is not far that he was placed by a riding-riding military who was first in a boy.
The military has not yet been used, several of them put a hamble rock, wood on the road and, the last, hindland, grants and mud placed in the middle of the road.
There was a strong suspicion of many of the mission that was used by the backhoe truck: The engine of a backhoe parked near the pile.
Using the hand, feet and patpat, the Audience tried to remove the pile and be given space even if the buses are small.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
