We will go forward to the interview that we are going to live here in the interview with the Philippines maybe it is a spokesperson that we discussed this morning about the Philippines maybe it is said that this is a good morning to you carina and our batters that the court relies on this morning with you carina and our batters, the court perseverance and hope millions of people are gathered here in the subdivision.
That is where our graduation is visited and you have to express an important thing that we should know our countrymen particularly the state of our countrymen.
Philippines, maybe now, it is not timely that you will be able to be able to put another houses Our Philippines maybe yes, ltt; I will start with the Philippines, we are going to watch the modernization and up to that anniversary.
The observation of the baby is the problem of edit is a branch of the armed forces of the Philippines which is pretending to be a way to make a way.
He started twenty-eight.
There are twenty eighteen nineteen-ighty two almost together with Independence.
No.
The description of the Philippines is that we can do the Philippines with a small ship owned by leaving the Spanish maybe during the revolution argument.
And this was posted to the post about this.
Manila bay
It was the first launch of the blog.
The name of the ship is Magdalo.
That is where the birth of your Philippines is started.
There are twenty-nineteen-ighty two this June one to cecelaborate us by one hundred eighteen anniversary, so we were cheated by our mandate which we look at.
They say the deer of constitution.
That is not very protectors of the people and the state of four seven security briefing.
Integrity worst state is your Eclipse.
But with the taping of the rope we can say that it is ltt; ttt; enough.
The ability of his own military services.
Especially with the welfare of the whole country and the waters surrounding us in now, lttt; we are going to the modernization that is why our beloved president, Filipinos, blogttt;
The modernization of the modernization law is ash ha.
Let us combine the grant and then the people.
Modernization that came to the Philippines now is the way given by the yuan and then of Austria last two thousand ten came, our first impact here are the multi-purpose and all.
Alone, he said that he has been flying in a flying 'lttt; ttt; going to the room in this is what we have shown now that it was only passed by or the one who arrived there.
Play the video abuse question one nine from Italy
So that came or in the first three finished last year.
Two are two that have a capability in the rockets and then in the weapon system.
He does not want to be charged.
Intelligence security and wearing a record in an operation for me to come back to the impact here are the small things we use during the Amphibious operations in the secondary reason yes' because of private six, there will still increase in a newspaper humanitarian assistance and then we have two del Pilar crush 'we have to endure in the afterlife.
Ltt; htt; ttt; Ramon Alcaraz birthday glaze
Ah, the first fifteen.
The third of this will come today.
End of this year, this is what we remember last year when Obama went.
My FRIENDS of the years is that they will donate to two ships, this is the third week we have the weather and endurance that will arrive today, wow.
Fltt; ttt; tt;
It is okay and the research vessels were responded to was responded to earch bestfriend.
This was decide last Month and going to the moon of the shirt.
In the Philippines
Yes, this will be used by the Velasquez for the ship we will use and before I pass it to zarina microphone, we can say that with this capability building of our Filipinos Anda dia progress, brother seven will enjoy.
Can we say that we will benefit from all of us.
A trip to the internet.
You text that we are going to send a way to Panatag and yes, but even if you are still there and be able to live there, it is far from there, we can say that we are now strong that we will sit there and then we Are very positive or wherever I concluded.
In the next episode.
We posted: 'The modernization that we take on whether to be brought up to the arona if we are still going to fight against the planned population.
Very positive is confident that hopefully you will continue to tell the Philippines maybe one hundred eighteen anniversary yes, the program and theme.
According to the attendees, I have forgotten that last Month.
Just like this, the first bathroom vessels have arrived that is what you are called empathy 'in strategic way vessels and this.
Part of our anniversary of the definition of the service here is the ship of the republic of the Philippines Tarlac hello tender the best and six one here is the biggest to invent your Philippines maybe there are many things.
First, the traditional role of the voice in the calamities that we can use is done, and it is okay to have the ability to be the ha-house of tanks in the ltt; httt; he paid over and to be quick.
So that there were one hundred eighteen anniversary of all of whom I have been following twenty one, I have told me earlier but now it is a ttt; let us see it.
June one.
Thirteen years old.
It will be a board or it will be held there in our big times that they will not be ate boy.
Our God follow this is our president for the conditioning and then preselling there are also three times coming from Australia and board a grand champion.
Also include this in training.
Yes.
There is a new anniversary.
In the interview, you will be able to report the personal thing that will be gone ', which will be described as if it is good that we have a good use in the current chair first time, we will be able to build a lot of small things that we want to call and transform this case.
We would want to buy and sell even if we have opened the Americans who want to do that, we can see that the Philippines is very proud of our troops to file a complaint to giving service to the person he mentioned troops is a bit mischievous during giving service to the person he mentioned as a bit mischievous in the Philippines.
This is what we are doing in the prenties.
Because of the cellphone twenty twenty-twenty-out human Capital strategy is shy in the delivery of atomic with my heart operation of our visit 'iression Recruitment enrollee, continue your retirement.
Ltt; httt; httt; / / ttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / tttt; / / ttt;
Those.
Our two vessels.
For the celebration there in the bathroom that people will go there from the bathroom.
Fltt; ttt; tttt; calls for old vessels going to the other but means that.
There are training that are able to pay at the time that it is okay for us to return to the beach party Tarlac, you mentioned earlier that you can use the command center and adidas right, if you are right, you are right on yourself, what is the act of Yolanda.
Down all the Communication and all electrical posts.
He can take a tendency to go there in the ttt; ttt; because he will be a party on it.
Three mold will be finished simultaneously.
If there is a staff of the president or the reason, sir, they will be snatched away from the corporation, it is easier for this because of his large amount of cargos warehouse immediately because of his large amount of cargos warehouse, he immediately response to the relief goods for the important airplane or ship the delivery This year.
And next week de deliver a next year twenties will be hit on climate in the Philippines.
We are going to have two exhibitions, because your contract is already over in Indonesia that I am the big head of the ship here in Indonesia, which is why there is a lot of events that will really be able to send.
Relief goods which are really important and will become sports of vehicles that are needed now, the cat in Gregorio del Pilar safe, what kind of ship is text from the Raymond of Cubao at the seat you endure.
Insurance cover of yes duration of this is not the flag ship of the Philippines at present that he does not want to be strolling at around South as I don't want to go out, anyway, there is no one that is not very sure that I am not very sure that I am not very different.
The bird is just like a bird and then we just went to the two exercise and they joined the letter from Brunei, because when he arrived, this trophy has come.
This is the diesel that we are proud of.
Can we be able to ride, and you can only approach me, especially now that I have only invited me to put my head first.
You don't know the situation to us but I will just get carried away by myself.
I am the only one jun read one Jo-jogger.
Until when will I speak up to twelve o'clock I will say that they will say the anniversary of everyone who is open for now, to just chase this topic.
Are you open on your website of yes for the Bulls interested to enter the Philippines in the overall open and Active of our website in maybe.
The former is to visit it and then on Facebook, what is the main Opportunity to tainment the cellphone of the requirements that they should be brought immediately.
There are two or two.
The officer is going to be an application and then enlisted personnel manager who came closer to the requirement that it would have a meaningful copy of the study or so.
Call TESDA
Ah, yes, then on the application of two by two picture
Then, it is okay to be together with their phone going to there, we will just meet with an accaudiate course that finished the present employer for any four-year course, but the priority of the baby is your technical knowledge, you know me because of a sudden Bebe.
.
We are on duty there and let's wait for a man and I want to disclose that before.
Noticeable.
Height requirement: Five four
It's because he remembered and there was a woman there in the woman.
Now that there is no discrimination even if I suddenly became happy.
Fight in conflict
She will be able to talk to you.
I am five in my morning.
He / she was immediately asked.
The message was twenty-three and a police personnel and then.
Twenty one twenty one.
Fltt; copttt;
My role is that we might be in a head or not a lot of things that can be done there in the movie yes.
That is true that he is thinking yes, especially Papa Luis.
This is also a minor when you have an invitation to our people in the coming anniversary of the hundred eighteen anniversary of the Universe and the return of our ships.
He is alive.
Thank you, thank you for the person hostages or flag officer in the command of admiral Cesar things when we are thankful for your program for this Opportunity to say that.
Let's look at it, maybe there are all the troops who attacked the fishermen in the river of Marilao police who are deploy all other parts of the Philippines from the nami.
Island to Women, let us continue our work, when we keep your work hard, we will be thankful for the happy anniversary of our country, we are thankful that many thank you very much.
In your support to your Philippines, now our statements are now here, we continue to continue our activities because of my life support and now that we will be held there on the top of the ship inside the boat, we invites you so much and continue.
He is really the First version of his Philippines maybe in giving service and serve for the Filipinos and Filipinos in the country.
Luna Sltt; ttt; ttt; / / ttt; / / ttt; / / ttt; / / ttt; / / ttt; / / ttt; / / ttt;
Say.
