She was able to go home to the country, including the twenty-sixteen Rio Paralympic games or they are no longer the story of his hard work and a song which inspired her in the fight vacation.
The police is full of gratitude for the severity and damentals gold often, Josephine Medina, when he arrived in the country last night, he did not expect the money being sold by six-year-old native of Albay to be funded on the medal of his role in Paralympic.
Despite the Saudi ability on the left foot after being hit by a folio, he was still calling the famous bet of Germany straight.
He also inspired a song.
Ltt; ttt; ttt; ttt;
It turns out that I entered or out there.
In the venue.
Which is the songs this is the movement.
I need to give all whatever happened and I said I will give my best for my country.
For the victory he finished the Setting, how almost the country's freedom to success in the late father who was also a last shooting were killed there on the matter for saudi Arabia and did not have a chance to watch the child.
I hate you.
That's why the sport to be as a means of money people since I was as quickly because of my poll signal.
Josephine will receive one million pesos.
Ltt; hes by white sports commission office of the twenty thousand pesos.
There is still no rest in the mind of the farmers there right now in fact because they attended the open championship in Thailand next month.
A promise of fifty.
Four of all of us.
Four hundred sponsored, that is why we will not object yes.
Also, Josephine went home to the last Filipinos who went home to the medal in the garden.
The sweat was still happy that copine duo Ancheta was also happy despite the failure of Josephine's success, the success of Josephine is also the success of their sector everyone in the medal is a mio taken to the right challenge which is a challenge to us.
It can be said that the four-four sector is right, right, it's because there is a lot of ttt; and very call here are related to the sector.
There is the action of Lyn ogue news.
