The RY Good by PNoy in survey and the lies
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
The skin of the source of the destruction of typhoon Yolanda in the Visayas Region.
This is about the ejection of the Social Weather Station that "Very Good" gave the grades of the victims of Yolanda to President Benigno Aquino III in action for them.
For the government of PNoy in the palace, after the SWS survey came out, they seem to have another joy.
The problem, the thousands of citizens and victims of the storm appeared in the streets saying that PNoy's grades in them were "landed".
12,000 NAG-rally estimated 12,000 victims of Yolanda were rally this past week to condemn the excessive force of the government in helping them.
Many have not reached those who said that they attended and joined.
There are still a lot of passengers riding a jeepney that came from Samar to stop the road by the police who attended.
According to the People's Surge who led the indignation rally, the victims who want to join the coming rallies are increasing.
Those who want to go with the rally in Visayas, the victim and not by typhoon Yolanda.
There are also many calls for other citizens and organizations outside of the circumstances that they have helped in order to remove the fifty of the government so that he quickly moved and have responded to it.
According to the SWS survey, it is said that the grades of PNoy himself from the victims of Yolanda is higher than the victims outside of the dark places.
Very Good for PNoy, he said, in Leyte, Samar and nearby areas in the grounds of 79 percent, with the + 54% trust on him while outside the areas mentioned, 69 percent of the grades have been "lies" the survey said.
If the survey results are lies, which is thick faced from the data of SWS?
Three months old, it has been three months since Yolanda devastated last November 8, 2013 but the victims were considered to be favored by the government in helping.
If there is, up to some noodles, sardines and rice only.
There are foreigners and private assistance as long as it is just hidden by the corrupt, like imported food and characters, personally until they see them that they will sell in the grocery and mall.
There are also Housing projects like bunkhouse.
But, the son of tokwa, this is still raining by the anomalies of government officials.
It is good that there are private people and organizations that give bigger help to the victims.
Do not want to identify the rehabilitation czar Ping Lacson to identify those who are involved in the bunkhouse scam but the result of the investigation of the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group is near.
In case there is evidence that the bunkhouse is spreading, are you dependable, idol Ping, to reveal the public the inhumane who have money for death, suffering and hunger of the people?
Businessman AT: The People's Surge, not the victims of calamities is being given the government of importance to the rehabilitation program but the businessmen.
The government of the projects will be approved for a 300 billion fund funds for allegedly the opportunity.
But he is not saying that at least it is good to direct help to the calamities but "an estimated 30,000 pesos to those who have totally destroyed homes and 10,000 pesos to those who have partially damaged houses.
But in the explanation of DPWH, construction materials will be given and a little salary to those who will make it but for just a few days.
P40,000 is needed according to the victims, it is better for the government to give every family affected by the typhoon for more than P40,000 only and they will be able to become rich here.
For them, they will think about how the cost will be used for their immediate need, including investment for their occupation.
This situation is far from what DPWH is saying and also far from the rehabilitation program.
In the position of DPWH, those who are making galvanized iron sheets, cement, hollow block, nail, wire and whatever more than the people with local materials that they can use.
If they will depend on the rehabilitation program, they are also like a horse that will get hungry for the time before they can be given assistance.
In the long-term program that will last for one, two, three, four and five years.
Just Next time to show the relatives of the Palace of Very Good grades to those from Malacanang, they should just buy them first.
They should not wear the truth and providing the truth because they will repeat it, maybe someone will be kicked out of his position without at the time.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
