Australian actor, impressed by the skills of the Pinoy Max, Mother of Dragons, peg By Allan Diones July 18, 2016 another proof that Direk Mark is the Game of Thrones is the taking of GMA in Australian actor Conan Stevens to be part of Encantadia.
Conan plays the role of the Eclipse of "The Mountain" Clegane in the first season of GoT.
Stevens attended the pressche and he was the first to go out of the cast to answer a few questions.
According to the tall and big foreign actor, he is impressed by the camera Work, using filter and acting on what he watched Pilot episode of Enca.
He did not understand the Tagalog dialogues, but he was amazed by him.
"I'm impressed with what happened in the first show.
Give IT a Month, give IT two months and you will be screaming how Good IT is, "bull said.
The animation and Special effects of Enca was obviously inspired by the Game of Thrones, said Stevens, the GoT-based A Song of Ice and Fire book series by George R.R. Martin, inspired by The Lord of the Rings novels of JW Tolsten.
That is why it is just normal that's why it is normal.
Aside from GoT, he also worked as Conan in The Hobbit of prequel at LOTR film series of Peter Jackson.
And now he will be part of Enca, so there will be a connection with what he is doing.
Even if he can see the things like him, she knows that the Kapuso will have their own gift.
"The Filipino creativity is world-Class.
This is just a demonstration of something real, as Far as I'm concerned.
"This is gonna be really Good," says foreign actor.
That's why she accepted the project that this is because it is a Good move for him, aside from enjoyable.
He was able to work in Thailand, China and India, so if he will add the Philippines to his return as an actor, he will bring the larger audience when he comes to America.
IT makes him MORE valuable as an actor for other producer and part of his career as an artist.
Connor has yet to shoot for Encantadia, but he said, the Filipinos have an international reputation for being friendly and polite.
So, he is looking forward to be working with the Whole team.
He did not mention what would be his role in Enca.
Direk Mark said, Conan Stevens will act on the role of Benjie Paras as a barbarian, Wahid.
This evening is the start of Encantadia requel (mixture of retelling and prequel / sequel), which is one of the most expensive production of GMA network.
In the comprises of the cast, it is already very big, because of the amount of character of the said bakeshop that will be enal 11 years Ago.
Before the grand preseason of Encantadia, the Pilot episode is watching the press first.
Just the beginning, there is a big battle scenes and scenes that are full of Special effects.
We noticed the title sequence (if ever before is OBB or opening billboard) which is obviously "inspired" of the title sequence of Game of Thrones.
Self-confessed fan of hit HBO series GoT is the director of Encantadia, Mark Reyes.
Daenerys Targaryen or Mother of Dragons of GoT the peg of the New character Amihan (Max Collins), the diverse sister of Your queen Minea (Marian Rivera).
Amihan was riding a flying dragon Amihan when he was shot in the scene.
It was just a guest role and Max died immediately as Amihan, that's why Minea's tribute to her second child.
Beauty is the queen of Liverpool, who was able to immediately stop the bad diaries as Adhara (Sunshine Dizon).
The Your queen is brought to her womb is the second child of her husband (Dingdong Dantes), the leader of soldiers of Sapiro.
The ancient diff, Cassiopeia (Solenn Hamas) is to make the most powerful scientist as protection from those who want to steal or snatch it.
Cassiopeia will send them to four kingdom of Encantadia - Liverpool, Sapiro, Adamya and Hamas ia.
The greedy Hathor will get the bride of Adamya so they will be more powerful, with the leadership of Arvak (Roi Vinzon) and Hagorn (John Arcilla).
Direk Mark Reyes is in tears by Encantadia.
He was emotional because after three failed attempts, last year, the remake of PET project was already given a signal signal.
Direk Mark is grateful to GMA who trusted the very expensive show, which according to him, is already level up this 2016.
They have worked with the original Enca that they are together now.
According to the director, like that, he is not a job for him but a vocation.
This cannot be done if you are not dedicated.
He added, the scenes, costumes, the contribution of the craftsmen, will be casters, visual effects team and everything that is very hard to do.
According to him, 11 years have passed and she is no longer a child.
He's hoping that the show is a surrove show, but with the energy given to him by the New cast, there is nothing impossible.
Direk Mark said, this is part of the Philippine Pop culture and even back then, the Enquirer is not gone, that's why she also wanted to return it for the new audience.
Aside from the Encantadia game app in Apple store and Google Play, it will have merchandise and different gimmicks that will be done on the show up to Christmas, which will be the source of many.
"The fight is difficult, we know" that. "
But we are ready to fight.
"Ivo Live, Encantadia!" Director Mark Reyes screams.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
