Gathering at the table of Christ: Reflection for the Solema of Corpus Christi Year C - June 1, 2013 - Year OF Faith
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
Do you like to eat fast foods?
JJLBEE, McChowking, KFC, etc.
That is why fast Food is because you want to ease your hunger!
But are you happy to eat when you do not have companions?
Isn't it better to eat at that place when you are with your friends?
It is good to eat when you are talking to you.
Enjoy eating when you have competence!
Exciting eating when there is a fibre to the video!
That is why we also call the meal "gathering."
I mean you have a companion... with IT...
This is probably the changing of us in animals every time we eat.
We are not just growing and don't eat nonstop, we have a show!
The holy Eukarisaunt is not just accepting the body of Jesus.
He is also represented because it is a sharing.
In the holy Eukarisaunt, God attending us!
That is why it is hard to think that while we are receiving communism, our hearts are dominating our fellowmen!
On the second reading, San Pablo warned those from Corbyn in the resharing of Jesus in the last dinner.
It's because he saw that there is something that is dominating in the first Christians every time they will celebrate the last dinner.
Their mass then is what they are doing in a house of the need and bring their money to share after their celebration.
Perhaps there are some who did not release his allowance.
He will buy this or given to those who are close to her!
San Pablo got angry when he saw this so he tried to remind the real spirit of Euckaritya.
The miracle in Edinburgh happened because there were five bread and two fish!
Perhaps a small thing but in the hands of Jesus is very big... because the heart of the person presented it!
That's why he does not punish for it, she was able to share it to each person.
In our acceptance of the administration, we should always remember that we will be sharing some!
Let us not think that we are just poor or we have no ability to help.
The church is saying about this: "No person is too rich so that the help of others... and there is also a person who is too poor so that you will not be given assistance to others!"
The "body of Christ said," our answer is Amen!
Amen, which means I believe.
I believe that my front is not just a bread.
I believe that what I accept is not just a symbol.
I believe that this is the real body of Kristen Lord with his whole God and he will blossom in my heart.
But most of all, I also believe that the body of Christ is not the only "holy Ostia" that I accept but also those who are beside me... my fellow enemy!
We should try to know Jesus in every person we are able to meet and we will accept them how we are receiving Him in the holy Eukarisaunt!
In this year of faith, we live in the meaning of Eukarisaunt as gathering in the table of Christ.
There is only one thing that he comes around.
We are receiving one blessing.
There is only one way we share.
Let us be a life in my aunt to others!
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
