Myrtle is afraid to replace Maja Ka Tunying, a business across the Kapuso By GORY RULA July 31, 2016 SA December that Myrtle SarRosa was graduating from the course of broadcast Communication in UP Diliman.
The PBB winner is proud that he can graduate Cum Laude because he maintain her performance in school even if he is busy with the taping of the Super D and he is going to go around school for the profile of Sisters sanitary napkin.
This is the reason why Myrtle was hired by Sisters Napkins and Pantyliners in exchange of Maja Salvador.
Myrtle was quite scared when she found out that she will change his change.
But when he explained that he needed a new campaign of the said product Sisters "School is Cool, he understood.
"We want to promote education," says the Kapamilya young actress.
Myrtle takes several schools with the group of Sisters of Megasoft Hygenic products.
They gave recognition to the outstanding students of school.
Some of them were given Sisters "Choice Awards is Norala High School in South Cotabato and in Gingoog City Comprehensive School in Misamis Oriental.
The existence of the branch of Ka Tunying's Cafone in South Avenue, QC, in front of GMA 7.
I am intrigued that the Kapuso network will transfer to Ka Tunying?
We are doubting the few blind items that he is referring to to transfer to the station after its contract.
Until December is the contract of Ka Tunying on ABS-CBN and the latest that we heard, he would not renew.
This was denied by the fabulous radio / TV personality.
"Ka Tunying," the ABS-CBN is very supportive in my career until now.
The company's treatment for me is beautiful.
"We have no conversation about our contract.
The only beauty now is, they have confidence in me.
I'm sure that our relationship will be a long time.
"As to the proximity of Ka Tunying's Cafone there in GMA 7, perhaps, the position is really beautiful and it has nothing to do with my career."
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
We're going to get a lot MORE.
