Maja, she is the only child in front!
By Alwin Ignacio, 3, 2016.
Many depend on the classes at Banga, chemotherapy and acting skills of Maja Salvador and Paulo Avelino.
The Urian who want to be in Tanim-lualto organization for dancing to the two Lefur, their Fight IT led to the grave of the movie, "Dayes, I Love.
The last time they are together in that kind of drama, Brad of Dr. Love, is that, even if she has connections with his / her child, she was cut off the door to love.
Stated by Maja, "the delicious love of love is a good love.
"Why don't you lock your heart because just because you are hurt now? You know the love, especially in a love, you should not take control, you will always take control.
"All of us, are always doing something that you don't want to repeat this thing but you will still happen again, you will have a love."
Paulo is having a different kind of honor, that is why the relationship with LJ Reyes and KC Concepcion is different.
Avelino also said, "Well, we, Are.

We already know that, there is something coming to you.
"That even if you are in a problem, you are able to fix it because, for a love for each person for each other, Fight of bird thank Together.
"Sometimes, for a long time, once, there is a reward that will be seen, thank you, thank you, share a lot of love.
"What's important, you really love one another."
What kind of love should be shown in I Love?, "I'm not a sound?
Maja immediately answered that, "he / she was about the two hectares of Friends that was annoying and an one-time-time hness, in this kind of-time line.
"In this form of" that, it will be known.
"They are a single man with Paulo, with Chance, which is why they are going to be together?
Twist the answer of Maja, "there was still no matter, perhaps we were suddenly drunk.
"Do you have a love to wait for?
"If Paulo is not going to be paired with a loved one, if there is something, it might be.
"It is still morning, I am too much scared," according to Maja.
"But," that's it, because Paulo is just like Paulo.
"Like that, hahaha.
"Of course, you trust" people, because you know he will take care of you in the scene. "
Paano said, "I am scared, I am afraid to have a love Scene of NJ for 10, but it seems hard to do.
"Of course, you are afraid because later, you might be able to end up end, your partner or partner, but... that is just a love," it seems that when you have a love affair, I try to be a love. "
Sunduster of Salvador, "At), we still do not hear anything that he is spending, because, in the side of Paulo, he will take care of you."
Avelino worried again, "I am afraid to have a love Scene."
Is it already happened to their real life "when they got drunk and confessed?
Paulo's confession, "I was very shy, sometimes, there is a need of building inside.
"When you are a little bit of alcohol, you might become a strong feeling."
Whispered something by Maja, "study with alcohol, has a plan.

Hahaha! When they are shy, let us drink it.
"But because that is her," in the cness, to me, I still do not have a date or be able to admit while being drunk.
"There is still no."
