
Hala of the honor code: My personal interests (also a part 1).

With the number of questions if we still implement the Honor Code after our pre-Single Entry Approach where we need to share to this example, we should not forget this example.

I am the vice president of these kinds of rifle, which happened last 2005 when we were able to finish the start of 2005 in 2005 when we were able to hold-out of the pro-Filipino Actions, Condeduction, at the record of its firing.

The record of firing at Milan at 1 rifle is composed of 50-round and at 101 kilometers per hour, 150,000.00.

I was one of those who became a famous member of the shooting team. "Pete, only to me, who shot me as the one who shot him in a standing in a standing place, which can be seen.

As Head of Marchambers (ship Department, I was the one leading the implementation of the projects and even in the record of the firing approved by our Commanding Officer Major Leo Guinness.

I am also the designs of the score, which is supposed to be full of planting and a range of range, as proof that what is written on him is true.

I do not know that one day, the loyalty of my personnel is favorable for the implementation of the regulations about the funeral parlor.

Salazars, Marayes, Tramo.

Even if in the past, I strictly reminded to follow our record of firing and even in the lower part of our house when we study for the upcoming competition in another country.

It's because I remember that in 1995 when I were included in the training of the Army in Team, they will be able to eat that there is a accusation of cheating in a score, that is why they can be guarded from their target so that it can be watched if it is right that this kind of trend is being monitored.

Because of this, I am worried about each of my companions who are co-ers and Rondy.

If it is proven that it is a cheater that affects the team and will face a case, on Top Rank Promotions to be seen as a cheater.

In the record of firing, that is how I worry about the importance of signatures, if they signed a score, this means that they are preparing the truth to their document.

In addition to this, I want to remind that if the score of our students or colleagues, we are looking for myself, we also want to remind them that we are going to give them to the whole day, fix our implementation.

This means, no one is in favor, useless friends, and no one, or a pity for the target, that is the real score!

For our co-workers, we want us to be able to get the experts and the said score is 50-50, or 50 years old and right from the target of 50 years old.

Even the real score of the experts are around 11ts-503, all of us are waiting to get a new score, as long as we do not want to eat these.

It is because we are always hungry and are members of the shooting team who are fighting in abroad, all of us are being able to treat each other at the target group.

In short, the simple rifle of the ship will lead by Fire that makes it a habit for us to make a honor for us to get a high score!

In our chance, the person who has AWOL) has been absent from the target) or those who were saved from the target) even just one), Lazo wondered!

Well, who is true to be degrading or putting on the record of firing, which does not reach 33 percent for the targets of the target.

Sometimes, they can't take the chance to look for those who are quick to use or make sure that the eye is not enough.

"If you also tried to shoot-up, you can't use 16 rifle in the fight and will only drink a bullet.

Oh my! It's embarrassing and I will be able to make it crazy!

Can for a recall of a recall, which was the M 16 rifle which was owned by the Disbursement Acceleration Program in the mountainous part of the prestigious ita which was the prestigious X-Pacific Ocean.

All companions who are co-workers and deacaders are those watching us.

In those times we are together, there is someone who has the integrity of what they are saying and doing.

One hole or "AWL."

When I was liberated from the firing line, my range Officer / Scoercion was my co-anger and protector of Calaguas, "Dela Cruz.

The day is clear and the direction of the wind is clear and it is estimated to be at 5kilometers per hour.

Persist back to 200 square meters from 200 square meters (38 DD (38 years old), we are praying for us to undergo 250 kilometers per hour.

"Hoy, do not dry!"

What is worse, there are those who are annoyed, whom like to call a wind, don't know if it is true that it is true that this is called by the wind.

I had a lot of glance at the cunning Metton, Agustin, who was called by the wind.

"Pad Street, Laqueza, no one will be put in favor!"

To 250 kilometers that is a distance, he / she was going to board his position for a long time and he / she has time.

My shot was so fast and I can clearly see the tip of my front part which comes back to my natural point of truck (NPA) after an oil container, I am confident with what I follow.

Because I am also having a huge amount to get the rights of human rights as an identification, we went to our target.

When we reached the target, the beauty of my shot group was beautiful when they saw each other with his companions when they saw almost 5-6 inches in the middle of the 5-6 inches in the middle of the 5-6 inches) in the middle of the 5-6 inches) in the middle of the 5-6 inches.

Even TSumang, Carey, who was part of the explosion, was impressed by what was right and he had a marvelous infant.

"That is the case!"

But my ATM card, CDO, dela Cruz, has an unusual thing.

"Uy, sir, you are still at AWL!" He is smiling.

"Sir, you lack one and 11 years only here!"

I am impressed by myself and I have not seen any other hand, who are calling for other colleagues, because they are wearing a devil, because they are wearing a devil, because in our conversation, it's an honor, the honor is at stake.

"Gens men, I should have checked by you, AWu, I am beautiful or beautiful, so the five-year-old group might have one hole!"

Their opinions about what they saw were divided.

"Sir, one athlete is really on a hole, the hole is bigger than normal," the SSL Oro said.

"It looks like this is not a difference on sir, which is why the target board was ruined at the back of the paper," the SSL Manunuri ng "Sir, would you want us to get after a shot?"

For a shot that is the gadget that is used to make it better if there is one one hole on the target.

"

"Sir, in my opinion, these are really suspended, therefore, 49, are already thirteen," the final companion of my Mushatch, "final.

We had a contract with my score, my staff, my enemies are grinning, so I can wait for it.

"Banies will be fine with Verdiz!"

In short, simple word, I was not able to talk to each other so that they will be silent for all, but I let me eat a good crib.

I will still be experts to pick the ship's contribution; but I became more than a chance to be crazy.

As a officer, I am not having a blood pressure using my ranks and position to force my belief that the one hole is right.

I was impressed by myself, because she is not obsequiousness and sometimes is the reason for the incident to commit suicide.

My 49 / 50 with a score is laid down on the orders of the collections of the collections of the legislative chamber that has been placed in my hiding place.

If the bones and NCOs will be maintained, the Honor Code will be our resolve.
