Thursday, November 27, 2014.

Gat Andres Bonifacio, a surprise.

Gat Andres Bonifacio, a surprise.

Greg stars Jr.

Did you know that what was identified as Nelson Andres Bonifacio, even in the colonizers, is one of the authorities during the time of the housing program in Manila, he was able to think about the improvement of the housing program in Manila, he was able to think about the improvement of the housing program in Manila, he was able to think about the improvement of the housing program in Manila, he was able to think about the improvement of the housing program in Manila, he was able to think about the improvement of the housing program in Manila.

About the "part of the eking in Paris," what was referred to by Leroy was what happened in Paris was, of 1871, who was also identified by Karl Marx as "

But let us analyze it: Who is James Leroy, to say that he is right at saying that he is right at saying that Bonifacio Andres Bonifacio?

Gat Andres Bonifacio is patriotic and racketeering that all of them know.

But it is not as an illusion that if he is considered as an ID, why is it that there are those who are patriotic and considered to be considered to be patriotic and considered to be considered by his countrymen in the end?

James A. Leroy (1878-1912) is an American author, colonists, and an influential member of the Philippines.

Leroy was known to stop from the historical report of other authors of the Philippines, because he thinks, other author is more part of their opponent Spain compared to America after he first criticized the first five members of the The Philippine Islands of Bistansos and Rodriquez, and he stated his extreme criticism on the prestigious American Historical Commission on 1903.

He strongly criticized the works in the history of the Filipinos, Wenceslao Retana, Pedro Huamelula, Isabelo de los Reyes, Leon and Fernando Ma.

Mimaropa in the El Renacademic, and other neighboring countries, because they are on the other side of the Filipino people who are currently in the same part of America, the real force of dyed in Manila is that the real force of dyed in Manila were published, "according to the researchers, Gloria Cano (2008).

If he has this kind of reputation, what he said that Bonifacio is very confident, including the small cause that he has presented, or he should believe it because he is the anti-dic?

James Leroy has already been happy with an explanation why Bonifacio.

Gat Andres Bonifacio became a worker in his time, that's why he was asking people to meet in the history as a worker, who was the former company, as a house helper, and was eventually transferred to Flabio Zaragosa, as a maid, and to be able to go back to the Fist and covetousness when his parents died and asked to be able to pay for the needs of the siblings.

Until he / she came from the disbelief that the son of Bayan (KKK or Katipunan) last July 7, 1892.

We will also see in those writing to Gat Andres Bonifacio, the purpose of purpose, "Ang must make sure that what we need to do is that, especially if we are not able to waste time on our eyes, especially that we should not waste time on our eyes, especially that we should not waste time on the hope that will not come and not going to happen and not going to happen.

Reason is what we should depend on yourself and do not fix our livelihood, our livelihood is being pointed at each other, in a mind and thought that a remedy will be given to our Bayan. "

That's the request of Bonifacio, we should act on it: "It is time that the light of the truth should come out, there is a time when we need to recognize that we have their own poverty and great education that will be destroyed by a loved and great education that will be exported in our minds."

It will be a kind and not only Bonifacio, he saw the taking of his kinds of acts like Jose Marti, national heroes of the country Cuba, and Simon Bolivar, who is considered a hero in Latin America, especially in Bolivia and Venezuela.

They have three heroes who voted for the Spanish colonizers. Bonifacio, Marti and Bolivar were identified by their fellowmen because of their determination to free the country from colonization and taking advantage.

But only Marti and Bolivar reports that their fellow countrymen are identified by their fellow countrymen who are not wanting to change the foolishness and taking advantage, the heroes who want to change the rotten system, and replace it with a better system, and replace it to the masses, to make sure.

A specialist leader, Fidel Castro, Cuandez was strictly recognized as Jose Marti, although she was treated as a huge influence in the whole world, she wants to be able to go to one of their political views in front of their political views in front of the whole world, we should be able to go to one of their political views in front of the entire world.

Many are beautiful and good for others, as a way of action, is very important, a unique wealth. "

Aside from the uncontrollable fit, she is also known as the writers and owner Marti.

He wrote one of those who were in the eastern part of the Philippine National Police (Caracing, Colombia), La Loma, and La Oka were also wrote in-Homicide Section (1882), and Verbo, which was all written in the decades of 1880, but it was published last 1913, but it was published last 1913.

Last 1892, it was established by Jose Mart. when it was also arrested by the Spaniards, on May 19, 1895, he was able to transfer the Spaniards.

Simon Macenas is identified by President Hala Chavez of Colombia as a unique leader who tried to free the five countries in Latin America from the freedom of Latin America from the freedom of Latin America from the office of Latin America in the whole history, Chavez continued the fight and mind of Simon Street on the 19th of 21st century.

The bush, which is the leading movement of political, will continue and follow the dreams of Bolivar, which is one of the citizens, who will give free education, free medicines, and implementation of the citizens, is there to be a protector of service from the United States), that is there for free education from elementary school, in the boundary of college, college, even for special course.

For many stories, it's just a simple town leader, Bonifacio, Marti and Bolivar warned for freedom of their country.

But if they analyze their writing and actions being done, they fought against the Spanish colonizers to remove the abuse of people in the people, and replace the rotten system of a Filipino human!
If Fidel Castro and Cuba became aware of the good manners or decision of the Ethics Committee on their hero, it is better for everyone to end up with the baptism of the Katipunan ng mga Bayani, this is acceptable to everyone who has written on the Tuwid na Daan, or whatever the content of the Katipunan ng Pilipinas.

Only two days in every year, it can be seen that this kind of workers in the country will be seen together, and it appears on the SONA of the workers, and on November 30, which is currently being prepared for the workers, and November 30, which is currently being prepared for the workers to be together and will be launched.

In the end of reading, research and having a gay person in life, the author, and vote of Gat Andres Bonifacio, we can see that the Filipino people who are the first president of the country can't be recognized as well as the sole meaning of James Leroy, but for the best meaning of the Filipino masses.

This article is just a start but it is not yet done yet because the fight of Bonifacio is not yet done, so that we will continue what he has started in Bonifacio, workers, and supporting the medical exam until success!

Gat Andres Bonifacio is the workers and a hero of this kind of worker.

He led the struggle against taking advantage of the taking of the fight and let him get an outburst of poverty and bullying.

Long live a specialist Ka Andres Bonifacio! Long live the type of workers!
