Wednesday, October 30, 2013.

Even though The working First Class Shanale of Social Security System Act of Social Security System (Asia and the Pacific Economic Cooperation (Asia) in the Pacific Ocean. "

It can be found out for the declaration of PETIDBITSSNIPPETIDs for social the National Eat Camping in Asia and THE. "

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

I am one of those who was able to attend the three days of international Anti-Anti-Illegal Drugs Association of Social Security System (Commission on Asia) in the city Hall in Diliman, Quezon City from October 23 to 25, 2013.

For the first day, the delegates will be there for the final second in the afternoon, but the program has formally started for the fourth year.

The first day of show-up to those who attended was in a pile of show to those who attended, giving a message of the speaker, sending a room as dedication to Gat Andres Bonifacio, which led to the book of Doctor Rene Of, and gathering the gathering.

A sign is opened through the message of Dr. Caesar A.

Salome, Chaykit, UP Diliman, Doctor Jonathan P. Sale, Dean of SONAR; and Mister.

Bertuldo, Old Lefur, is a medical representative of PAMANTIK-Ebert Sevidal.

The grandchild of Bonifacio, Atty. Gary Bonifacio, and the author, Doctor Viencio Jose also gave a message.

The second and third day composed of seven o'clock in the third day, which started almost nine o'clock in the morning.

Three plenary in the second day.

Plenary 1: Labor's Conro, for Social Justice, Efour-Poverty.

Plenary 2: The working First Class 1956 in the 21st CTEL.

Plenious 3: The Rabies Day of Women, Women's Month, the Echerness, Eguides.

Four plenary in the third day.

Plenary 4: Social Protection (Wage Eve for almost all Souls' Day.

Plenary 5: The working First Class the Arts.

Plenenary 6: The RL of Social Work and Labor's Day.

Plenary Session 7: Labor's Rabies Day in the Pacific Ocean is clenched in the Pacific Ocean.

In the First plenary, three spokesperson gave the formal agreement that he should be included based on the program, but the first spokesperson, King Nony Villon did not come out about what he agreed in the "ophthalmologist, Conejero.

It was first given by the recognition given by the Social Weather Stations, Executive Director of Pulse Asia, "social Fire in Asia, and the needs of a international system to serve and others, and according to the speaker, the social protection is related to justice.

The second person who gave the resolution was Doctor Ramon Guillermo, an associate of the Department of Filipino and the Philippine Amusement and UP.

He discussed the life of Bonifacio, that it can be washed and studied in the 25th anniversary, education has become a business, instead of all the rights of everyone in the end, he said that one day is over by Andres Bonifacio in the university of the Philippines.

The third who gave the impeachment case, Gerry Rivera, Philippine Airlines that's Association of PALEA), said that what happened to the employees of BNMI came true, especially on the issue of contractualization, the removal of the workers, and what they continue to fight for justice to the workers who blocked.

Meanwhile, four spokesperson of the second plenary, are Doctor Jonathan P.

Saliling to "Identions of the working First Class in the Philippines: The Anntoinette Espejo," Benjamin Velasco, of "Iric Auckland," Cuya-IBIG, "Cimetidine-Life Balos," Cuya of UP Diliman, "and Miss Deaf Bicolandia Guese," and Miss International Airport), "

Rosalinda C. Mercado is about "The Medical Center (LPA) which is briskly."

On the effect of Doctor Sale, metaphorical, she said that the worker has been hiding for a small room in a call centers, which is why the workers who do not want to have a relationship with the fourth side of the cooperative from the factory where the workers are being cut off, but according to the management of the cooperative from the factory where the workers are being cut off, they were saved by the laborers in their own home.

Ms. Mercado also said that the Manila police officer is outside the company, and even if someone attended the company, the relationship with the workers at the factory and not the cooperative, and the cooperative, should not be implemented in La Union management.

This is also what the administration wants to stop the workers of the PALEA, but the residents of PALEA did not agree.
The third plenary is about the women that were discussed by Doctor Rosalinda Pineda-Omaha, Women's Women's EF-Ecita, Calanglement, Dialogue, Arinoli, who has been discussed by Doctor Judy M.

The "Revolutionary Propaganda of the Filipino Women's Month, the Katipunan was replaced by the CPP-NPA" that was discussed by Doctor Love.

They will not be the "Genuaragad, Rural Women's Month," wangwang. "

It was mentioned by a few point out of protection to the dignity of people, the Echcation of Women's attitude, 80 percent of the seaman's issue goes to their husband, and according to the NEDA, the salary of the seaman's salary goes by P45,000 a month.

In the cadmium, I said that the workers should study not only on November 30 which is not only on November 30 at the November 25, which is the International Day for the Eve of violence against Women.

After the exhibition made, Eu-April 19) that they were applying for one hour, they also hit one hour with the suspension of the delegates.

In the next day, October 25, started the fourth plenary of Doctor.

Marius Oliver is one of the discussion of "Tulay ng mga Bayani for Asian Workers (OFW) which is one of the ones who attended the" WILLIE, Cabegantly or the Philippine Cutud, "RL) Almazan, which is owned by" Deobliging. "RTEL) Almazan, which is owned by" Dequia. "Tantos) in Cambodia."

There are only two spokesperson of the fifth plenary, according to Jose.

Buenacademics, "Pogi"

Michelle Miguel Galvez said in her "Mitsubishi Montero and Women's Month, which was released by Buenacons," Buenacosta, the video of a few parts of the movie, and Miss Galvez stated in the interview of Tina Monzon, Palma's interview with women who are siblings.

On the sixth plenary, the four spokesperson are Doctor Jonathan P.

Salazars, "Navigation of Investigation and the Labor Law; Together" Policy "(Noni)," Non-governmental organization, "Arciation," Noni), "Cantangan,"

Under the plenary, the two spokesperson were Edam RX Tantangan, owned by the haunting of Trade Center (Persia but, Doctor Rene Ocasio Cambot who were discussed by the "Ipit Gang"

It is a big thing for me to be able to attend the negative information yet because there are many added knowledge and information to me, especially in different issues of the workers, especially in different issues of the workers.

It is true that it was entrusted to me, which is contrary to me, which is sacred, the Anti-Anti-Anti-Illegal Drugs Act of Social Security System (Commission on Asia) in the Pacific Ocean, which seems to be a waste if the opportunity will not be able to attend.

But, even if I get hurt about the implementation of the whole economy, because of the words of the workers, but in the process of discussion, there are some who are dismayed in the implementation of change, not a gun, the construction of a Filipino people without abuse, and not the bloody encounter.

That's why the call "of the World pageant, Unisan, We, was able to end up in the end of the statue of Doctor Oka," at the end of the crash site of Doctor OPLAN), and he ended up in the seven plenary, and is now timely until now.
