Jodi and Jolo, bonding together is continued.
By GROs at RL-July 26, 2016.
"We did not answer to Vice Governor Jolo Revilla when we insisted with the question about his last post on her Instagram account where she was with Jodi Sta. Maria, as if she was with her beautiful smile.
Jolo said to us, they are just friends that's why they were able to talk to each other so he did not tell us what they talked about.
It's because intrigues for the post that I post in IG seem to be intrigues, "Jilian is the only thing for the US so that the answer to us by Jolo is just a sweet smile because we are listening to that post.
Just, he assures me that they have not reconciled again if they can possibly get back together, he can't say it.
Just, they would be fine with Friends to see each other again in the IG account of Jolo, that the happiness of Jodi is going to be together with the happiness of the two of them.
We were able to ask Mayor Lani Mercado's reaction to just smile while we are talking about it, Jolo.
He just said, "Love will to be the only thing I can say if they are really for each other, they will still be.
"Who will I go up to as if you are just like Arinoli, who is an ally for each other?, if they are itching with someone else and in love, who will I do so that?"
When she just saw her child happy, that is where Jodi is the one who makes Jolo happy, she cannot handle it because his only wish is that her child will be happy.
He / she was wearing.
Mayor Lani also shared to us that it is a unique way in facing the more than 2,000 drug pushers and those who surrendered to him.
He wants to make sure that those are really from Bacoor.

He was surprised that there were many involved in drugs and now they surrendered and wanted to change their lives.
There were more than 2,000, who went to him, almost 40 there, so he passed it to the DSWD.
When they surrendered to them, they are praying for it, hopefully their change will continue.
They know that the change in life is not that easy, that's why they need to monitor them well.
"Because, it is really difficult, to stop the vices of drugs, there is a human that is not allowed to get along with.
"That is why, we will do a community-based on how we will have a job for so that we can still monitor them."
They need the support of the government to build a proper rehabilitation center.
They know that the government is serious under the leadership of President.

Rodrigo Duterte in the campaign against illegal drugs.
"They thought of budget for New rehab centers in the whole country, hopefully there will be provincial or in big cities that will have a disadvantage or have a land.
"It is not a joke to build a rehab center but it is also hospital where it is worse than the hospital but it is more difficult," said Mayor Lani.
He is happy because since he surrendered to the drug pushers and accomplices in Bacoor, the crime rate in their town has gone down.
"
