Billie!

By Tomas, Santos-August 21, 2014.

Isnain was woken up by the sudden downpour of strong rain, he stood up from the banquet of his bed inside the university and took shelter in front of a store that happened, "said the store of delicious foods.
This morning in him is not different from him because he does not have a permanent shelter so the place goes to the place where he will be able to meet.
It seems that it would take time for the arrival of this day that she built a long time ago because of the downpour of strong rain that he did not know, but because there was a strong rain, it was clear that her talk was clear last night, what was the reason why he did not show up.
Since martial law arrived at that part of the city, Kand his close friend told him how to let her "older sister, older brother, for eating" Paula, "when he / she comes to his incoming partner,"
"You are applying to your father, declare martial law, it is needed that there are people who are stubborn and are not blinking while not blinking when it comes to words," said Ko's advice. "
They search for whatever things in the trash can be done on the night of Tawad at night, it was in the length of the "business" or things that he can want to taste kutsinta, stomach or jumper.
It has been almost five years since his mother left her in the very corner of the sidewalk where he was busy with his mother and two small siblings to go to Manila and leave their farm.
"He said, he will buy something and wait for him," he always answers to those who are asking him how he ended in Sampaloc.
He did not know the way home, since he was still three years old then, he did not find any money, which is why she just needed to wait for him, "according to her, she said that there was a whole hope.
"Older brother, if it is just a coins, it is the only thing that you are drinking," Untalan felt that he is often annoyed by what he earns, but when it suddenly rained down, he can't see himself in front of the We plantation.
It is almost every day he was able to remove himself from the smell of salty foods that are increasing in the opening of the door when he frequently gets mad at him and temporarily cover-up the small amount that he is going out or brought up to the trash can.
He can no longer like the chicken in Wesebel, aside from he does not like fried foods, it is as if he is giving up with fried rice, what he can use to the sidewalks where his reason is, what else he can use there, what else he can use there, what else he can use there, what else can you get.
The strong rain continues to pour at that time, but if it is not raining, he just lasted for ten minutes and the manager would be sent to a business and is just being treated.
However, it has been so long done by Isnain, she said that they are all the same, I have not had anything to do with hunger and food of those within five years, "I will not allow it, only a few of them," he often defended me, "he often defended him.
I hope that he has a uniform, declare martial law in himself, because according to him, it is still a puzzle on how the students who are waiting outside the Werors they can stand for more than ten minutes have not been stopped.
"My goodness, it is irritating! If the smell of food they are hungry for, I will not persevere to stand up there!" Untalan added.
An hour has been in the basement of the dining table, "Boy, left there," the security guard is probably busy that's why the manager would be busy with her.
"Where is Ko?" He said, he's going to pass me when he is still early now, "it rained and all, it is still nothing."
It seems that the smell was felt by the smell of Wtch but that day, she looked up and looked at the drop of water playing with the strong wind.
"Where is Ko?"
He rushed to the strong downpour of rain and he / she was able to leave because he doesn't want the feeling of being left behind.
