It is sensible, Trawon-media?

Often, it is still laid before the local programs in the television series are still there and there is no need to say that those who want to write to the television are there, there is no need to say that these programs and rich women are there, there is no need to just go to the trash, such as gold, each other, every television series.
It is unlikely that the reality in the said show is unlikely that the people are being carried away by the truth and are being stabbed in their minds in different illusion so they will continue to get angry and forget the public that will free the citizens with non-discipline, and it can also be ruined because it is possible that the national condition will be destroyed by some powerful countries.
Who really happened to the media?
Just a few rich families, including the cunning and powerful politicians, aside from the founder of the Filipino WEF as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as the truth that they are forcing to lead the truth in order to maintain the truth in order to maintain the truth that the people are blind.
Will it be allowed for a landowner, if it is possible to publish a salt or news on his newspapers, how can they manage the law in the earth?
Will it be shown that capitalists have in the station of his television, how can he remove the sweat and blood of his workers so that he will just laugh at the programs of his station, they will be allowed to Bandila by their legitimate rights and protest if they are just pretending not to see anything in their own principle.
Will it be allowed for a lot of politicians who are looking for news on the station of the sanctity of how much he stole from the election, how much was he saved from the syndicate of illegal gambling and drugs, and how much is his opponents in politics, aside from his rival critics?
Anyway, we should not be surprised, with the principle of false gods and Australian, they will only make everything to protect all their influence, the truth, the truth is, the truth can be lies or the truth can be lies.
Which is really true in reading materials and programs in radio and television?
Still attacked by the media by one of the severe illusion that they increase in different religion where the INC (Iglesia ni Cristo (Lord) has a carnival that is currently being monitored by different groups, especially that they have their own styles in an exclusive subdivision for their own followers.
At present, it seems like a dancers of reading materials and programs in radio and radio and programs in the radio and television which are faithful to be defeated by the reality, naturally, we are aware that there is no more space in the Republic of our illusion.
