Kathmandu, hot-kissed, By Allan Diones, August 31, 2016.
It has been three weeks for a shot in Barcelona, Kathmandu, MG) for the movie Barcelona: A Love Untold.
Kathryn Bernardo said, the shot they shot was not easy, and not all were everyday.
Aside from the 4 years of sleep, they are tired, all of them are tired, but they are happy that they were able to show it to the movie, that is why they are happy that what they did to the shooting is that this is a special project that they have done to them by Daniel.
"The story and" their character are very important to them because they are so noisy with their character "eth.
Because Direk OLamasan has known for being a chist and to those who can make it to his artists, the Kathryn Bernardo said that they are very quiet here, as well!
This is said to be the guidance of Ib to the movie, how to deliver the line, how to cry, all of these are being monitored, that is why they have learned a lot of things.
Vince admitted that all of their scenes are not given a pillow when it is just a month.
Even while walking, breathing and breathing, all of these were watched by the prime actor.
According to Tilak, it was like she was able to go back to the Zurbano family and for them to take care of all her acting skills to Iya.
They realized that the things they studied before are not yet gone.
They still have a lot of things that they need to be, and they were happy that they became closer to Ib for New York.
Daniel is very entertained "when you look at the scene that he has a lot of people," one of the trailer that is in English in English.
"I do not know how to do it, because I am thinking that my emotion is still thinking, I was a bit difficult in my part," I was able to hide on my part. "
"It's because it's just not right," I know the bait that I know, "the English line that he / she" is in English which "there is still a stop that is just a stop."
"It is said that there's nothing" now, Jon said, she was removed because it was difficult for him.
How many times has passed?
"It seems that more than 400!
"It is not, as long as there are many who did not become easy," Jesusa can still pity on me.
"The level of maturity as Niel hopes to be one of those who will wait for the movie Barcelona.
Daniel said to us that their fans will be surprised and they will need to need to adjust because it is a distance and different from Crelief, Betamax of Beauty with our Gangtze River.
"The maturity of their character from the appearance of Vhong, until he / she goes out of the appearance and all of all, he was able to show on the movie and the fans, according to DJ had thought of me.
"What happened to her as Ely was happy with the former President Erap and Mia is also happy with the amount of gratitude with the cow with a color.
It is in a trailer "that's why they feel pity for each other about who wants to be with anyone but what is she kissed,"?
DJ had answered, "Sassure, this is the movie that proves that he will go back to 5 years of support from Kathryn.
"Maybe this is my gift to them, to show our gratitude for five years of support to us."
"Are there a lot of indigenous people," that's how many times they talked?
"According to him, we should watch it," okay, okay!
"How many years have passed," about 400 years?
"Anyway, though, you asked Tita Mindanao (Bernardo, mother of Kath), okay, okay!
What kind of view will happen that's why it takes up their Scene of the ademia?
"I do not want to speak yet because they might be too late," I answered with my mom.
"He said," he said their gift "in Kathmandu," isn't it?
"Yes, but you might think that you are too much.
The fans here in Barcelona are a trend and unusual Kathryn.
"This is really the reason why we have done the most mystery that we have admitted that we are also surprised at the scenes on how the news is.
"We said," Uy, that it is not appropriate now that this is not "the problem with our fellowmen," now, Tina Mulong, "that is the scene," the emotion.
"And then, how did we get the show-off," that was also watched by Iris. "
"Because, he wants, not" giddy, that they have seen in Crelief goods, in Ganglement, this is a distance.
That is really a distance, "this is really true.
"We even said, we want to watch the movie, they cannot see Kathryn and Daniel.
"We wanted to bring Ely and Mia.
"
What can he say about the call of Jon in the movie?
"Just," that is indeed, 5 years, where it is a movie, "this is a good gift for Kathmandu, and all of them.
"It's because, in the opinion of the Scene of the Scene of the Crime Operatives), they stopped himself because the fans of Sip on yesterday had no choice.
"In" Pigcawayan, if there is something, there is a lot of need to wait for.
"Dindo has already slipped on the Armed Forces, okay?
Sunduster of Daniel, "I do not, it is true that instead of our conversation, the Scene showed that it is not only" that.
"" The heart of the story, "
On May September 14, the length of Barcelona: A Love Untold which was published.
