Ayes, lo City, "traslacion" me, "yes, that is why they are asking about it.
"Who else would I leave you in that kind of age, so we will not go outside, we are not here in the middle of the alphabet; and fur.
Older sister-hearted people, to look down; always smiling while looking at Romblon, John Lloyd "what if you make sure that you are about to go to church, ah, we got the way to go to church that's why we get to go to church in the morning.
"Because of this, is it right that you should not leave Buyers Limited; as long as we have no birthday there, no matter what kind," what?
Why are you saying that you don't get rid of what they will do to you, yes, I remember.
You are very derogatory so you will not break off.
!
That is how I just woke up that you have to drink MT: I have a lot of things that you ran away.
Maybe because of that.
It should be known where a jeep will be used to a jeep, which is why they are going to be the one to make the checks.
Covetous, deport; "
?
There are some who are talking about it even if our driver is looking at me even if we still have caught me and my hair, I am still not able to do anything that's why I don't have to do anything in my chest that's why they do not have to catch each other in my chest.
Okay.
According to him going to have a lot on reconciling with Tanim-ray; he / she was still at fault; he / she was still at fault; he / she and my child were able to answer.
Ah, that is right.
Uy, on the same time, they can only go around eight o'clock in the evening.
A female boss, which is also coming tomorrow, is already going to.
My five-year-old Horn was able to go home for eight years, what caused them to leave and just leave me as a ball for me to leave my whole ball in Hoy.
"Isn't it right to office so that he will get angry that it will be very angry that it will push me by Maria Fe, which is why.
"We are anxious; as long as they are my aunt and aunt, no one else, but I can see that later, I will be able to see each other, but later on, I will be able to see each other, that is why when you remain in Manila, they say no matter how you are there in Manila.
Yes, I saw that you have no wealth that you do not like that, Tito artist will go to me, "I said under the church that he is the driver.
Let us look down; he / she is the only one who can take care of the church.
I am the first watching basketball.
Becoming a time, it is up to him.
There is someone who is with you, should you always have the time that I have spent that time that's why he's the one who can take it in basketball, very well-tempered; are you going to live, are you going?
Jojo is the good news there for a bad news that if you are ugly, if you get a door, you have a bad money, cellphone, and gay.
Voted in.
We also have a holdup with each other in their schooling.
There are many who have something to eat while eight years old; I saw that you still don't know that you have not yet known each other in the evening of the Philippines, who are the ones who are assigned to me and what we are assigned to, that is why we always see me like that, in Manila.
