In the continuing clearing operations in Mindanao, why are some of the uniform of M-FAir Force that will be cut off.
He announced that there were a bad house and other properties next to him that's why they are against us who are not against those who are not against Diego.
Meanwhile, Joseph Estrada was already looking at a while ago, there is already a five in leader leader of M Riyals in relation to the investigation that he should adjust; he / she should adjust to his story with his mother in a tree from poverty in Mindanao by one four applicants.
We are saying earlier that we receive the international end that we have received the international fight, which might be between the Office of P-80s; that's why we can go to the area of Filipinos who have nothing to go to in the area of Filipinos.
"Now, we are stupid; we have to go to school; we already go to him a few days that is why I have no help with my karma.
Um! I agree, isn't it?
This is the stamped on of one use of the military on my counter case in Mindanao, they have seen those who will be left behind by Morong and anti-pinworm medicine after a while.
You are unaware that they are already hungry for the road to buy anywhere, even if there's a person seen by the M-INTEL.
Being absorbed by the D X-M / she bought yes, we did not know that we don't know, we don't know, we can't say that I'm an M-mannered; we can't say that Bon-chan is not surprising.
They think that it was also stated that one of the four who was carried away by one of the four who was carried away by what he heard last Sunday was that he was going to be brought home in Singapore but they were just a little bit near the highway near the highway in the town of Barangay Elin the town.
We saw a few pieces of house.
It is said that a big thing is said to have thought that it is a big chance for the viand of the viand on their area at five o'clock.
My work was five.
Then, the mango tree will be done here, that is where they are.
Evidence!
Is there something there in spite of it?
We also saw a house saved from each other.
But when we asked if it is on what is open under the strawberry because the house was laid down.
She said that it is just a traffic, that is what he wants to help them so that they would be able to help them fix their house.
Nothing.
There are those who will reach a tree where there will be a coconut tree that uses six two neighboring neighboring houses in the area.
That is why we are not that, when they are finished, they will be finished if they come back together.
You!
Why is it that in this part?
They are really not stupid; we are not rival, because there are no enemy here four million.
