
Let us protest about the proposals for a system of the Pambansang IDs.

Bureau on the information.

The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.

August 05, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (WBC) for a National ID system - CPP-CPP-NPA.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is calling the Filipino people to complain about the proposals to fix the national ID system or the system of national ID, who said that it will only be used by the military as armor of the human rights to push their narrow-minded people.

The proposal for a national ID system has been brought again to the legislative chamber for a few days through the House Bill 685th which was filed by Representative Al Francis Bichara of Albay.

"The proposed national ID system is a way to restore the systems that will be taken from the Pacific Ocean," said PKP, "said PKP," like the old habits of the Pacific Ocean, "said PKP," said their actions, lives, economists and culture and activities of politics. "

"The citizens should protest about this proposal because it will cause a lasting damage to their rights to fight and be united in front of their lives and abuse," said PKP, "said the national ID system to build their kind of appliances for the people."

"Because they are holding the owners of the boxer, as long as there are a lot of information, similar to the pension increase in the proposed National ID system, even those whom he doesn't want to give in the internet of the agency in a southwest monsoon which will be given to the people considered by the state of its enemies."

"It seems that Aquino is not interested in the National ID system, which is said to be worried on Privacy Law (right, according to him, Aquino has been interested in the cybercrime law," said that Aquino did not violate the cybercrime law that affects his rights.

"Aquino is using his scratches so that he did not do anything but nothing can be done, nothing can be done," said PKP, "said that it is not doing anything to push through," said PKP, "said that it would not be noticed that it would not be noticed that it would push through the Saligang Batas of the 1987 Constitution."
