Peaceful!

The difference between Tantos is and a peaceful person.

Someone asked me to express this message to the filipino language, so this is for our fellow countrymen to completely understand.

Kaligayahan, feels peaceful, Panatag Shoal, peaceful, think, not dangerous, stable, sure, Papal.

Insecure, feels very peaceful, not in Panatag Shoal, with security, no happiness to waste.

Peaceful - a cravarming.

According to the owner, he / she had a piece of ice cream.

One thing I cannot endure is a peaceful person.

I need to accept it, I want to accept myself that one of the oldest person in the world is the reason why I cannot accept before even my self.

Have you found a peaceful and always asked for attention to others?

How will you know if a person is peaceful or peaceful?

Let me share to you my personal struggle in a peaceful and security feeling) and how a person will feel if he has no security.

The difference is.

A peaceful person doesn't feel pity for yourself if others succeed, while a peaceful person is becoming creative when others succeed.

A peaceful person is focused on what is one of others, while a peaceful person is focused on what they have.

A peaceful person has no debt of gratitude (greedy), while a peaceful person can be seen inside (generous) and thank you.

A peaceful person has tantrums and lonely, while a peaceful person usually goes to a happy and happy person.

A peaceful person is often what they have done or what they have done and always raising the self (drilling their own bank), while a peaceful person can't talk about what they have received and instead I praise others.

A peaceful person is being swept away from the honor) which is hard for others, while a peaceful person is given to anyone who is about it.

A peaceful person has the ability to talk negative or destroy those things and to be removed, while a peaceful person is often talking about good things and goodness about others.

A peaceful person is living together with no happiness (no happiness) and miserable life), while a peaceful person is happy and contented in life.

I am trying to thank the Lord and he is able to remove all the peace (security) for myself.

"Are I totally gone here?

This is a struggle for every day that we need to face all.

We need to remain awake or we have not noticing that we are carrying a peaceful feeling, they are fighting or they are rejected, unresponsive and to avoid it.

After the whole day, we do not want to be contented with a miserable life, rather remain a peaceful and happy life.

Ask for help.

Talk and cooperate with people how to make changes.

Pray to God that we will be blessed so you will be blessed!

Like the grace that he gives me and I have already succeed!

Report it.

Confusing, proves that everything is easy to do.
Do you not think that you still have any security (security) in your life?

What are your plan for your skills to you and to your partner?

Do you have done the fal and request to God to forgive and be blessed in order to end it!

Hoping.
