Congress cut the mind.

The right and right are President Benigno Aquino 3rd (BGH3) in the issue of money of the country's money which have been utilized for the program for progress but to the corrupt and DAP!
In the last statement of pork barrel scam, teacher Butch Abad in front of businessmen and allies in politics, the pork barrel in 2015 budget is no longer there in the 2015 budget, Tell that will be a teacher Butch!
I will ask the Hacienda Luisita, if it is true that there is no pork barrel budget in 2015) it's true that if that happens, there's still something that can move in order to work in Congress?
Carry out of thinking, I mean, your term in Malacañang is almost over, you are still full of flattery, therefore, all politicians are still full of capital because of the size of their profit.
On the pork barrel that is only a native of porridge, which will be brought by their monthly salary (and-law, especially the extrajudicial number as chairman, vice-chairman and members of different committee, they will go back to income!
With that part of the budget, it is clear that politicians do not have any plan to serve, but instead to earn money, it is natural that they will deny the excuse that they will not touch the fund of pork barrel.
Okay, let us believe it, but it is more believable that the public and congressmen are going to interfere with the public and congressmen who will meddle with the funds.
They say it is wrong to say where they will get help from their district or get used to where the agencies of the government are focused on every sector of our society?
Infrastructure, DPWH, those who are sick, DOH or TESDA) farmers, fishermen, fishermen, fishermen, fishermen and similar sector, DA-NFA should be responsible for them.
If the flow of pork barrel in Congress is cut, there is no doubt, not only enough but the money is too much for the programs of every person and country.
"What the lawmakers are saying about their project from the pork barrel, it would be better for them to look into their new houses, expensive vehicles, funds in the bank and traveling outside the country.
When they were not in Congress, they are riding in the Congress, they will drink coffee and just asking for fare!
