Old stories in the new world.

By Tomas, Santos-October 29, 2015.

There is a sin that mortal enemies that is why it needs to be deal.
Chambers (WBC) revealed in her new book that was sent to Kailal: Kyoto, which was published in the UST Publishing back in the House, this world is owned by gay people.
In 15 stories, Pascual is confused by his readers in this world so it is able to get a new story about gay people heard from the corner, gossip, school - through good use and playing with the Filipino language.
The start of Pascual is very eager for the stories that he has made to details in the place where the character of Pascual was moving to details because of the usual class in the house while commerce at the recent class in the recent class in the start of a hangover from the night that passed.
Mefenamic Actor, he realized that he knows that he is aware from the high-tempered body of a delivery boy of the water refilling station until the milkfish fell from the milkfish.
Pascual's use is slippery and deacons, one traits that will be seen in the name of people or things that can be seen in the name of people or things that will be seen on July and where the fishpond is often flooded during summer "and the care of Erlinda Collins.
But the details of Pascual is getting into a low level of the details of Pascual.
In the story of the flood, it was said that the lepers should be used for two times but we will be able to fix the character of the character as well as in the story of horical "where two times it was said that the surrounding was dark, but indication about different level of gnomes and metaphorical.
There is also a good use of Pascual's use to other stories that seems to be a good strategy for the situation in the life of the character that will give a deeper meaning to the character of the personality who is playing in the past and present.
Because of the good state of Pascual, he is easier to tell the readers a serious issue facing by gay people.
We already know the issues of gay people in school, to funeral parlor and in society but he can make it a new thing to challenge the readers of this world and it is smooth to bring the readers in this world and smooth.
It is not easy to shout about different kinds of sin that mortal enemies of mortal enemies in his book but, like borrowing so, a truth will be built from cut off pieces of sins.
That's why in the end, you can find yourself from the stories of Pascual - as a Gabriel, Alejandro or maybe Broch; as a readers, you have become mortal enemies and needs to be coercion.
