Buy for you.
Me.
Pinagwaraan, lo City, Quezon City.
Yes, but what are the ones who are proud of.
Yes, she is asking me.
Yes, right now, right now, they say that you are asking about the things that they are asking about, not just like cotton buds or you say that it is okay for you to be okay now.
You will lose something.
"There is okay when I went home that later, we have to look down; I am graduating, I am graduating, that is why there is a gold in Banawe, which is why you have to say that this is the same thing that I have to say.
"We are just doing what you are doing with, so that I can only do anything that's why I do not have a job right now that's why I want us to let us see each other, that is why I want us to laugh and laugh at where you are now.
Yes, just when will it be, but later we will see that there are two stories up to each other.
Very short; we can still go home and I will still go home to know you all.
Many are going to us but that is not what I am, I am ugly towards me.
In your mother, he / she grew up at the same age.
Covetous, filling, mother and mother-in-law; and very flawless, what are you?
Yes, we are okay not to cook or okay, but they are okay yes, we are still okay, they are the ones who will be the one after a while, they will be able to step down.
Who are you in need of food?
Okay, later I already had a cellphone, it seems that this is just a small condo that even if we see each other, we continue to see each other.
Yes, it is clear that it's okay, that perhaps, it's okay for them to have friends here if they have a chance to go there.
I am not here for that.
Yes, it seems that four people of Two Wives are saying that they will suffer if there is still no signal, we saw each other.
It is prohibited to curse here, to look at Bon-ang; I am calling Bon-3618; as long as I have nothing to go with Bon-3618; I can still have no plate number; we can't go to just watch you in the corner.
It is just proper that there is a mother of your cellphone that is why they are always there that's why they have an agreement in Manila.
Yes, they are really cold but they lower down, will it be harder but if there is a typhoon there?
I am not doing anything right now, is there really a tree. "
Maybe we are just going back in the third year, you really won't just laugh at the third year; we should just go straight at the same age; we should just go to Manila, I will just go to Manila, I will just go to Manila.
Yes, maybe even if you have seen your body in your own body, just do not just go to your mother, look at your mother, co-budol gang; we might turn around to your mother, so that you will look at your mother.
My room where there are a lot of men who are riding a motorcycle, he keeps on top of each other; he / she grew up to each other; he / she was feasted in; he / she grew up.
I am no longer in the house for alms and it is still there, there is no reason for you to eat, malignant creatures.
Okay, they have been saving to each other; we can talk to each other; that you can talk to each other; he / she can talk to each other; he / she can see each other in the place of April that's why we don't even talk to you.
