Yes, what kind of older brother said, that we have visitors today from the truth that we have a guest in the morning, and what we completed the next Court or the morning of you, sir, the morning, a resort in the morning, "this morning, the letter of our countrymen.
Infant four four months.
Four.
Zailon and covetousness.
You are probably the age of someone.
Yes, we will buy an operation group.
They do not know, "we are happy!
"Do you chose this to his sister-in-radio in the town-og; he / she said P-B; she said, this is a part of the heart of our countrymen, which is a part of the heart of our athletes.
We one to be the one to be blamed; we are the ones who are given by our officials.
"You, sir, this is what they are saying and they are thinking that they are thinking that we are thinking that we are thinking about the sake of the vendors; TStation, our past Stars, ham," my said passports.
Does he have what they want to be, sir, to be a report, to be a report, to be a report, to be a report, to Hacosta; we are over, Sir Al-ang; and I am the same.
They are high school officers in the wake of Loy.
Factory became the honor of the units where they get rid of it, assigned in different parts of the Philippines, vegetables, and Tutok-Kalawit Gang; and Calanoga, and many of the dog.
They are not able to look at each other; as long as we pretended to go to the stories of relatives in different places, but how long are their relatives nowadays, these kinds of establishments are these kinds of foolishness; and like that, they wrestled.
Your alcohol that is like that is those who are seated, there are a lot of people who will be focused on, it is just a few of us, who are the whole of Joseph yes, that they are the whole of Joseph yes.
Barangay captain, who is very proud and asked what is the name of our heart, that is okay, and this is good for you to just tell us when we go home to our students.
Here we have, there is already a nine student of the Philippines or Philippines.
Junior yes to be personally low.
Gifts are the gift of Enteng.
What are we, Junior, isn't it?
I walked away; we were able to go away; go away from the coldness in Ramos.
We buy it there.
Will not go to church.
You are weak.
It's okay that Baby Ann was okay with what I did not like Enteng.
You buy what you buy while going.
In the room.
Well, those with good men who are left behind by the doors of the names of those whose names have been cut, especially the sales of money, have been cut off.
There are those who go outside.
I will take care of all our men to succeed; the number of men who want us to succeed in our country is also a lot of learn so that we can also learn how we are thankful for us because we were given time.
In this thing, therefore, thank you very much better, maybe it is important that there is a restless numbers to buy.
He / she grew up; as long as they want to be a sports to go to the church of our units that they do not want to fight.
What if you are sure that ten money can be done for and then, there is really a person who can take care of us; he / she really likes to bathe him but do you want the fight to be far from him.
That's why they already have a chance and they have a chance to fight back when I was super super-tempered; he / she was super full-tempered; before we go to the 'Cornes.
Let's be.
The reason why they do not know that they are low-shirt now, they do not want to come back so he likes it.
Also, what for you to laugh at all the places that might be done here.
Be us!
