
Day of cheating (1)

"YANDERL.
While President Roosevelt went to their Congress in their Congress, the armed Japanese tourist in Lingayen, Pangasinan died.
This is the start of five months to fight for the Philippines.
This is the beginning of three years that there is no God for us.
Although the war is expected and often being discussed in the bark in the corner, it is surprising that we are still shocked when the war comes.
It's because we are able to believe that the strength of the military of America is enough so that the "Ipit Gang" will not attack.
What we thought was wrong.
We trusted that the Americans are confident that is why we do not have a preparation until it becomes too late.
Our trust that we have done is wrong.
Just imagine that the War (Orange-3), the plan of America for defending the Philippines has been placed under the end of April 1941, eight months before the Japanese attacked Pangasinan.
Together with WPO 3-3, it was returned from the 20th Infantry Batallion of the United States to lead the new version of the United States Armed Forces in the team Far East or UFFE.
According to the famous critic in Louis Morton, it is clear for the author of WPO 3-3 that America cannot defend the Philippines.
According to this plan, the UFE is going to fight against Bataan and women.
This force will only take action just to remove the Japanese with their other plans.
It is estimated that within six months, the help from the US will reach to six months and the Japanese can be stolen from the occupied towns.
The surrender of the Bataan and women is not around 3-3.
Aside from those who do not know, there is no American who believes in WPO 3-3.
In fact, on March 29, 1941, after three months meeting with the Americans, English and Canadian hostages (ABC-1) in Washington D.C.), they decided to prioritize the Europe before reaching Asia.
This means, they will speed up the Germany first before he will be able to take advantage of the succeeding Japanese.
This means no one believes that the war will be easy or just a short time but they know that it has been a long fight.
Continue to continue.
If you want to take a bath in a private Starex van, you went to the Infinite Resort, Indigo Bay Subdivision, Barangay Bagong Kalsada, City of Calamba.
This is just near Metro Manila and from here, you look at the holy mountain.
