When a salary is not good, the employer does not care about signed contract.
SSeptember 7, 2016.
To the authorities.
It's a good day I am the PRISTS.
I hope you can help me as I have not allowed an orderly salary, if I send a big salary in my salary, I have asked him to be able to give him a lot but I did not allow him to bring me a lot but I told him to bring me back to the agency.
He got angry and said that if they were sent to the agency he will be imprisoned in the police because I have debt on him for $5,000 so I should just keep quiet if I do not want to be imprisoned.
If I will leave here, he will make sure that I will not come home to the Philippines.
I also have no rest, passports and all the papers, even my contract, she also does not care about what is written in the contract because I was also advised to talk to anyone.
"When I asked me to send me to the agency, he took the receipt of the money he sent to him but he / she said that he / she wasn't able to feed me even if it's still lacking." That's still not enough.
In my contract of $400 / her salary should have been given to me but it is only $300 / her salary in front of me but she gave birth to my family almost $200 / month.
I really want to report it for a long time but he always threatened me to be imprisoned, but my family is really bad, but my employer has a bad attitude. "
He is angry that I get water from drinking water so that I just let him drink water from drinking even if I know that there is no trouble, even if it is bad for me to have a bad treatment, but I cannot handle it, but I cannot handle it.
I really wanted to go home when I wanted to end the contract because I was close to them but I seem to be able to help my family in the Philippines because I could not be able to send properly.
"I also do not know if I really can get the entirety of my salary or will I go home without money, please help me.
This is the information at the address: Deir GROs at, Keker and BGHMC) and Bastes.
The complaint of Miss Manuyo Dos are already coming to the UPP Agency), as well as the shirt-OWWA, Adik-Jordan) and the Office of G. Leonard Moniqueo 09213263166, POEA administrator of U-OFWs in the leadership of G. John Leonard Monaco.
To be followed by Baybayog in the said Recruitment agency and to the mentioned agencies of the government, the case of Miss Manji and we were published in the following days will be solved in the said problem.
