2016: It should be.

What is happening now in our society is rotten, the leaders are surprised, the people are surprised, and the people are proud of what should we do?
It is the son of the seven-governmental organization, while they are preparing for the impeachment of some members of the magistrates of the magistrates of the supreme court, here is Boy market, onions, Traura, rice and sack which is said to be another term for Aquino?
We do not believe that this dream of Interior Secretary Mar Roxas is true.
That is only one of the octopus of the Aquino administration to remove the attention of the people for the serious crime that they made up with the lack of money from the country - PDAF and DAP.
Here is it, the Malacanang insisted that the President Noynoy Aquino plans to do the guests of the Liberal Party, UNA chief and VP Jojo Binay?
Even back in 2010, we already wrote the support of the clan of Aquino-CoCs from VP Binay because they are honest with VP Binay's loyalty to the clan of Hacienda Luisita, because if not for them, it's likely that he was counting the stone in the street of Makati.
It seems that the princess of Noynoy's previous siblings can be lessened or not a nuisance to Binay?
All the issues being taken by Malacañang, it is just responsible for them to be put in their sin anymore, you will be able to see the magistrates to find out of the statement of former Senator Joker Arroyo that we are living in the "mask of the dictatorship!"
The former President and Manila Mayor Eker was good when he said that the "broken head" is pushing another term to Noynoy Aquino, however, he will run again!
For us, before having any election, change the entire 1987 Constitution, if he disobeyed and put it off the PDAF and DAP.
Change every basis of life and society, economy and politics in the current Constitution.
This is the only focus of those introducing themselves as leaders of the country, if they are true from his duty, but it is unlikely to happen that we need to decide and make a way for us. 2016?
