
The visit of Kerry is set to be increased by the tension to give straight and raising the presence of the US, to be able to call more than 100 pesos.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 19, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (Kerry to Humalig) to the United States to be a US Embassy in a duplex, CPP.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) criticized the visit of Secretary of State of the US, John Kerry in the Philippines, and said that his statements and actions were presented to the Asia-Pacific in order to intensify the higher position of the US in the region, Kerry last November 17 for two days of visit.

"The performance of the presence of the armed troops of the US, of the warship, drone and airplane warship, particularly in South China Sea," said the KP.

The KP has criticized the allocation of $40 million of the government budget under the Global Security System (GSF) for the strengthening of the ability of the Philippines against China.

"The US State Secretary Butch Abad is pretending to be proud and made to give importance to the Philippines of $40 million from the funds of GSCF, according to the public funds given to the US State Department, according to them, they should face the challenges and opportunities that are important in the national security of the US."

According to the KP, the $40 million fund from the US will probably help in widening of facilities, particularly in OPLAN Bay of the Philippine Navy in Palawan which can be denied by the military forces to build facilities in OPLAN Bay because of the depth of water it can anchor in the coast. "

It is said that the KP has said that this kind of military is going to pull the Philippines in the campaign of the US, which will decrease China and other countries in the region, which will surely benefit from the military operations which will surely benefit from the military in Industrial Complex in the US. "

"The Filipino people should visit Kerry to declaration the declaration of the US's declaration of the widespread study of Japan and on the planned expenses when there is a $240 billion to buy weapons in Asia that is being pushed by the government agencies to support the military and El Niño in Japan.

"The PKP has criticized the Marcos regime in showing a direct treatment of the US government to allow the military of the US to set up the US in relation to Japan, when he declared that he is requesting the US government to serve the government fund."

The PKP has also criticized the government budget for its involvement in the "Disaster Risk Reduction entice" (use of calamities in order to protect them by the American troops that can make the newspaper and distress.

On the other hand, the PKP is calling for the Filipino people to shun the country's offer to protect one of the Philippines under the financial situation in order to free up the obstacles to the Filipinos who are looking for work in the US. "

The KP has approved the offer of the US as a "conservation in the US, especially those who have different countries in the US, especially those from the type of workers who are not only experiencing the widespread lack of livelihood but of intense restriction and distress.
