Transfer of Tiamzon.

For those who like him who became activists in the decade of 90, the names Benito was Tiamzon and Wilma Austria-Tiamzon just recently moved away from the organizations which were taken away, which was like they wanted to destroy the bank that seemed like they did not carry it.
One of the greatest noise is Joel Rocamora, who, after the last are those who get along the brimming of politics, "in his writings, Rocamora," in the end, he was praising of the CPP in the book, at the end I'm praising the regime of El Tabora.
Whatever it is in the book, Rocamora is certain that Rocamora is certain with the agents of the military, who are being referred to by the couple, who is being referred to by the husband and wife in Maestries, and responsible for their own path.
One older activists told him that the couple Tiamzon was also added to a few stories about the armed fight in the custody of the couple and the boy was no picture of the military as well as a week before he escaped.
Isn't it that Jose Maria Sison is not interested about the strong anti-raising of his youth? "Rocamora is becoming famous and not alive, and not only a simple idea that they are taking care of many activists.
Before their being arrested last March 22, it can be recalled that the name of the couple was able to read in those who wrote the "Reiziamist" and the military; they rarely see the "Rebanal t, and Danilo Vizmonte.
Some of those who are talking to the couple are getting along with them in the crime that in the actual act, those who were trying to escape from Sison, the faces and leader of the Lefur, there are still different version and leader of the Leflawless, however, Sison still has the leader's leader, despite the two of the organization.
The truth is that Sison is going to be set up to the Philippines, and he is always saying that the government's management is in the Philippines, and in the whole world, the truth that they do not want to raise the lives of their leaders, even if they do not have a comfortable life of Sison.
But they know the truth is that the many leaders of the Leflawless, even if there are age and with illness, remains included in the New People's Army in the municipal hall and they can also choose the good of their generation and they can also choose the life of the masses and the country.
Maybe, he is not alone with activists for saying that he will not forget when the two have been arrested, she cannot help but see the desire to see them, of course, and to be amazed and amazed.
He was so happy when seeing the handcuffs in the television wherein the handcuffs were going to protest to protest the handcuffs in the price of the fist, however, I'm greeting the Bagong Hagdan in the 25th anniversary, "I am getting stronger in the entire town!" He would not be defeated by the Armed Forces of the Philippines! "
You will be able to think if you have seen that kind of love for the AFP, Jews as a simple tree, even if the two leaders continue to replace even if the two leaders have been arrested, the fight will be replaced with responsibility and suffering in our country.
Even after getting caught and even while in the tension of the military, the couple is imprisoned, with integrity, and not their spirit, they are trying to follow, but they were not able to follow the pork barrel, that they were not able to follow the Dilawan, and aal!
In Facebook, in Facebook, not sadness, fear or question is happening to activists.
For sure, the rules that will weaken the bark in the capture of Tiamzon is getting stronger, but it seems that the couple will give a model for activists to walk even if it is persistent, the essence of, and no fear.
