TV Patrol, August 29, 2013.

Kabayo insisted.

The truth will easily surface from mistakes.

Instead from confusion and anxiety.

Always ill-tempered, even small things or events are given to a Merry Christmas, and when asked, no destination or learned to go there.

Happiness is shallow, whatever opportunity will be focused on and put it on if this will make him happy or wrong as long as you are happy and wrong.

It is not a high fever that has given to him / her because if the barbells will be distinguished.

One day with the advise of one of the neighbors about the good way to be happy to be happy, it needs to go to the top of the mountain of Mariveles, however, it needs to go to the top of the mountain so that he was forced to prepare and started the mountain.

But the few weeks have passed, he saw many times on the peak of the mountain, but he was not found in the top of the mountain, but he was not able to find his happiness because of extreme tiredness, the horse weakened and eventually died.

Kathleen thought of her crying, she considered her hair is more than a friend and she is being blamed on his death if she was buried in front of my horse, "this was why she was buried in front of my horse," he died, and he died from tiredness. "

"I do not believe," the statement of the new former senator, "there is no good mind that she can use to leave the mountain in the first town, and we just want to go out of the grave of a rich politician, and they also want to leave the grave of a rich politician, and they also want to leave the concert, which is happening and we just want to leave the hotel, and just want to leave the motel, and just want to leave the hospital, and just let him leave the house.

If you are busy with each other, there are no more than tons on, you will increase the confusion in the continuous decrease.

This is what is usually happening to us, we are looking for a solution to the obstacles and questions that we cannot face and answer to others so that they will try hard to face each other so that we can stop it from others, to forget that it is in our depths and we will always be with us.

What is the thing that you are waiting for, change your thoughts, words, and to change your world.
