Become the protagonist right!: The first SONA!
By Bam Aquino July 28, 2016.
Stars, on Monday, we said the first State of the Nation Address (SONA) of President Rody Duterte, 26 days after he sat as the 16th leader of the country.
One more than half an hour is the length of speech of President Duterte, which is very important in the different issues of the country and is expected to be done by the people.
From illegal drugs, business, nature, corruption, quick service to the government, issue of China, problems on the internet, peace and hunger, President Duterte discussed his SONA.

It is also clear that the President has not led the directive to government agencies and the direction of plans that needs the lawmakers.
Included here is the formation of a deral system of the government and the tax of the people.
Accompanied by President Duterte is the speech of his boss, a joke and prosperous line that gave happiness to the lawmakers and other guests gathered at the plenary in the legislative chamber.
In spite of these complaints, we feel that President Duterte is serious with his said words, especially when he told the people sleeping on the road while waiting to open the agency of the government who is in a mall.
You can remember the speech of the President when he respects his personal experience and did not follow the script of the telephone.

We are thankful to President Duterte to expose her advocacy that we are pushing in the Senate.
Part of this is to make the process quick in taking the documents of the government, beautifying the service of the internet, going through taxes, helping, helping and beautifying the system of education in the country.
Stars, it is not unknown to you that we are pushing the quick and affordable internet in the country on the 16th Congress.
In the directive of Duterte in the new version of Department of Information Technology and communication technology, which formed a National Security band Plan, we expected that the service of the internet in the country will improve.
We have also learned a lot of people who are supporting the adro, small medium built in the 16th Congress, just like the Philippine National Security Act, Go of the Philippine Commercial Center (Lakas ng Masang Pilipino Program.
These laws are going to help the goal of President Duterte to keep the process of business and intensify the service to our Pambansang Kamao, small and medium of our economy.
This 17th Congress, we filed a 100 proposed law and resolution regarding different issues, including beautifying the system of education and reform through the Personal Tax Reform of Tax Reform bill.
Now that the direction that the Duterte administration wants to take is clear, we trust that these proposals will be served, for the welfare of the public.
Even if the Senate changed leadership, we continue to work for our stars.
I always say that even our parties have different parties, we will still declare our desire to wear the people.
