Corruption is corruption by PNoy.

While President Noynoy went closer and closer to his position in Malacanang, it seems that what happened to his administration is approaching.
Is this what he wants to leave because he has given him an inheritance from Malacañang?
Reporting for TV Patrol.
We can remember that DILG Sec. Mar Roxas shows that he will buy a lot of patrol car for the Philippine National Police to immediately respond against the crime and other needs of the citizens from the police and DILG.
The most revered secretary does not want to see the rotten and decrepit vehicles and decrepit vehicles, and these will become useless on the use of their duties.
We ourselves are also happy in this project.
But when a few bottles of jeep came out from 1,470 pieces, children of tofu, along with the news coming from the news which was cooked or anomalies.
According to him, the officials of the PNP themselves, are accomplices of jeepneys or jeepney.
1.3 billion pesos to 1,470 pesos.
It is made by Mahogany from India and being sold by Coling with Auto, car causing the jeepneys.
Around 1,470 pesos worth of 1.317 billion pesos in other words, Bro, around 896,000 pesos are every jeepney.
How much is praying?
Of course, the buying of jeepneys "will be exported and based on the law of local government of pro-martial law.
But, children of crooks, the announcement for a long time, is full of anomaly.
What the Philippine National Police-Bids Blue Ribbon Committee is said, they have not put a date for the announcement for the burial, that is why other decorations are not included.
Coling with Asukal will only be included and they are also able to respond to the distress or quality, appearance, ability and other jeepneys.
Of course, even in the price.
But how much is it really?
In terms, hehehe!
Like a horny.
The call of the jeep is Bolero and Model Shop.
It was just the act for an accident.
The PNP-NDF) is the people who can buy the taxes that they will buy and order to buy peace and order in order for them to be able to join.
The buying of jeepneys are forced to be forced.
But the former general and soldiers were not fooled and will be exported in a gathering of this project of Secretary Roxas.
Representative Samuel Pagdilao of ACT-CIS), Romeo Acop and Antipolo, Leopoldo Bat@-@ oil of Pangasinan, both ex-General and Francisco Ashley Acedillo and Gary Alejano of the Magdalo partylist who were all former soldiers, including Senator Antonio Trillanes.
The lawmakers are allegedly investigating this is corruption or corruption.
P14B in the DA.
Just like what we mentioned yesterday, Bro, we do not use corruption again and corruption is the Department of Agriculture.
The DA presented by Secretary Proceso Alcala to P14 billion pesos for those who have fallen and broken money from different non-government organization, including some of the NGO done by Janette Napoles; and giving funds to some government agencies that have nothing to do with the funds of the DA.
There is a garbage surrounding and chopper.
Big, billion pesos is also a billion pesos, the value of the military to buy the garbage in the garbage in the rules, and plunging personnel.
The drawings made in jail were not going to fly again because these are more old to the gay administration of Neneng Mendoza, damaged, and almost no part.
The Americans gave a debt of gratitude for the money that they have to buy-up-old vehicles but these should have been bought by the military.
Now that there is a problem of Sprateng, the military admitted that he does not have the ability to face China to cover-up the military based on our islands in the said place.
Even the bombing of the Cai Coast Guard are not able to face the police and military.
This is a result of the corruption in the launch of the modernization that will pass through the police and military.
Instead of modern equipment, these kinds of old and garbage are what they have.
The fools moved the security and peace of the citizens and the country.
Remove them from them.
To make it true that PNoy will have a good inheritance for us, it is first to do the firing of all his cabinet and officials involved in corruption and corruption.
