Speaker Alvarez has no powers?
Bira Yagit, October 20, 2016.
House Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez is scheduled to wait for a few anomalous issues that are condoned by the Minority Floor of the Congress.
First of this is the investigation of the legislative chamber to the New Bilibid Prison (NBP) in the illegal drug trade where he did not give a signal to the chairman of the committee who ordered him to file a case against Senator Leila de Lima who dragged the trade of illegal drugs in NBP.
Oriental Mindoro Rep. Reynaldo Umali defended that he acted as the House Justice Committee chairman of the islands of the legislative chamber to question the committee because of the non-law to file a case against De Lima when he said that Senator De Lima's directive should be filed against Senator De Lima of the committee, where his loyalty was really?
Is President Rodrigo Duterte or his co-allies in the legislative chamber to become the leader of the low position in Congress?
We know "in hearing aid, however, I believe that the implementation of the legislative chamber is only a big help but I believe that the investigation of the investigation will push through so that the cases like the government who are involved in the trade of illegal drugs will push through so they will be held accountable for the law.
But with the result of the investigation of the committee, him said that him will not file a case against de Lima despite the direct release of the witnesses as it caused doubt to the public especially to the supporters of President Duterte where the support of Speaker Alvarez is.
We do not want to think of course, Speaker Alvarez is holding some former members of the Liberal Party (LP) who are being treated and a fence, that's why he seemed to just blindly follow the desire of his co-instruments so he will sit as House Speaker.
The weakness of Speaker Alvarez is only seen in this issue that is alarming as the allies of President Duterte that he does not want to ask for help for the government of Duterte to fulfill the desire to file a case against the politicians involved in illegal drugs.
If the House Speaker will be like this suspicious, it would be better if the allies of the President have the ability to fight for his policies.
Even if we do not talk about this case in this case because of the course of the investigation, there is a need for the government officials to achieve justice.
