Thank you to 24 / 7 games and Nueva Ecija, PDU 30, Jeanne Calment of September 15, 2016.
Now that a video went viral in an operation of the Quezon City Police District (QCPD), where there was something happening between the members of the QCPD and the bad elements which are happening in the operations conducted by the police, especially in the campaign against illegal drugs.
Well, if you have watched the video ctioned of the QCPD police operation that the group of police and evil people are anxious, you will really worry because it is true that the criminals are really dangerous during these times.
It can be clearly seen in the video that they are armed with everything they will do, this should only be done on all kinds of scenes so we should know what we should do with this kind of scenes so we should not be in danger of our lives.
It's good that we can really rely on the police during these times but this kind of active personnel of police scattered in order to protect any attempt of bad people.
Just like Quezon City where the incident happened because the operatives of QCPD are still awake to monitor and ensure the security of each of the city.
Those who are from QCPD, 24 / 7 do not choose an hour that is why the bad elements should be removed so you can't get away from the observant of the QCPD under the leadership of District Director Senior Superintendent Guillermo Lorenzo Eleazar.
So to Col. Eleazar, those from Quezon City salute you where your servant is also living together because we really feel that it is slowly going through the city and the disappearance of almost a few days after the passenger buses, jeepney and FX she got.
Hopefully there will be an example of the QCPD of other district how to implement the status of security of the community, especially now that illegal drugs are being monitored but also in terrorism.
If there are local government units (LGUs), who is determined to give the support to the implementation of the form of government by President Rodrigo Duterte, it seems that the province of Nueva Ecija seems to be taught in the province of Nueva Ecija.
This is after being confirmed by the First Class Liberal Party which is former Nueva Ecija Governor Aurelio "Oangie" Umali, which is at 90 percent or equivalent to 153, who went to the mass with the local Liberal Party which was taken with loyalty to the party and support of the Pambansang Kamao last Monday.
In the partner of Oangie Umali, the incumbent Governor Cherry D. Umali is together with the 20 mayors of the province, 14 vice mayor, 108.
The group also stated the aim of the local party to join the forces of the administration of PDP-Laban as a preparation for the success of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation of President Rodrigo Duterte.
The First Class Liberal Party was established last January 25, 2008 as a local political party, who was appointed, for a long time owned by Balane party of the clan of Joson.
