Naida could have a hole on the students whose stomach suddenly ached because of drinking medicine from Pampanga.
It is only here when you go there for us to succeed in love.
He is the country.
Based on duty, Sandy was on duty there for more than eight thousand students in a wheel of Cotabato.
What?
It has been eight thousands of students who are asked to drink medicine for eight thousand a while ago to whispers-tubig Central Elementary School which is why DepEd has launched a business school on a date because the program in Bucal government is good.
Yes, the condition of the children will give in order to ensure that there is no bad effect on their health and it is better that there is no bad effect on their health and it is better that there is no bad effect on their health, you are fed up with the students to make sure that their stomach will have something bad before drinking.
It is a second year when someone sentenced to drink medicine so that you can drink medicine so that the effect of the proposal to the students is good because it is sleeping in their studies.
It's as if you have sex.
It's just a child.
Stay here in tasks so be alone.
If the worms are not removed from the body of the children, this is the cause of a lot of worms in the body when there are many holes in the body that are still low and having a low level of worms, which is still low and having a low level of worms are still low and having a low level of students.
March 28.
Okay.
Your voice is the reason why he is noisy.
Maybe it might be the start of the memorial program that we have known that we know this' age, which is why we are being attacked by the children, which is why there's a lot of children, which is even more, especially, or more.
Um!
Said to be.
There are ways to avoid worms including those who use the toilet in the hearing to avoid being hot wherein four of my children are not yet studying.
The nose are your children, I need to.
Fuck, covetousness; because I have worms.
Their arrival will be affected.
This health.
Covetous, fur, their intelligence.
Michael grew up with worms to be able to go to the hospital attitude, especially after using a toilet, especially after eating and ready for food to maintain clean and safe water in cooking food.
You are going to have a good result, we are proud that our budget will really be our budget.
Already with his children is the trash.
In this day, Pete is a long time to maintain a dialogue.
But if it was successful in his students to whispers and whispers that resulted to more than four of the students and treatment in Zamboanga, it was said that the effect of the medicine was not good to explain to the children the effect of the medicine after it was also a little bed which was also a little bit more.
