Not in our news, those who tried to pay the money given to Singapore there have been an alternative.
Yesterday, it appears in relation to those who are bad for contributions.
But he really killed a young lady but she might be busy with the checks; that according to the president, there is no garbage that will focus on the operation of the government so that the government's operation will be focused on.
Why is it that case from Bulacan?
Thank you very much for the President Aquino to give what they want to do.
Special Action Force Police Senior Police killed Quezon City Iris and this one of the reasons why the operation of the operation should not be protected.
What is the public in order to help what alternative Congress can help but the case filed by Tondo one peso, who will be forced to go to the right sell, and let us reach the new evidence that comes to you to show his interest on your plans.
Did you say it?
I will do for lunch and you don't want us to go to school but you need to show that it is clear.
It's a good thing we did not blow out of some parts of the legislative chamber.
I do not have the beautiful beauty of our others.
The first picture that they showed to me is just let me be in a whole picture.
There are also a lot of rice in his remains but maybe I am the only one who became thinking because of her hand.
Are you together?
Going to the bar is what you have hurt so you are being carried away by a finger.
Here, it is here to catch up with the whole picture.
Okay.
We can see one of us in October beside the five ways and the fingers of his fingers are still complete.
You will see that the same with Two people will be lessened.
Alcohol is his hands of Marlon and alcohol as well as the fingers of the finger.
You are just a two-year-old child, do not let us go over and be noticed in his hands.
In the next notice of Caloocan, a finger was gone.
The cause of this is the reason why Hannah is not in the government against you who is the motor of you.
Let us go back to what you are saying.
Reporting, Marie one's favorite, the roof of the finger was also on the roof of the finger.
Here in the end.
But it was clear that I was able to talk to him when she arrived at the right age, who is impossible to take care of her.
The one who took the finger of Maria wants to say that, all other statements were said to say that he doesn't care and nothing will be done to Rizal who is the picture of the president as Lorenza in the bus that I am sorry for five four million pesos in buses.
These poor four applicants for us opportunities in good opportunities abroad, like that, from taking advantage of what is coercion.
When you arrived, the victim's head has a big rock at the old and outside of a lot of it, there were really a lot of nicotine gum and tried to treat each other.
I am asking the investigation of this investigation as they say that the government is now focused on the meantime because the government is currently focusing on the natural operation of those who died because it is natural for us to get married.
Especially the body, especially for the people.
Where are you?
I have been freed from the start of the ring of Kyoto, as long as he went to thirty-five out of the C-C-T'boli, my sibling, which might have been stopped by the President when the case was found in the case of his mother.
