Secretary Alcala to remove them from!

Why is it that the secretary needs two for the agricultural sector?
Seated as bosses here are ex-Senator Kiko Pangilinan and Proceso Alcala.
When Pangilinan sat down, it turns out that the pain in the coconut caused by the wild boar was revealed.
Millions of coconuts were killed because it was only last 2010 when the pest started to 2010.
Alcala is the one who has been seated there in the Department of Agriculture.
But we did not hear, Alcala's attention was given attention by Alcala.
According to Alcala, it seems that Alcala said, "the opening of the door to Hamen every time they want to take a look at the non-government organization involved in the Priority Development Assistance Fund.
That's when it's only then that this secretary became confused when PNoy was pissed and declared the emergency fight against the legislative chamber.
PNoy should also talk to Alcala in the emergency.
"What was fired immediately by him was immediately taken away by the severe problem at 60 billion pesos industry of coconut meat.
Now, from Luzon, the pest in Visayas and Mindanao could still jump.
And since now, because of Alcala's negligence, the citizens still need to spend up to 350 million to suppress the disease.
But for those who lost a coconut tree, they need to plant new coconuts and sick of hunger and poverty within 6-9 years.
Because the coconut tree will only bear fruit when it comes to said years.
If our products from the country goes to the market outside the country, because of the said disease, it will be more accident.
The industry of coconut tree will fall, which is where the biggest oil products are coming from the Philippines.
Or, Secretary Alcala, is the only way of staying in the position there in the DA?
Or there is a special works for you, "to guard the list of NGO) so that the many allies of PNoy will not get caught on the PDAF scam.
One more thing, you have been working for a long time there in the DA, even if you have not even increased the irrigation for the 4 million hectares of rice, it remained to 1.5 hectares of it.
Now there is a crisis in the price of rice and say that the government cannot do anything about it because Lean hour?
Those who are useless and with thick faced, just leave there!
