
Naked, Hawooooooo in BE.

Because of the call of Supreme Court Associate Justice Marvic Leonen to the citizens, especially in the media, it is obvious the staff of the Office of the Office of the Court of Bacoor City regarding the rightfulness of what is happening in their office.
The personnel of the said office are saying that the raffle of the cases and legal money from the National Police and the legal case related to the bark Fuentes, 63, and others who need to rise in the raffle) that was published, which was published, "that was published."
In other words, there are just a show in the raffle that this is just a show.
And one of the said cases being implemented by the cases was owned by an employee of the Office of the writ of Court of Bacoor City.
After all, it is also being given a different point that the modus operandi of the syndicate inside the court will not be noticed.
The personnel of the court also wish to put an employee in the Office of the Ombudsman who is said to be an official lawyer.
According to some of the members of the victim in Cavite, they already talked to the lady lawyer, which he used to fix the system.
What hurts, they answered this lawyer, "it is hard to avoid the" regular system "because he already reached it and it's hard to change."
But wait, what is our siblings do in their livelihood, who are in the local government, who is believed to be an unhit of law, are you waiting for you?
Take action so that the fight will be the same, or maybe you are involved in the trend in the raffle of the case?
And it seems that you have forgotten to put the case in the murder of Rubie Garcia who is in core of RETE.
Do not wait for the increase of corruption in the government before taking action.
Or maybe they are afraid that the same is Rubie Garcia who is murdered to silence?
We hope that Justice Leonen is going to comfort him in his steps to reveal the judicial robes "so that the people who are in the government, especially those in need for justice, continue to trust.
Thank you to the members of the Bacoor City Association of Court because of the trust of those who are pointing out in giving details in corruption in their office.
