P5500,000.

A piggery, and what the regime of Benigno Aquino III is very lonely in our Judiciary as a foul, to deny action that they will do with the new issue of justice for the people in the issue of justice.
We are pointing out here with the new acquaintance that will bleed, if it is true, a retiring magistrates of the Supreme Court is true.
What he did is that you cannot measure even the evil of Satan to hell again, if it is true.
We received a lot of text messages about the response of the magistrates of his first decision that they are waiting to go out this month.
Just a few hours when the text messages came from her "infidelity to the town" of the magistrate, the news surfaced on Facebook and Twitter.
The issue is about the illegal Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) made by Budget Secretary Butch Abad.
The DAP was the root of the multimillion peso which was used by the funds of his employer, Aquino to step down from the prosecutor and took away from former SCCJ, Chief Justice Renato Corona.
In the first round of the hearing of the Supreme Court, majority of the magistrates said that it is prohibited, against the Constitution to raise the DAP.
In the last information that was sent to us, the votes of the votes were 9-6 or 8-7 this month of June.
While we are writing this, we talked to some personnel of the SC, angry and confirmed the sudden change of the votes.
The vote of 7-7 already changed? "Because there is there, Sereno needs to vote.
It is obvious that his vote is in favor of Aquino!
So our question to SCCJ Lourdes Sereno, "can you stop the original date of the release of your SC decision regarding the treacherous and DAP that is, Madame CJ Serano?"
And to your magistrates who sold your votes, it is fine, the future of your family and you themselves, are you able to eat from the like-like fund that was paid to you?
What you will feel for is the cheating of the country and the people, there is no doubt, you will return history, together with the demon behind your change of votes.
And even if it is the command of the votes of DAP, it is certain that it is from the treacherous ways!
