The Philippines has won against China, in relation to a few fishermen, we are still fighting for nine but for a few fishermen, that is why they are still trying to pass by Chinese Rose Garcia so their income will be strengthened even to Cavite inside Zambales.
But like what the fishermen here in Zambales are still having a hard work while talking to the former couple in Pangasinan or in the Circle where they have to make a fish here in the middle of the thinking and actions in Times of God.
From the pier of Pangasinan, those who left to go to the balcony of Pangasinan were beautiful when it was past ten o'clock in the evening this Friday and after one hour, they stopped going to the ocean.
Convince the distance from the parts of the sea which is being monitored in school.
Possible.
You cannot do anything in your house to be carried away.
Part of it.
Just last night, it was only last night when they went up at five o'clock in the early morning, and they were slowly known by the First Class when I released him again, but when I released him again, he was given a lot of fishes.
It can be done here are distressed as they say that this is the review of getting off the fishermen.
A sudden outbursts of food is just short but it has not yet said that you have nothing to go out, and who else will be the fish, just like a fish, like fish paste, shrimp, and drilling, people can be caught.
It cannot be denied that whoever they will immediately do here are the fishermen first of the explanation that it would be a good night, and keep it a joke to call the government.
Their fight is brio.
Aio.
What is the resentment of the house?
Because of this, it is really worse.
Week.
In a week.
Big.
Lowest.
!
What isn't there on July?
A bit more.
Of Alabang.
Jobelle is the responsibility of how much it is passed on to you.
There are two thousand.
Talked to.
It is said that the fishermen might have lost their house here, even if they have lost their houses here, they have already lost their houses here, even though it is already unlikely for him to go down; he will go down to the violation of the training that night.
What is the month but in spite of this, the fishermen are not losing hope.
We are hoping that our children are hoping for them to sell.
Based on the middle of the sea, they might go straight to school who want to be added to their income, but it will be added to Serg for a moment, according to him, "I said.
There have been a fire here for the payment to have to pass, but instead, there are a lot of new fishes that they might get along with, there are still a lot of new fishes that they might get along with, the problem here in Batangas and they are expecting that there will be a hard work in the house, but they are expecting that there will be a hard work in the house, but they are hoping that they will get a deep fishing in the house and at the same time.
