Why is it happening in Taguig City?

It is dangerous to pickpocket money now from the funds of the Senate!
This is probably the reason of Senator Allan Peter Cayetano and her husband, Taguig City Mayor Lani Cayetano, which is why what they did was the expenses of the local government of Taguig.
It can be watched on television that was made up by Taguig City but the protagonist is not Mayora but the star of the country who is known to be criticizing the corrupt officials of the government.
It is said that in the statement made by senator in Mayora: In Taguig, the corruption is prohibited, that is why those corrupt are prohibited here in Taguig, why corruption are prohibited here, why there are expenses in Taguig who have been doing such a senator?
It is not a secret to us that even before, Cayetano directly said the senator, not "the mayor, who is ready to run as president of the country in the coming 2016 elections.
But why is it that it turns out that it is a sign that it is a senator who got on the bark, I mean, the carabao of Mayora just to have a chance to be handsome for the people?
In the end of the end, the words uttered, "it can be said due to the public service of the local government for those from Taguig where there is a study, medicine and low taxes.
Here is my question to the Commission on Audit (COA), those from COA (COA), those from COA, the senator can use the funds of the local government for his handsome points?
What can be used by Mayora is a local government like that in Taguig City to push the interest of his aswang, I mean, a senator who has his ambition to become the president of the country?
You know, Senator Cayetano believes that whoever has an idea of doing something such as well, "the one who has the mind to get the treasury of Taguig City is what you have been doing something like your political interests, it can be said that the child has a child!
But you do not need to do that, Sen. Cayetano, if you are going to have such a kind or gimmick that has a trace of corruption, "do not just ignore your cleanliness, Sen. Cayetano.
The truth is that if Cayetano run for president he will vote for him because of what he has done in the Senate when he criticized all the corrupt officials of the government.
But it is just like PNoy is like you, when you win at first, against all corrupt but in the end it is against his corrupt opponents but if the corruption is against them, he will just leave.
