Cowered and burp!

Just one week, is it really an official call Secretary Leila de Lima?
He should be thankful, to God or to the pork barrel scam of Janet Lim-Napoles?
It's curious about our lawmakers, "their former courage, nothing, cowered and softened!
At first, they are brave to challenge your Ate Leila to release the list of Benhur Luy and his fellowmen, who helped him to prove that they are involved based on the list.
Then, aunt Janet, ten, took out his own list, after they attacked the Congress!
In the past years of focused on Atty. De Lima on the powerful country, the Commission on Appointments (CA), the Commission on Appointments (CA), is almost not sent away by lawmakers on the belief that Leila was also wearing a white cloth.
But-tempered men, the model of corrupt, Arinoli, even the legal person who is pointing a joke now with de Lima and Soliman, still shaking while taking care of them?
However, the Section 20 of the Constitution called Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago to stop the two women in the life of Benigno Aquino III, De Lima and Soliman, were not used.
This is surprising, okay, what is the reason of Santiago, he is sick, maybe if Senator Juan Ponce Enrile was on process, there is no doubt, no other sickness, the lady senator-in-law.
Here, it is clear that our lawmakers are pointing at each other, they are afraid that they will be charged with plunder case, fear that they will not go back to the power of political power to steal with Max.
You are embarrassing, you are the loser and those who are imprisoned in mental hospital!
On the other hand, it is really blind, Ombudsman Conchita Carpio Morales is blind and deaf when he blames himself from America that the plunder case against his opponents in politics of his boss, what really happened in America when he went to Ate Consignation?
As they say, even though it's not blind or million, if the enemies are getting involved in politics and critics of this administration, what is worse than the management of martial law?
