There has been proven that Senyang is JV By Jeanne Calment, July 21, 2016.
To the elected senators this 17th Congress, one of the things that I can say is that there is a senator, Senator Joseph Victor Ejercito or better known by the public especially the youth as Senator JV.
For those who do not know Senator JV, everyone knows that the son of the former President and now Manila Mayor Joseph "Erap" Estrada and San Juan Mayor Guia Gomez was behind the law of the Sangguniang Kabataan.
That's why what will happen in the town hall and Sangguniang Kabataan on October 31, Senator JV is the reason because he is the author regarding this under the said law, including the relatives who are members of the national level up to barangay level.
This law is very proud that he was authored, but it is suspicious that he pushed it when he himself is from the clan of politicians.
One more thing I saw the politicians in the barangay level, he did not think that he can see the some members of their clan who know that it is so vast because almost everyone is in the hearts of the service to the country.
Senator JV is shown on the said law that only in the barangay level, he should be able to practice due to the youth a lot of relatives in politics and he still has a lot of relatives in politics and he has not given attention because of his belief that the government should not have a child.
Aside from the law of the Sangguniang Kabataan, it is said that Senator JV Ejercito is one of those who wrote to him and threw the rights of any youth who want to study and protect and protect the rights of any youth who want to study and be implemented, as well as the Holy "housing program for Pogi"
The rights of the students are also stated in this.
Sen. JV Ejercito is saying that he believes the ability of the youth in our country.
This is also due to his experience of diligence to prove everything that he can take and make his own name for serving the country, a proof of this is his entry to Senecrated elections in 2013 who became elected in 11.
Senator JV was able to overtake the other opponents in the presidency of the said year because it reached 149 houses of San Juan of a few years and being a congressman in 2010 where it reached 149 houses of San Juan last 2010 where it reached 149 houses of San Juan last 2010 where it reached 149 houses of San Juan last 2010 where it reached 149 houses of San Juan last 2010 where it reached 149 houses of San Juan.
In the Senate even though it was only on her first term, Senator JV "has proven that he has a" K "in the Senate because he was given 117 Senate bills and 18 Senate hearing.
Because of the beneficial law being pushed by Senator JV, I'm sure that everything he has done to the Filipino people and not only because it is only one Ejercito but because the youth are saying that there is an important role that will be held in our society.
