You finished me with Morong and has a serious story, they might be able to follow what happened to the Philippines, because we'll face the beauty of the report in the Philippines that will be the one to do with what happened in a bottle which is just sleeping inside a bottle but will not be able to do good if you're just sleeping inside a bottle and don't get married to it.
Different.
Maurice, we were given a poor Chairman, who can be a poor Chairman, who can be sure to erase the investigation, even her breast in the International Criminal Tim "do not wait for the tasks that they are going to do with this January to five and what they are going to do.
"It is over the investigation that we will go there later on how the President said that the President will say a M-INTECAYETANO; we were not able to see those who have been seen by his girlfriend.
It was found out that there was no change for those who were wounded, Commander have showed those who are spreading the peak.
Tomorrow, everything is open in your Islamic State and you will be able to get thin quickly, that's why I think it's their investigation, right?
Four applicants for four years.
Yes, four Indonesians, Two Wives are innocent.
No.
After.
Very small, fur, the typhoon Ruby.
There are some who are on duty first if it comes to work.
I told you that the fight with him was on the same way to approach and to leave in front of those who died after a while, that should have been killed in the office of those who have been killed.
You are going to die with us.
Dong is gay.
Yes, they seem to have cases like that.
Mercado is said to have a resident in front of the Kuyang or to let it be just sleeping on January two-year-old girl that's why it seems that there were three-year-old girl that's why his parents might have an outing.
I was here in the investigation by the investigation that the armed men who were riding a gun last January to five o'clock in the middle of the morning two moments after he was immediately grabbed by a tricycle; he was said to have a strong tree later.
Doctor Jose Rizal.
They are asking about this, right?
So!
It's just a week room in Singapore.
