
Those to pay the COMELEC and miracle by PNoy.

The COMELEC formally received money, I mean, that the "recall election" which has long been pushed by the majority of Bulacan against their governor, Willy Alvarado, will not push through.
The millions, crook, which is the reason of the Comelec en banc due to the lack of time, or lack of time to do the said election against the governor, who are believed by the residents of Bulacan who are believed by the residents of Bulacan who are believed by the residents of Bulacan.
It can be recalled that anything you do is what the group of Governor Alvarado is doing, so that the process of the said "recall" will be delayed.
And then, a mother and child were successful!
According to our Avena, we have a huge amount, well, even just on the level of election, he is operating a million and one car!
Tsk, tsk, tsk, tsk!
It is really perfect for a former friend of a politician, who if you are still a thief, so if you are a thief, it is so that if you stay in a mess, it will be the millions that will decide on your problem!
Oton, according to the complaint that some residents of Bulacan fought against Alvarado, a few hundred million people are involved, huh!
Let's go back to it, make sure that we will be the one to be held in a recall election "in Bulacan.
The group of Alvarado thought they have succeeded against the will of many residents of Bulacan.
Wow, the anger of the people will only be more intense, let us remember, GROs, in the next year, election is election.
In my presumption, at that time, the people of Bulacan are very upset about what will explode in your face!
In that day, whoever thieves in position will surely be driven out!
Pramis!
Entice the President.
According to Kris Aquino, thank you for the meddling and appeal of his older brother to the government of Indonesia that's why the scheduled execution of firing squad of our fellowmen Mary Jane Veloso is not push through?
Along with this, the whole country and the family of Veloso is heartfelt with the Lord Almighty that is why our fellow OFW are saved.
If you will be asked, who should I thank the miracle that happened?
Is the Lord or PNoy?
It is really a politician, all of the things that can be "epal." Is trying to have stabbed himself!
That even if the things that we know are the only ones who can do it, he is trying to catch up with all the constricted streets of Jun Briones.
