Bulacan COMELEC is worried or is currently joking?

Arrived, the mission of the Commission on Elections in the province of Laguna. Tapay who is Governor ER Ejercito and said to target the case of Manila City Mayor Eat Estrada, it is up to the Malacañang attack against Senator Jinggoy Estrada.
When Gov. ER went down, COMELEC chairman Sixto Brillantes was said that he still has two local leaders who are working on his agency to be fired, but according to Kathleen, he is still the enemy of the Liberal, "that is 6-2?
But wait, chairman Brillantes, when will you take responsibility for the recall election of the Bulos City, this is proven that the abuse of Bulacan Governor Willy Alvarado in all aspects of his leadership is severe.
I remember when former Governor Jonjie on Mendoza said that he left more than P2 billion funds from the treasury of Bulacan to pay all the debt of the province and has no debt of left, especially for the welfare of the students who are a scholar of the province.
Even before Governor Willy's employees are happy, salary is happy and every last end, they are happy in the celebration of Christmas and New Year and even the barangays are full of the capital of the capital of the hands of now, Congressman Jonjie on.
Now, even schools that are being faced by the scholar of Lawagued, particularly the Bulacan State University, were complaining because they have not been paid by Da Al-barado, because I intentionally left, the abundant life of the Bulos City today!
In the wealth of Bulacan because of the right collection of tax and proper spending before, no one is going to be a big part of their life before, then.
Now, Mister Venancio, I mean, what you are waiting for is to implement the wish of the people to do the Special election?
The P2B is consumed in 2011 by 1.7 billion pesos, out of 1.7 billion pesos, and he / she borrowed from 300 million pesos a huge debt.
I do not want to believe, chairman Sixto did not believe that Willy's "should not be complacent about the Comelec and they are just pretending to take action on the Special election of Collyer that is it?
