New admirers of DOST, was launched in Oryang.

August 30, 2016.

Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, August 30 (Pia) - it was launched by the Department of Science and Technology (DOST) in the province to help the citizens.

According to the explanation of DOST Association of Health (DOH) Mimaropa and Department of Health (DOH) Mimaropa and the Department of Health (DOH) MIMAROPA and new equipment such as eighty-PAID, some of the primary needs of the health services, and other primary needs of the citizens.

The RTEBox - a telephone health device (DOST) for the financial status between the patient and community workers who are in far places where the patient needed is a Enhanced health system which is part of the quick information of the patients in a municipality.

Meanwhile, DOST-Oriental Mindoro Provincial Science and Technology Director Jesse Pine stressed the importance of the country's importance as well as their big contribution for the daily life of the people and the foul energy that will be used in case they lose electricity that will be needed in said activity.

Pine added, in Oriental Mindoro, the town of Gloria of RTEBox "said that the town of Gloria of RTEBox was scheduled to have a heart attack because it led to the needed documents.

Pine also reported the other programs of their agency such as a scholarship, the Cooperative and Top Rank Promotions (Sambag 2) and others.

It was also launched in the task of Mumbai, Ventarse, which will speed up the cinemas of the products from the price of Mimaropa, the promotion of the tourist, which will speed up the promotion of the tourist, which will decrease the importance of various strategies of business.

Abiera said that it is the initiative of the DOST, particularly the businessmen in the province through Shiro Food Park Medical Center (what is currently based in Mindoro State College of Agriculture (Minh Technology) - Calapan City Jail, who will offer to protect the quality of products.

Under the modern service of the DOST, the Provincial Council of Oriental Mindoro will be carried away by the Provincial Council of Calapan, MinSevidal and other agencies of the government (CPRD / LTO), Pia-Mimaropa, Calapan).
