DSWD has a responsibility for the never giving relief goods to the victims of Yolanda.

Dinky Soliman repeatedly said that if the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) were repeatedly told, it cannot be expected that the number of relief goods in the victims can't be called, that it cannot be called for the number.
This is the response of Soliman and the DSWD on the repeated reports of the victims of typhoon Yolanda in Eastern Visayas which are not affordable for their towns and those that are laughing from the citizens of the province.
According to a flyer from the office of the group of Yolanda who went to Manila, Soliman admitted that they were not going to go straight to the community of those who were devastated by the typhoon, but we know that we are going to go straight to the community), but we know that we are going to go straight to the community), but we know that we have a text signal number game, but we are going to look like a text message., "he explained.
Soliman said that they will not be able to do anything if there are no reports that they cannot search the community of Eastern Visayas because they do not have to search the community in Eastern Visayas because they do not have a mandate to restore the relief goods in the municipal hall and depend on our local government.
Meanwhile, the extreme hunger of the citizens who became victims of the typhoon, seems to become victims of the government, continues.

Full!
In the leadership of the People Surge, together with the Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan, together with a conversation with the victims of Yolanda in Tacloban City last March 12, a distribution of relief goods in the ocean of Tacloban, a distribution of relief goods in the ocean of Tacloban, a distribution of relief goods in the ocean of Tacloban, a distribution of relief goods.
In the said conversation, Soliman denied the said wish of the government to study the 12-kilometer road near the sea, which is why it was said that President Aquino ordered the students about it - up to P40,000 support to the families.
In the distribution of relief goods, Soliman boasted that they are doing this in spite of having no assurance that the relief goods in the victims will have no assurance that even those that are going to reach 25 kilos of rice and other relief goods every second week in 171 municipality of Eastern Samar and Leyte.
But this was denied by many stories of the People Surge from Eastern Samar and Leyte.
It was also reported, for example, Eric Labuan of the People's Surge in many barangays in Moalungan, Samar, the citizens were not receiving any relief goods last January they first received that we received any relief goods, according to Laboratory.
Gabriela, it was approved by Gabriela who was told by Joan Salvador, International Criminal Court of the group, that for two weeks of staying in Leyte last February, he himself said that the DSWD has no more relief goods even in barangays near the sea and easy to go to Tacloban.
Rotten service, those are rotten.

In the areas where the food that they are getting through relief goods, there are times that the food they get is rotten, the chairman of the People Surge, which last January, there are some people who have witnessed the relief goods being thrown at the sea "by rice and canned goods.
"There is also a report to us about the burial of rice and relief goods for the burial, how can you get the ones who give it properly, even the victims can eat it well," Eskimos or to Soliman.
Soliman denied that they have something to do with the throwing of broken food that is why we were not giving out the rotten rice grains, "it was said that he was not giving a rotten rice grains," it was said that he did not give it to the regional director of NFA that he did not give it to the regional director of NFA, "it was said that he was not" tanim-bala "
Soliman stressed that the people should take a report on, including the members of the People's Surge, the DSWD is the cases like Eskimos or.
Esmilla, one of those who had a part of him about this is the driver of the truck who threw the broken food because the said driver was afraid of his life, which is why he didn't want to reveal the public.
Nobody has responsibility.
Monroque is said to be a member of Gabriela and global director of one hundred billion pesos, who is campaigning for justice for women including women who are victims of Yolanda, it is clear that the implementation of DSWD is not working.
"In four-month (after typhoon Yolanda), no case was charged and will not be charged right now, wouldn't be charged by the Accountability that didn't have been coming back to those who were not able to go to school, nothing was allowed by the non-raising goods.," says Wilson.
For him, "Supreme Court solution solution" and it cannot be denied that there will be no root of the incessant in check and giving the hotline with the problem.
Meanwhile, Soliman denied the announcement of DSWD in Tacloban that they will stop the distribution of relief goods during the end of March.
"I was saying to you caterness, the people who were doing before (which were connected to that place, and I came from that place, I did not see anything there," Soliman said that the said announcement in Tacloban has been obvious.
But Soliman was able to stop the distribution of relief goods to the people, which is why when he stood up from their own feet, he said that it was their livelihood to buy the Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program (4Ps), who is the name of the program, which is the name of the program, which is a name of the program.
The People's Surge and Gabriela are planning this plan of DSWD, they say, if the agency is having a hard time on monitoring the citizens who need it, especially those who are going to act on their own feet, or have their own livelihood in all barangays, especially in the said area of the province.
Program payment for government for those who were devastated by the government of those who were damaged, instead of P40,000 pesos, instead of P40,000 people from November up to December, "Soliman) that only reached up to 16,000 people who were given the program." Said that it has not been 10 percent, "said Salvador.

"There is no direction.
In a conversation, one of the primary lack of relief operations of the Aquino administration is the lack of ability - or interest - every barangay and community who are in need for immediate relief.
It has been more than four months since Yolanda hit Eastern Visayas, the citizens still do not have anything to eat and it will not be replaced with their things for farm, fishing, and other parts of the government, and there are still limited time that the government can give them relief goods.
Despite this, Soliman tells that they are not being neglected by the victims of Yolanda, they believe that those who are being thrown by the People's Surge will not be convinced that they are going to give relief goods, and we can say that the Aquino administration has not given relief goods, and they can say that the Aquino administration is wearing Abaya.
"If we can't rely on it, we should not talk about it," said Senior Espontes, said that we are going out and are going out of the building of DSWD, following the other leaders of the People's Surge, following the protest of the citizens outside.
