
Leila and Grace, Doña Conchita Morales.

The Tres Marias of Boss PNoy is visible.
This is regarding the role of Supreme Court to the questionable pork barrel of the Aquino government - the Disbursement Acceleration Program.
What is happening with the Commission on Audit, Grace Pulido-Tan and Justice Secretary Leila de Lima will ask for peace.
On the other hand, Ombudsman Conchita Carpio-Morales already spoke.
According to him, Moto Kailio "is the investigation of the Ombudsman for the possible abuse of DAP.
Doña Conchita shows that he is not going to be prepared in order to act but also rule the mandate of his office that has a limit to the government if there is an appeal to the government.
Doña Conchita did not show off the interest to investigate about DAP, if he has nothing to smell.
The question: What if one of them is involved is from the camp of PNoy and the KKK (hmmmp!
Answer- Madam Leila and Grace?
Umm! It is surprising that it is very quiet that you will remove the two Marias well.
Why are they so quiet in the controversy?
For COA, even the right to sell it is to start on Audit, wherein 10 to 20 percent or Ghost is project.
But we don't hear Tan's words.
It seems that the position of Grace for DAP was not polished and this is different in the case of the Priority Development Assistance Fund which he said has a horrible incident.
Do not tell it now that Butch Abad has not given any document, "unlike the PDAF that has something but just about sexy, Pogi" hk, haunting, haunting and haunting!
Meanwhile, Leila, it is suspicious that he does not have any noise and not just like in the day they keep his search in searching for those who survived the lower fight against three losses in the whole day and night.
We can ask the two Maria, "to say.
Is your silence, Madam Grace Pulido-Tan, is the root of your candidacy for justice to the SC and PNoy is what you are expecting to go to you in position?
And it is you, Miss Leila, what you are silent is based on your candidacy for senator in 2016?
Those behind your silence are suspicious.
If only I will be followed, I will just wait for you in his post.
