Marian was pregnant, taking a sexy!

We have a lot of comments about Marian Rivera's pregnancy.
Most of them were praise because even if she was already pregnant, her face has become sexy, she is still beautiful than all those who got pregnant, and Marian was still beautiful when she did not change the number even for five months pregnant.
However, there are mothers who are worried on what the Kapuso star is worried about her sexiness even if she is also not neglected by her baby inside the stomach, because if his mind is only focused on his number, maybe it is hard to be destroyed, maybe it might come out that his First baby is weak and lacking in malnutrition.
It is only now that Marian's stomach is small because she's the first time to be pregnant, when it comes to six or eight months, his stomach suddenly grew up.
So you are just easy, he is rich so his doctors know what he is doing.
And when it comes to his career, the wife of Dingdong Dantes is very lucky because GMA 7 is just waiting for him to give him a million time for him to work after giving birth.

Alex de Rossi and Jay-UC, are going to capture a dump area.
The tire from the victory of the World Brando Legaspi is very hot from the 2015 New York festivals, it cannot be stopped when the price of DIawoooooozed.
It would be better to waste time brought by a magazine-page program together with George Fist Pega
Expect that it is irritating at the time that he is excited to have a text message, Road, together with a celebrity driving, different jobs on Wheels, motorcycle; and many others showing how they are living together with those who are living together.
This is the latest record that the motor was taken off by the motor, and cots, while the Philippine community is growing to take information about the grave, trips, and even stories inside and outside the road.
This Thursday, riding with Jay was the award by the Kapuso actress Alyas de Rossi (Alex) going to their destination: Cavite! For the very first time in his life, Alex will experience a bike line from Manila until Cavite and he can still meet the residents there who have a new livelihood.
Alex and Jay, are not the only ones to catch up from those who are from Macabato, they will just be seen by the fresh end, of course, Jay will also fulfill the dream of Alex to be the witness of the shooting incident in Cavite!
It can also be remembered in the episode, "the largest victim," at first glance, will be mistaken for a child but this is the victim, who really had a child, which is why the person who has the victim, which is the reason why the Ichts, could be identified.
