And when we were able to be together with what he said on the telephone station, I will try to force me to be a senator in the afternoon.
Why is the afternoon, good afternoon to everyone listening to China?
What is it, what else can we do; that's why, it's as if he was ordered by the faucet on the challenges of the troops.
In front of Subic, we started for that fast.
The proposal was broken.
Yes, I will be first in the investigation of the soldiers' investigation on how?
Yes, yes.
This is what we are here, how can you just say that this is done to me, that will be needed before we have the help that we have a relationship with each other.
Ten o'clock.
They are thinking that there is a law in the law that will be done with Maryand Anna depending on the truth that maybe the witnesses are about to finish the documents, which is the most important thing here in the encounter which is most important to those who are important to those who are important to those who are important here in the other Street.
Four Two soldiers have not responded that they responded at the Stage 3 who has a state long time ago to learn a good character and integrity.
So he is like that, who asked you to get a person who knows all the truth.
Yes to you, we have to look straight; we think that we are very small; I think, we are the ones who will go.
Well, you can see that you can get it there.
It was only four o'clock when we are thinking that they have been thinking about four four persons after they have been made up by four four persons after they were still alive.
And even if you are not in your own yes, don't take care of the public service that we can show that we are going to show that we are going to progress because there are still many who want to think that there are many people who have a integrity.
Don't it be fat?
Jojo is.
Knocking.
Yes, what we can see is that it will be a result if there will be an investigation, which is why there is an investigation, that is why they are the one who will be the one who is the common people.
There are even those who post the Congress how all the results of the investigation will be the same as the results of the investigation, so we should study and study it together.
Yes, it is okay with other investigation because each has a text message, like the fool, of course, the white, of course, will see the trouble that will be taken out of the people.
Meanwhile, in the province of PNoy, they will look at the chaos that was supposed to be done by PNoy.
What they don't want, I don't want to do when the law of the country might have their own ten-year-old age, and then on March.
Yes, of course, it is the most important thing I will ask even if it is a bit of light in the body.
You said that if we go to the actual agreement that he has a jacket of government, he / she takes care of the government.
Do not do the criminal action inside the Emtopic.
Yes to the room, Cornes.
Two Wives are confusing, who is really the order of the government troops who entered.
It is right to say that we are going to say that we are going to be having a defense, so that I will release, I will have my birthday next to the resolution of the Pambansang Kamao, depending on what I will do.
That's because the third year-old man is in help.
Despite this, he has been emotional that has been emotional in the needs of the truth to his father-in-law.
It's because according to him, the truth is that the truth that he will steal is the truth that will become the truth as a waste because the truth will give justice.
In front of him, there is justice that is going to return to the most important principal that will return to each other because if you have trust in one of both sides because if you still have trust in each other, it's as if you still trust justice for the first and justice needed by your body.
Then use the words here under the commission that the wife of the public in the next few days is.
It's all.
We really have a month to complete yes.
That I am happy and then.
Even if the support of our support was full of support, Two Two Wives are going to increase in the T'boli Chief P) that she will not be seen by the Two Commission on Bacoor, which is why most of the Two Commission on Bacoor, "the most of the sectors are not stupid.
Hundreds of things you see are really needed.
We are very pitiful; we are the elderly; I am even the one who is the one dependent on the richest countries.
