It was Max.
By Campos.
February 1, 2016.

The texter was centered on a movie that was only last December when he was watched by the author.

Even before the 2015 came, critics of the other countries are Mad Max: FailRoad, which is the most beautiful movie for the year, this December, I have seen the masterpieces of George Miller, director of the ABS-Mad Max, and with opinion, critics of their praises, even from positive perspective.
First, the contrabands of the Imacademe is being linked to the world and plants, which is why many of the people who were left behind in the world now, after the people who were left behind in the world now, just to ask for alms from his kingdom.
Second, and he was able to go back immediately, he / she was defeated by Justine Fuentes (Charismatic and his companions who were initially arrested, he was able to join the Imadversary, Max, and his companions who were the only ones who were arrested and the ability to fight.
Third, 59, and aside from many, they will be defeated by the Green Place, it was found out that the climate of the movie started to go back to the escape of Furto at this point where they decided to go back to the origin to take the adel.
For those who have a slight knowledge in the division of the major goods in the world now, it is not difficult to see in the financial condition of the Import, medicine, and water level of this world, it was reported that the fresh air and sell it in China will continue.
The division of the Imadversary, who is called "process of a private state of auspicious" and "
It is Charismatic or on the second) from the right).
It is important that the decision made by Furto was discovered, Max, and his companions in the destruction of Green Place in the other hand, which is why it is said that the leader of Karl Marx-Tropas.
It is also similar in the release of the Green Place in the midst of the Green Place in the history of Russia to succeed in the case of Russia to succeed in the case of Russia to succeed in a revolution.
We also remember that a call of Mao Zedious title by one of his articles would be ready to fight again, that, according to the success of the Liberal Party of China, he will be ready to fight again, that is why the history of the Liberal Party of China will be fought again, that is why the history of the Liberal Party of China will be fought again, that is why the history of the Liberal Party of China will be fought again, "that's why the history of the Liberal Party of China will be fought again," that's why the history of the Liberal Party of China will be allowed.
This is also a message for the pro-nature or environmentalist Doctor who does not resist, from the theory, in the role of the owner of a society, particularly the owner of the political system, particularly the division of the environment and the world of entire world and earth?
Fourth, there is a sign that the movie's condition will be set to be set up, and more important, the women in fighting for an indication that it is an indication being treated by the Pantawid Pasada card, which in his departure which is being left by Salisi Gang "Wikipedia," aside from the "WHO)," aside from "WHO)."
The successful operation was taken back and snatched by the combined group of Furto at the other hand and one of the old women who were former residents of Green Place, on the other hand-called "Ipit Gang" and I was not ready to die, because of the promised life without him when he died in the war.
The movie is being pointed by a film to be exiled by a boochist named Barbara Ehmm, "they said to be taken by women, family, family, family, family, family, family, and any community and jobs," Iayes, "Oliver North," 1987 Constitution.
But in the movie, and just like the real life, the genders like this cannot be finished, just like the call of Ehmm, similar to the actual loss of religion and safety, to save his own life.
Tom goes back as an Max Rocas.
It can be remembered in the movie the issue of the group of people who ordered for change or what is called "agency" based on whatever society, the quality of freedom of women should be remembered, which is natural to use the release of general, the thing which has been declared by Karl Marx "
In one point of view, the movie has shown the view of Marcherness, who said to be the symbol of the common people around the 25th century, and despite their different culture, their mother and her children will be able to do anything because of the middle of the edge of the New Camping, 2001. "
In the movie, Maximov can't be able to join the remaining people in the fight against the Imadversary, something that can be able to think of who are the ones being used by the women in the fight, or maybe because of this, the role of women against the fight, or perhaps because of this, is that they can insist that they are being used by the people to fight a SMAS.
It is important to remind the warning of Maruri, critics who have no culture of Vic EpiPen. "He said," pro-law, "in relation to the years of Latin America," in relation to the people who are in the state but their womb, "women who had a strength between the form of their children."
Even more than that, he explained, the role of a group of people in Moe of production will be said to be one of the kind of sweat, but it is not far from those who have no trace of sweat, but it is not far to get any kind of trace of sweat so it would be easier to get any kind of sweat. "
Fifth is the movie has a crazy and locked up on the offer of life, an unexpected, and just surprised, his personnel from the camp of an enemy, however, it is important to you to succeed, and in this part, it is hard to be amer.
At the end, is the movie Mad Max: FFF), if in the content, it can be said yes, that it will be a solution for the film Avramovic, but it does not agree that the audience will cheat in India, for example, while their armed forces are rejected.
But why did we not ask those who are pushing for the armed forces here?
With this spirit, to the rebel NPA and all those who are fighting against the Import of our weather, I am humble to watch, and judge, the Mad Max: FailRoad.
29 January 2016.
