It is said that in the barangay, it was found out that the residents went away together with the residents in a washbasin with seven pigs as well as they seem to have something to do with it later.
According to the barangay captains, they were able to release a pig that they have made it for two years, but it was just a year since they bought it in a cockpit in order for the early dawn of the people to be released.
To bring people.
Especially that they are going to be fervent ers who pass here.
It is really near that you have a woman in Dog.
So he was able to go.
It will be an invitation to break a tire.
They have done something different.
Each of them had their own lives and it is possible that they would just find out who was already known.
You really are really inside the blood.
Will be addressed.
They are on their own role for people who are working in Tagaytay when they go to school; we are trying to look straight; but those who are taking a way are being prepared.
They are eating there on the street.
Inside the family.
It was very hot.
For father here, it has been included in the remains of five years that is why this is one of the reasons why it is happy for his barangay trust to them the worst lesson.
That's why he really doesn't really like the pig that we are doing.
That is what's good about this is that I did not come from what I will say, "why would I tell the MG that I have to say, why are we very happy; we are really happy while having a long time.
With us, the president is going to go around each other with the people who have known that the couple has known each other.
Some of the contents he did was a disco on front of their house when he is old.
I push through and with her.
But this thing is Lupit, M for the New Year with its pork barrel, which maybe its bread is being prepared.
They said that even bread they are ready for is still one of the things you will greet the New Year.
That we are not there.
It's just a joke that there is someone else to feed other people.
Bread.
We can see now from me right now that I do not want it to be one of the pork that they have done, after it is cooked for almost twelve at dawn and it will eat all the people from these times that it is being used in the barangay santol.
Is it true that that is what we have, we can go after twelve o'clock in order to eat a lesson.
He is now looking at anyone who wants to go here this morning because the tourists here arrived this morning, but now, we do not have a lot of people from here, but now, there are many people who are not from the barangay in the height but there are many of those who are not from the barangay in the height but there are many of those who are not eating this in the height.
That is what you said earlier that they would also take their expenses on each other on how much it looks like that in a thousand to their family.
We would ask for a while ago to our barangay, what they say, most of the Luzon, who are part of Luzon, are proud of the recognition given by other people, but they might be more than two of us who are living here in the barangay in Nay.
There is one liter, it is said that one liter is not yet known to hear what happened because it is already a age of them but it's as if he / she might have a roving of a man.
