It's okay now.
Or I am sorry that we are really like that, most of the illness, the illness, we are all over, we are over and we are not a motorcycle.
Fuck, deport; both of them are over.
What's because there are many of these in the tricycle drivers, who were able to escape; there were anyone who went around, we were still early, we have not heard that we were too much; we have not heard that we were too much; we have not heard too much.
That is why we are still far from there who is always in Manila and I do not have a horse.
"Do we still have a lot of things that can be seen in the same age; we can go ahead, Cebu Pacific and we have no classes.
Let us look at each other; as well as the motor, this is the motorcycle that's going to be deported; so he / she was on top of us.
Why do you talk about what they are talking about, which is why we look at each other; we run so much; we are going to look straight; our grandfather quickly died.
So it is prohibited to lower down; we are not worried, we are not worried about it, but when we are with sore eyes, there are still some who just call each other, who are the only ones who are at fault.
Forget.
Whatever it is, we are going to the terminal. We are already going to the terminal.
Yes to what he did in Nut, we are just looking at each other, but he has a deep sleep; he / she is already in a deep sleep; he / she is still asleep.
Christians.
"We are already here inside the span of age; we are the one who leaves, there are still four stories of what I said, I am still not here, we think that we are not here just a Sunday; we are still not here, we are just not here.
Yes, to hurry up with what was caught in Germany, we'll just go to Germany to go to Germany; we are far away.
Here, it may lead.
It shows that we are going to go to school; we call him, which is why we call him / her.
"You are very clear; as long as we have been cut off; we have not been cut off, even if we are already having a deep sigh, we have a deep sigh, that's why you need to go to Malate, right?
Very short; we were able to look down; who are the ones who are stupid; we are asking me to be very happy; we are going to be very happy; I will just be happy to look straight at the colleges, and other news.
