
OFWs, civilians in Libya is already at risk in Libya.

By Darius R. Galang and Kenneth Rola A. Guda August 7, 2014.

Immigrants from different parties, including a few Filipinos, who evacuated from Libya, are in an edge of the Aquino administration in the situation of the Aquino administration's response to the worsening of the Aquino administration in Libya.

Garry Martinez, chairman of Migrante International, believes that the government's steps to evacuate the overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs) that are in danger now in the said country, as well as other countries in the Middle East, and the other countries in the Middle East and the Middle East.

For example, the government of the Philippines is no more active in relation to ensure the location and make sure that the Filipino government is not making a step to ensure the security of Filipinos who are traveling towards the embassy to evacuate the conflict.

Dequia of Foreign Affairs (DFA) announced this August 2 that he received a ship that will come in the coming days, in Libya to evacuate the Filipinos involved in the areas where they are living in and where they are going to evacuate the said ship will not be determined.

"After a lot of those who have a good upbringing by the said vessel that is the only way of repatriation, the DFA of a boat, traveling from Malta, Misibis, and possibly Tripoli wants to go back to Malana," said the DFA, in English language.

"Aside from the announcement (repatriation or evacuation), there is no clear blueighty of the government how criminals should be implemented or forcefully confiscated from them," Martinez said.

Illegal immigrants in Libya last 2011 that the agency of the government is mad at the slow-slow response of the government agencies in Libya last August, this August, President Aquino ordered to go to DFA Secretary Alberto del Rosario in the nearby countries of Tunisia, evacuation of the Filipinos from Libya.

In the last report, up to 1,700 OFWs have expressed his intention to leave in Libya, but 831, the 50 who were able to go home last August 1 was last reported.

The DFA admitted that most of the OFWs do not choose to leave Libya despite the danger they are afraid of losing jobs, and there are also no waiting for their work or livelihood when they come home.

For Martinez, the DFA should not blame the OFWs from their refusal to leave their jobs in Libya as a part of the questionable program for the suspension of the said OFW when they come home from another country.

"We cannot blame our fellow countrymen who do not want to go back to the Philippines because they do not have work, livelihood and security for their families who are waiting for them if our countrymen will return to this situation," Martinez added.

A photo of a group is a picture of a boxing ring, in Bani Walid, Libya, on 2011.

Wacadia, in the danger of the Middle East, Northern Bank said that this is also the lack of government for OFWs in other countries except in Libya which is also covered in the conflict because it is also being covered in the conflict because it is also in danger that the OFW are in Gatid, Kuwait and Syria.

Recently, the case of one Filipina nurse was raped in Libya, and a Filipino construction worker who was beheaded on July 15.

It also added to the tension of the Filipinos in Libya, the news is slowly losing exit of said country to evacuate.

This is based on a report that the border stations has closed down, particularly Rate Atejano.

From 2011, when the president of Libya was removed from the care of the president of Libya as Muammar Gaddafi, he is fighting with various types of power and control over the power and control of different parts of the said country, this year, the fight became stronger, according to reports.

Martinez said that it is also not helpful to the safety of the Filipinos there in the government of the United States (US), it is possible that some of his head will be looked at and even for an ordinary libel which led to the filipinos who became supporters of their country in the anue.

It can be recalled that last 2011, the armed forces of the US will directly join the previous regime of Gaddafi who was pointed to have caused the number of civilians currently happening in Libya.

It is possible that you will contact the OFW who are avoid binge danger, Migrante International announced that they will serve one crisis in Libya and other places that have a conflict.

It is possible for them to pull from a cellphone number 0932-39,231 and in an email address which can be given a message in the website of Migrante International, where there is an online complaint that can be met.

In the part of the DFA, the embassy of the Philippines can be reached at the address of 87 GROs at Block 8) 918-520-80s), 318-244 and an email address which is 85th (520-85th (13th. 85-5. 85-8972854 or email address.
