Until when?

Even if it was too late, it was still too late, whatever it was, it was still late, no matter what happened to President Benigno Aquino III in order to solve the murder of his sister Remate journalist named Ruby Garcia, it will remain no meaning because it is too late.
Garcia's life can no longer be restored, he only did his job as journalists and as a mother of the house who needs to work for his family.
The brain "in the murder of Garcia has no heart because of the murder of Garcia because he made sure that the victim will not save the gunshot wound that the victim is renting.
Just in a bullet from a caliber .45, they cannot afford to raise the number of caliber .45 in its bottom, "especially when four or five are right.
The part of the body was destroyed which was hit by a bullet.
Whatever explanation is done by the government and any task force will lead to search and hold the culprits, the government will remain useless because it cannot be suppressed because the only wish is for the betterment of the Philippines.
All the followers of President Noynoy in Malacañang are all pleasanthem to defend and giving protection to those close those who are close to PNoy, what are happening and all kinds of words of the President, "you,"
If the citizens are the boss of PNoy, then, hopefully he will serve it and protecting them.
Why did she just let the journalists like animals?
Why are those who have the right to bring guns, those who have illegal drugs and the legal owners of the gun, are losing their license and PTSETC.
Even though it is painful, a business is being used to take a license and the privileges as a gun.
Until now, the citizens are going to wait, especially those who believed that President Aquino was taken to the highest position in his implementation of "Tuwid na Daan"? "
"Hopefully in eternal." Juan dela Cruz cannot wait for him and maybe his heart will get tired of waiting.
Sympathy is that, the ones who left the family and those orphaned by the sibling Ruby Garcia are left behind.
The wish of the readers is also prayer for his soul.
Hoping that his conscience not to silence his conscience is done by the crime.
May the Lupit, Amen feel the right away!
