DND) to buy 2 franchise of Fukuoka, FOOD).

Where is it that the P75-million which used to buy an official of the Department of National Defense is from the two franchises that are said to be left short in the supply of chicken.
Is it true the rumors of our lily's spy on the said DND)?
It has been a long time for Sir to go to the plunder case because it is already over 50 million pesos, so it is expected that the head of our friends in the media will be released again because they will have additional cases in the Sandiganbayan.
Shameless, he added that this official is a "Ipit Gang" which is the only Burger Machine for them to buy using his pork bark.
It is said that this is Mr. LBM what is said to be a member of the Bids Blue Ribbon Committee of DND and according to our payment, there is a bidding on this day, August 11 on DND.
According to some military, Sir, who is the last name of a Roman caster, so even them are wondering why he became greedy. "
Tsk, tsk, tsk-tsk!
Our payment is still being said that it is Mr. Lanticse, she thinks about the bidding on the buying of the Philippine Army at gunpoint while he has nothing to do with it.
It's a good thing he defeated the bidding on the company he is facing.
If I do not make mistakes, this is also what he did Mr. LBM what he did to the European Union where he volunteered to become a local representative.
It is clear that it's clear that he has already left the face of Mr. Likoy Rondiano, he has a "tanim-interest" because he is still the representative of the video.
Sir, you have to eat, give you to others.
It is possible that there are classes in violation of Republic Act 819 or anti-graft case or Republic Act 6713 or EpiPen) for the Public Officials' task that does not change his task, Mister Lahi.
What do you think, Madam Ombudsman Conchita Carpio?
"After you, sir," Madam Ombudsman Conchita Carpio has read it, maybe it will be reached by Moto Pigcawayan, their means that it is possible that the Ombudsman can conduct an investigation even if there is no complaint against it.
"Is it not like that, sir, what you did to the European companies that you volunteered to become a local representative.
Oh my! It is clear on the popular day, "tanim-interest," what you are doing Mr. Lerio Bompat.
You are undergoing dialysis and you are also the local representative of the video.
It is possible that you are missing, sir?
Can he know DND Sec. Voltaire Gazmin, with a score of New "adversary, he said that it is said that he is being used in the cleanliness of his two stores in chicken, if the new toy is right now, sir costs millions.
He just copied Mr. Lahi, face a giant caskets that loves to play a motorcycle.
Which is why the toy has come from sir, to the European companies that is why it is said that they sold the DND of the 8 Polish-3618.
One of the 8-wheeler truck fell on the past Thursday after he was beaten-off in Camp Rihanna in Marawi City and last July 2013, a Shanaquiao, which was supposed to be brought to SND), was not allowed to leave Camp Aguinaldo because he was allegedly not allowed to leave Camp Aguinaldo.
There are whispering that now in Camp Aguinaldo, he fought with Mr. Laza, even the bidding for the Anti-Illegal Drugs unit.
Sir, for sure, you might be the same with the right hand of a local official who was killed after it's likely that he is still rich in an official official, is it right, mayor?
In the insult that happened, the helicopter that happened was not surprising because according to our spy, something really happened in the buying of said helicopter.
