It is okay for a senator that is like a senator, Tantasy is only a senator.

What is happening in the Senate regarding the list of cheaters or Shane-list "list of the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Malhmm, which is at P11 billion in total?
Only one senator is calling for the Senate blue ribbon committee to subpoena the list held by Department of Justice Leila de Lima.
But it seems that the resolve of Senator Serge Osmeña said that it will lead to caucuses.
So, if they will not subpoena and release the list, what do you think is what is happening and truth, Bro?
It was also quiet in the legislative chamber.
These lawmakers in the Legislative Chamber are very quiet, too quiet.
And even ex-Senator Ping Lacson also wants to silence because he also has a list of Janet Lim Napoles.
"There are even" Hello, Jean or Janet, "on the role held by Lacson." SoHello, Jean or Janet "Janet, Bro," equivalent to "Hello, Garci" during the time of Miss Gloria.
If it will be a deception in the 2004 election, there will be a destruction of Hello, Garci, of deception of PDAF and Malhmm, of the Hello, Jean or Janet.
Inspector NIAOIL, PNIAOIL.
Not only in the world of people in showbiz can be found out by the yellow and queen of intrigues.
There are more and full of the king and the queen of the Legislative Chamber and the Senate about the P11 billion fund.
There are 24 senators and majority of them say that they do not have the list of more than 250 kilometers from the congressmen and count peace to them regarding the deception of the country.
The peace of these is, not to us but will be cowards.
The palace.
But it is not only in Congress that even in Congress, even those in the Palace are continuously implementing their involvement in the Congress.
There have been two years of suspects in the cabinet but they also denied the involvement.
The Palace is currently too quiet about the Saba "list and this should not be said to push the opening of the list of public, why?
Added.
While it is not for a long time to hide, "list of De Lima, many are worried that this will lead to additional wage.
Senator Serge said, that they will not add to the list, but who has a warning?
Remember that Napoles is under the Palace and seems to be measured if it is made to be made into the lower guard.
What if the lower part of the lower abdomen has been removed from the list of those who should be wrong, including the one who has a big embarrassment compared to the mother and what the three senators are accused now?
Strong evidence.
All the pregnant senators and congressmen are pregnant, including the people of the Palace, that a lot of evidence against those involved in the SMAS.
But what if those who are involved in the documents are holding the documents because they are seated in the government? And their stay in position is being used to burn down the evidences!
One more thing, what if it is through testimony, Napoles agrees to give money to the senators, congressmen, and from the Palace?
Release it.
Because the Congress and the Palace refused to release the SMAS-list, Bro, they should be released again, to be released.
If those in the list are clean, they will prove their innocent and lack of sin in front of the country.
It is now they do the opposite of what they are doing, they are forcing to look guilty in their opponents in the election in 2016 even if they have not yet given the hearing in the court.
These kinds of king and queen is very good in receiving evidence against their opponents but now that they are on the list, they do not want to give their own faults and admit that they are the one being accused of the deception of the country.
Very mystery.
Because of Sevidal list, our fight will become more fiery, Bro, our fight for having a law that will give people's rights to increase and get involved in the transition team of the government and the officials and his personnel.
We have been calling the law of Bangsamoro Basic Law or free information.
Because of the lack of FOI and lack of interest in the government, including the Congress, in the hope of its law, this is what the DOJ is doing to hide the Saba "list.
The government is free to refuse the information to the citizens, even the corruption involving officials and personnel of the country.
And here, the mystery is clear, the FOI is clear as the law, giving power to human rights and abuse from the nation's funds and power and its twin is a disrespect of the rights of the people who have to rise and meddle with the transactions in the government.
