A new target scheme, which is implemented in Calapan.

August 12, 2016.

Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, August 12 (Pia) - there will be a new target scheme for public vehicles that are implemented now in the city of Calapan.

It is prohibited for the vehicles to park especially the tricycle that are being held at the front of the Xs Mall at Barangay Mabog town, and instead, they can get passengers, this is the implementation of traffic rules on the roads in the city where they are taking advantage of the heavy flow of traffic in the city where they are taking advantage of the heavy flow of traffic in the city.

According to Senior Police Chief Superintendent Auto, they will be allowed to go to other passengers in front of the said mall but not to take advantage of it.

The objective of this is to avoid the heavy flow of traffic in the said place, however, the van terminal in the former area where they are traveling to South will remain.

The official added, they are also coordinating with the owners of the passenger van in the dock of Calapan City to give notice that they go to South Cotabato Street so that they will not be busy going to South 5 Road so that they will not be busy with the coast of J.P. Rizal Street so that they will not be busy with the coast of J.P. Rizal Street so that they will not be busy in the coast of J.P. Rizal Street so that they will not be busy with the coast of J.P. Rizal Street so that they will not be busy in the coast of J.P. Rizal Street so that they will not be busy with the coast of J.P. Rizal Street so that they will not be busy in the coast of J.P. Rizal Street.

Because of this, it cannot be denied that the huge number of vehicles in the city will not be denied, they are also open to study about the implementation of the number coding system of all vehicles from the total of 3,500 worth of vehicles that travel everyday.

Adding traffic light and distress will only be a few of those who can accommodate the increase of traffic in the main roads in the city.

Ongoing is the study by the local government to ensure the proper flow of traffic through a new policy and implementation of the road ordinances in Calapan City. (CIi / LTO), Pia-Mimaropa, Calapan).
