Frankly: Aside from the jet crashed in Spratad, which is the only one in what he said during the campaign?
By Ellen - October 19, 2016 during the campaign of President Rodrigo Duterte, he says in all kinds of solution to the problem in South China Sea where China is claiming almost all parts, including the parts of the ocean in the Philippines' territory.
He said that he will say to the Philippine Navy to bring him to the nearest place of the ocean where the ship can be brought to the Philippine Navy, "I will be able to go to the third point in the South China Sea,"
His speech is always part of his speech.

He will come back to the flag of the Philippines and she is kissing her before they left last Sunday going to Brunei and China, he gave an interview in Al Argosino and TV.

He was asked about his plan to step down in Spratad when they were friends of China.
Duterte's answer was "Fight IT.
He said, how would she get mad at him, he does not know how to swim.
You are not swimming again if you are in-law, but it's good that you know how to swim because whatever happens while in the middle of the ocean, you are confusing.
Duterte said, if the jet crashed, "you will lose a president."
It is said that this is just a moment to humiliate the Filipino people that he will not give any part of the Philippines in exchange of many projects and benefits that he is expecting from his visit to Beijing starting today.
It is really difficult to take what Duterte is saying, different others.

One day, he said that we will leave the United Nations (UN) and will build their own group with China, North Korea and some countries in Africa, including their Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, about the increasing number of those who die of illegal drugs.
The next day, he said he was just joking.
He also said, he would be cut down on the agreement in the United States, the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA), even if he said during his arrival at the Gagalangin, he said the agreement that the previous president signed.
It is a bit good for the former military by his statement after a lot of criticisms against him, including former President Fidel V. Ramos, he said that he is telling the agreement with the United States.
I do not know what he will say about the Scarborough Shoal or Panatag Shoal or let us just wait for what will happen to their agreement with the President of China, Xi Jinping.
