Jessica does not want to look at him.
To the voices that are responsible for the death of the Dumagat-soldiers, this Saturday, we have heard many times a few times, the military, even the military, are said to have agreed with this after this.
They are very pitiful; we can still try to go.
What comes to you.
In Baclaran.
Just tell what is "your story has died from my aunt, is this Saturday and they help all of them from possible profit from anyone.
Aside from fifty-six soldiers were wounded.
Most from being four o'clock.
It is different from the foot to foot, pay upon receipt and for an eight pesos operation.
You only have a cellphone in Ortigas Avenue around five o'clock.
The trash can just start too much.
They have a soldier to talk with the ID-M for a long time, we just called the posture or the soldiers of the five-NPA, which is why many chicken has died.
This truck was used by the soldier one by the Makati City.
You are asking the place that they went to in the place where they went to, that's when we are in the same place, and then they can feel it.
You can say that, sir, because our money is really big, that's really big.
Full operation.
In spite of those in Wil, the price will continue in Metro Manila earlier, the increase of people to go, sir, on the people that will be held.
Out of ten hours after being killed, it is said that you already know a twins that will be exported but deported; the faces are siblings.
She said her body was left by his companions.
We from the U P, they were also killed by the son of his lawyer, who was in a deep sleep, that's why they were in a deep sleep; he / she was in a deep sleep; and more than ten other countries.
It's a waste of French kisses.
Okay, love.
There is a possibility that something will happen to a bomb because Uncle Mon will remain neutral or.
Yesterday, the visitor of the group Fire Gus Tambunting also arrived in the pictures that the soldiers died in the wounds of the soldiers in Zamboanga City.
Very short; the heart of those who suffered from how our heroes are.
They are going to be together.
My God has a sickness.
Aunt.
Last year, it was just near this place where the solution was killed in an operation, but they were able to look at the farm, which can be eaten by the farm.
It is said that he turned it to Tito D TT when we were just after the copy of the pesos that is why it's still young that even if he did not have a mistress, this is what I said in the incident.
Because in the next month, he will get along.
It started with a good thing that he / she has been going to.
No one is saying there will be one million and it is as if they already have a winning operation.
Two weeks in a week, they have been working in this operation for two weeks because they have proven that they are serious in their serious operation because there is also a positive sign that the two thousand of the ashes were gone to waste.
And here they are going to face this kind of August.
Very short; he / her sister-in-law, is waiting here in the troops of the soldiers of your brother, that was in the corner of the white vinegar.
According to those who are dead here, they have been free for two for a long time, but when they have read that they have read it earlier, I have read that they have talked to a text message. "
It may lead.
Even if it is not to ashes, it is said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she was the
That is just a leader.
Not the leader of the ashes.
Yes, we will see in some white groups that they are carrying in, which is why they gave their father who will leave there.
We are here that's why we still hear that.
Fuck, deport, people.
There are no experts, who are not included in the edge, the Philippines, but to those who are holding, aside from what they are holding, it seems that this is still being told by them that they have been saying.
Fuck, dearse; and to IOS.
This is why, in the same age, they were able to take care of their footsteps.
Who will leave here in the mind.
The closest person that he will cook even more.
It was said that he was told to go ahead, the group, who was able to answer immediately, was able to answer properly but it seems that it would be good for him in Morong and like a network.
They said that it is possible that there is a member of Bingo chicken in this, but when it comes to Iya, but when it comes to Iya, they cannot do anything else.
She will say that we are our actors who are over-sitting here with a mother-in-law who is being told by the A dwarf: Jessica, she is just pretending to let it be like that.
They will enumerate these kinds of groups with them.
To be hot.
For a person.
Just but
He is not hiding.
If the First Republic is our operation, this is an ice cream.
Like that.
For me, it's likely that I am going to have a date with Roselle.
For tomatoes, my brothers, who are very high-round; we will find out that your group will find it, because we know it is going to pass by your group with Tita Jessie, because we know that we are going to fix all the number of addicts from different places, but we know.
To be suspicious.
There in Mindanao, isn't it that they have a child who is also a relative.
That's why I am not stupid; we are stupid.
My question now is it seems to be exported.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was filling, because before four four four o'clock, isn't it?
Now, there seems to be experts agreement that we have heard before that there are people who are helping him in the level of vehicles but are not yet in Mindanao.
Before this, he / she was able to catch up; he / she was able to look at each other; he / she was still at fault; he / she was able to catch each other, the month.
Which is why they have been killed last year like that, in the 'game, that's where you are near that day.
He does not like that in the case that we are in the same room, we really try to let go to those who are even foreigners here in front of me and even in glass, I really do not want to make the I have a meeting with just like me.
That is why it has been five years that we have to do, but do not want to go with it?
That's why we are still not contented, they are the ones who are teaching; we are the ones who are going to fix yourself here is our troop that looks like this because it comes to our troop.
Meanwhile, Pia nanny, was also seen by Zailon.
Here in Morong, where he / she said, where he / she just said, is where he can see the soldiers, just to finish his money, but when it comes to me, he / she wasn't able to talk to him, which happened to Jonas who was in their session right now.
This number is said to be the only thing, Jessica, even if they really are.
At night, there is no soldier.
We are proud; we are very small; there are a small chance that there will be classes in it, but this is one of his knowledge in making it down.
It's like a text message.
For those who are anxious, the next year will be the next year if there will be one who won.
When he went to work, I arrived.
It is found out that Theresa is already dead but they say that they are hiding anything from the electricity.
I have been deceived by a little bit of operation, isn't it?
It's the condition in the head that's why they are the only ones in the height of case you are in Pag-asa.
On the side of the government.
Teenagers, on the side of the residents, there are some who are still there.
The military.
Jessica has also said that there are still a lot of people who have been killed, just the two of that, that they are being considered by Atejano.
That is another big sister, "also left behind.
They are saying that they are on their own number.
For the tomatoes, when Suznette Ruedious; they are from C-five, they are from C-five in their living near Antique, but there are still many of those who were carried away, but many of them were not included in this.
It is the three fifth SONA of those who are going to go to school so much.
The afternoon, it is still possible here in the hospital that they will have started when it is not a young niece when the number of those who died in the number of those who died from the group of those who died from the group of ashes were not yet allowed, but they also have to finish each other.
An official of the ashes, the credibility of Aileen, she is also waiting for the seven to be given seven between their Intelligence Agency.
Was the ground with Jessica.
