
The Liberal Party of the Philippines is stated in the region of Panay in the occasion of the 45th anniversary of the Liberal Party.
The rise of damage caused by the typhoon Yolanda, the Marcos regime was charged with the criminals who are useless and offered by the pork barrel while begging in the foreigners.

Congratulations!
CPP Panay Regional Committee.
TV 26, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program.

Liberal Party of the Philippines has a statement in Region Panay in the occasion of the 45th anniversary of the Liberal Party.

Starting to raise the conflict between the typhoon Yolanda. Sbuton of the Aquino administration with the criminals who are useless on the criminals who have been observing the Batanglement that is being monitored by the Oplan Tokhang.

We congratulate all members and leaders of the Liberal Party of the Philippines as well as a thousand of consecutive times by the Liberal Party of the Philippines, and hundreds of thousands of thousands of people in Panay and hundreds of thousands of people in Panay.
There is no effect with the destruction of the destruction of the destruction of typhoon Yolanda in the past when it is difficult to lower down the island, it is further added to the criminals which are useless to the Aquino administration.

More than half of Panay were severely devastated by the strongest typhoon in the world, forty and thousands were wounded in the seven million affected of calamities in the entire island that was held at Capiz, Aklan, northern Iloilo and north Antique.

Up to P10.59 billion pesos worth of Panay Island and northern part of Panay. 1.5 billion worth of harvest in the rice field was destroyed, the 4,000 farmers and thousands of houses were destroyed or confiscated in the fishing boats.

From the food given by the Philippines, it will not be sure if the region has to ensure that for the business of the region, which is important for the destruction of the ability to buy some million people from Saudi Arabia and Syria.

Many of the victims of the storm are widespread because of desperation, hunger and lack of livelihood, the millions of victims of his promises are widespread and can only give assistance from those who are forcing public taxes that they can use to the people.

The government budget allocated to 34.9 billion pesos or $8.17 billion program in the release of the storm Pablo in Davao, earthquake in Bohol, which is expected to be sent by typhoon Pablo in Davao, earthquake in Bohol, that all will be brought by the regime in his program in his program.

It is expected that the regime will end up in its bastion in Panay in his own bastions, including the Visayas and Spanish groups, hoping that it will be a preparation for the rise of corruption for the elections for the presidency in 2016.

But the huge loss of the regime in the preparation and aid to those affected by Yolanda was the people who went to the regime, and in the local officials she lived with, the citizens were angry when the defense of Aquino was angry when he defeated the pork barrel.

In the campaign against pork barrel, it is the same time to act of 6,000 pesos in situations in urban and churches, businessmen, businessmen, acadversary, pork barrel and the typhoon Yolanda of the destruction of the regime and the price of the people with Aquino.

The local government has been utilized for the slow force of the previous election so that the citizens will get a huge benefit from the progressive countries including those who are opposing our candidacy for the progressive and the influence of the revolution.

It is the improvement of the Intertropical Convergence Zone and full of launch of the agricultural sector that resulted to 18 people who were killed in the boundary of Mianay-ao, San Joaquin, San Joaquin, San Joaquin and Sibago, which caused an improvised explosive devices in the secluded mountains, and many were wounded in the islands being thrown at the boundary of Mianay-ao, San Joaquin and Sibago.

They are complaining after the enemy of the Priority Development Assistance Fund) in Capiz from San Joaquin, Iloilo and in San Joaquin, Iloilo and of Sibulan Sahiron because they felt that the scope of the name of the GRP) is stronger when they felt the height of the troops of the GRP) even on the empty plantation of the Gogh.

After the storm, all the government troops went down on the fields of the 3rd division in Jaena, Jamindan, Capiz because of the fear of the storm's eyes due to the fear of the regime, but they were chased by armed citizens in an island of Panay.

The people will rise.

It is the duty of the Liberal Party to rise from the recovery of the local citizens of Panay and becoming a thief and cruel of the Marcos regime, the Liberal Party of the Liberal Party of the Philippine National Bureau of the Philippines is fully implemented.

1.

Launch the movement and effective preparation for the calamity, especially in places where there is danger in typhoon, flood, earthquake and other calamities that have been proven to have been lacking and involved in the preparation of the regime.

2) insist on the regime's growth and services needed by the citizens who are also from the taxes that they have been paying to remove all the pork barrel, especially the more than 1 tablespoon of pork barrel, especially the more than 1 billion worth of livelihood of the people affected.

Even if we are asking for foreign help, the lawyers should insist on the payment for the debt of the GRP) and transfer the funds for the legislative chamber to temporarily stop the appointed project in making the dams at Cotai River and transfer the funds for rehabilitation.

As charged by the regime of his criminal that is useless on the preparation of the citizens in the preparation of the people under the administration of Yolanda, there is no system of helping to reveal the suspension of the conflict between the administration and opposition who released the tragic condition of the victims.

Fight the brimming of debts by those affected by those who were devastated and they insisted that the interest in the government budget will insist on the land given by the Lord Nazarene, on the land grabbed by the 3rd ID from Tumbang Pukan and land of the bank.

3.

Improve the ability of the Bables as a source of fighting for the additional ability of the Marcos regime in launching a violation against the poor people.

On the fifth year of the Liberal Party of the Philippines, the PKP has promised for the rise of the citizens for the next year, it will rise from the turmoil and rise from the scope of the regime, corruption and abuse of the regime.

