
TV Patrol, September 12, 2013.

PR - Proletarian group is approved after they are imprisoned!

Joint press.

11 September 2013.

The chilled group is heading to jail, all of them!

They joined the thousands of people who are centered on the territory of Filipino Workers (BMP), the Congress of the Pagkakaisa ng Masang Pilipino (Kibalabag), due to the continuous show that Janet Lim-Napoles and some senators and congressman are involved.

The progressive are asked to put all those who are involved in the testimony of those who are involved based on the testimony of those who surfaced from the commission of the Commission on audit that they are also involved in all those who continue to defend the rotten system of pork barrel.

The BMP) believes that up to the depths of the current system of the politics in the country, all of the senators and conclusion to the officials of the Executive said that the funds of the citizens, who have sinned against illegal drugs, and selling politicians for personal interests, should be implemented, and selling politicians for personal interests.

"Politicians and traditional politicians are the reason why corruption in the country's funds will worsen, while their system has become stronger, its system has become too much!

"The involvement of some officials of the departments of the Executive and Management and Management and Management and Management and agencies who implement the projects from the Priority Development Assistance Fund like the National Bureau Development Assistance Fund), which is why the citizens of their rights under the Priority Development Assistance Fund) is just showing that they will rot in prison," said De Guzman.

Justice Sec.

"Now, Napoles is now detained and waiting for his trial for criminal cases and criminals, hopefully he will have a hard time for every scenario he stole," said Anthony Barnstaple, general Secretary of Karangalan Village at the National Capital Region and Rizal.

Barnstaple also added that, although we are saddened that it has been past two weeks since Napoles surrendered to President Aquino, the Department of Justice and the Philippine National Police against him has nothing to do with more than ten billion pesos of pork barrel scam. "

The organization promised that they will continue to increase the level of protests that will strengthen the people who will join the country's welfare, until they would not be able to escape the system of pork barrel in the country and will not be punished.
