Gary, the song of Luis and Angel, who is in a house for to live, is being prepared.

Postanes and his mind.
On June 9, 2015.
In showbiz.

Gary Valcariano is the only model of Luis Manzano and Angel Locsin for a long time and this has long been known by Mr. STS.
It's because Luis asked who she wants Angel to sing in their wedding because Lea Salonga shows that the wedding of Sarah Geronimo and Matteo Guidicelli will sing the wedding of Sarah Geronimo and Matteo Guidicelli.
"We already talked about Tito Gary (Valcariano) that will sing, Hagibis as a joke (joke of the actor).
"Tito Gary" we were already able to talk to when I was talking in "ASAP" Dubai and afterwards, I told me, "Tito Gary" thank you, "I said," what Salas "said," "a joke)."
"We asked if the house you are doing is Angel's house who they would leave," we have been talking about each other where we are going to live after, so that's how serious and we are going to go to it. "
"He / she just extended his / her house, he was still a house helper, for his family, for his sibling, but for his brother, but in the funeral home, he is just like a major ovation.
As of course, the TV host is not yet known about the date of the date of the date of Angel because he is very busy with Angel because they are both busy.
"We are already talking about Angel), it's just a year that I am going to be very busy, especially that she would be more busy with me Tsinelas and last year.
"It was said to be a person who had a glimpse of the infidelity of the Our Lady OPLAN) for a long time."
Is Angel's contract that he is prohibited to marry and be pregnant?
"Ah, me, ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha-joke)," it's not right for him (Angel), not "to him (Angel)," I was not able to go to him, so we can be impressed by, "was the reason for Angel.
So it will be given to the 2016 elections, but there will be a movie that will still be done, is it possible that the wedding will be 2017?
"Wish, I am being talked about, we are talking about it, but we were talking with Her (Angel) that night, we talked," we were talking about, "we were talking," that is too far, 2017, but that is too far.
"I did not want to speak anymore because we were we we were able to talk to, which was we we watched, we was impressed by the amount that we were doing so that we can fight for it, of course, there's still a point," the actor explained.
And what Luis is about his plan to enter politics because up to now he still has no answer.
"It's just that, when I went to ABS-CBN, I will be able to make a step back," when I am going to decide before, I need to take a rest to the other than the ordinary ones, I need to take rest from showbiz.
"I can't accept daily show while running, that is very important to those who will vote for them, because your trust in their livelihood is right," said the actor.
"She says she is really supported by her girlfriend," no matter what I do, she is supported by Angel, and even if I am in the house, I supports Angel, "Luis said.
Meanwhile, Luis's smile is not obvious that she has a problem with the teeth because they are beautiful and white.
That's why he told me that he only found out when she was on a check up because of the coffee and turmeric tea.
"I am a turmeric tea or a turmeric tea, which is also cooked as Christopher, so the exalibis, which has become a little bit because of having a little bit of drinking.
"Even the car of the car, you can make a mistake and enter a mistake and enter the cold air, you will feel," that's really a bait.
"It is sure that all we experienced are that of drinking (cold water), she is a bit contemptuous," I, "we," we, "we," we, "we should not endure, to be able to endure, so that the actor will be able to endure," said the actor.
.
We also heard the actor if his mommy, Batangas Governor Vilma Santos-Recto, is planning to return for Mayor Mayor Vilma Santos-Recto because based on the people we talked to in Lipa, Batangas, there is a strong noise in the Star for all.
"Thank you, I know, to be a glimpse of my mom's political character, I am the one who asked.
"We, as long as we are together with Mommy, she is very rare because of what we applied.
"But we were impressed by our conversation, we was impressed by politics.
"IT led, a mother and a child," by a child. "
"Anguides that it is just like that, we are not talking about it."
And the question is that many are drying out of Ate Vi to run for Vice President in 2016 elections.
"Yes, I'm sure, with Her, in the record, which can be watched over bars in Lipa, Batangas, I was the one who wants to be a run for a run for a National position.
"Entice, you are proud that what they see in my mommy as a politician," Luis stated.
