After the land in Antipolo on the first day of Korean, there will be a huge number of those who are lacking like the number of classrooms and teenagers but were also towns in sweat of the politicians.
Where are you going to sell and increase the year in school.
You are also scattered all the students, so their children also have children.
Four six-year-old child.
It was past six o'clock in the morning Formosa, they started the first day of July 11, two Two civilians in Manila.
The way to go after me as well as his parents.
Because it is scary on the road, nothing is injured.
He is taking care of the child who's taking care of the child.
It is about seven thousand students who will bring so much like those who are going to have a difficult time, because most of them, most of them have five years.
Because in the store which is a part of Tito it's been a part of Tito so that she does not want to make a one point when she finds out that there is two kinds of classes in a high-year-old school in spite of the problem, I am still thankful that he is in the opening of the classes of Social Weather Stations or Humalig).
Covetous, dearse; has a payment.
Four men are not allowed.
Zailon and Two.
Two.
He said that the problems in education will be lessened in order to address the assembly on the middle of the road, so the former-six-six-eight thousand pesos, which is said to have been lacking for six thousand, which is said to have been lacking for a six-six-eight thousand, is said to have been missing for six-years.
The thousands and chairs were said to have been away from the back of one hundred thousand but the sexy image has not enough for those who are calling the problem, most of them have a solution.
Maybe it's different.
There is the solution.
He / she grew up; he / she wasn't doing anything, he / she was doing it.
That's why the score of Alliance (t-shirt and the youth themselves were very kind because of them.
Classmate did not pay attention to the Guardian.
There is no.
There have been an additional one five-six-million-old rats.
He / she was able to take care; he / she could not build a classroom; but they did not build the hands of Two people who were not able to build the address of Subic public if it is true that Ortigas was true.
April is the role if this problem might not be the address of the government as well as the youth.
Carry the Access.
How can't the problem be, whose problem is to be distressed; we will not be able to help the High School which can't be able to help the High School, you still don't want to help the High School, you still don't want to help a high school year in exchange of my fault in a few pre-hour for two thousand pesos each other.
That is why it has not been received by them to be in a span of six-million pesos, while the one who is lacking in front of the public school is still high, while one of the one who has been in a noodle house is still very small; we might just leave the gems, which can be left in its bottom.
This is what DepEd is worried about us.
Tito Paul.
Yes, crew members.
Drilling, very low; and so as well, we are not at the Lapian ng Masang Pilipino pending to six pesos.
He was still alive.
It has been a holdup done on Wednesday imminent two-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-old man who seemed to be angry at what they were saying.
Serious.
