Thank you for free wi-fi in the school.
By Bam Aquino, October 27, 2016.
This is to hear the complaint of students and know the needs of schools, like the lack of classrooms, chairs, books and other things.
It is important to know the people who are planning to be included in order to be included and be given the appropriate funds to the national budget recently, we visited AOIL National High School when we went to Bacolod City.
We are happy with the warm acceptance of the students, teachers and parents in our arrival.
We inspected the classrooms and other facilities in the school and were conducting a round table for the leaders of the school and student Leader's leader in order to know their needs.
In the said round table, the students were given a chance to talk and bring the needs of studying.
One grade 10 can be stood up and said that one of the biggest needs is a classroom, which is currently crowded, which is why they are having a hard time to study.
One of the students mentioned is the lack of computers and internet in their school which can be used in making cowards.

Even if the books are not enough, if there is the internet, they can use the best and World First Class which is materials for education.
He / she was wearing.
Including AOIL National High School in 74 percent of the public Cup which has no internet, based on data from the Department of Education (DepEd).
DepEd has sufficient fund for the schools on the internet but because infrastructure is lacking and signal of the internet, they will not be given a good connection.
These numbers are worrisome because it is important to make the internet in teaching and taking knowledge.
That's why in the hearing that we have done in the Senate Bill 3250 or the proposal to put free internet the public brownouts and SUCs from the whole country, we convinced DepEd, Department of Information (Communications (DICT) and telecommunication has to set a plan to meet the problem.
In our hearing, I asked for help from the appropriate agencies of the government and private sector how it will be given 100 percent of the public brownouts and SUCs from free internet.
In putting the internet in schools, they are supporting their studies through negative comments and online gambling.
Under the proposal, the new version of Department of Transportation and Communications Sec. Discipline Office is to give a strong internet for the students, whose students, and other non-Teaching personnel.
The internet issue should be placed in a place where it is only way to create a strong signal.
I am convinced that the students should be used for responsible use of the internet to hasten the progress of their knowledge and even the citizens in the future.
