
The KP has also being swept up the revolutionary taxes that were killed in Bicol, massacre to Irosin last July 4, criticized.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
July 8, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (CPP-CPP-budol gang, who was captured last July 4 Tala.

The management and the whole group of Liberal Party of the Philippines and the Pregoner were implicated and Commander of Bagong Hunan Bayan is a private sector to buy it.

Frankie ArSoriano (Ka Greg are anjoe).
Christine PL.
Ted Failon (Ka Gary)
Peking Hala (Ka Miloy.
David Lalakay, Ka Rey.
Romero (Ka Nene).
William Villanueva, Junior (Ka Jay)
YogCalma, Ka Kevin Manalo.

Who became a martyr anymore in July 4, 2013 in Barangay Calitlitan, Juban, Sorsogon.

Served as the spokesperson of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines in Bicol, Ka Greg Mendoza, who is with the other members of the bureau on the information of NDFP-Bicol and his pet group in the security of the Bagong HE.

It was criticized by the KP that the brutal massacre made by the military troops of the 31st IB, the Puguiao said that the troops and Management Council are responsible for the violation of the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) and the corresponding treatment of Geneva ConejL).

According to the initial report sent by Pamukid in Sorsogon, the residents of Ka Greg, Ka Nel and Ka Gary who backed out from the scene of the first fight, they were shot at the face and with a bullet on their bodies by the troops of the 31st IB.

They should be arrested and detained as hostages in Filipino people, Ka Greg, Ka Nel and Ka Gary because they were not armed and have no ability to fight with those involved in the provisions of Geneva who won't have no ability to fight against those involved in the rules of Geneva (Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement), and instead, they have no pity that they were massacred by the soldiers of the 31st IB.

The PKP wants to have an award to the massacre to Irosin last July 4, he is calling the real events on the violation of human rights, public groups and appropriate agencies of the United Nations to conduct their own investigation on this massacre.

Recognition promised for the KP, and all the crooked force will be given justice and punished the criminals in the massacre case to protect the people, particularly the Filipino farmers in Sorsogon and Bicol that is under the violation of human rights while the AFP is increasing in Oplan Tokhang.
