Fare increase in LRT, MRT, a burden to the workers - Bayan Muna.

Of Ka Christian Marty.
Different parts of the Light Rail Transit (LRT) and Metro Rail Transit (LRT) and Metro Rail Transit (LRT) and Metro Rail Transit (MRT) after it is implemented by the Department of Transportation and Communications (DOTC) on the 19th of January.
Based on the petition of the anomalous group such as Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, United Filipino Conders, the DOTC, the DOTC, has no power to implement the order especially since it is not a basis for the reasons given by the DOTC about the increase in fare increase.
In 2011, the increase in fares in LRT and MRT was first approved where President Benigno Aquino III and his Cabinet received criticism against the private companies that were included in running the train.
In relation to this, a few form of protest spread on social media like "selfies", "the picture of the passengers that showed their complaints about the high fare of MRT and LRT.
An estimated 1.5 million number of passengers of LRT and MRT are almost 1.5 million pesos, while 81 percent are included in the workers, while 15 percent are students from MRT 3 (Baclaran-5) from 15 to 30 pesos and the LRT-2 (Santolan, Recto) from 15 to 30-25.
The effect of the low-Illegal Drugs Group (commuters) of the Social Weather Center of the Constitution; government subsidy of the Light Rail Transit and the Light Rail Transit and the Light Rail Transit and the Light Rail Transit), "according to the petition of Bayan Muna," according to the petition of Bayan Muna.
In the 2015 budget, Aquino provided P4.65 billion for the rehabilitation of MRT and P7,000 billion for LRTMC) compared to the budget last year, it went down to 1.21 billion and P728 million.
Meanwhile, 81 percent of the total pay in MRT are allocated for the build-Illegal Drugs) in MRT Corporation and 19 percent is for the operation and for the implementation of its operation under the BLT, 15 percent.
It is clear that said increase is not needed because only a small percentage is being paid for fixing the facilities in MRT and LRT, according to the bird Foundation, an institution of research.
Bea Persist is only one year in UP Manila who lives in Caloocan for the students who are living in Caloocan for the students who are living in Caloocan in spite of the increase in facilities and services of LRT but he cannot do anything because it is still fast compared to a jeep.
"The LRT fare of the MRT stations has only been an ally for the Preso, We, the anti-Tropas that will be the anti-Illegal Drugs Act," said rails of the country Network, Sammy Malhes.
