
Sorry, please say!

Janet Lim-Napoles is asking for forgiveness to the Filipino people, who are said to be the brains of the P10-billion pork barrel scam, which is said to be the brain, if the Lord will be forgiven, that is why it is right.
But didn't Mrs. Napoles know that the Filipino is too much?
In history, there are a lot of crooks who supported the people who forgave the Filipinos but they will not forget their cruelty.
Just like the former President and now Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada who was convicted of plunder case he forgave him, but answered by former President Gloria Arroyo, who is currently jailed because of various cases of corruption.
Isn't it that Erap was able to return to politics as mayor of Manila and he was almost president of the Philippines when he became president of President Aquino last 2010 Presidential elections, this means that he has accepted again.
Gloria also forgave him, a proof that the number of songs given to him was proof for a few cases of GMA, which the Sandiganbayan has been released by the Sandiganbayan.
If he really does not have a living room, the people's trust to him will gradually get back to him, as they say, he is given the sins but they should be held accountable for the law.
But in the case of Mrs. Napoles, she asked forgiveness for a drama.
What is he asking for forgiveness if he says he is innocent and has nothing to do with the pork barrel scam?
Mrs. Mrs., Napoles is said to have been saying that he is innocent in the corruption of the country although he is earning billions from the questionable projects.
First, he knows that his projects can be anomalies, and he knows that the lawmakers are using the integrity of the government, he has a big sin.
How can she be forgiven if she does not admit to the sin that he continues to clean and being treated his own head.
He gave the list of politicians who benefited from the budget that they played with but the issue is not yet finished.
Napoles and his accomplices should be punished with the law because his lies, the country is still being angry.
Mrs. Susan Roces said, the liar is a liar for a thief and we do not accept what you already asked!
