Done by Toh!: Daniel and Kathryn, that it was Aga-Aiko before!
They will also separate, Bakar Regalola, September 1, 2016.
Aiko Melendez said in Kathmandu, which is more than the skills of the two in acting, what he saw is the good behavior of Daniel Padilla and Kathy Bernardo Bernardo.
Together with Aiko in the movie Barcelona: Star Ngayon that in the whole time that they are together in the shooting, he can't say anything but praises for the two.
According to Aiko, "I am sure, what I admire to them is" my attitude, "I believe that all the attitude of a person is difficult, but the attitude of a person is difficult, but it is difficult, that you will be cheated on.
"
"Thand's Day," I was calling on my Instagram post, I, a new baby Libra (Kathryn. "DJ (Daniel) will be in a place in my heart.
"I," I said, "i'll be able to make sure that if you are to make a celebrity in Generation, I want Daniel Padilla" that.
"She said that Aiko and Aga Muhlach will remind her that she is the first one in front of him.
"I really want to remind me of the actress Aiko and Aga Muhlach of the one you love (1983 but their two children).
"I can really see what they are doing and we can't blame them if they feel the GAPARK.

"Is it right, isn't it that the First Lieutenant said that I had a loved one in the character of Aga because they are also a love of Monica, Carlito) for each other?
"That's why I understand what they're going through, but hopefully, we should not get carried away by you, because on the other hand, that is the same thing that their Co-star, Ana Capoquian, is also saying that she is a type of honor.
Ana said, "when I got sick, Daniel was really given medicine.
"I do not want to drink it, I said," Ah Wahab, "said that she just wants to hide as a souvenir for the medicine.
"It is gladdening to know how much they are going to be, even from the Cam, they will be imprisoned."
Ana was said to have been a fan of Kathmandu, who once passed by the two, he was not able to stop himself from selfies.
"He / she was able to leave you," / she's time to see them once, as if I was in front of me.
"It so happened that I passed by them, even if I am tired," just wait for her taking her pictures.
"And then I was surprised that there is really a lot of people.
"That night, I cannot sleep, so when I tell me this film, I said," Oor "
