
The PKP is greeting the Bables as beneficiary of 14 weapons in the force of the police.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
June 29, 2013.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) congratulated the Putatan, which resulted in the successful ambush yesterday morning against the armed forces of the Regional Public Services Program in the initial report, they were able to confiscated the Putatan, which is not less than 14 high caliber guns.

It was done fast and sure that the Pregoner were able to conduct the implementation of the Leonardo PacCommand of the Bugnay, the armed forces of the police and the armed guards who were walking towards Barangay Abatan, Baung, Mt. Province.
RPolice B is a special unit of PNP, who keep working in order to conduct operations against the Bagong Hala Bayan and among the revolutionary force of the citizens in the launch of the brutal burial of the Aquino administration in the launch of the brutal image of the Marcos regime, "said the KP.

"It was launched by the BAN, which is part of the ongoing offensive against the RPolice B as part of the continuing effort to defend the armed forces of the Filipino people against the Aquino administration of the Marcos regime," said the KP.

The PKP insisted that Vice President Jejomar Binay and Interior Secretary Mar Roxas "in Oantangan said that there are no armed forces of the police who are innocent and have no enemy, in expressing their statements against the Bastes when the truth is not yet identified."

"They were armed and have the ability to fight the broken bus force of PNP-RPolice District, and the truth is, they went with a gunshot, while many of them were able to run away after all their guns," said the KP.

"The real truth is that the RPolice B is a big failure in a huge failure in a huge failure on the issue of destruction of land and support of the masses, which resulted to the formal defeat against the enemy, it is owned by the Pizarro and the laws of Filipino masses.

"By the media manager, they automatically have the blind eye to the police and military by Aquino as civilians or soldiers who are conducting an activity of the armed forces, police and their armed men who are able to face the armed action of the Bagong Hala Bayan," said the KP.

However, it is not possible for the Aquino administration to launch the Spanish forces and armed personnel of the police who are serving the interest of the public utility vehicles, big companies in mining, high companies in mining, said plantation of abuse, "said the KP.

It is said that the KP has supported all the units of the BHB) launch a bigger offensive against the armed forces of the Aquino administration which can be united in the launch of the Saligang Batas of the land and daring books on the land and daring books of the masses. "
