
The ranks of Kamias passed away from the revolutionary success!

Revolutionary Council of trade Universities (NDFP).
14 December 2013.

It's a message on the 18th of the workers of the Pentagon.

The Revolutionary Management Council of trade Universities (National Democratic Front of the Philippines to the workers of the Pentagon Corporation of the eight months of their fight against the abuse of capitalist Mariano Chan and of the Marcos regime.

The workers of the Pentagon showed the revolutionary movement and invaluable service in pushing their rights to the advancement of their rights because they faced the hardship and sacrifice in order to succeed.
The workers of the Pentagon.

For a long time, the workers of the Pentagon are locked up in a very short salary, lack of security at work, and taking care of their interest and right to build their interest and right to build a real, aggressive and progressive countries.

On the year of this year, they were fired by the editions of their worthy country as a response, the workers of the Pentagon will immediately raise their call: Restore their right to school, and push the salary, work and rights.

No joke of violence was made by capitalized, the state of capitalists have was an accomplice of the militant workers who were killed by the bandit group who were killed after they intentionally crashed into their ranks of a guard who attempted to lower their ranks from their ranks than a guard in the campaign where Mariano Chan was successful because he was completely paralyzed when he was totally paralyzed in the operation of the factory.

DOTU urged all the workers to support the struggle of the workers of the Pentagon.

They contributed for the movement of making and any solution.

As early as early as now, the workers of the Pentagon, as well as the movement of making the country and the revolutionary movement of the Filipino people.

A slap on the face of the workers of the Pentagon.

The strength and struggle of the workers of the Pentagon will serve as inspiration to many of Filipino workers to unite and protest against the abuse and taking advantage of their rights and interest to insist on their rights and interest.

Most of all, the workers of the Pentagon are able to show the bad spirit of service to the people, together with a severe fight, and join the national struggle of the people for the national democracy, freedom and medical exam.

A challenge to the workers of the Pentagon.

However, it will be a long return to the workers of the Pentagon.

They should continue to serve the straight school and just let us just keep on the field of training of the Filipino workers in order to fix the revolutionary duty.

The workers of the Pentagon is challenging to be a well of the Filipino members and members of the Liberal Party of the Philippines that will lead the highest position of the Pentagon to raise the most workers in the armed fight in the countryside, and join the New People's Army.

Whatever victory we will achieve in this society is just a small and short term, only to the armed fight of the workers and the entire Filipino people to achieve real freedom, democracy and the society is free for the workers.
