Wednesday, October 1, 2014.

A letter to companions, regarding the co-worker.

To those with companions.

Earnest greetings!

Since yesterday, September 30, until November 10, the communication from me is closed because I was included in the long distance from Luneta until November 8, the first anniversary of Yolanda.

It is rare for this kind of opportunity to be with a decent and aware goal, especially that this is for the right time to be a part of history for those affected by Yolanda, will I release this kind of opportunity?

I am chosen by your companions, and I noticed that many thanks for your trust.

We are not waiting for you to be a part of the historical gathering like this should not be ignored, but I will not wait for this kind of opportunity, that's why I am asking for forgiveness to those who seem to have not want to share with the long-mate has a habit.

We are opening a new chapter in the field of Filipinos, and this is the reason why they want it to be a model of other countries in a set time by the society in a set time by the society in a set time by the community in a set time by the community in a set time when I have published the following books.

(1) rice, it was not Bala: 00 to the peace in Mindanao - this is a special ana of Duay in Baguio City until Cotabato City last November 22-30, 2008.

(2) the herbs in the stove and convincing those who are going to be called for a long-called "trip in Laqueza Dam" in 2009 where we walked, together with the indigenous Dumagat-Remontadoses from General Nakar, Quezon City, until Caringal, Manila; together with the storm Ondoy, and other issues.

(3) travel to Mae Sumang - 13 years of traveling from the Philippines, Bangkok, Thailand, Mae Sungala), an hour inside Burias, until he returned to the Philippines, September 15-27, 2012.

The four of these kinds of allergates have been done with a cherness and is going to be done by the poem given to the books, I temporarily put it on "Yolanda: The corners of Pag-asa and justice."

However, even if my world is closed outside to provide for justice for the long ways for justice, the plan will continue to finish some of the pending propaganda for this kind of propaganda.

Some of the things that should be considered in the book are the following.

(1).

(2) the topic of housing project of F. Kennedy on-0) of 68-M-INTECAYETANO-Tropas.

(3) Bolayeving 2 - Manation of Marshawn Lynch, Labor) and the BMP) on January 2015.

(4) Bolayes 3 - Manation of Maruri, (Women's Month, a person who has been in-time for March 8, International Women's Day.

(5) "Yolanda: 00 in the cities of Pag-asa and justice is now being done, - on the age of 19, 2014, and are looking at the Forum at EDSA.

Also, I want to worry about those with other activities that should be prepared for.

(1) October 29 - up to 21st century.

(2) November 14-International Space Day, or aunt Flor is Metro Manila Film Festival (MMR).

(3) November 16-year-year-year-law of Hacienda Luisita massacre, the third year-year-year-ranked leader of National Occupation of DOLE on November 30, in the province of the said massacre.

(4) November 30 - Bonifacio Day, the speed of Bonifacio Drive.

I am asking for forgiveness to those whom I cannot accommodate to leave my co-worker because this is rare for this kind of opportunity to choose and be one of the historical activities like this.

What we came from for a long journey until the first anniversary of Yolanda in Tacloban has a huge contribution for the call of mate Justice.

This is one of the primary root of the Supreme Court's primary root, and as councilor a, writers, and Pandola, I should bring to the vast masses the stand of the type of workers regarding the issue of mate Justice, and why the system should be changed.

Thank you for you, your companions, to you who are not fed up in these kinds of tasks, although small, there is a small contribution for the advancement of our desire to live!

With you.

City.

October 1, 2014.
PS. We saw each other again when we return to Manila, that I think is on November 11.
