
Christians except for Papa Kiko's visit to the Philippines by Filipino Weeker.

In every road he passed, they were there - thousands of Filipinos in Manila are very hot to accept the arrival of the Philippines of the Pope.

From the airports in Villamor in Paranaque City to live in the corner of Quirino and Taft Avenue, Manila is a jammed person who will be happy beside the hundreds of barangays of Pope Francis.

Meanwhile, in Liwasang Bonifacio, Manila morning of January 15, the group of "New People's Welcome Rotter of Pope Francis will start on the way of the hundreds of farmers, workers and parts of different farmers, workers and parts of different sectors of the Filipino workers.

They are carrying different issues of the country - from corruption of the Aquino administration, a violation of human rights and not moving the peace talks, we agreed to present the Holy Pope to support his allies in the fight, "Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan).

According to Reyes, the Bayan is hoping that Pope Francis will see the true situation of the poor in the Philippines with his visit to the country and is allegedly being implemented, and the poverty, lack of employment, hunger and forceful invitations.

"Our ambition is being pushed for the meaningful change in the country and set the poor and being raped so that all people who have been private and taking advantage of the justice and peace," father of Promotion for the leader of Promotion to Church People's veillance Response Gang).

From the southern Katagalugan, Hacienda Luisita, Tarlac, and other places and provinces are the farmers under Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP) who joined "New People's Welcome Rotter and built a bath in Liwasang Bonifacio.

Antonio Flores said, the general secretary of KMP) chance is the visit of the Pope to ask for his debts to the Catholic Church, and even in other religion, to join their struggle for real reform the land.

"We wish to Pope Francis to cover the products in the land and widespread properties of land that were taken away by farmers from the agriculture and protection of the citizens in the agricultural and protection of the citizens in the agriculture and protection of the citizens in the agricultural and protection of the citizens for the greed of our land.

Included in the camp of the farmers from San Jose Del Monte, Bulacan, Hacienda Luisita, Cainta, Pampanga, Yhead King Funeral Homes in Tarlac, and the workers of Kilusang Mayo Uno (PAR), that they recognize the pro-workers in the "People's Tropas.

"The all of the Overseas Filipino Worker (Pope Francis will accept the Philippines from the Philippines.

"We are hoping that he will talk again for the rights of the workers in the country," said Soleta.

The group of workers in the private and public sectors who are calling for the return of National Capital Wage in their ranks and set a amount of $6,000 pesos every month.

In the footbridge of Liwasang Bonifacio, the youth ng mga Artista sa Pelikulang Pilipino (sign) of a 30-year-old syndicate that is not hiding the image of Pope Francis Corpus, according to the members of the filipino citizens, "said Einstein Movement of the Philippines (SCMP) and one of the Diocesan of Youth Office with a sign.

Also included in those who received from Pope Francis are the workers, employees of the government, and other contestants in the Network Regional Trial Court (PEP), the network that is campaigning against the privatization of the public hospitals, services and other social activities.

"The wish of Pope Francis is" Brando OPLAN), "or humble but is being humble.

He needs to know the truth that the government has chosen a private interest and greed for business instead of the welfare of the masses.

The participants of human rights that according to Karuhatan, they are hoping to give attention to the leader of the Catholic Church on the situation of the Philippines and the widespread violation of the Aquino administration with the rights of the citizens.

It also launched almost 500 political prisoners for 43 towns in the country to get the attention of Pope Francis and support the call for their release and continuing peace talks between the government and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP).

In NAIA Road in Paranaque City, Migrante International was sentenced with a big percentage which is calling the Pope to support the fight against corruption and greed of the government, they are on the way as the motorcade of Pope Francis from Villamor Airbase High School.

"Molmol," the Supreme groups also criticized the excessive presence of the military and police for the safety of Pope Francis.

No matter how hard the current administration will pass through with the security of the current administration, it can be seen in spite of the poverty and lack of justice in the country, especially in front of the scandals happening in the country this last year, "Cristina Palabay, general secretary of Karylle.

It was reported that the militant groups are not only centered on the roads going through the road roads, the outpouring of policemen, members of the Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA), the restriction of the Philippine National Police to the citizens who shows support from the Holy Pope through the plaza, which contains the issues of the Pope.

"We will visit a loved one by the Holy Pope to check the role of Filipino people, but how can we teach the Pope if it is the Pope's guns, tactics and baton of the police who have not been telling us?," Aaahhagat.

It is also criticized by the thorough investigation of the police and military in the places that the Pope will visit, as well as the extreme restriction of the people who will attend the activities of the Pope.

It appears that Aquino wants to accept the arrival of Pope Francis when there is fear, not hope, in our hearts, poor and being raped, and being raped, and against corruption and against the poor leaders, "Elmer Liscano, chairman of us.

The Kalapati, Damayang Lagi, who will attract security that is being implemented by the Aquino administration in the name of the Aquino administration along with the fishermen in Manila Bay and "No Contact Policy" for the vendors at Rizal Park, and to the route of Pope Francis.

If the Pope will be followed, it is certain that he will not allow his visit to the Philippines) the livelihood of the poor Filipinos even one day, in spite of the said threat to his security, "said Gloria Arellano, chairman of Carmona.
