Charter change for the foreigners and to PNoy and those.

After a while, the sacrifices in economy and politics have been given charter change or charter change.
Drama of children in the legislative chamber are drama when President Noynoy wants or not President Noynoy, they will push forward a charter change.
And they will use the system of Chambers (Assembly so that they will be the only ones to change the 1987 Constitution.
It is possible that the Senate will agree with it because PNoy is already in control of the majority in the Senate, like their situation in the legislative chamber.
It is said that the Saligang Batas will only move because the Commission on Elections (election will be called for the delegates.
It is also difficult to use the system of People's initiative to use millions of people in the whole country.
This three system, Bro, are allowed to have a way or system for the changes in the Constitution.
They are simple.
The charter change in the Legislative Chamber said, that they did not really change the Constitution.
They said that they will only be added to "as well as the approval of the law, all the things that they want to change is the provision of the Constitution.
It is said that this should be after the Constitution which has been released by time because it was done in 1987 or 27 years old.
Instead of helping the Constitution for the progress of the whole country, this is becoming a hindrance.
The 60-40-40-old.
One of those being monitored by charter change is what the Constitution has been saying that 60 percent is owned by the Filipinos in all companies that are assigned to the Philippines with a foreigners.
The foreigners should only claim on 40 percent.
This is for the interest of my beloved Philippines or Filipino people to stay in all businesses in the Philippines.
If there is 100 percent certain that Filipinos are owned by Filipinos, these should be the ones assigned by the Filipinos.
Filipino does not have a capital.
Charter change, Filipinos have no capital.
Many of the Filipinos were only able to take a business with a total of money and properties which costs P3 million or "the one who called P3 million pesos or" the one who called Php500,000 pesos and his properties.
Although around 63 percent of the total 48million workers in the Philippines are the employees of the Filipino workers, around 40 percent is the amount of sales compared to there's a big business there.
Meanwhile, the capital of the foreigners will have a billion pesos and they are able to take advantage of their great business and have connections with millions of Filipinos.
Because of the lack of capital, the businesses built by Filipinos are still small and can't be able to fix the competing businessmen, people or company.
Most of this, this is the reason why the Philippines is not progressing and does not improve the lives of the Filipinos.
60-40.
Only the destruction of the provision of the Constitution, 60-40 pesos in owned and control of business or company is a solution for the foreigners to enter their capital to the Philippines.
If they are the owner of the land, ocean and sky is the Philippines, this is where the Philippines will progress.
It is possible that the price of Hacienda Luisita may get bigger than the 6,000 hectares of Hacienda Luisita, who will go to the foreigners to develop.
These might be a fields, not only the rice, corn and vegetables but also for other controversial crops.
Because of the ships, the items used by the foreigners will not have boat, they will also be able to get an aura from the Philippines.
And in the ground and ocean, the oil, steel, gold, copper, craving and other wealth of the Philippines will be gained.
It is possible that foreign businessmen are going to reign in the business of the air such as Herrero and passenger airplane.
And the result of all this is simple, the Philippines will improve and will be filled with everything.
PNoy, President?
While PNoy is taking an illusion about progress and happiness that will be brought by charter change, along with this is the only thing that this will happen if PNoy will continue with the president of the country.
It is said that nothing will happen if PNoy will be replaced in 2016 and supposedly the Tuwid na Daan "will not continue to walk, especially in the government.
They were included.
They are not saying but the truth is, they want to include themselves from what they want to happen to PNoy.
In order to fulfill their dream to stay in position until they are already pests, they also want to be a part of the Constitution which says that until six-years of service of the President of the country.
Simple question.
The questions here are simple, Bro.
Have you believed on the reasons of those who are walking charter change?
Do you want to become a property of the Philippines of the foreigners?
Do you want to have another leader in the country but PNoy and his KKKK?
