When I tried to write to Malonzo.

I am not the CEpoissess (College of the Philippines), but I often hear and read it from my friends and acquaintances who are writing on the newspaper when in college, and because he also likes to write to the newspaper at college, and because he also likes to write to my studies in college, he is one of the boils in his mind as guidance for choosing the topic.
As illegal immigrants in New York, many happenings here are what needs to be shared to others so that the situation of our countrymen here will be better.
Bishops, immigrants and Fil-Aums in New York style, motionless.
Not end with the words "I can't end with the words," 3 (heart) New York, because it is not just a story of prosperity and happiness in the ranks of illegal immigrants or 120,269 people, and even a Filipino-Amerciation) and even a Filipino-Tropas.
There are stories of Ate El, Manaytono, Ate Jackie's, Sentangtze City, Washington DC and other victims of agriculture and discrimination among them and there are more people who dared to talk against the abusive employers and recruiter.
There are also those corpses of domestic workers who are Ate Fely Garcia and Ate Phardening. And the Filipina victims of domestic violence are also there.
There is also the story of the Fil-Asukal who took suicide because they could not handle the bullying of his classmates, there is also a Fil-Friends that's looking for their veins and debts.
There are young Filipino Workers who got addicted to drugs which may result to their parents who have different countries, high blood pressure, or poverty or desire to get along with fellow youth in the New York Police Office (NYungga).
There are also stories of brave Filipino youth who are pushing or not a role that are pushing for the call "Genine Immigration Commissioner Lamunting," No. Dee "and" according to their parents and the whole family.
This topic is legitimate who needs to talk about it, pay attention and have children.
There are many stories of illegal immigrants, immigrants or Fil-80 percent which can be given alive in pen pals and not just stories of their country, sadness or tragedy, but also a story of fighting and fighting, of the advancement and full action.
"Why are you going to get the US?
I remember before, there are friends who asked why I am going to leave the Philippines and will go to New York when I am very angry with the barism.
The truth is, the same reason why I am here is still the same reason, and they are still continuously fighting for the interests of the government of the Philippines, which is the ones being sold by the government of the government, and a lack of protection from the government of the government which is the process of their departure which is the process of their departure.
In the same reason why it has to leave the same reason why even in other countries, it still continues to fight, especially now that there is a higher abuse and attack against illegal immigrants that's why there is a need to prolong its fight, reflect on a point that we are going to make it alive.
Along with this is the alliance between feuding families and workers of other countries and even the native of Tyo-workers, because it is not just a topic of difference between the skin of the Filipino and their accomplices in being abused and abused, against some of the christians who are being abused and abused by the Lord Almighty (or whatever the equivalent of these to their respective countries).
The fighting against the Pambansang Kamao does not mean that we do not want to investigate the citizens of the US (or other nearby countries) that is why there is always a need to investigate and increase the level of this kind of race.
The abuse and abuse of the government is not yet finished in the Philippines, especially if it is even more aggressive in a civilized nation and sometimes it is just like it is only covered by the mask of "progress" that is why it's not yet noticed or easily noticed.
The online and theory must not be new anymore and be open to the concrete situation and be open to the ways how to face and the huge problems of the country, where it comes to the corner of the world.
I do not know if the friends understood and understood why the Philippines needed to leave and stay in New York, but I did not want to answer the questions of his friends.
I am writing today because I chose this and I chose to write to them to send them to our countrymen here in New York, or in the entire US) who have asked to write by their stories in the next days.
Land of Miley, Land of the free school?
In the start of writing, hopefully it will start a lot of stories of struggle, especially here in the United States, who is still known as "Land of milk, Honey."
May it be better for our countrymen to know and know the experiences of those who are in Tyo, who are not only as a white dog, but also the colorful and dark experiences, and even the colorful faces of our society.
Aside from this, it is also important to show how illegal immigrants are forced to fight and go down to their rights: Rights in good life; and how they are slowly fighting the world, along with other sectors of society, going to free and true future.
