Frankly said Mayette also has the K to Digong.
By Ellen Toribio, October 12, 2016 is kind and former President Fidel V. Ramos spoke about the complicated administration of President Rodrigo Duterte.
While Malacañang is persistent with what they did on the first 100 days of Duterte as president, Ramos said in his post in Manila Bulletin last October 9, the entire country, which is more than 100 million Filipinos, and his desire to curse, including the leaders of other countries and institutions.
What is happening is that, Ramos said, if there are other people who told FVR's words, the allies of Duterte might say that they are just pretending.

But this can't be said to FVR because Duterte himself said that the reason why he ran for president is for him to run for presidency because he was asked to run FVR, Special Action oy in China to start the return of proper relationship between the Philippines and China.
It looks like FVR's commentary against FVR is deep because he does not say that there is no basis if there is no basis, that is like the Campor of Staff Work.
Wake up a call and warning to Duterte that the act these past three months will be God.
Meanwhile, Ramos criticized the criticisms of Duterte in the United States because he is mad at President Barack Obama and said that he is giving more attention to the human rights or human rights.

Because for Duterte, it's a bad words to "human rights."
Duterte was able to stop the entry of the US Navy and the Philippine Navy with Spratings, he was able to stop the military station and the last, he wants the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA (EDCA) to deny.
It's because it's hard to talk about words that he is not studying what is being said, he should be told by experts or to his lawyers so that even former Defense Secretary Voltaire Gazmin has legal documents because President Benigno Aquino III defeated Gazmin.
But it can't be said if Duterte will stop there, he can really stop the EDCA, he can just give enough time to the United States according to the agreement.

Ramos said, what do we just throw the many years of military and friendship? "
Duterte is silent in his commentary on Ramos, said Presidential spokesperson Ernesto Abella, he asked Ramos's commentary on Ramos's request for a father.
Do you listen to the child?
