It is the month of the cooperation of the Philippines on the disputed Bayan in India, PKP has been declared.

Liberal Party of the Philippines.
July 1, 2013.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) declared that, along with all the revolutionary force of the Philippines on July 2013 as the month of the cooperation of the Philippines on July 1, we will be forgiven our highest award in the heroes of India in July 1.

The PKP is calling for the whole group of this, to all the Pizarro and citizens who are in the leadership of the Bagong HRO) and even all the sanctity of the New Bilibid Prison (BHB) and even if they will be raised in the moon of July so he will be raised up by the constricted streets of India.

The branches of the Liberal, the units of BHB) those who were carried by the revolutionary movement of the masses and departments of the SEA Games that will give one or a few days of activities in the month of July to launch the cooperation and the filipino masses to express the unity and the filipino masses to express the cooperation and the filipino masses to express the cooperation and the filipino masses.

The launch of the month of cooperation of the Philippines in the Witness Protection Program in India is causing the PKP, for a week of cooperation which has been done by NPA Party of India (Maire) or CPi-M last April 22-M last April 22-M last April 22-M last April 22) last April 22.

Despite the Christmas and national is decided, the Filipino people in India and the Philippines have a lot of abuse, most of all, the Filipino people in India and the Philippines are both headed by the communists who are both supported by the masses, who are both from the filipino masses.

They are both pushing for a democratic interest of farmers and national mines that will roll up the land against illegal drugs, students, students, students, students, students, women and other under democratic sectors.

The Ci-M-M-M-M-M) is leading the Philippine National Liberation Front (BHB) in the Philippines, which is also leading the Bagong Hagdan in the Philippines, which is part of the widespread support in the land of the citizens and the construction of widespread support, PREA and Botchok in the field of armed struggle.

Fellow towns in India and the Philippines are facing the brutal campaign of the domination and widespread violations of the US Embassy and the Oplan Galugad operation which is focused on the Value-Added Tax which is focused on the Intertropical Convergence Zone that is focused on the undiplomatic remarks of the masses.

They are going to be fired from the violent protest in India and the Philippines as "terrorists, but they cannot stop the growth of the citizens in India and the Philippines, they were not able to stop the growth of the citizens in India and the Philippines, they were able to stop the growth of the citizens in India and the Philippines, they were able to stop the improvement of the citizens in India and the Philippines.

I will want to fix the revolutionary movement of the Indian government and Filipinos who have a wide-graft case to push the interest of the common people in India and the Philippines to push the interest of the filipino masses in the middle of the economic crisis in front of the entire country in India and Philippines.

The PKP has praise the CPi-M and all the revolutionary force of India in the path of Filipino people in India, the citizens of the world are hoping to change the improvement of the citizens of the world, just like the change in the national balance of the conflict of the revolution in China and Russia.

The Filipino people look at the complete success of the Honor Code for their desire to achieve triumph in their own town, and to the armed citizens of the world to make a stand against the Pambansang Kamao and launch a revolution.
