
Governor. Alvarado, you are going to investigate all sorts of votes.

Last Friday, the province of Bulacan is assigned in front of the Regional Trial Court of Bulacan who are more than 300 Bulua City to condemn the process on the process for a recall of a recall "against Bulacan Governor Wilbert (Alvarado-Alvarado.
The Bulua City did not like the quick action and release of 2nd Vice Executive Judge Albert Fonacier than a Temporary Protection Order (Andrea, Alvarado.
Can you think that in just four hours, the Supreme Court immediately released a TRO.

This is really a storm, Gov. Alvarado.
Anyway, it is not surprising because he is an ally of the President.
After the TRO of the TRO, it was immediately faced by a "motion to bury" Perlita G. Mendoza in court to dismiss the TRO by the RTC to provide a TRO for the Comelec.
According to the source of lily's payment, Mendoza also filed a complaint against Judge Fonacier than the Supreme Court to question the quick action of the judge regarding the process of a recall "which is said to have no part so that the recall election will not push through.
According to Antonio Manganti, leader of the group who voted in front of the RTC, the quick release of Judge Fonacons of the TRO is a violation of their rights and opinions.
Mangp was the one who faced the corruption and corruption in the Office of the Ombudsman last February.
The Bulos City has complete support in the petition against Alvarado and the signature of more than 300,000 pesos to Davao is an indication that the people are already awake in the truth.
It is a lack of trust to Governor Alvarado that pushed Mendoza to let the Commission on Elections (Comelec) released by the Commission on Audit when the Commission on Audit released the alleged anomalies in the capitol of Bulawan.
There were 319,75.Bulaga.
This recall is the very first in front of the history of Bulacan.
The recall of a recall of a recall "of the Bulos) in the COA report on 2012 where there are 200 million pesos worth of the intelligence fund, 1.8 million worth of millions worth of budget fund, 67 million pesos worth of tax of employees, 67 million non-remittance of the employees, contractor and suspect.
Lily's column also discovered that it has been charged as the vice governor of Bulacan who was filed with corruption in the Office of the Ombudsman, according to the corruption of COA.
