It's an M-NO to become an Overseas Filipino policy "this should be exposed.

Staying with understanding and deadly system of education is the primary center of education in the primary center of education in the Philippines.
We are referring to us, Bro, "to be the late" policy "of the University of the Philippines, especially UP Manila, and UP Manila did not allow the four political Science student because of their paying taxes.
It seems that some of them have the money to pay for them but because last January they will pay for it, they have not accepted their payment for now and they are not yet allowed to go to graduating.
"That is not enough.
There is a reason for leeches in UP Manila, if they will allow the four students, they might be allowed to sell others.
And that's the reason why many people will not pay for the right time or really will not pay.
It is the child of tofu, it is wrong for the temple to call and happen to what we know in other public schools.
And this is what the bastard politicians in UP Manila need to understand.
Parents.
It depends on the story that we have heard, "if I am a doctor, Rasonable still feels the reason why he was late to catch them.
Two of the students have children who got sick and have a serious illness that is why the family of them who is working together with no high salary is not short of life.
But the most famous ground, Bro, are part of the poor families and this is the primary reason for their obligation in the university.
Isn't it enough for this financial situation to grant the students who worked hard to finish all heinous activities to graduate?
Policies of DepEd.
In the jurisdiction of the Department of Education, public schools, there is the approval of the department that affects all the basic commodities in paying to the experience of the poor to pay for a few months or years after their children graduated.
And here we see the spirit of what is being said in the Constitution, education should be the primary ones to give importance to the state, it is obvious in having the biggest funds from the national budget, aside from the payment for the total debt of the government.
Can UP Manila cannot do this because of the scholar of the country that he is really expecting for the future of the country that I love, this might come from the future of our country, and it might come from their houses and other financial situation that the UP and the entire country might come from.
Kris is Temyong!
It has been committed suicide by a person who was identified as Marias Tetuan, because of the policy "he was when he was late," of the same university, but the fact that he did not change and strictly implemented.
Whoever is leading in UP Manila when crystal meth committed suicide, he is still being treated as bosses at the university.
The question now: What if there is a person who wants to commit suicide or say that there is someone who ran amok in these children?
PRO-SONAs.
In other college and university, someone received a surprise gift.
Even in the private college and university who are just depending on the bills of the students to live, pay attention to the teachers and employees and to improve their facilities and system when they will just get money from the hours that they will take their school diploma that they can take on their school library.
This lepers, UP Manila are being spent on by the people, then, the intelligent children will not agree to graduating?
Do you think, Bro, will not be tasted by UP Manila itself for the tax that parents are paying for by parents and from the expanded Added Tax which are members of the family of four students?
Do you think, the sentiments of "
But what is more important, public schools, as obligation of the government to all the citizens and the ability to pay the students to pay.
Money, politics.
It is surprising now, Bro, the lack of action of the Palace, even the Congress, on this issue of UP system.
While the government of the billion pesos worth of pesos in the Public Development Assistance Fund) which is full of money is being discussed, we do not hear any interest of them to face the anti-IBIG and anti-education policy of the UP system.
They are also addicted to taking advantage of their opponents in politics in the name of anti-corruption as well as their hiding themselves as thieves in the public funds.
Wuhan, Our Lady Okawa, colonel and directors?
