PNoy and Gloria are different when they wake up to the SSS.

Lily's Calvento File are going to focus on a lot of text messages and complaints about their employers or places, but like before, we will not mention their names and cellphone number as well as their request and protection.
However, it will be denied that the PRETE is published, that is what's stated in the things that was sent by text message, and email to lily's Calvento Files, we will have no change or to share words.
Good day, lily's Calvento Files, how Mayor Joseph Estrada will notice the complaint of our small vendors here in Divisoria, if he does not go down?
He said in the campaign, it will be lessened and our earnings will improve, but what's happening now is that it's too burdensome for us by the Manila City Hall and Manila Police District (MPD).
We are puzzled and what is really the role of Mayor Erap in Manila, because we think it is Vice Mayor Isko Moreno who is the mayor of Manila because it seems that he is the one being followed.
Good thing just recently, we are supposed to have a crisis in the electricity this coming 2015, and now it is expected that there will be a crisis in water this 2015.
What is happening to our government?
They said before, PGMA is the most useless president, it seems like we are not losing money, but now that we are not losing money, but now that we are suffering, it seems that we are struggling when our salary is increased.
Good day, Ma'am, Lily lives, I hope you will file a case in DOLE, if you can file a case in DOLE, you are being harassed by the owner of the company where he works in the policy of the company?
It's because it's too much here in our office that even if you are in a personal life, you are still looking at it even if you think you have a fight?
Good night, I am one else for the branch of my boss in Rizal's branch in the 2004 when I started to enter and until June 15, 2014 when I started to fight back in August 15, 2014 when I started to file a complaint against him in August 2008, 2014.

Lily's opinion.
