
I am sorry, hepatitis B.

The feelings of the people were extremely affected by the tragic massacre of the 44 commandos attacking the PNP-Special Action Force in Mamasapano, Maguindanao.
In every day of passing, it cannot be taken off, rather the people will get angry because of the belief that the truth is hiding from the incident.
The primary "actor," in the events, resigned PNP Chief Alan Purisima and other SAF commander General Getulio Napenas.
In their testimony, the boss of President Aquino has a conclusion to who should be blamed for the issue that he should be blamed for.
In the investigation conducted, Napenas admitted that he was following the "orders of Purisima about the Mamasapano operation.
Purisima also admitted, that he is under the suspension of the Ombudsman, that he has something to do with the operation but, he said, "I was only asked by Napenas."
But the senators and congressmen do not buy Purisima's explanation because of the testimony, it is clear that PNoy is the leader for the failed operation.
Purisima and PNoy are hiding from the true events in Mamasapano, the reason why the coordination of the government forces is not done, and because there is no orderly military and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters.
Now, because of the belief of PNoy, what the operation did is what his boss wants to explain to know the truth about the incident.
But it appears that he is hiding and neglect the people.
Because of the continuous control of the call to explain, his boss is getting angry - the reason why he is calling for his resignation.
What is the reason for your continued silence, Mister President, your feeling will not be lessened if it is said that the truth will come out.
"I am worried about" I am sorry, "Gloria Arroyo said to go out of the television because of the" Hello Garci "issue that you should not be ashamed of, G. the President.
The concern of the people in the Senate hearing is gradually diminishing, Senator Miriam Santiago revealed that there is a group who is thinking of stopping PNoy.
Does it still need to have EDSA? CHOKautasan.
