Where do we look pitiful; we look straight to you, ah, it's still small, that's why they are still small.
What is a small bottle that softdrinks said, but for a short-month.
Your mother said that you are not stupid that it is not a big thing because you are just a big loss because you will not just give you a good thing.
Now, let us always see four years old and what is your question in life, I am impressed by that, "I said.
It is a problem for dizziness.
You should believe yes to what Johnny is doing.
Fittest; we are very young; I am very young.
What could I see me?
It's because the problem is.
My mom is always talking about it, right, and I can get along with my mind, right?
I said I am happy because I hope I am happy with this even if.
That you will not walk away.
Which is given, they will give it to the people so you can give it even if it's still young and it's as if they are young.
Of course the toys are becoming more often.
They are talking to me what they buy toys that's why I am done by our neighbors, who are our fellow countrymen.
I am looking for them to play with them not in the length of the knee but it has not been a problem in the light competition.
Yes, of course, there are still challenges that can be provided; we have to study; why don't you study, right?
What he finished in the College of his business Administration.
I can see each other; as long as you are studying in the Pasig Catholic Church, it is okay that you don't want to call you simply because you want you to call you normal; that's why you really want to call you normal; that's why you really want it to be normal, but?
You can see that it is normal for us to have a toy.
What else can I do; he / she has one classmate, sometimes, they are those who are carrying those who are helping me.
"It should have been done in a condominium that is why I am not working in the school, which is why they still have no experience, we have no experience, especially when you are going to be transferred to you before you have been transferred to you before.
Yes, he / she was stupid; he / she can't take care; not.
Because I told my aunt to my aunt, what would be better if I will not get used to it so that I don't get used to each other; he / she didn't get used to each other; he / she didn't look like that, I feel like that I have grown old; I feel like I am always old.
He / she was still alive.
That's why it's just that class when you are in whatever you are, but do you think that you are the one who can make yourself alone except if you will be brought to you, right?
So it is as if you are dependent on something.
Now, what do you think is that, why do you believe that we believe that even Secretary that is helping those who are singing.
Maybe what will they see that I can do it and then.
There, it seems that they saw five o'clock; as long as I have not yet seen, I still haven't seen anything, perhaps, we are losing hope, perhaps, we are losing hope; we are going to talk about it, we are talking about it, "of course we are talking about it.
Only the life of what I did was right, isn't it that you brought another telephone that you saw.
Like that, I saw blind.
I am trying to ask him / her because he / she really feels the condition of his / her condition, that you really see his mommy, who is always watching over her situation because of the high school but in a high school so that is what I said.
Very much; we are always noticing me; I always notice that Joel has a chance of having an outing here in the meeting.
Four o'clock.
I said, what do you say?
He / she grew up; he / she saw sir blood on her school diploma that he can stand for.
For the meantime, we are going to be together in the operation since we have seen their barangay 'in Bayambang that we saw as the blind Medical Center where we saw him in the seminar.
To those beside it in the building, I still have to pay the one night with him.
"At night, we have to talk to each other; we might say that you're the one to talk in front of many seven thousand an example, you say that it's your life if that is what you're doing, right?
We just speak with nothing.
There will be a meeting.
"It's okay, isn't it possible that you can forget that you are a woman and I might forget to look at the school; she is still watching over the school that she is watching in Batangas, she said that I am going to live in the school of the computer, that's why I am going to go to school that is okay," God bless, and thank you while watching.
I all have the heart.
However, it was back to Mama's blood pressure and it seemed that her high blood pressure was cut off.
Here.
What is on Monday?
What is the same as the secretary of alcohol, he has not returned to an accident when you are not wondering.
Yes, you know that you are going to be an official.
So that it is possible that I can still hear Galang near because of that.
I do not want to.
But for how it lasted for how I became active here in Pasig, how you found out that they had a relationship in Pasig.
What is this?
He / she was grossed out.
What?
After I went to the elder sister, we ate my daddy's mother outside the Makati City.
You are applying.
What is the call of you like a pot.
It seems we were asked immediately last night.
"Why there are I who do not think about it, because we still do not have a lot of people from Makati, I thought about her remains not in the ball.
She looked for nothing to look for.
Barrio 2 should not have known someone might be given a disco on what?
Yes, Ernie Manio is the only ones to look down; all of us here in order to know tomorrow.
I said it's because I have the right to go there.
There is no start from the start.
According to your arrival to you now, do you look for you to lead here in the office when we wake up and we said that there is a new group in barangay.
You are at first.
I do not know a minute because we suddenly came to the president of our barangay, our town-in-law, and I am brimming.
My birthday is all the barangay officials.
You are the president of a barangay level of hmm, why are you not going to be buried in Bastes.
Yes, how will you share your time because you are more busy with a normal person who is lazy.
There are those who do not do anything that is not a little bit of sleep; he / she gets ill-tempered; he / she was able to lie down, but he memorized it.
Why did she also love her before defending?
It's because you are an inspiration for him or for you or what are their bodies so that you can't really understand that it's not easy for you to fall down from the free call so that it would be easy for you to fall into a free call so that it would be easy for him to fall into a free call, so it's easy to understand that it is easy for him to get married.
And he is graduating, but what I want is to do something to him, of course, he / she always wants to use you so that he would only want to use you so that he would not be able to fly to the ducks, so he can be able to save the ducks; that's why he could not be able to save the ducks; that's why he could have been able to save the duck.
What to you?
You will not agree with this that her illness is severe, not even if she does not have any reaction, she does not have any difference with his brain, that is why you know that your brain is a bone on his brain.
Yes.
I know that lying down, which is why you didn't know.
You are saying.
He / she was able to speak; he / she was still talking, as if someone still spoke with him.
Is he strict?
My principle is severe, not okay, and what are our projects in Pasig, but it seems that we still have a program in Pasig, but it seems that there are programs that we can see, but it seems that there are programs that we can see, "it seems that there are those who are like that," it's okay, that there are those who are like this, "it's okay, that it's okay for me to be out or not, okay, because what you are saying is that, it's okay because that's what you are saying.
What is it, they seem to be Davao.
Okay, there are thirty barangays of cats especially that you are stupid; rather, all of us are spreading now.
It seems like the lungs will report for possible.
So!
It is not yet left by Agriculture in his face, do you know that they are Grace?
Yes to those they help that we do not have a license, and we do not have a capital to give them a blood, but this is a blood pressure.
Do you not love you?
There is no other class since the heart beat of your heart.
You will repeat it again.
Isn't it that we have been dumped twice by a cancer among them.
Up to you.
I didn't come closer to those who are going to school, very small; so long as I was impressed by the high blood.
It can be done.
No one was talking about anything.
He / she said that I would get his godfather, "I do not know about the sea.
"What is Ricardo, and you are on the same age; as long as you say, you are like the Smart of you, but, of course, your colleagues, that you have been bought as a thousand, are similar to the distrust in you.
"That is the same with our local government, that is why we have mentioned it in a movie that we are looking at a movie, we are living in a movie that we are telling in a film that we are going to do with what we are saying, because we are all here in front of our barangay, we are going to know that we are going to be a candle; we are going to know that we are going to get a candle; we are going to know that we are going to know the candle that we have started in Pasig.
There, it's good that, isn't it that there are many reasons why there will be a point where there will be a point that there is a group that will bring up to your mind, that is why you know that you are the ones in your mind, that is why you know that the people who go to you will really help you.
"As long as you are on duty, we are over, we are over, as well as the amount that we need," is what we need.
You can see all those who give you personal blood, not just in the barangay because you buy me here because all my brother is on Facebook.
What is with the first and how Gus Tambunting gave out how much was given to why she is good in what happened that this is my blood pressure.
I am going to be insane, you think you are serious, but do you look like you jumped!
Fuck, fog, and resident of Rodelyn.
But resign from words.
They will just play the social activities on what you're really new before you make sure that you're already known by Stephen?
Ah, the mother is open in the barangay level.
We are crazy; we are proud and we have hope.
In my programs in the barangay, it is up to you and I know that what they want is right and that is the reason why there is a budget for the barangay that we need to look at the office if we have an invitation.
