
Rather, birthday Boy!

The birthday of Quezon City Mayor Herbert "Bistek" Bautista - May 12, is now around 12.
For the knowledge of others, even in a politician and public service, it is a very big thing to remember my birthday and greet this day.
Yes, and there are also a celebration in the municipal hall in barangays, which will be led by supporters and people of Mayor but it is still different for him to greet him a special family, friends, acquaintances who are near or far.
Mayor Bistek's life is open because he once became an actress.
In Quezon City, he has been the vice mayor for a long time and the kind of money he went through is invaluable, before he reached the situation now.
Perhaps, it can be said that other political Prize are what happened to Mayor, because in his long time he waited for it, he was also a mayor.
But the responsibility of a mayor is not a joke, especially in the classes of the community in Quezon City, the people, in different kinds of problems, have different problems.
Since the economy's problem is, in suppressing the challenges of criminality, to the problems of the victims, jobs and income for people, of garbage, traffic, traffic, and many others.
When you wake up in the morning, you will be first to get attention to the needs of your territory before your family.
Sometimes even your personal life is also involved in politics, like what Mayor Bistek was only experienced recently.
But this is the life chosen by a public transport, but a politician is not going to work when he does not know the class of the world he is going to.
Especially Marco, she has been in politics for a long time even before he became a mayor, he knows what he has taken care of.
But on this day, Mayor Bistek was only seventeen years old.
Like the people probably because she is my birthday as a child, she is the only special person with her parents, sibling, and family on this day.
"There's nothing else to think about those who love her but my birthday is now."
