Actors who are addicted to name!
The club is famous in BGC, weak because of the campaign against drugs By GOSalas.
We passed away in front of Valdecrie Club, two nights ago because we ate at the funeral parlor along with BGC.
It is noticeable that the street is noticeable and even in their parking space it is also a few of the vehicles entering.
The distance from weekend is weekend when you are almost not able to pass through the streets because of the volume of vehicles in parking area, the vehicles are overflowing in a parking lot and many are outside.
We were surprised by this sign that we feel weak at the popular club.
It is true that they are too affected on the issue of drugs wherein they are being mentioned before that they are monitoring the said case.
It reached to our loss that he was going bankrupt.
It seems that they are affected because of the hot campaign of our President Rodrigo Duterte to suppress drugs in our country.
What we are waiting for is the names of those who are involved in drugs.
James Reid, based on the statement of Robin Padilla, said that they should not reveal the names of these children.
According to him, most of them had backed out and are not drug pushers.
Robin's relatives are ready to talk to these artists before saying their names.
James Reid, "I, Robin Padilla, is out to be sent out to by the First Class EpiPen.
There is no problem with him because he can have a drug test anytime.
James added, "
But he is not able to go out now to go out because of the many things he is doing.
He just wants to keep it in diet because there are a lot of people involved in his last commercial drivers.
Because she is a little bit more when Nadine Lustre was in the taping of Nadine Lustre of Till-Met situation in Greece.
Michael Pangilinan was a bit handsome when we talked about her daughter that she still cannot see until now.
Michael was one of his co-ers of Smart Broch, and was busy with his new house that's why he temporarily forget his child from his back.
But Michael is persistent to continue the filing of charges for the human rights to his son if his ex-girlfriend should not show or send her children to show.
"I did not want it to reach there, but I will file it anytime," whom Michael said, who is included in the Pad house concert in October 28 at the The Football Federation of Solaire Casino and casino.
"As long as possible, I do not want to reach something like that, but if we will come to something like that, it can be my baby, I will do it.
"I am not mad at them because I just want to borrow" my baby, "the baby boy with Michael in his former girlfriend."
Their separation is not good but I hope that they would be civil when it comes to their child.
He was allegedly sent by the demand for August 4 but until he was able to talk with him he still hasn't received any answer.
"If we turn your back," if that is the case, I am the one they will not spend on my baby, will you be happy? Of course, no!
"I said, if we both have a problem, do not involve the child, or if I am angry at me, or if I am angry at me, we should not involve the child," Michael said.
"I already reached me as if I am going crazy for my baby because I am saying sometimes, you will be imprisoned but the child," he added, "he added.
