
Who should be punished with BUCOR?

Many of us were surprised when discovered by the National Bureau of Investigation and Department of Justice about the contents of a shack in the National Bilibid Prison (NBP) in Muntinlupa.
It's because instead of the prisoners being seen inside, it is full of expensive things inside a boards, aside from the unusual vices that the inmates are able to do to Maximise Security Compound.
Included in those who have been seen inside a boils of high caliber guns, high-caliber guns, shabu, money that reached almost two million pesos and sex.
The names of some high-ranking inmates will also surface who are responsible for the reason why these kinds of vices are being done inside the blueSecurity Compound, which should not be seen inside a boils.
Some names and former officials of the Bureau of Correction Center are said to be related to why there were expensive appliances, guns, shabu, money and other inside the NBP.
But like before, they always teach them on who should be blamed and punished with the discovered by the members of the NBI and DOJ and we know that they are involved in having vices in the national prison.
The only report here is, why is it that the DOJ is defending the DOJ while there should be an explanation for everyone who has something to do with it so that it should be determined who among them should be punished.
This is also what is surprising in the events inside the NBP, when there was an release of a inmates in Lyle Security Compound, which was found inside the national cage he took a shot for MTV Patrol.
In fact, the release of said inmates in the release of said inmates is even popular and it became popular to the "Ipit Gang" where some officials of NBP and some politicians are also thanked for some officials of NBP and some politicians.
Most of the Filipinos said, even inside the NBP, those with money are still able to do what they want while the poor inmates who are living in favor of the person who are suffering from the court because of the sin that they have done.
Until when will this happen to our national jail? We believe that until there are no ones being punished with this incident in NBP, it will continue in the next time of ALNAs Womb of Alvin Feliciano.
