Hectment, Salas.

The news and commentary on Pres. Noynoy Aquino is not subsiding while being treated in Naga City last June 12, it is on the news that it has reached him to Iloilo City this June 27.
The casualty was identified as Emmanuel Pio Lou Mejares, Naga: Pulled away from the treacherous ways of his partner, which was hit by the cloth she was holding, handcuffed in the floor, handcuffed and charged.
More commentary about the president told the president to be calm in relation to the writer, Bowie, and the US in proper treatment of Mahayhay, Barack Obama and the US in a proper treatment of Mahogany and pro-Aquino in the mentality that will be held today.
In the front of it has been served in Iloilo, Aquino followed Pimentel: Grateful for the recognition given to him, which is why the people of Iloilo did not pay attention to it, but according to an early news on television, there was one more injured.
There are a lot of reasons why Aquino is obviously shook because of it's destined end, which is why the government took advantage of the move of propaganda to all; in politics, hundreds of right; in politics, and social media, peace and prosperity.
It is important for all of this to show the wide support of the public and the narrow-minded ranks of the protesters, despite the truth, this should have been used in front of Yolanda, a criminal case in front of Yolanda, and the severe poverty of many.
One of the advice given to Aquino to calm in relation to Miangas, Philippine Daily Inquirer's released news about this: Why the anger experienced by Maria Theresa Pangilinan was more cruel if the anger towards Arroyo was widespread before, and they are continuing to travel with Aquino now.
The question is also good for the urge of being compared to Obama, why is it that Aquino could not be calm in front of the recognition given to them, because it is contrary to the US, Aquino knows that it is a sign that the release of protest is a sign that it will be an end of the possible end?
