Against Rciation: 00 in the protest, and the Discourse of the medical exam.

Mary Joy T.
The success and arguments of the past are part of the rich history of the fighting of the past, but it is trying to erase the violent action of the citizens as it seems that the violent action of the country is considered as true in the release of the Filipinos from the foreign colonizers.
A mark of history.
It is like a fire spread in the social media the incident that happened in UP High School (UPolice), treated as the violence of some members of the administrator, professor, and a university which was made by some students against the Department of Budget Secretary Florencio Abad.
In the expected visit of a corrupt official in the university, like before, the students did not have a chance to ask for explanation and protest against Abad about the anomalous use of the Disbursement Acceleration Program which is a big anomaly in the country.
If history will go back to history, as a result of the continued fighting and not count of protests being spent by students in the university, it has been proven that it has been lacking action, and daring books for the continuous violence and corruption of high officials inside and outside the university.
According to John Bernalte, "on the Nature ng mga Artista sa Kaunlaran Foundation," The Historical Commission on Higher Education, this means that there would be an effective form of power between activists and police or those depending on the power of those who have heard from the state of the leaders of the leaders of the country.
At present, being horny "or barbark or barbark or barbark was given to the standard of being a civil wedding wherein it came out on 1890s, where the words being called" Hooters Restaurant, "which was called by Hooters Restaurant in London, was gone," that was why he was coordinating with Patrick Hooters Restaurant in London.
From the negative connotation of the word Hooters was used by the writers, Arthur Conto Dotimas is used by the writers, Arthur Condresses are used to describe the violent actions of public buildings or 3,950 people who are involved in the custody of power and are getting involved in power, corruption and abuse.
A mark of the state.
In history, it is called SEnA or Single Entry Approach where the Filipinos who stole from the desire of the Spanish colonizers.
According to the articles of Francis the conversation, "Ang people outside, the heroism, and the style of power and history, said that this is the cause of colorums in order to fix the leadership of the Spaniards so that the people who are from the country are trying to fix the country's leadership.
All that agree with the course of colorums are calling, from the town or in town, and based on the topic of colorums, they are receiving the cancellation, the peace and security of colorums will be accepted.
Meanwhile, those who go outside are continuing the tradition of opposition and fighting which is being led by people who are going out of their conversation, they, the Filipinos who were mobbed by the colonies of colonialism which are considered as bandits, bandits, and bad people, which are accepted by the residents of the town.
If the supporters of the bandits or bandits will be put in the current situation, the members of the bandits or bandits, it seems that the people who are behind the robbery in the treasury of the country and other form of abuse and exploitation.
Meanwhile, "the administration," the administration, has been in the office, a few professor and education that is an accomplice in the implementation and politics of Abad and the administration of the Marcos regime, the one who is calling his "supporters," the people from the country, which they are leading to become foreign to his own town. "
Bandits, activists and the survey results of a medical exam.
In the pages of history, it was proven that the "desaparecidos," compared to "supporters, who were directly accepted by the mentality being experienced by the state, is continued to be built by those who are from poverty.
However, protests or rally are confusing, this is not just a simple long time while walking on the road, there are programs that are going to attack in the said program, and there are also a series of education that will take the top of course, and to discuss the issues.
However, it is not only detained in the protests being done by those who are outside or robbed of different kinds of abuse such as conducting the cision, discourse, talks and other kinds of documentary on the social media.
In the protests to be seen in different kinds of art such as dancing, plan or moving forward to the road, Propaganda of the Philippines, "it is better if the art of protest will be used to show the real situation instead of what the actor's content is.
Within a few years of fighting for Filipinos, it is an effective cure for the street so that their affection will continue to avoid binge the state of Berlin, "The Legal Wife.
Whatever the people from the people are trying to make sure that the tradition and objective of the protest and revolution, this will continue until the violence in society is ongoing, that is why the violence in the society is ongoing, a real mark of the worsening history.
