
Number of HLX-1244A; the fight is still ongoing for the number of HE.

By Filipino Weeker of November 19, 2014.

The citizens of the hacienda grew up to attend the Solidum night and concert to commemorate the massacre done in Brgy. Balete Drive last November.

15.

This incident became a signal for the continuous domination of the Aquino family until now.

"It is still painful, because until now, there is still no justice for me and I am the only one who is my only daughter-in-law, but he / she was the only one whom I am hoping until when he / she was not telling him / her," according to her daughter Jhaunting, 47, about the seven who were killed in the massacre.

Second is the four siblings, Jhaunting of 20 years old when he was killed.

The father who died was already orphaned by his father who died five months before the massacre.

Their fellow relatives of the victims were together with their own relatives, as well as the hundreds of residents and supporters of the farmers in their call, the authorities continued to open the case against the Supreme Court to suppress the legitimate protest against the forehead, Filipino workers and workers.

The citizens of Hacienda Luisita lined up at Barangay Balete Drive when they take advantage of the guards at the curved part of the barangay, and until now, there is still no justice that should be fired and responsible, according to Florida Sibayan, as the chairman of the alliance with Magistrado or Ammunition).

Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares, the issue of Hacienda Luisita, not just an issue of justice for the victims of the massacre, the issue here is said to be the implementation of real reforms that is said to be justice here in the Philippines, what is the proof of his lies in Hacienda Luisita.

So Aquino is a liar if he is saying that our country is progressing under his administration, what is the proof of his lies?

Hacienda Luisita, "according to Colmenares.

According to Riezel Bangkal, Deputy Secretary General in the union of Manggagawa sa Pelikulang Pilipino or CHR, a picture of the rotten system of the society is part of more than half cup of abuse of the citizens in the hands of the Lord of the Lord of the Lord's hands and a bourgeunos.

"The revelation of this is a policy that our current society is experiencing, the concrete example this is the massacre in Hacienda Luisita, and the killing is not yet done here," according to Urkupina will not end here.

He added that the long and violent system of the nation in the country is ongoing, the most powerful economy of the country is ongoing for it to take advantage of the main economy of our country.

That's why it will remain hard to be poor because there are now a few of the numerous mishaps caused by the farmers, not only in Hacienda Luisita, but also for other land in the country, he said.

RCBC from Tarlac Development Assistance Fund led the land of Hacienda Luisita, who were not included in the decision of the Supreme Court, the crops of the farmers were destroyed when they were able to beg from the ground they were wearing.

The violence of the violence is the violence that is not only a lack of justice for their call on the anniversary of the massacre.

The citizens of the hacienda also cry for being harassed in their ranks and fraud among the citizens of the combined forces of the guards, police, military, and even the armies of the Aquino family.

"December 21 (2013), when it is Christmas, I was able to fix my crops and even the animals I sold," according to Raymundo mayor, 60, from Barangay Balete Drive.

The Aquino family will not tell the control of Luisita in spite of the final decision of the Supreme Court last 2012, in favor of the farmers who have shared to them the land.

This last year, a few parts of the hacienda said that they are not included in the decision of the Supreme Court that they are claiming the parts of RCBC from Tarlac Development Authority, the company of Cojuangco-Aquino.

"It was destroyed by my rice that there is a hectares of gratitude that I was able to pay for 20,000 pesos up to now that I have been paid," according to Alfredo Limited, 59, from Barangay CC-CangII, which was said to have destroyed his posture or other crops like papaya.

According to Ada, the threats and spite of the agents of the military continues to identify and scare the citizens who are fighting.

"The civilians, who are civilians, police, and intelligence, even until one o'clock in the early morning, those who were wearing jackets, children, those who were able to combat," according to Sibayan.

Aside from this, Ada also received death penalty to his cellphone that said that he will just be picked up by the P1 million but he allegedly declined the one who introduced himself as Atty. Diaz "of RCBC.

"The one million (peso) can build a house, you can buy a good thing, you can eat delicious food, but the trust and trust given to you by the people, you will not return to you," according to Ada.

Instead of the physical form of the land to the farmers of the hacienda, it was put through "Povidine" in this way, the land that was allegedly distributed by farmers can be distributed, but according to it.

This is all the copy of the land that they have received, and they will pay it before finally give the land.

That is why many of the citizens have not joined here while others are forced to sell or put them to sell it because they have no money to pay for.

There is still no justice for the United Nationalist Peoples' Union (ULU) last November 6, 2004 when the negotiation between the management and afterwards, the negotiation between the management and afterwards, the members of the Central Azercarera and Tarlac Labor Union (Catalera) joined the protest.

They have been bitten several times but the unity of the protesters remains strong last November 16, 2004, after the protesters failed to defend them just to send a bullet from the protest.

After ten years, he could not be punished with the murder of seven farmers when they were shot in their just blindly asline, they tried to lower the combined forces of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) and Philippine National Police (PNP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP).

The PNP initially denied before that the gunshots came from them.

They taught the protesters that they are guilty in the massacre.

Aside from the seven who were killed, hundreds were wounded and arrested this day.

The murder of leaders and supporters of the protest continues for the workers and Filipino workers for additional wages, additional benefits, additional benefits, and return to the removed officials in the union.

Included in those who were killed are AaahLadera, councilor of Tarlac City, Marcelino Beltran, Feraris of Bayan Muna-Tarlac, and Ricardo Ramos, and Bishop Alberto Bumolo, both from Iglesia Filipina for a tight support in protest.

At present, the decision of the Supreme Court has proven that the land to the farmers of Hacienda Luisita, that means, the workers and workers who should be the owners of the land should be shared.

Florida City, an official of alliance with Magbuagan or Ambo in his speech at the very place where the massacre happened.

PL.

Isagani Silva again said there are 32, son of Jaime Pasing and one of those who died in the massacre, he will continue the fight that his father left.

Even his siblings and children, are ready to continue, he said.

"My father is very serious with her, that's why even I will continue to join here, I will still continue his fight," according to Isagani Silva.
