President Rody Duterte will just wait for ENDO, Tax Ct, raise.
What do you want to hear from the first State of the Nation Address (SONA) of President Rodrigo Duterte this afternoon to Batasang Pambansa?
In a separate interview, he wants to hear the lawmakers that Duterte will implement in the next six-years as President of the country.
According to Gabriela party-list Representative Emni de Jesus, he wants to hear the proposed law that will let the proposed law to stop against illegal immigrants and without benefits.
President Duterte should deny the campaign Propaganda of his campaign to eradicate ENDO, "said De la o Quimbo, according to Marikina Representative Miro Quimbo, according to Marikina Representative Miro Quimbo, he wants to make sure that the proposed law to lower or lessen the amount of tax of the Filipino people.
"It is a huge relief for the workers if the President will say that we will lower the tax and chase the tax evasion and baralers," according to Quimbo.
Capiz Representative Fred Castro and ACT party-list Representative Antonio Tinio hopes that President Duterte will give attention to the sectors of education including the increase in the salary of teachers in public schools.
"President Duterte behind bars was the Armed Forces of the PNP, the AFP Chief But we hope that the will be the one who will be the one to be able to attend to the Libingan ng mga Bayani for a medical exam.
We, a flyer that's been hidden by the National Hero, "
Isabela Representative Rodiano also expected that he will give details about the anti-illegal drug campaign to name the big and influential people involved in illegal drugs.
"Let us see if he will tell who are the local executioner who are involved in illegal drugs to say it," according to Albano.
For the Sangguniang party-list Rep. Sarah Elsee, bringing up to the implementation of the K to 12 program is one of the things they want to hear from Duterte.
Bayan Muna Party-list Rep. Carlos Zarate said that Duterte should have said his whole plan with the peace talks with the communists in order to achieve peace in the country including the peace talks with the rebel Moro.
"The Transportation Office, what is the steps to do to resolve the problem of traffic," according to Quezon City Representative Winston Castelo, he is only one of those whom he wants to hear.
