Binay TRITRInocencio Street is the guide of the people.

The married relative of a businessman who is being treated as his "Vice President Jejomar Binay, Antonio Tiu, was being looked at and was being made up by the government.
The Bureau of Internal Revenue, separate cases of tax evaded by the Department of Justice, the sister and sister-in-law, James and Ann Lorbes were charged because of the failure to pay the right taxes that has a total amount of more than P39 million.
James intends to avoid paying the right taxes and did not declared the right information on her "tanim-tax" (NR) "for 2010 and 2011 when his wife was not able to pay taxes from 2010 up to 2012.
The BIR saw that the size of the expenses of the two were not appropriate compared to their small income compared to their small income.
The Tiu couple are said to be included in the most big contribution in the campaign of Binay, the BIR, on the list of Commission on Elections (Comelec), they both gave birth to Vice President and each of his party-PDP-Laban last 2010.
But in the eyes of the public, it is possible to think that what the government is doing to go after the "Ipit Gang" by Binay is a way for the Vice President to worsen using the legal process.
It was said that since 2010, they started saying that the cheating of the Tiu would start in paying taxes as if the BIR has no sufficient ability to know who among those who are cheer and this 2014, the lack of Tiu would be discovered?
When Antonio Tiu would complain in the Senate and admitted to the world that he is the owner of the owner to be connected to Binay in Rosario, Batangas, this was not accepted by the accused senators.
There are times that maybe they are just being harassed by the couple in order to make it up to Antonio Tiu. If it is true that they will look into the case of the BIR in the BIR, and if it is true that they do not know the problem of the BIR in the BIR, but if it is true that they do not expect that this will unlikely happen so we should not depend on it.
What is clear is that those attacking Binay have no plans of stopping, from the witnesses to the senators because they still have bombs to be exposed against the Vice-President.
But all the things they do is We-tempered to Binay and most of the public, it is still the same issue that the survey goes out in the Senate, it is still the first time when the survey ratings increase in the ranks of those who will run for President in 2016.
What has been exposed to the world is our dirty politics that will use everything that can be looked at and throw out, even the blurring of it, to destroy the character of the opposing politician, when will this change?
