
The government, "PNoy understand, isn't it?

Now we should give our followers to release their minds, know, problems, comments, recommendation and others.
Government "
Why is it that way?
They will just buy food, the license will get enough.
Respect for women, men.
It is a point of Ka Tenny out of ABS-CBN who is a woman, being stepped on by Karylle. "
Morning on Wednesday, September 24, 2014, and there was a woman with a knot with Coco Martin even when the woman was holding this, it was just a show that the woman liked him and allowed the media to put her pictures.
We are not being stepped on the rights of women but the women should be fed up, "because men should have a big respect for women and we should have respect for women.
Discipline should be prevailed in every side, and the women should respect it, there is a higher limitation than men that we also have a limitation that should be respected and accepted.
The government blind.
Good luck, Sir, and to all those who are taking advantage of this and for all of his followers, thank you for giving news that PNoy has no idea but to defend his cabinet like the generals of PNP and those PO 2 million pesos.
He wants to run again so that there are still many who will steal his cabinet to pay for his debt of winning as President.
Long live.
Politicians are okay with this.
It is just the brains of the bread that is Mar Roxas but he does not have a man from fixing the PNP.
The money of the country that is being spent by the DILG that no one to go to the PNP and LGU) is the reason that the most DILG Secretary Mar Roxas is only reason to collect money to use in 2016 elections.
We know that Mar Roxas is still rich and is still rich as Roxas, Francis Pangilinan, Ralph Recto and Loren Legarda who is the author of the Value Added Tax which we buy in the tax or tax of our buying.
So our countrymen, we should not vote in the popularity and fame of politicians or people because of money only.
Hopefully it will not be like that, because in the end, we are also the voters that they are taking, and we are also the ones who will be able to get the money which was given to us to P1,000.00 per negotiation. "When they won.
Nothing can be hidden.
"We just do not want the president of the Philippines to be embarrassed to the whole world when he visited here in France and we know what is really the situation of the Aquino administration and political party, the nerve of their faces just to make their own face to destroy others.
"It is not that other political party, if we look at it," Enrile, Revilla and Estrada are involved in the pork barrel scam, "because President Aquino himself violate the law, along with DBM Secretary Butch Abad.
Now, Vice President Jojo Binay destroyed this propaganda in the administration to ensure the attention of the people for the impeachment case of President Aquino, which was filed by the people due to their anomalies.
Allegations of VP Binay?
In the survey of the majority of the province, they did not believe that he is challenging VP Binay for a long time and now is being used by the government of Makati, the Makati Bira 2.
Those who are accused are Senator Cayetano, and Makati Vice Mayor Ernesto Mercado and others are contractor and politician defeated by Binay in Makati.
It is an indication that they are able to pay.
"It is because if the accusations being done is true, hopefully, after the project of Makati Bira 2, they had to immediately implement Vice Binay, and when Mayor Binay ran for Vice President, but not.
That's why the latest line with VP Binay is just a defamation and this is the reason of the Aquino administration to treat the people from the anomalies in the administration who are in academia.
Okay!
Calamity is again because of the flood and typhoon, the Aquino administration is unfortunate, all bad luck, Pres. Aquino should be replaced because of him taking the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Disbursement Acceleration Program.
We are hungry.
Question me.
It is said to be good to go home to Tyo, who is only we, of England, in England, while the whole country is experiencing strong typhoons.
Can you sleep well? "Do not wake up?
