The masses to be victims of crime.

The cases related to the pork barrel scam, which is said to be the result of the implementation of "hundreds of right way" by President Benigno Aquino III, it is more difficult for the poor to depend on the blessings that they will be elected in position.
One example is the benefits of the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) that was lost from the poor that are dependent on the government like the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) and Office of the Vice-President (OVP).
For now, the medical help or financial help that DSWD can give to the poor is limited because the funds given by lawmakers in their office are limited, aside from fear, the Commission on Audit (COA) is still limited.
During the time of former VP Noli de Castro, her agency gave her office a big help to those who died to finally bury his late family.
It will be paid for by Vice President Jejomar Binay to support the family of the deceased who came close to their office for financial help but because of the pork barrel scam, the help that the poor leave to finally bury their family members stopped.
But the Palace said, every peso that the people paid for the taxes is said to be important so it should be expenses for properly but if the money comes from the blood and sweat of Juan dela Cruz?
How much is the government's expenses in every hearing of the Senate in the case of pork barrel queen Janet Napoles?
Isn't it better if its entirety will just be put in a good project for the poor especially to the youth who are studying, anyway, they are also the investigation.
There is a saying that transparency should happen when the aim is only in politics is the target of the Aquino government?
If the government is spending the defamation to their campaign in the coming election, they have a contribution to the construction of schools for low schools, "hopefully the children who work hard to enter school even if it is difficult in life, would have been happy.
They are sure that they will get the election from the parents of the youth.

Last Monday morning, "Cerge (MPD) director Chief Superintendent Rolando Asuncion and Manila Police District (MPD) director Chief Supt. Rolando Nana (MPD) director Chief Insp. Bernabe (MPD) director Chief Insp. Bernabe (MPD) director Chief Inspector Oliver Ebora, Jr. and MPD Legal Counsel. Dennis Wagas, related to the arrest of a high-ranking official of the Manila City Hall, which resulted to the arrest of a high-ranking official of the Manila City Hall.
General Santos has a big trust in his personnel such as Majiha and Wagas that showed that no one is giving up and feared by the police as well as service to the people.
