
August, Alan Peter RTECAYETANO!

It is likely that Senator Alan Peter Cayetano visited Interior Secretary Mar Roxas for the coming election 2016.
"Desaparecidos," said, "Baba 3, said to be done in illegal DAP," Cayetano knew where the DAP was used to the Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona, no one else.
If Alan will still still insist, "Noynoy" said, that only means one thing, he wants him to be the endorsement of Aquino for President in 2016.
Alan knows that even if Mar Roxas doesn't know anything to risk their wealth, Boy market will not win, there, and even work of rice czar, Kiko Pangilinan, who is also an ally of Roxas, then.
There is a severe competition what Alan and Boy garlic, Hala Bira will make it hard to keep up and right, and how much is the budget to pull the media, they are the only ones who know.
Does the rain not happen again?
Roxas needs a new PR team to have a new PR team "to his own and has no ego in his body, there are many people who complain about his hems, which seems like they are just buying a person.
It's just that, the two knows that even if the endorsement of Aquino will surely lose because of the anomaly brought by the PDAF and DAP, according to the report of bird, IMF and World Bank, the Aquino administration defeated the three past administrations in the issue of corruption and the government's funds.
"His allegations to the" past administrations have been released by the combined billion pesos or 100 billion pesos, in a "project, good fortune, which can reach 70 billion pesos!
Once all the funds that they carried away were washed away, it is not enough to ask and see the projects that reaches up to P470 billion pesos!
So if Alan Cayetano will still insist that, "Noynoy said, the state of Noynoy, well, the state of the state, if he is the president's seat, will say that he will tell all the wrong he is doing in case he will also say," he said. "
It is clear, his defense to Bira 3 is clear and there is no other reason but the seduction she gives to Mar Roxas.
