Squatters in the barangay hall.

Congratulations!

Recently, we received complaints about the alleged abusive captain of the barangay hall in Manila, aside from its construction of the barangay hall in a private land that without permission from the owner, it was even done by the old vehicles.
According to the complaint, Brgy. Chairman Mario Dauz of Barangay 590, 58 in Sta. Mesa, Manila decided to leave the lot which was bought by a horseshoe, despite the request of the owner of the land.
"We told them as a lawyer who was we watched in the place for a vacant ovation that's why the chairman did not want to leave," narrated the person who complained to us.
What's worse, it was said that their land was also made into a rotten vehicle, and despite the promise of Chairman Dauz, they take his eyes off, until now, there is still no action.
Chairman allegedly seemed like the horseshoe, which is also being choked, as well as Barangay permits, and also of Barangay permits, because they are complete with legal basis aside from their decision to refuse their land to Dauz.
In these times, we thought that the squatters are strong, because of tolerating the sentiments of the barangay captains.
On the other hand, we are able to show up why the barangay hall remained stubborn because the barangay hall is very important in his jurisdiction, but as a leader of the barangay, chairman should know where his power was elected as the elected leader of the barangay.
He needs the document to prove that the land where the barangay hall is facing is a true property of the barangay because if it is not, illegal and against the law, the colonization of the land of others is illegal.
She needs to support the politicians and opportunities that are appointed by the law.
He also needs to fulfill their duties similar to the giving of barangay permit that does not have a harassment if what he is asking is complete, that is why the true public servant is complete, that is why the true public service in the town of Hala BPAT.
