The release of Gloria was left hanging in one night.
By Aries, Bernard Taguba, July 21, 2016.
Former President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo failed to go home yesterday after the Supreme Court (SC) decision submitted to the Sandiganbayan First Division, which will be given the order of the order.
It was around five o'clock in the afternoon when the Judicial and record of the Sandiganbayan First Division led by Justice Efren dela Cruz who were waiting for the order of the SC.
According to an employee of the Judicial, record of the Sandiganbayan, they did not allow the release of the order, that's why their work has been declared to have been declared to have been declared in the Veterans Memorial Medical Center (VMMC) where he was in hospital arrest from December 2011 because of election case.
On July 2012, Arroyo has benting out of the said case but the two months have voluntarily returned to VMMC after the plunder case filed a warrant of arrest due to the plunder case related to the illegal use of the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (PCSO).
Since then, Arroyo stayed in VMMC but last Tuesday, his release will be clear after the 11 magistrates of the Supreme Court in his case of plunder, will be clarified.
Based on the process, Arroyo's camp needs to give the SC decision to release the anti-graft court.
This is only what the Sandiganbayan allowed the Sandiganbayan because in 2012, Arroyo has already has benting out of the corruption in relation to the NB@-@ ZTauband scam.
Meanwhile, Ombudsman Conchita Carpio-Morales also confirmed yesterday the on-term investigation of the new plunder case against Arroyo.
In this instance, up to an estimated P57 million intelligence from PCSO was involved in the amount.
"Hey, is to be under the investigation that was held in 2004, 2007," Morales said at the press conference yesterday.
It is possible that Arroyo will possibly face the court trial if the evidence of corruption in the country's funds will be enough.
Yes, however, we was being betrayed by what happened that caused by the public treasury of Well, and after the investigation, we was able to let the "we was going to be the sole cause of the ct-ray of the Supreme Court," said Morales.
According to him, there will be no lower part of the new case that they are preparing for for a different period.
