"Coco is the PRTECAYETANO!" Susan By Alwin, October 1, 2016.
One year already, it is still a number.
And it seems that he won't be moved by "tiktiks" for so long time "the television series of Coco Martin, the FPJ's series.
The victory of the series is said to be a testimony in clay.
The stories in the television series Arinoli, as well as a cent, cherness, will show the skills and skill of the actors who are taking advantage of it.
So that he / she was being carried out for a vacation abroad, it is being spent on the action of condolences as well as the co-workers and Suhod arcals, with a new buyer, carrying a gun, and thin.
The mountainous part of the course of this is Coco Martin, and the written report to his character, Caraytono.
Faithful to his duty as a police, protector of those who are oppressed, and loving with his family and loved one.
Wu, Carey, even if you were able to hear it, you know he was not able to leave.
He / she was impressed by her emotions, and his family is taking care of it.
What Coco is doing is that, you know that he / she / she knew that he / she was in a mind, soul and heart.
It is really true to him that he owns, Carey.
That is why no one believes in the issues that will be heard from the enemies.
People's adversary, which is considered to be the collector of FPJ's captain, especially with his balance to the action elements and those who are concerned about the good characteristics as Filipinos.
What are these now?
Courage and loyalty to the family's love for God.
Be calm and do not rush in accordance with the right thing in order to commit mistake and corruption.
The character of Coco is the character of Coco, the Filipinos should be united, all of us, even like him.
We should be right, we should be honest and we have principle.
He is always with the truth and to the Lord.
Betamax of air-for-year-old covetous and applauding and strong shouting for the Ang Propaganda of the Philippine team.
Aside from Coco, to press on the press, Miss Susan Roces, Eddie Garcia, Albert Martinez, Jaime Fabregas), Ogie Alcasid, Nenita, Onyok, Maclon, Maclon, Maclon, Maclon, Maclon, Maclon, Maclon, Maclon, Maclon, Maclon, Maclon, Mackay.
They were given tribute and talked again that Coco gave those that Coco gave birth to the P24-et of the company of Miss Susan.
It's the message of Coco to Miss Susan, "La, it is an honor and form of FPJ's Ang Production, from our cast, from Dreamoto, in ABS-CBN, La, thank you very much for the love and trust that was given to us.
"Because of you, this is the reason why FPJ's" Propaganda of the province, thank you! "
On the other hand of Miss Susan, "we thank you, Coco, that I want to thank Coco Martin, the Dreamlodipine because she left the memory of FPJ.
"According to the ambassador of FPJ, he became your goals to show her good manners.
"Jaime (Izzy Canillo), who has been together with FPJ) for the first time.
"Most of you probably do not even see the movies of FPJ, I watched the inspiration brought by Coco to the movies of FPJ.
"He is only one of the few who made the action of FPJ, and because of that, he / she discovered that FPJ's" Ang Production. "We discovered a lot from all of those watching and following us, and our gratitude to ABS-CBN and to Dreamlodipine."
It's as if Miss Susan and Coco really had a grandmother in real life.
Miss Susan criticized Coco after he was asked, "Hooters Restaurant, Are, thank you," in Major-Major-Major-Major-Major-Major-Major-Major-Los Angeles.
Miss Susan decided to answer the question, "Coco is the same."
Now that FPJ's is on the second year already, what should I wait for?
Coco is sure, "since now, until now, the viewer would be waiting for a long time, now that the true story of the incident will be open.
"This six-month-old child, this is where the true things that the true secret of the characters are going to run.
"That's why we will make sure that there will be an obstacle for three months because this is the longest person waiting for the people to see and know what is true," the end of Martin.
As a celebration for the first year of their first year in the air, there is FPJ's "Propaganda of the province, one family, The Aniban, Concert, that will happen on October 8 at 7: 30 at the Araneta Coliseum.
It is free, duh!
