A crisis, maybe it is just a check-up!
August 11, 2016 when our government hopes to have a "check-up," if it can be remembered, the 1987 Constitution has been born after the Philippines was born in the very dark stages of the Saligang Batas of the leadership of former President Ferdinand Marcos.
So when the Constitution has changed, he made sure that the power of a person or a branch of the government will not go.

The government cried from three branches to have the equal power.
One is the executive branch that is headed by the elected President, this is the implementation of the law and policies of the government and the government's programs that they have their own leader, who are part of the law, who is a member of the law, which is why they need and be able to pay.
The meddling of the punishment to those who violate the law, this is also the people who violate the law for general and understanding.

This is under the management of the Supreme Court.
Every branch is, there is only one goal and responsibility to take care of the welfare of the people and maintain the balance of the government.
That's why they made Equal Employment Opportunity so that they will be sure not to take power, the one in any of the two Palestinians called Equal Employment Opportunity.
It is very important to maintain the respect of every branch in each other even if there are times when there are times that they are destroying opinions and ways.
That is why it is a bit disturbing that the words of President Rodrigo Duterte is on a serious threat to a suspected threat like Supreme Court Chief Justice Maria Lourdes Sereno.
Whatever the President's reason for the heat of his head, it seems that it is not good in the eyes of the people that this is how the leaders of the local government agencies have the change.

Maybe everything can be discussed on a closed door meeting with everyone in the right process for everyone to undergo legal and professionals which is important to respect the process and for the provisions of the Constitution because this is giving order in the society.
Maybe it is not possible that it will reach the crisis against the President and the SC) as a proof that democracy is alive in the country.
This should not be cut off whatever happens!
