It is a joke that he really wants to marry at Kuya Rom October 3, 2016 with Kuya Rom.
Just call me Ofel. I and my husband are living together for ten years at first, I am happy in fact, within five years, we have three children because we are really fond of having sex.
But now, my husband has been sick for five years because, because of this, she is not happy with my husband and I am not happy with my happiness, that is why I am willing to have feelings with a man I am with at work.
But I often think about my husband's joke and it seems that I would want to be true.
Should I tell him what I am thinking or do to just do the joke, is there a need to talk about this?
Dear "Ofel.
Think of a joke, it is a joke, that's why don't you dare to marry or take a serious problem, it is usually the start of a problem, problems that will not happen if not being serious with a joke.
The sex is important, but the life of the couple is only having sex only because it is important to have a happiness, but it will not be a happiness to a sex that will be found.
As a woman who has a wife, your feelings, heart and mind should be focused on God, to your husband, to your children and will never be with another man.
It is good to have a open future, true and full of love for two couples, there are many important things that should be discussed, not about sex only.
If your need of having sex is being talked about and you know that this issue will not be completed, it is not right to open this issue and the truth is, he is not lacking of love for you; because he is not lacking of love for you; he is not lacking of love for you because of your illness.
He will get hurt if you make your joke and it is no longer good in the eyes of God and people that will ruin your relationship, and it will not help in a peaceful and orderly relationship between you and your spouse.
If you make your joke, this will have a bad effect to your children and you might find a bad example to the children.
It is better for you to understand that there is no more important thing that you can find it in obedience to God instead of the moments that you can find the Lord in your life and he will give you happiness.
