MMDA and main owners are usual.

Chairman Tolentino should look at the report that the affected operations in Metro Manila are being used by some corrupt MMDA personnel.
With multimillion pesos, it is like that the removal of Chona Ligas in the city of the MMDA should be fervent for the operation of the companies that will be brought to the entire Manila.
In the past few days, the abuse of the drivers they will gather, particularly the city of Manila Mayor Erap.
MMDA hopes that the drivers who are going to undergo in a corner of MM. At are going to conduct a private part of MM. At according to our fervent prayer, to find a huge amount that they are going to show.
This business is a native of apple, "wants to say a lot, that is why even if millions are going to earn a lot, that is why even millions are the capital to just get a resort they are going to gather from the abuse.
There are those who will come to the vehicles that will come to vehicles, even if the MMDA is going to attack, the MMDA will pull the vehicle with it but they are not following the drivers who are going to implement because they are after a big income.
They need to make a vehicle slowly to reach the vehicle they are calling, "to get what they will be put in the MMDA.
According to our MMDA, fervent prayer, it is being spent on a parking space in the wrong place and the vehicle is on the road.
If you are in the side of the road, you will tell the driver and if you really do not want to leave, the vehicle will be given to me, that is why there will be no problem with traffic, that is why there should be no problem with traffic, it needs to be given to me.
To the vehicles that have a problem with the machine, they will be given a problem, "to do it, but when they really can do it, but if the vehicle is not done, there is no reason for this to end it."
But even if many complained, the MMDA just ignored this because of some who are going to make the agency that they are going to make will be an accomplice of the shameless drivers they will make.
Said to be complained by the MMDA is the abuse of the drivers they are going to implement right, but, Chairman Tolentino, a very big inconvenience.
"Yes, as they filed a complaint, hey, there might be a" traslacion "and a waste of time complained because the truth is, Chairman Tolentino.
Many complained, but was able to go home in tears, according to our MMDA, good luck.
The bad thing is, chairman might even be used for by the MMDA personnel who are accomplices in the multimillion peso they are going to make.
