
It is the all out War in Mindanao due to the SAF Mamasapano massacre?

Is it a time for the government to declare a all out war against the massacre because of the massacre that happened in Mamasapano, Maguindanao?

It is sad to think that because of the events recently, where the Bangsamoro Basic Law (BBL) was delayed, the BBL was delayed in the uncertainty of the Bangsamoro Basic Law (BBL).

The solution is really all over, is it really the solution?

My answer is "yes," all the solution is the solution to all the terrorists that do not care about the real terrorists like the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (BIFF) and the Abu Sayyaf, that these groups do not care about the welfare of the citizens of Mindanao and the entire Philippines.

The murder of the 44 SAF 44 is the cause of politics and the administration of SAF on the operation from AFP, DILG and MILF, which is the reason why our courageous police should be held accountable and punished to give justice to the death of the 44 SAF members.

Should the MILF or the Bangsamoro Basic Law should not be blamed because of the negligence of a few of our government, there is still news that it would be possible that it would be possible, and why did that be suspended?

The questions that should be answered.

Why did President Aquino not hide the DILG and Secretary Mar Roxas to hide that operation while he is the killing of the agency to cover the SAF? Why is it not reported to the MILF, why is it not given to the MILF while they should be together with the military when they have a partner here?

What really is politics in these events?

What should I do?

We hope that what we will say is good because what is happening in Mindanao is the root of a very big problem, a problem that has not been studied and hidden in history that gave a deep wound to our Muslim brothers.

There is only one solution to all of these - peace with understanding and open mind.

Thank you to reading it if you have a weapon or opinions not to be shy to comment on your articles if you do not care of others to be understanding to all the root of the problem.

Do you want to know why we should support the Bangsamoro Basic Law? Read this article.

Thank you again!
