The challenge for an alternative dam to strengthen the voice of the people.

"
Strengthen the full voice of the people.
This is the message of the two days that national boards or more than hundred delegates of an alternative dam from different parts of the country last October 9 to 10 in the College of mass communication (CMC) in the university of the Philippines-Diliman.
"New Year, New Generation, Varice of the New People" is the theme of the very first taste, causing an alternative dam, which was also built by a noodle house, People's alternative media Network.
Production. Jose Maria Sison, wheelchair Emeritus of International Airport for Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office, Sison earlier said that the unity of the social media, which is appropriate for the unity of the social media, is timely. "
"
Alternative media in history.
She also released an invited speaker to discerous, the importance and contribution of an alternative took place in the history of the Philippines.
In his speech on the first day of narrow-tempered, Propaganda of Luis Teodoro, former deport of UP CMC and veteran journalists, the Honor Code for the colonies of the Spanish colonizers.
There is a community which has been used as well as the time of the colonies of the Americans.
Scanned by Edita Burgos, the wife of the popular press conference, Jose Burgos, and manager of WE Forum and Malaya, and Lourdes Fernandez, former editor-in-chief of journalism, the experience and condition of journalism, under the Marcos dictatorship.
Naida immediately shared the contribution of the ground press in the form of Ang Bayan, Talilan, Bayan, and rub out a free Philippines, in the fight against Marcos at the time of Marcos and those involved in the revolutionary movement.
Propaganda of Dimatulak, the community press of UP CMC, as part of an alternative took place, said that it is connected to the community, the community press will become sensitive to the issues of the community sector.
In his research to the two days to be cooked, Benjie testified, the newly-elected National Transformation Council of Albee Benico, the importance of an alternative that took the ratification of the alternative journalism at present.
He added, in the research of information gathered by those who are concerned about the bad or business, there is no trace of interest in income or business to those who have attended the opportunity to attend.
Also used by the groups are the different form of the accident-older brother who just took a nap, from a lot of age, radio, Bantay, in social media, to make the responsibility of those involved in the point of the point of the citizens.
The Kalawaan in different issues that affects the Supreme Court and the citizens of the present are included here is the resolution for the real Islamic Freedom Fighters (2013, commemorate the fifth year anniversary of the Ampatuan massacre, to join the cybercrime law and the system of pork barrel, and supporting the very sensitive receptors.
The new owner of a noodle house has expressed their support for the national workers in Los Mindanao Command-Davao City.
Network's network's network.
The chairman of Kalapati, Teodoro, who was a board member of Pinalagad, Media Center (PMC) was identified as Oliveros in Bulls as the national anjoe).
Together with the Filipino Weeker and PMC) which can be disconcerting.
Also included in those who are from the first victims of alternative media who are based in Metro Manila were included here in Metro Manila, included here are Bulayungan, Arterial Road, Tantangan, Arciation of the PhilKasibu, Arantangan, and the new version of the online libel which is estimated to be the new online libel.
The representatives of alternative media, from the provinces have attended the provinces such as Davao Tosay, Bicol Region 4, from Davao, Albay, Camarines Norte, Davao, Nueva Ecija, Aurora, Dumaguete, Cebu, Tacloban, Cebu, and Cagayan de Oro.
It is also included in the dehumanies and part of Alungani, Ibon Foundation and UP CMC.
It also joined groups of Southern Tagalog Examination (Sevidal), cinema Panayano, as well as an individual who believes in the goal and advocacy for an alternative she took.
Also included here are the media personalities who are parishioners of different organizations such as women and children, immigrants, poor people who live in the city, indigenous people and farmers.
