PhilHealth and the problem of the emergency.

Many of us are increasing in their cases related to the rules of hospitals and PhilHealth.
This is about the issue of bringing patients on an emergency case or a sudden, which is not expected to attack the disease.
Our friend is the spokesperson of the said agency, Kuyang del Sur.
We are included in many protests in the '80s, now, Atty. Alex Padilla, son of the good former senator of the republic.
In a few moments and interview in our media, we have given the emergency cases of the emergency cases of our countrymen.
For example, he suddenly felt an unusual tickle.
Some fainted due to an unknown case and brought him to the emergency room of the hospital.
After spending on the expensive hospital service, doctor's toll and expensive medicine, the patient was fixed and they can go home.
Here is the problem of the patient in the hospital.
The policy of PhilHealth, which is also a leader of the hospitals, will not use the blessing that is expected from the primary agencies because the patient did not last long because the patient did not last long!
We ourselves have experienced the policies of 24 hours of PhilHealth and hospitals so that the card has nothing to do even for senior citizen!
So that Fight IT.
Do not get sick when you were brought to an emergency room and when you were brought there, it will be certain that you will not go out without a 24 hours or moment, your pocket from the doctor is small, and very expensive medicines for the emergency cases.
Perhaps, PhilHealth should be given a solution to the problem of the emergency room of the patients.
First, who will think that you are getting sick and it is possible that you will die if you will not be resolved immediately by it.
It is not for our patients to last long in the hospital because of the very expensive expenses for treatment, isn't it?
Even the government Hospitals now, sometimes it is cheap, but when the patient needs to be watched, it would be said that there is no place in the country that's why there, in a private pharmacy about the high price of using and medicine.
Sir and Madam of PhilHealth, DOH, and in relation to health agencies that have something to do with the issue of emergency and lack of 24 hours, when the patient goes out, maybe you will get tired of helping many of them?
Can it be?
