He / she said that you were able to beat him / her.
There are some who have already arrived there are a lot of people who do not have anything to do, that's why there's a lot.
There will be a lot of things that came yes, that's why we are very proud; maybe the color is very low; maybe that is the color to the colleges; I grew up; yes, my sister.
School year.
July.
Yes right.
Not only in the school year, as long as a teacher, who is still needed by a teacher, that's why he / she was able to treat each other; he / she was able to look down; he / she didn't know what Egaping right now that he / she was able to study.
"What, what I call here is that I want it to be more than ten o'clock in the span of ten o'clock in the same age, so that it's not right for the child to wake up to the child, that is why that is where the child is in a store so that you will go up to ten o'clock in the street;
Yes, isn't it right that in number of the internet, I have to write to each other; not to write.
It is Charley, isn't you stubborn, right?
Yes, who else should you need that so that you can look at the Star, look at me anymore, he is with me by the Star.
Ah, isn't it?
Very short; he / she suddenly came inside, that's why I suddenly went to me, I still didn't want to write to me, that's why he / she didn't want to write to me, that's why he / she didn't want to write to me, that's why he / she didn't have to write.
Yes, I have a house helper, I said, I am the same age; we are unaware, right?
Is he the eldest.
I hurt or like what happened to Juan Luna second, my youngest is the two of those who are living in front of each other, both of us are studying.
In Juan Luna - ayes; we are also my children who are always with my children, I will look at my eldest in six-six.
Yes.
Very short; he / she was distressed; what I do not do, came from a teacher Ming.
"In this, ah, my former live-in-law that's why I can't take care; that's why I can't take care of him, which is why I don't want him to go home to each other; that's why I thought that he / she didn't talk to him; he / she didn't think about it, he / she didn't think about it, every morning, he / she thought that he / she grew up-up;
He / she was able to look down; he / she didn't say that Peña is not the one who took him up to him / her pictures, so he / she was also a teacher in her godmothers, that's why he / she was also a teacher in his / her godchildren.
