In the middle of the conflict.

Being Flordeliza Espiritu.
If I was there in the sudden meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Committee (UNHRC) last July 23, perhaps, the shoes has already marked the delegation of the United States.
How can it be, he does not have any fear and doubt in voting from the proposal of UNHRC to have a critical investigation regarding the violation of the law of UNHRC on the whole world, especially in the increasing crisis in Israel and Palestina now.
If you think about it, I do not need to explain the complicated history of the conflict between the two states that resulted in the news of the armed forces of Israel to Gleyo, which caused the death of the armed forces of Israel to Gleyo, which caused the deaths of the armed forces of Israel to Gleyo, which caused the deaths of the armed forces of Israel in Gleyo, which caused the deaths of the armed forces of Israel in Gleyo, which caused the deaths of the armed forces of Israel in Gleyo, which caused the deaths of the armed forces of Israel in Gleyo, which caused the deaths of the armed forces of Israel on the other countries which resulted in different countries.
Yes, we are far from the chaos, but if you do not get hit by your feelings from the pictures scattered on the internet, children who are living in the side of the knives, and those who evacuated their homes - are really a heart of stone, like the US.
But if I think about it well it is not surprising that the US force should be set aside from the violation of human rights to the government of Israel not to give support to the armed forces of the US and I do not need to go far to find an example.
Who could forget the case of Nicole, who was raped by the American soldiers in 2005 and I might also be worried that the accused did not answer and was able to return to the US after the Americans were here again and will bring back to the military who directly violate the constitution.
Meanwhile, money will never be paid for by the damage caused by the USS Guardian of the West Min Com), that is why there is a huge difference between foreign companies to our Filipino workers, which most are from the industry of Business Administration.
Not only the children, elderly and families who died in Gurria, even us Filipinos, and until now, the true ones who are living still cannot be answered.
