Enough!

Those who do not know are free from human rights, and the violent are free from fear, and the violent are free for fear, if they take advantage of what they are doing, institution, and no change are reliable.

It is the duty of each of the people who has been elected to remove those who are elected and destructed the cause of the conflict between the people elected.

This is one of cancer that needs to be cut off, like a lot of who will continue to be cut off the foul smell and further damage of others in a community who are free to end up, this kind of governance, to end up in public service, too much!

According to the public servant of the country, it is said that there are illegal activities that are being done, and there are those who are respected, but there are theft at the treasury of the country, they are very thieves to be greedy and without care of the people's money, those who are sick and buried in danger.

It is not the prison that they should go on, but the let go of it, because there is a long time they are going to find the people!

There are actors who just like drama, do not cry like the crocodile.

There are lawyers who are able to make it as their idol, the alibi that there is a possibility that the truth will prevail on them.

They are also asking for an artist, who are rich and does not need to be rich and not be negligent and included in all those that are bothering in the Legislative Chamber.

There are also businessmen who are patriotic and patriotic, but they have to fall off the pockets of money and not the people in their minds.

Same with Malacanang, who are all relatives, school, party, and Kabarilan, and billions of pesos in the country's funds are going crazy, and their capital to get stronger to continue the power of greed.

It is a pay for the rent of all, and the people continue to stop the extreme difficulty, that needs to be stopped and directly end, the obscenity happening in our government.

The town howled, that they will be punished not in prison but also to let it go.
