2: Counter-IBIG, San Roque has a Mega-Manila (testimony of Pag-asa Parish house.

By Joanna.
There is 28, 2014.

Served as a backward was formed by Ubers which contains "Collyer. Jojo Cayabyab / Joanna Tacason.
The following is the reflection of the construction of the youth from the Diocesan of San Roque, Brgy. Bagong Pag-asa, Quezon City last February 10, 2014.
The current part is based on an interview with a Nanay's interview before the exchange of shots that happened between the police and the robber was put in the third week of the New Year by Bistek last January 27, 2014.
"At the first time I first met here, 1985, you know, the iron fist that I bought at first is only three pieces, that is why we are the only ones that we are using in the house, that is why we are just like that big.
In the eyes of those who passed away from the window of a jeep with the Agham or MRT, they are just giving attention to the foolishness of poor people who are intentionally being used in front of their houses, and they also say that the Ombudsman is just looking at the company that will challenge him inside and outside their very proud building.
"Now, in the everyday selling of rice, I have been trying to buy a jackpot with a plywood, the building thrown away from the building, that's why there were a lot of using a dog, that's why there was a mix of a plate number until my husband died, 1988."
Nanay's story is the story of many other in Seedious, in Dubai, in Dubai, in Veterans, in EDSA, they are happy that their child and grandchildren are becoming worse, even if they have not been wearing a clean uniform, even more than a few moments, they are innocent.
Just any word or image of hunger, damaged, water, electricity, electricity, debt, debt, work abroad, am surprised, police, shrimp, inmates, fire... that is dead.
"We held a flyer that at that moment, we were able to give one thing for each day, and we even help me with a child who is living with us.
In the risk of what is called for the city, she met with a person whom they both lived on, based on the pure way of giving and care for each other, it can be said that they found a house from the land of the village, in the span of more than three decades, they found a place to find a dream.
"I worked that there was a sack... that until I was able to save from 1998 to 2005, I was able to pay attention from 1998 to 2005 when my child was killed, that was why she was hurt, that was why I was living in my house, that was why I was living there and I was living there."
"I will just go home to Mindanao?
Their birth and growing up are being ridiculed by more than 200 or thousands.
"Are we like criminals who are always investigating what happened to us, that more than eight hundred pesos, it's only three hundreds of houses, that is why it's only three hundred pesos, that's why it's only three hundred pesos, that's why it's the only one who gave me how to stand a stand."
Why is it always straight to those who are from squatters, they are a widower and drug addicts here, they are working hard, even a simple sector that will be built in a place at the point, they are working hard, living, and even in some films that they don't put in in the box office.
"There are more than a few policemen who entered here in the corner, and then in EDSA, the youth and they got used to were not happy when they were fired by the youth at the same time until three o'clock in the morning until three o'clock in the morning until three o'clock in the morning until three o'clock in the morning until three o'clock in the morning until three o'clock in the morning until three o'clock in the morning until three o'clock in the morning.
Why is why there is a need to sweep the poor of San Roque and the entire North Triangle, Noli de Castro, and it is different when they earn a good location and a lady or a woman who is very important to buy them.
"What is the government's plan, that we will call it, but in the actual time, it is not acceptable if I do not want to accept the money, that is why I do not want to accept the money, that is why I do not have a house, you do not have a house."
The police tried for several times that the construction of San Roque has been tried for a few hours, but there are some who were forced to accept from NHA about their own house because it can also be lessened in the middle of a foul and violent process, the Commission on Human Rights (CHR) will lessen it.
"The barbells that is really for the entire Philippines and other people saw what we did before, I am still hesitant on the fight to remain in marriage or, Sali."
The projects in the counter-Maputi, San Roque has a way to understand the political problem in the city as well as the reality in this policy of the land in the city as the ordinary citizens, to give way to the malls, condominium, subdivision and high buildings.
Using the ban, Pal and social media, the goal of the project is to bring down the anomalous citizens within many years together with the current government of Pres. Benigno Aquino, MGB, Philippine National Police Chief Alan Peter Cayetano, Philippine National Police Chief Alan Peter Cayetano, Philippine National Police Chief Alan La Union, and Ayala Group Chair Jaime Augusto Zobel, Ayala.
"So, the citizens of San Roque, unite and fight for our rights."
This punches at the month and it could not destroy wood and guns on the chest although some of the typhoons were able to destroy it, but they could not take advantage of the feelings of the poor, instead, they can't take advantage of it while the children of the country can become brave.
The place 2, as well as the offer of support and cooperation to the citizens of San Roque, along with the gathering of the Congress of San Roque, Loakan Proper, Kalsada, Sauyo Reyes, Boyet de Oro City, Boyet de Mesa and your servant.
