Bet of PNoy, I am worried about it?

Many are saying even if DILG Secretary Mar Roxas will still be defeated by Malacanang, the wife of Korina Sanchez will still be defeated by Vice President Jojo Binay in 2016 presidential election.
It is clear in the statements and observation of the political analyst from the country that if Roxas will be charged last 2010 election for Binay, it will be hard for them to respond or to recover from the former mayor of Makati City and one of the loyal followers of Tita Cory, because there is a lot of weakness that the said secretary has done in the past years in the administration of PNoy.
Because Roxas will not forget the politicking of Roxas during the time of Yolanda in Tacloban where it was captured by a video.
Aside from the failure in preparation and action after Yolanda, it is noticeable that the crime happened in the country is noticeable because the killings and selling of illegal drugs continue in all parts of the Philippines.
Even his companions in the Liberal Party which are seated in position have no effect with the Aquino government in the issue of service, which is why if the group of Dilawan are going to have a score, he will have to make it good.
Even Caloocan Representative Egay Erice is getting up and speaking with Roxas in the legislative chamber this past few days for Binay, not able to help the throne of Roxas because it was the opposite to the public.
What the public did was simple reading when Erice did and that is the early politicking of the group Roxas.
It is obvious the motive is really obvious so the people will just ignore it because it looks like a product of the lawmaker in Caloocan, who was reported to run as mayor of the city, is really obvious.
The bystanders said that there is a strategy, what the LP have done is not the one used for the attack against Binay and instead, he got a congressman who is an ally or a member of the independent group in the Lower House in order to make a serious fight against VP.
Filipinos should remember that the LP should remember the next chapter because they do not have time to make mistakes because they are their enemy.
They know that PNoy is just a few hours in Malacanang.
That's why they need to be a good and productive because instead of Roxas getting involved in the position of PNoy in 2016, he will still be Binay or Grace Poe because he is also looking for assurance that he will not be defeated by Erap and Ate Glo.
