Those who get involved are involved!

The legislators allegedly asked the country's treasury using the railway of the Disbursement Acceleration Program or DAP.
This is the point of the Commission on Audit (COA) on their released report related to the Milk Services Program (NDA) that reached more than 200 million pesos.
This happened last December 2011 a few days after Congress filed the impeachment complaint against former Chief Justice Renato Corona.
This is "what Senator Jinggoy Estrada was crying before when he got caught in the pork barrel Scam of Janet Napoles, the point of Sexy" why he was only a lot of Congress and Senate.
But this report is just the opinion of COA, if there is a Noguof day which was released by the COA on those who are involved, second, do they have a Noguera of Disservices?
Imagine, the people, forty-six members of the Congress who hung the COA, but many of those who hung are allies of Chief Justice PNoy.
What's funny is, "the critics of PNoy like ACT Partylist Rep. Antonio Tinio who filed a impeachment complaint against our great president.
What Cong. Tinio seems that it seems that you are going to give up the new issue of anomaly in using the funds of the country? "That's now that I am now included in what I should take!

"It is now a lot of now who were called" Moral Acuishment "of Tinio including the other critics of PNoy who are included in the latest report of COA in relation to the latest report of COA in relation to the latest report of COA, which was hit by the robbers.
But, but, however, we remember that this report is the observation and opinion of COA, that is why even though it has been an issue of a Noguation of COA, they are still not doing anything.
The Supreme Court is the final resting place of this issue, which is why the observation and opinion of COA (COA) knows this process and I am sure that people have a gimmick.
What is clear now is there are credibility and destroyed because of the COA report, and you are one of those there, Congressman Tinio who does not want to stop that is why it is also a thief!
