What is about, Senator Bong Revilla?

According to the Commission on Elections, the three senators who were charged with corruption in the 2016 elections are still allowed to run for the 2016 elections.
The COMELEC said, until the court has no final debate with the court, they can still run for office and Malacañang can no longer be defeated.
It looks like this is what gave the strength of Senator Revilla to prove that he is ready to run as president of the Philippines in 2016 even if he is imprisoned.
For example, Senator Juan Ponce Enrile and Jinggoy Estrada will run for office and win, what will be the result of our country to abuse it, I mean, I would falter?
It is not impossible to happen, "because it is running for other positions in the public office of the winning" pork 3 "the Constitution has even made the Constitution.
Until the "guilty" is not able to pay "the three senators, they will still be considered innocent in the eyes of the law.
The only thing I see here is that our government is very funny because our government is funny because it is just like the people who have a case.
Not only case is being faced by "pork 3." Their case is considered a heinous crime because it is theft from the big fund of the country.
In case they win but they have been guilty, this is really a big problem because they will be having a hard time to remove them from them because they will surely join them in power.
Everything they will do so that they will not be removed.
The most determined of the three is Bong Revilla to continue running for the 2016 presidential candidate even if she is for him to be imprisoned.
I hope that these senators will have delicadeza, especially Revilla, even if they are saying that they still have a right to run for.
This will give a bad example, especially in the minds of the children, whoever was accused and got used by thieves, may still be position in government.
Manila Cardinal Antonio Tagle also said, these kinds of people are too sweet and numb about the welfare of the people who are just thinking of your personal situation.
You stopped, Senator Revilla!
