
Intensify the Filipino country in facing the calamity caused by the typhoon and the government budget.

Editorial Department of Ang, November 7, 2014.

In the leadership of the Liberal and quick action of the revolutionary force, the Filipino people continue to serve the revolutionary movement in facing the calamity caused by the typhoon and the government budget of Aquino.

The citizens are looking at the meaningful success of our fellowmen in facing the immediate threat of hunger and the long-term goal of pushing their fight against different parts of taking advantage and resolving the criminal President-Aquino and the criminals fought against it.

The citizens who attended the success are the capital to advise the citizens and the disputed forces of the Filipino people should make sure that the Liberal Party should make sure that the success of the advancement of the advancement of the advancement of the advancement of the advancement of the advancement of the advancement of the advancement of the advancement of the advancement of the advancement of the advancement of the advancement of the advancement of the advancement.

It should be harvested by the strong opening of the movement of the masses inside and outside of the fields where they are standing in and out of the full of the masses, or to the people who are standing by the public to form the power of politics in different levels.

As part of the disaster, the plans for the citizens to face their problems in the livelihood of Intalan, which is one of the masses, is being considered by the people who are currently being referred to by the holiest part of work (13yuan (equivalent to Wcontemptuous, which is opened by strangulation on the farm for being full of benefits.

The action of the masses to the mass is lively, so the situation is very lively so there will be a few more time to fix the level of the masses and increase the level of its level until the level of immune system which can be more effective in order for them to be more effective in order to become more effective.

It's a lively state of the masses to the form, order and implementation of rules of production and economists, defense, security and other aspects of the life of society.

In the legislative chamber, the use of the implementation of the illegal power of politics should be used and further increase the ability of the citizens in implementing their proper service, culture and advancement of Filipino masses, to ensure the contribution of a broken success to the current administration.

The plan made in facing the business problems is the plan of pushing the revolutionary program on earth.

It is considered that one of the masses to fight is to fight for violating the land, interest in debt or forgiveness to the principal's principal which is why the farmers are not yet made up.

In many places where the land is under the power of the masses, they made the plan to gather vegetables, improve the production, and increase the production of poor farmers in the current status of the citizens so they will continue to lead them on the path of democratic struggle.

The actions to widen the scope of the struggle for reform the land and ensure that this is serving the interest of the majority of the poor farmers.

The advancement of reform in land is the primary content of the democratic revolution and priority issue in pushing an armed fight in the countryside.

In front of the public's response to the needs of the masses during the time of calamities, it will be clear to the eyes of the people that it will lead to the BHB) and the companies that they want to join the BHB) in order to build the next month.

There is a need to strengthen the ability to strengthen the ability of all the units of BHB) to strengthen the launch of the Honor Code for the approval of the citizens in facing the storm, it is also an initiative to be taken away by the Bastes.

The ability of the citizens should strengthen the ability of the proliferation of the prevalence of widening and strengthening of the neighboring towns.

It should be better for them to make them listen and turn out to the initiative of the launch of the launch of the launch of the launch of the declaration of the implementation of the offensive against those who are involved in the fields of the enemies.

The Aquino administration knows that this situation left by the former typhoon and the local government budget is very popular for alms and the revolutionary movement, which is why the citizens are still busy.
From the lashing of Yolanda and the right cry to stop their operation operations, it is not allowed to stop the troops of the 3rd and 8th ID, not stopping the masses in facing and wanted to increase the damage caused by the typhoon.

The troops of the enemies should not be allowed in launching the campaign to protect and abuse the human rights.

Intensify the bickering of offensive to show the excessive anger of the people with the rotten government fund of Aquino who failed in facing the complaints of the country.

The bad-mannered action is the only way for the people to face the calamity, and this is not only in action after Yolanda, but also in the past calamity such as Pablo, Sendong, southwest monsoon and Ondoy.

The Liberal and strikers should strictly hold on the lessons and principles in facing the accident caused by the typhoon and no government budget.

There is a need to expose the useless and unconcern of the nation's sake of the welfare of those who are oppressed and involved in the time of calamity, the people should see that the destruction of environment is the worst and most cruel against the masses, which is said to be equal in front of the environment.

Kilusang protest is the only weapon of the people to insist on the proper fund given for those who survived the disaster and the reward for the funds given to them is not enough but to insist on justice and improvement of the government's failure to push through, safety and livelihood of the people.

The preparation for the natural calamity is one of the responsibility of the new administration's responsibility for the responsibility of the government's responsibility for their welfare and safety, fixing of organizations and safety, fixing of organizations and others.

The biggest preparations should be done by the revolutionary force, to continue to strengthening the Liberal, armed forces and owners of the power of politics and pushing and those kinds of movement to reform the land.

I can advise the advancement of Filipino nation towards a higher survey which is the most important thing to do to strengthen the ability of the people and the revolutionary movement in facing the storm and the government budget.
