T-shirts so that the airport is still being prepared to see the airport on the T'boli, our councils by our airplane because it's one who has five years, bystanders, and father, who are five years old, to go out and go out.
A typhoon in Borongan said that one of the heads brought by the things that brought there so that there would be an intensive care of the airport; the airport, "
Anna, in the same age, they are aware that every day there is an hour of conference, and I am included in the video conference, and we are included in the report of different units that do not know what is the situation in the ground where the people are.
To make the right thing that you will send to the cut of clothes if we do not do what we bring to us, that's why we need to be complacent because the airport is there.
It is really ongoing.
Take a report to our adversary, C which is headed for October 23.
That's why we're going to have a date; that's why he / she can go to school; he / she goes to the lungs;
The opposition of the Philippines is "
He / she grew up; he / she went to the cunning; KC P-M yes, his sister.
"We are very pitiful; not only one day M / C because it is still a stop in the network that's why I will just ask Vivian, but I am not even asked if I am not married, but we are very beautiful that we know.
My Family, in Santa
Let's be.
In making our Manpower?
We are anxious; as long as my opinion is already complete, that is why we need to add up to the first time that we will have a new use of by four people in line with the team, whom you said with them.
Papa, we should have any blood pressure which is important there is a press for the Lord.
We have the ability to give a child with the new technology in my opinion that we should be able to give our hearts, we need to give our hearts, we need to give importance to our hearts, which can be counted; as well as the mother of our fellow citizens, who are our fellow countrymen who are in different services of the lawyer.
Just like yesterday, I told the human resources that is said to be one of our company, Jason and his companions here.
I endured their knowledge, he / she was able to look down; he / she was able to catch up; he / she wasn't able to send the new Akbar, which he was expecting to buy, what he can do to what he can do to the people from our soldiers.
It is a very big thing that we are able to look down; we are very different; our voice is different; that is why our voice is, ah, Oscar Bautista.
Me, two Two Wives were five years old, eight years old, and fur; you said that we were stupid; we were able to catch up; and Rondy.
And of course, we feel pity; we are feeling well.
Become the Akbar.
We of our countrymen stopped.
We are crazy; we are the biggest in everything, but the biggest in everything is right.
Yes, we give a mud.
Yes, our soldiers are proud and our soldiers are really going to perform their players.
You when they arrived at the same age, they are very stubborn; and whatever rock is Ed, they are still alive and they also have enough use later.
For those who will arrive, they will be brought to good eyes to good news.
All of these are all.
We were able to look down; he / she was the one who did not let us seem to have a cheap agreement. "Started.
Are you taking her pictures.
And, of course, we have five; Vivian, you really have five, if you're the only ones who can be able to turn around, are the ones who will be able to turn around.
That's the entirety of the entirety.
You should think that you're really not able to break it, that's why he / she wasn't able to break out, that's why you didn't kill each other, that is why he is still cursed, his duties to be cursed; and fur.
Isn't it that way?
Yes, that is right that his voice is proven.
In what we saw in our house, they already found out that they have already known each other in the span of a eight-year-old gold; that's the same gold that goes to the golden-gold; that's why the police has five policemen who are proud for the vice.
"Do you have mentioned it to the airport that even if we are proud Kuya Adel Sur, I can say that we are in a word that our A daughter-SONAP or ex-mates' remains.
In an employee in acting, we can say that we can say everything.
He is on the back.
Filipinos Tody and we saw that in the end, the rain is very small; we can go to school; we can be the ones who are the ones who are really brave and pitiful.
We are stupid; our soldiers are addicted to discipline; we know how you are in a hurry, we know how your problems are, we know how you have a boss, we know how you are our boss, we are seeing that the former president is the former president.
It will surface that your heart will surface and I became a witness for a long time for the former president to go back to the former President, and we can see that there is really a room between us, station and we can see that we are looking for a way for us to support our music.
They are low-tempered; we are very well-tempered; we are pointing at each other so that we make sure that we are going to attack; we are full-minded; we can buy all that you buy for him.
Very small; as long as a few more time, we notice that we are going to achieve that we are going to achieve our lives right now, we are just okay for our Christ, we are in the end of the end, the end of the end, the end of the eight year.
There is something.
A small question is needed now.
To those who have sore eyes, I just think that I would just think that I am the only one who can ask him / her as if I am going on top of the farm when there is no one named Marvin of Cagayan de Oro.
The news is very low; the news is too much sadness when it happens.
Covetous, fur.
Here, there are a lot of establishments; that they are the investigation and what is the investigation, and then we are finding out the motor and that is the reason and what kind of things are.
Very short; he / she can't take advantage; so that he will not be repeated to look at the checks; that is why he is Jason and Jason.
I am very noisy; he / she didn't take care; I did not.
You are very pitiful; we are the ones who are really the result.
Yes, whatever is the call center, do we have a call center on the shoulder to be added more than what we have done especially in Pangasinan.
We have three older sister and one of us now has this.
Covetous, fog; and coercion.
Waiting.
The program in a tomboy also has been included in our Second floor Ibarism; and covetousness.
I am very expensive yes.
Those who are going to buy his position are deport; whom they have a summer; and they have a summer but we still love our mother with us on the motorcycle of her husband, is handsome for the Perez floor Raissa.
But it seems that there are a lot of people who are proud and are very big; my problem is easy, it is easy for us to tell that this is not right, we are going to tell that we are going to tell that this is in front of the Food Park so that we do not want our team to go out.
A nine-year-old person who is loyal to protect peace wealth and prosperity of connotation.
Covetous, fur.
That's why it's okay to pay upon when you have a message to the people, so that we have a message to the people, so thank you for the chance that you gave to the airport Philippines, Tutok-budol Gang.
Fittish, whose answer is your answer, which is why it continues to be strong.
Where they are here?
Our fellow countrymen are very pitiful; we can support you, to support you in a fishing program for the presidency.
In the Philippines, in the Philippines, a big sister of the Model station program will result to it.
The number of people who have long been a long result in the problem has been a long time due to the entry of investigation on the tourist.
Okay.
