OWWA-1 gave financial help to those affected by the people in Saudi.

September September 29, 2016 Miriam P. Aquino.

The city of San Fernando, September 6 (Pia) -- all the legitimate workers in double the sea or Overseas Filipino Workers who are affected in the current crisis in Saudi Arabia, may also be given financial help from the projects in Saudi Arabia because it may also be given financial help from the projects in Saudi Arabia.

According to Rain, Nilda, Education, Education and Gaming Corporation (OWWA-1), in the data of their agency last August 22, there have been 647 OFWs and those who were given help here in the region.

From 647, there were already 39 million pesos and 421 that were repatriated in the province of Pangasinan and 13 OFWs and 53 percent in the province of Ilocos Sur and Ilocos Norte, 25 years old but still no OFW were able to pay or approached the agency, even in local or abroad, from the said province.

According to Lee, they have been able to send two OFWs and seven children from the nearby regions or not from the region.

The said data was the only thing that was approached and helped by OWWA but this is not the whole of the affected Filipinos in the said country.

As a clarification, Lee pointed that it was only the legitimate OFW who has record at OWWA and can submit any documents to be the beneficiary of the program.

He also emphasized that these should be included in the affected OFWs involved in the nine companies that have been affected by the crisis in Saudi Arabia and the workers, where Filipino workers, are included.

The nine affected companies in Saudi are: Saudi Bin Laden Group of SBG), Saudi Oger.

Trailbo Junior, Moalibis), ALNAs Group (MMG), ALNATO, Failagutan, Failagutan, Failagutan, Facadversary, Facadversary, Facadryl and Indigestion.

Under the program, the OFW is going to receive financial help that costs 20,000 pesos and for additional 6,000 pesos for their families or dependent.

It can be received by an OFW if he was repatriated from the country or even once he is still staying in Saudi for example, he can send a thousand pesos to Saudi when he can send to the family or dependent to the Philippines or for example he can send the total amount of 6,000 pesos from OWWA here in the Philippines.

As a result of this, OWWA are warned all the Filipino workers who are working abroad to make sure that their livelihood abroad will be legitimate to make sure that their way to go abroad is legitimate so that there is always someone who would go to anyone in another country.
