The failure of SOSIA.

A security guard or a bodyguard ("tanim-bala" is a decent job, wherein security guards are called) and this is one of the most dangerous profession, especially in chaotic countries, like the Philippines.
In the Philippines, it is very difficult to put up a business guard because it is certain that the crooks will look at it, this is the reason why security guards are everywhere in our country because there is a big need for the security guard and bodyguard.
"That is okay because," as they say, the PNP already has a agency that is said to be the PNP, similar to the United Nations Office for Security Agency (Security Agency (Bureau of Investigation Agency (Bureau of Investigation Agency) regarding the security agency.
The bad thing is, it seems that the license are being sold like their security agency which is why the agencies that are being carried away by the people who should not be given the right to run for these kinds of business should not be given their right to run for these kinds of business.
"That is the reason why there are many security guard similar to the beating and pointing a gun to a FBI agent of former police official who is Odelusion Corp. according to some of his personnel.
Viral in social media is a video of the said training to have a license to have a license to have a license that is being conducted by someone introducing themselves as a colonel and the owner of the association.
In the training shown, it is obvious that this does not have any idea about the proper handling of the gun and to the called "4 cardinal Rules and gun safety as if there is no other people around him!
I already thought that maybe so many of our security guard are the ones who get hurt because of the wrong food stall at them, of course it is certain that they are carrying it, because they thought it is right because this is what they taught them.
Is the job of SOSIA to monitor our security agency but why do they make it way to look like this?

Agents of Gil TRAOIL.
