Reporting, Hong Kong - the FOI is FOI.

Senator Grace Poe is saying that he is nervous about the proposal that will come out in the proposal that will be coming from the legislative chamber.
It might be wrong to weaken, the lady senator said.
It is also not sure if the legislative chamber is serious about the passing of the FOI before the legislative chamber will decrease in the midst of the congressmen's saying that they will just use their version before election in 2016.
The point of Da King's son is right.
Meow!
One of the things that Madam Grace went through is that it can be washed away by the congressmen who responded by the congressmen who responded in any criticism of the people, especially if it will come out in the media, even in online media.
It is not clear from Madam Grace's mouth, it appears that the congressmen force more important to the freedom of information instead of the rights of the citizens to know what they are doing as officials of the country.
The senator also has doubts about the treatment of the congressmen on the content of the version of the senate, the FOI seems to be the Netsmen of all the officials of the country up to grade 27 from the captain of the barangay.
We do not know if the congressmen keep what they are used to, but there are no details when they will release the SALN of these, similar to Speaker Sonny Belmonte.
According to Speaker Belmonte, it seems that the citizens are enough to know who are the richest and poorest members of the legislative chamber.
It's a puzzle for the Senate.
What is the basis that the Senate can file?
Our Ubers also said, it is a little way to suffer if the version of the Senate is a bit worse, why?
Supposedly the position of the town officials ordered them to collect payment from their SALN.
It's because the officials of Salary Grade 27 up to the captain of the barangay themselves will just release a SALN.
Included in those with SG 27 are the general of the police, director 3 of the Labor Department, boils of the province and other level of houses which are only worth P62,670 up to 675.58.
"Isn't it that, these are just low officials, where are those with big salary and income?
Patrolling, grade 28.
Those with SG 28 and up to SG 30 are the governor of the province, the President of big State Universities (Colleges.
Here are the high-minded people.
President - SG 33; Vice President - SG 32; Senate President - SG 32; Chief Justice of Supreme Court - SG 31; Chief Justice of Supreme Court - SG 31; Chairman of Constitutional Commission - SG 31, member of the Constitutional Commission - SG 31, member of the Constitutional Commission - SG 31, member of the Constitutional Commission - SG 31.
Let us ask Madam Poe: Why are the most big officials in the government not included in the waiting customers of the people on what their SALN?
Who would be the only one who wants to be married, "that's the only thing to be seen with a SALN?
But, this is where the largest corruption and corruption in the government happen.
If you have a gift and gets elected to those with low office, well, most of these are happening to those with high-helpers, there, an example, the abuse of these from PDAF, DAP, and other ways to profit from the government.
Or we are just mistaken, Bro, for our understanding to the FOI.
Please advise me if we have mistakes in your understanding.
Those who are bosses to the children.
Shouldn't it be the scope of Salompa Station for the bastard criminals who are bosses at government units, Consignation?
We are asking this because it seems that they are not under the FOI.
Because, they come out of 500,000 pesos up to 1 million in one month.
Some say that their salary is not from the government.
But what about the Social Security System, government Service for Pag-IBIG that came from the pockets of the citizens about their funds.
How about Madam Grace Poe, the people will look into the SALN of them, especially the millions of members of this agency?
Reporting, meow!
It turns out that the people might only have a choice on the version of the FOI to weaken and cool it.
The call now for the people is for them to meddle with the laws being faced by those in the Senate and Legislative Chamber.
If they will not get involved, what if these will continue in making laws to weaken and ampbell?
What's painful, Bro, the congressmen do not have any interest to pass the FOI.
"Why?
