Against the Ebola virus, until the barangay.

Until where are the government preparation against the illness of Ebola?
We are asking this, Bro, in front of a very dangerous future because of this illness which is very quick to enter the Philippines and is not impossible to enter the Philippines.
It is dangerous because in the record of the World Health Organization, 70 of 100 people were killed who were killed.
It's only a few days after the people will find something about the symptoms of disease inside 21 days, people are dead because of severe fever and blood, blood, and blood that's mixed in our body.
Aside from those who have no list, those who have no lack of 5,000 pesos from the Ebola virus, around 9,200 people, especially in countries Liberia and Guinea, including Nigeria.
Eight OFW.
Bro, Bro, the question about our preparation, especially if we think there are eight OFWs living in the said countries being attacked by Ebola.
And in fact, there are already many OFWs from there and in the coming months, more than 100 people members of the Philippine Contingent is going to go home to the United Nations Security System which has been taken to Liberia.
What if the evangelists of the OFW are going to pass through a glimpse of a famous airports and pier in the said country and will go straight to the Philippines?
And what if these will pass through our own guards against Ebola in our own airport and pier?
It will be said that there are places in the country that they will go home from Batanes until Jolo, it is not yet included here are the foreigners who possibly have Ebola in their safety in the country for other reasons.
Canals in NAIA.
The Department of Health is saying that there are 100 rooms for the quarantine on those who are going to find the symptoms of the Ninoy Aquino International Space Station.
And there is also a hospital, like the LMedical Center of the Philippines, to bring them sick.
But what are our other international airport such as those in Mindanao, Visayas and Northern Luzon and Central Luzon, which will be accompanied by Ebola?
How do we have a lot at the ports of those who are still sick of Ebola? And how about the DOH's hope that this is not sure that all the irregularities they are using are effective in acknowledging those who are sick?
There is no preparedness.
DOH is still saying that there are doctors, nurses and others who are starting to be given by the government and from the UN against Ebola.
That's why he says that the citizens should not worry because the authorities are on the end.
But what is what the Philippine Medical Association of Health Office is saying and it is still different when the Philippines has no ability to fight the disease?
First, the government is still not holding the medicine against Ebola and even more than an effective cure against it.
Second, there is no experience in our medical services against Ebola.
Third, there is nothing or lack of lack of things to stop the possibility that it can jump to the Philippines where it can jump.
This point should also be considered by the DOH and if it is true what those inside the department are true, well, they should call for all the help to help.
Barangay Health Center.
Because it is possible that the Ebola virus may enter and spread to the thousands of barangays in the country, it is just right for the DOH and the UN to bring all your health workers in barangays.
As early as now, the national and local government should allocate funds for their campaign and training of those in barangay.
The government should also use all the media throwing information on what will be done by the citizens as household help of health workers and the things such as clothes, ambulance, airplane, ship and others should be prepared.
The government should tighten the hospitals outside Metro Manila and other parts of the city.
Where are the medical services that will be assigned in all places?
Um!
The government should also think about what will be done to those who criticized the illness and death.
In the countries being attacked by Ebola, Bro, there is no bed from a relative, suspecting, a friend and a neighbor.
As long as a family died, it is up to their lives that were left behind and thousands of children, mother, father and old people are able to escape from hunger or other diseases, nurses, and other than their jobs in fear that they are infected and killed.
Everyone should really prepare and help each other against the illness that were knocking on our doors.
