
31st Infantry Battalion and 45th Infantry Brigade of the Philippine Army are saying that the failure and failed operation against the Bastes.

You are Samuel Guerrero.
Celso Mandez Command-NPA-Sorsogon.
September 25, 2013.

Meanwhile, 31st IB, and former 1st Infantry Battalion and Moro Islamic State of Philippine Army tried to cover up their defeat against the failed military operations against the CMC-BHB) which was launched in the towns of Irosin, Magallanes, Sorsogon since September 15 to the present.

The hope, awareness, knowledge and attacks of 31st IB, which resulted to the three fights that happened last 4: 00 in the afternoon in Brgy. Matos, Juban, Sorsogon.
This number was confirmed from the release of civilians witnesses to the places where they collected from the places of the scene and in the area, the wounded who needed to be taken away from the areas of the Bastes.

The big contribution of the military troops is hidden under the implementation of "media blackout, and hit that when they talked in the media, two days after the last fight.

The bigger failure of the troops of 31st Lieutenant Shelina Calumay and 903: 30 in the afternoon, 30 minutes after the third fight, which is desperate to conduct a bullet and bomb in Brgy. Maasin and Calata in the town of Irosin where there was a nipa hut in Brgy. Maire, pet animals, and driven by civilian farmers.

'Hmm, which caused a huge damage to the normal lives and livelihood of the people, is contrary to the destruction of said' coercion to the civilians in the area, that is why they have not let the teachers from their families in different places, that is why they have not let their students go to school in different places.

The failures of the military operations were exposed to be included in the Filipino people, when civilians complained of the institutions supported by human rights violations against the Comprehensive Final Agreement for the Comprehensive Final Agreement for the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of Human Rights.

The military troops are asking their crime to the Filipino people and their violation of human rights violation, according to the media, he wants to avoid involvement in the peace talks between the Philippine Amusement and NDFP) that they want to avoid the non-raising peace talks between the Philippine Amusement and NDFP), which means to give them up after the attack.

The CMC-Bugnay, the arrest of 31st Infantry Batallion in the three fights because the citizens are brave for the place in the BHB) for the high level of the New People's Bayan.
