Do not allow your voice to be strong, and do you know that many are afraid of the different parts of the world, but you know that I am busy with different parts of the world so you know that there are still a lot of things that I have to call, there is still a lot of things there.
Dorina Pentrante of Department of Ammos or the Megastar should notice her as the youngest.
I'll be able to look down; he / she grew up; "said Tito Paul, isn't it," Tito Paul, didn't even know that I am really concerned about the different parts that I have been telling in different parts of the meantime.
Like the watch.
By animals, I am kind.
Included here are the goats.
The carabao might be the carabao to dry up.
In all the countries, the public might have done something here in Peacosta last night when you were infected with what you did to you, you can't say that you can be exported.
Anything, Carmona.
You said.
Second on this grave is the size of Davao City.
You are dying, right?
It is estimated that eight o'clock in the evening 'liter is over "I am busy in terms; he is busy in terms of the x-Tropas.
You might get along easily with other people.
We were able to sleep that's why he is afraid.
He is my sister.
Because they are proud that I can be able to look down; he / she turned out that the animals with white vinegar, Carmona's room is Vinggan, you carry a meat which is already sick in it.
Yes, there is.
"That is but when we visited our past, we have disconcerns, what we have been opposing; we can make it as a solution to our neighboring provinces that we can do the most of the provinces who can be done here in the Philippines, that is why the most of you can go back to the Philippines.
You are going to look at each other; we look at any kind of meat without any kind of meat which will not bring any kind of meat from the country with someone.
Not anytime or ten are to know that this is a shooting that can save anything so we can sell the offer of bottle and other countries.
That is why there is still there.
He knows that we should not go because of the kind of meat.
The Philippine Bank all of us have nothing like that.
We are only a person who does not have money to buy this in the Philippines that is why it is really good for Dodo here in the Philippines that's why it's really good if we are really a nuisance who is really being affected by the economy but we want to know how to get a case in case.
There, there was an animal who owns a little bit.
The person who still cannot see that there is an illness that is going to transfer to a person just to transfer to a person, but when they are Vic is called, it's as if we are calling for an example to a lot of people who will go to the neighbor, we can easily ask for an example to the neighbors.
What can the act of these to be done, that is why, the number of those who have been in a different country is the reason why they saw each other in a place where we have something to do at that place.
They will weaken.
And we will also be the next for us to go back to those who are taking advantage of my pictures.
There are foreigners.
There is no ducks like this and we have seen that we have seen nothing but did not stop it.
That's why we have to do something to us.
I have a thousand, isn't it right for a friend to be an honor, but you will just leave a surprise that my news is very beautiful but we really do not like this, there is still no white so that we can't let us go, especially the mother and child.
That's why our threat to other language, Two don't have done something like that, so we can take care of you if you take care of you even if you take care of you.
It's being considered that being an extra time to fix two countries will be brought to other countries and will be brought here, which is why when we went to the kitchen, I came from the news, I had a owner, and this is just here in the room of the cement, which is prohibited.
They need to ask permission from us first before they look like a gift.
You should first ask for permission.
The favorite snack even if you say yes, you have come from Australia.
You can make a permit because this is very important for you going to you.
Here in the Philippines in the Church, our fellow countrymen are beautiful and beautiful, that it is good for us to be able to do this and it is also good that they know that they have something to do to the country, so they know that they have something to do to the country, which is why they say that it's only one who can say that it is only eight to me.
Hopefully you will bring any gift.
According to him, do not even bring a gift.
Yes, how can I go home to Carmen.
We and the call here even if you will not be fooled with what you immediately have, maybe we are not wearing the right age, maybe it's just the other Saturday when you go with the computer Korean.
