Noynoy is still in defense of the DAP, for the impeachment.

Their reaction was immediate: President Aquino is lying down.
This was announced by the different kinds of approved group, led by the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), who gathered from Plaza Miranda, Quiapo, Manila to listen to Aquino's speech regarding the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) this July 14 at night.
Let's be watched in rekindled by Filipino Weeker regarding DAP.
"
It was said by Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of the Bayan, that the call for the impeachment of Aquino is getting stronger because he defended the DAP that was declared by the Supreme Court by the Supreme Court.

Express the Constitution.
In his defense for the DAP, the President said that he was sent to Section 39 Boa.6, Pototan 5 of Administrative Code, the President was able to allocate time for the government to allocate time for the government's savings.
Aquino still stared at the airing of "a text message that I received this past week," according to the motorist who parked on a "parking space" because he was in a hurry to catch a victim of an accident, which is more important, ").
Harry Roque Junior is shocked, the lawyer and professor of the law in the university of the Philippines, the statement of Aquino in his Facebook account, Roque, "Cullat in the Saligang Batas of the Saligang Batas to the Saligang Batas of the Constitution?"

Constitution Representative Terry Ridon, who is also a lawyer, said that Aquino could not be able to support the Sec. 49 in Administrative Code because the Executive of Executive is not able to release the Saligang Batas "or crossing the Constitution by the Executive of non-used fund from a agency going to one agency.
Umali says, this is against the principle of "separation of powers" (separation of power) between the Executive (President) and Congress.
In his speech, Aquino said that they are asking the 13-0-0 decision of the Supreme Court to say that the President requested the magistrates who said that you should not block them to prevent this reform? "
But for Gabriela Representative Lumakil in Ilagan, it seems like the declaration of the war "against the Supreme Court is the statement of Aquino's statement that he is directly against the desire to answer to officials of the government.
"It is clear in the decision of the Supreme Court that President Aquino took control of the funds of the public and this is allocated to the projects in relation to the projects in relation to his personal desire, (and) of the power of the Congress in order to raise the expenses of the government," Ilagan said.
"Lira!
Aquino also said in his speech that it is possible to see the projects under the DAP in this list of Budget and Management Council.
But Mark Lui Aquino, general secretary of the Bayan-Metro Manila, said that Aquino's speech will not be cleared if the projects on the said list are not clear.
"It is clear that the president is desperate in making stories and testimony in order to look honest in the Saligang Batas and implement this in front of the Constitution," said Aquino of the Bayan of Metro Manila.
This angered the group of poor cities in Kalapati, Batan PNP) to witness Aquino in the relocation of the poor as one of the projects that was implemented by DAP.
"This is the use of Aquino for the welfare of the poor in order to cover up the theft from the funds of the people, according to the Palace, which was used by the Palace, to give way the big businesses under the project to be given way.

It is also not within the hands of the relocation of the relocation of the relocation for the said housing projects, meanwhile, the needy can also pay their livelihood in the relocation because they are far from their jobs in the city.
"The people who lost their homes and the Aquino administration are now in a far relocation to show what every scenario they have released from ISF," Junrey said.
Benefits, got paid for the DAP.
Meanwhile, noon on July 14 when July 14 when the employees of the government under the ConFootball Federation for Unity, Recruitment and Admiral Kuusuela of organization that does not pay (Cimetidine).
It seems that they submitted the approval of the dismissal of DBM Secretary Florencio Abad because of DAP, and other harassment of the benefits of government employees.
"Where are the good faith in the stolen benefits of the more employees and use of this for the age of age, what are the people who gave responsibility for the resignation of the President because he knows this will not accept the law?" Said Ferdinand Galite, national President of Cimetidine.
It was announced by the Courage of the approved group that they will support the steps so that Aquino will not be impeached, it was scheduled to submit a impeachment complaint against the President on Wednesday, July 16.
"We are calling for the workers and the Filipino people to show their anger for the ongoing defense of Aquino in different ways for us to join protests and use it as vice pork barrel," the end of Elmer Lahi, chairman of Kilusang Mayo Uno.
