The Disbursement Acceleration Program is good?

If you will ask Butch Abad and his boss PNoy, well, he will be able to celebrate that there will be no offense that there will be no chance that there will be someone who will join the same age as delicious.
King-mother, billions of pesos in public funds will be the ones to stop smoking like what was found by the Supreme Court.
More than more, there is a mystery where the funds of DAP were brought.
Just like the P90-billion of mental problem from P352.7 total of DAP.
I want to laugh, make sure, but I cannot do with the huge mystery here.
Because there is no same age as DAP, the owner now wants to make the entire budget of the Philippines for the year 2015.
The owner has a proposal to clarify the word "savings, or will be saved by the government from all agencies, projects and programs.
But what they want to happen is not just a clarification, it is possible that there is a law for PNoy to have the funds of a agency or project or program in the middle of the year.
This is different from the common fate in the national budget for a year and it is not for just a few months but it is just for a few months that it is so that the money that the country will have doubts will be used.
It is said that they will not let them sleep from the money that they are waiting for the end of the year or two years before they can say that the government has a savings.
We can see some of them that they are not saying, make sure that the election is approaching 2016.
First, all the money that is allocated in 2015 should be used in 2015 to ensure that those who want to make money from the money money for the election in 2016 are sure.
Second, the proposed projects of the enemies in politics of the group of PNoy can be declared or have no use, and put it on the crooked projects and programs.
This is as if the enemies are useless while the stars of PNoy are going out.
As early as now, there is a news that the local officials who build programs and projects for 2016 are going to move.
Presto, those who seem to have become handsome and sexy, this arrives in 2016 and continue the mysteries and miracle of DAP, all mysteries and miracle in DAP.
