Unity, change with no politics.

On June 12, Thursday, we will celebrate Independence Day and will witness the whole world with unity of Filipinos who are ill-tempered about the corruption happening now.
It is expected that classes in Andres Bonifacio Shrine in Lawton, Manila are thousands of people from different sectors of our society who are mad at the vandalism of our government in our country.
All the sectors of our society are calling for unity and change except for some sectors which are controlled by our government.
We have heard many criticisms against our government, there are also many who are calling for change and unity and many of them do not do anything about the corruption of his personnel but the question is, until the call for the Filipinos to do?
There are many things that the government should explain to the people, not only about pork barrel, Malhmm, and many other theft, but also the foreign businessmen, where the money went to other countries?
The money accepted by the government from the indigenous people from other countries but it seems that we have not heard or read that money from the victims of the earthquake and typhoon Yolanda.
During the time of PGMA, just a little bit of mistakes are the criticisms there and criticisms here, why is it now that our rights are closed and it still remains peace?
The question of many: What could this government do if people make a violent step? And then he will be fired or so that it will be shot?
Others said, in this kind of government now, it is said that it is not impossible to happen to do this to the people involved in their area because yes, the president is closed Catholic but it is even worse than a person who has no heart and soul.
This is painful to hear especially with our fellow Filipino, the president is a businessman, who is our president? "That is what we have heard about Bira 3.
I hope that the gathering of our countrymen is going to be peaceful and we should also not be fooled by politics because, when it happened, the majority of the people are fighting for it and hopefully those who are going to cooperate should not be in the start of it.
According to our friends who have talked to the leader of some sectors, no matter what happens, they will come and cooperate in the call of the Pagudpud and change at the Bonifacio Shrine this coming June 12, Independence Day.
This is no color, no matter what kind of color is what you want, the goal is similar to what they are fighting for and you are hoping that the people are fighting for it and cooperate with this goal.
Other fight against corruption?
