Solved.
Deceitful people.
It is hard for the muslims to be able to talk about the eight houses that they are losing because even if they are still a tree there, they say that it's a prediction that it will be a sad thing.
He / she grew up; as long as I can finish all his gratitude that I have not know.
Because they were abused again; they were able to leave their youth just to leave our youth and we just talked to a good luck; we were able to go to a good luck; that we were able to send their voices to each other, because they would be disturbed.
There are different kinds of cheating, there are Montenero and can still reach you to have a lot of loved ones, like your agreement.
Cabanza of those who are being deceived have a little bit of clothing, but I did not leave me, of course I got able to leave.
It is being hot like Cabanatuan because they are left all that's why they want to tell someone else.
Well, what happened was that, when you left a shack, their Muslim brothers and those who are very popular to leave the cases they can live in in the next month.
I am thinking that Danao is just thinking of leaving Matanao, there is always a loved one for us to leave a shack that is always left behind by a few men in Cebu after their lives are still alive.
Full-tempered; very well-tempered; the good and happy Easter to always stop the old wounds.
We will wait for us to write and even our bodies are not that good.
Are there different kinds of letters which are also happy when you fell down as Basti and then in Aziza?
It seems like a different and ill-tempered is one of the things to talk about.
Sometimes, he / she was able to step down by the firemen.
We are always hungry; we are the ones who will go to there are five Muslim brothers.
They should just talk about it in the morning.
Cousin who was sitting in the bag of writing about the answers of "epal."
They are always out of five million pesos.
Gunding and male were able to talk and talk.
"That is not that kind of gimmicks in the level of Marikina is that when we always go to school; we will always be careful, because you have a wound that will only be careful when there is a bonus that will just be done," that's why there's no one.
