Lyle, 1st Lieutenant Varice cream.

Postanes and Iris, Nicario.
On July 29, 2014.
In showbiz.

I am one of those who are happy as the Grand champion with The Velice, which is the nine-year-old Lyle Grig, Cavite.
The enjoyment of Lyle is also a puzzle for her parents because she won the P1-M, one-year-year-year-year-old lot from Camella Homes Subdivision, the house helper of Camella, Hala, and 1 million worth of trust fund.
Darren Wilson will wake up to him, next are Juan Karlos Labangal of Team Bamboo gang, and Darlene Vena and Team Lea.
Lyle is thinking about the coldness of Regine Velasquez for his crotch and the call Me Mayanta in the corner of Caraytono. July 27), who made a standing ovation by coach Lea, Bamboo gang, and the audience favorite award.
Even though The Varice cream was not yet started, Lyle ice cream was made to make noise because the performance of the kisses of Aegan, who served as one of the programs that served as one of the program and became controversial.
The first The Varice cream champion Lyle is very first with the management of Camella Homes in the leadership of their head Miss Universes Tolentino.
If we recall it was Lea who offered herself to Lyle as "Little," after he was distressed as Nora Aunor.
Lyle is the child of a fisherman while his mother is in selling garbage that sometimes is being helped by Lyca, which sometimes she is singing for her neighbors to give money or food.
Meanwhile, the highest position of The Varice, since it was hit on May.
Congratulations to ABS-CBN for the very beautiful program especially to Lyca, because it is certain that his life will change now that he is the Queen of The Velice cream.

We will not experience hardship, Lyle.
Meanwhile, Lyle is very thankful to all those who voted for him and said that we will not experience a lot of people who have died and "my sibling who died." My brother, "Lyle Saba," my brother who died last Sunday.
But when he said to the child that she already has a own house and lot, this is what she quickly said, "we will just buy what my siblings want."
"Lyle is not expecting that their daughter is going to win," I did not expect what to say, I do not know what to do, but I do not know what to do, that is why I do not know what to do with us, "said the mother of Lyle.
The mother of Lyza also said that she should study her child, "that is really what he wants, that one day, he knows how to do in English and she understands that what I want to happen is to finish her studies."
