How are women under the Aquino administration?

By P2,500.
March 10, 2014.

Not less than 12,000 women and men have marched against the Aquino administration during the international day of the women with Macky Oryang.
There is a continuing crisis and negligence because the women want to show their situation under the Aquino administration for more than four years of service.
While the government continues to neglect the victims of typhoon Yolanda, the typhoon will continue to give women and the citizens in the price of goods and corruption in the government.
That is why their response is appropriate for the alleged negligence, in the celebration of the international day of women last March 8, which was released by thousands of women and the citizens.
"In this time, the attack of the livelihood is getting stronger, to the rights of women who are coercion, and use it as the right day, according to Joms Salvador, general-secretary of Gabriela, in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
Insult to the victims.
Along with the said celebration, the fourth month has been implemented by typhoon Yolanda in Eastern Visayas which led the death of thousands of people but now, according to the People Surge, group of those who were damaged by Yolanda.
It was said that Aquino made an insult to the victims of Yolanda four months from the raging typhoon like what he did to give a donation for the victims when the president was last in Eastern Visayas.
"When we went to Malacanang that we did not pay attention to him, he did not pay attention to him and he did not do anything, he was able to let go to Manila just to let him go to Manila just to let him go to Manila just to let him be done," according to Serena Espontes, in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
Aquino has not yet given a response since they were brought to Malacanang their petition last 100 days since the onslaught of the storm.
"But what he gives to us is even an insult to us, for him," according to Espontes,.
Big businessmen have also shared the rehabilitation of those affected by those who were affected by the citizens in their homes such as Sahjid "No" No. "
"Ask from the people in the area to keep their reason so that the people will stay at the calamity, but in truth, it is only in order for them to build a big percentage which is the violation of the major policy that is a cauldron containing Land," according to Espontes,.
Corruption and crisis.
There is no issue of the country that women are not affected.
Gabriela Representative Edcel Lagman is being offered for women by the Aquino administration, particularly the criminal negligence of Aquino to the victims of typhoon Yolanda.
Supposedly just the continuation of the women are the policies of Aquino to the Legislative Chamber, they will just be opened to the plenary, which is supposedly going to give a big space to the foreigners who will give more than women.
"The basis of violence against women is the total sector of society and the economy that he (Aquino) is holding a high power to expose the continuation of Aquino's administration," according to De Jesus, in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
Included in those who are supposed to be made up to the women are the ability based on the public service like the public hospital such as the Philippine Football Center and Priscila Hospital.
According to Lengude Guzman, deputy secretary-General of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan or Bayan, they still implement the pork barrel of the congressmen, how will there be an additional P45 million pork barrel per congressman.
Aquino is also responsible for the Disbursement Acceleration Program or DAP that there is a fund for the DAP that was used for the impeachment (former Chief Justice Renato Corona) to increase the PDAF (Priority Development Assistance Fund) of the lawmakers which led to the fake NGOs), "according to De Guzman.
For the year 2014, Aquino has a new 500 B, said De Guzman.
The women in Hacienda Luisita also joined the celebration of violence against them by Cojuangco-Aquino to their land and crops to only have a civil title for them.
"Even our houses," our houses, "our rice and vegetables."
Meanwhile, according to Nawz Gonzaga, vice-Chairperson for Women's ambassador of Kilusang Mayo Uno, the policies of the Black Nazarene continues to increase the basis of the women who experience low wages and no assurance at work.
In the data of Center for Women's Month, there are more than a million women who have no work in the year 2013, about 9.5 million women have not been included as part of the Labor force.
"We know the clear hacienda now, with the leadership of the United States to change our constitution through charter change (charter change) (so that the foreigners can own the land (charter change), according to Liza Maza, Chairperson the International Women's Month.
Continuing to fight.
The issues that are receiving the situation of women are not finished, according to Salvador, there is still there continue to fight the increase in price of electricity, high price of rice, and other goods and bills.
Also, the fight against the privatization of the public service like the hospital is still there, lack of work and lack of land that he is serving, according to Salvador.
"On March 8, a big movement of women and this is also a sign for the next big movement, stronger fights, more intense fight of women for his rights and reasonable," the end of Salvador.
