INTECAYETANO!

Life is somewhat full of choosing and making decisions, as long as the message of the head of the race. "
In Malaysia, I met Felita Torres, the Filipina who decided to take a risk and face the challenge of life in another country to find and reach the success allocated for him.
In the province of Ilocos Sur, she was born with Felita, she is not lucky to be included in the clan of rich people, that is why at the young age he experienced poverty which caused him to rise from poverty that he is glad.
In the year 1986, he decided to go abroad and went to Malaysia to look for his fate.
That is the hope that in the said country, it can be found in his success, Felisberto Verano faced the challenges of life.
He worked as a domestic helper or domestic helper and he experienced different kinds of trials, like suffering from sadness and extreme loneliness in the family left in Pilipenko.
She also experienced being hungry and working in exchange for a small salary, according to him, she was left behind by her employer in the house with the two-year-old child whom she was taking care of, but when he did not even look for the food for him.
Despite the belly of the stomach it still needs to perform his duties like the laundry and taking care of the child.
Because of the inhumane treatment he was taking, it was not long in his place of Felita.
In spite of what happened, she decided to stay in Malaysia and she was lucky that she will find a job when a domestic helper complained in their agency because the children she was taking care of were extremely mischievous.
He was replaced by the said domestic helper.
Sixteen years have been allowed by Felita to his second boss, when an accident happened to her.
His life was put on the brink of death when the vehicle carrying his master hit a post of the light which caused the death of his male boss and became the reason for the destruction of the face of his male boss.
It seems that what happened was very serious, but this is the way to be found by Felita his wife, in the character of a friend who volunteered to take care of him during those times.
Despite what happened, Felita tried to surrender and lose hope, he decided to build a business in order to earn money.
He started selling small things like the watch, and eventually increased until it grew up and became successful in his business.
Also because of his hard work and perseverance, he has built his own position, until he slowly grew and became more than a restaurant, salon and even coffee shop.
According to Felixberto Aguila, he experienced different kinds of poverty, but he decided to succeed, and tried to succeed, and through perseverance and continued perseverance, he served the success which he has been waiting for.
