Hmmmp!
So there is a need to pay black in Divisoria, a few who are annoying for you to talk about it.
We are with us here, one of the congregations in the house for a long as Patrick Aaahhmmmp!
Going to this morning in the morning.
Ah, what would be good.
!
She was a superman.
A sad thing that you are sad yesterday is a sad day, that is why when we fight in the country with his name, "we are in a noodle house but this is in a big glass; the Philippines now is a big glass military.
Yes to the Americans because it is said that it is called Kalibo in Asia Pacific which is indeed the U S.
So that the troops of chicken will increase here in the Philippines and there will be people who are not only in Subic, my room and even the side of the Philippines, what we think is that we need to have a taste of what we are saying we need to have.
One day, it is clear that there are two batons of April in the country that they can just let us go back then so we can't allow us to join here because we do not pay attention to each other in the middle of us.
That is why we will be the enemy of the Americans in EDSA?
"Do not go to the years of you, you have mentioned that we have five point; we have five point, to look at that we go to the past, you are here in the news number 1, what is happening to us in the room.
We are proud; as long as we fight the war here, we have to fight a war here, many Filipinos have died because there in our country, instead, there are children who are here in line, and then the children are here.
Here, we are able to look at each other, because they are using it, because he knows a war now.
Responsibilities with his girlfriend.
There are a lot of people who are against America because you also mentioned a lot of help from America, even if you have mentioned it, it will be better for us to leave, so that we will not be their target; we will stay in the Philippines, who are going to live in the Philippines, who are going to live in the Philippines.
In the issue.
You can be seen by April.
Their sins.
Not just a few.
We are full-tempered; not even their big stories, even if they are on their big things, they were identified as Marimar, Marimar, which is now the day when someone arrived.
Possible.
In those who say that, it would be like that, those who are going to talk like that would be the ones who are going to attack yes, so that the agreement is always said to be a big help for it.
There is a point when the Philippines-year-old Philippines' destination is going to go home; he / she was able to go back to her Marie Lozano's age; we were said to be one of those who are saying that, that's what they've been saying, that's why it's going to be one of those who are going to happen here, that is why they are living here at around four years.
A few decades can be counted; and what a few decades have been chosen by a few decades for the new mall Cavite, they should just leave every Friday when they were able to go and stay here in the Philippines of the family when they were able to catch up and later on the Philippines of the family.
It's just that, on the issue of Philippines, we are full-minded;
If that is true.
We are stupid; we are really stubborn; we are really rude or having a little bit different; we are really going to help us in the issue of signal in Social Work and dizziness.
The problem is, it is as if you go to one.
They immediately responded in one island that is being said to be helped in the Philippines.
We strongly believes that the Americans are loyal; American, but what is clear he said to the president was right when he was a year-year-old man.
He said in the issue of the Philippines and the public servant does not meddle.
Okay.
It is true that it won't be forgiven.
Even if America is still alive, he can still live in signal, and he cannot bear to lose that signal.
Yes, but.
He had a lot of debts.
That is a low number, why do we have a bad agreement if this is really bad.
To protect the Philippines if not.
So that we can just do a hard American who is going to mention the person being referred to.
It seems that we are the Pope.
Because we are white, I don't like that in the position yes, it's good for me to look straight at the same age.
If Edam really unciation; as well as the protest, it will only take interest on the age, which is very strong at the age of no trace.
The agreement to help with lahar from the Americans will help.
Well, look at this, what happened to the female janitor, you are just starting at night.
Almost every time we can't do anything there, even the power questions, especially here in the country.
Our former is over the issue that we should just visit there or what is a peso from the decision of the Supreme Court Chief Justice "they say that this is not just an issue on the decision of our law, that is why it's not yet an issue on our decision, that is why it's not right before we are here in the Philippines.
The troops that was flying around was just flying because the night was just flying around the night.
Because the issue based on the military is not favorable because Ortigas extension is being said.
October 23 - no one who is not here many times the Pacific Ocean is not here several times but it is just a Sunday because you are really giving up with it, and it's as if you're really telling it to the military that's why we think that's in the military.
And it is better that the glass military is the first agreement in the Philippines to pay for the Philippines now and now they do not have three.
Why are those who have been cut off in the use.
What I know is that we talk to the children of our children because they are separated from their separate ways to say that the Philippines can only say that we can use traffic laws and then be buried, we can be used to see this yes, to say yes to his brother.
Okay with the arrival of time, they drink.
Ah, it will be paid for the impeachment against ora, something that is really like that, Edgardo me.
A song, there is no matter after the one to pay, nothing will happen.
In the next chapter with us, that's how much we can stand, to look at the room.
"We really can't do anything that we can't do so that I will open our jeep with what he / she said, that he / she didn't call Susan anymore, and of course, he / she told me that he / she didn't call Susan anymore, and of course, he / she said that he / she told me that he / she told me that he / she told me that he / she told me that he / she told me that he / she told me that he / she told me that he / she told me that he / she told me that he / she told me that he / she told me that he / she told me that he / she told me that he / she told me that he / she told me that he / she said in the law, she said to the law.
Four to ten years old Patintero, which can be deported; we were left alone; but you left it.
Just tell an artist that we are going to look at each other; he / she can go to school; he went ahead, Ferdy admiral-four who were taking her pictures.
Being ill-tempered; and fur.
On the level of Asumba Street, aunt is very hot in our backs, which is why he felt too much from your mother's interest in the Philippines but went with how much.
