What is the important thing by Pacquiao?

It looks like Manny Pacquiao has to be brave.
It is obvious in the actions of the so-called Pambansang Kamao in the country that he wants to enter all of his friendly or desired.
It is obvious that he is so out of other things that he can do so it is certain that he has another vices or business in the coming days.
Since being a boxer, an artist, politician and businessman, Pacman also entered the game of basketball where he could possibly go out, it is possible to go out, it is possible to go out of the PBA as an coach of Kovalev.
In the world of the services, it seems that he is just doing this game because of the list of Kamara that Pacquiao has the highest number of congressmen since he elected as a representative of Sarangani.
As early as now, Mommy Dionisia is planning to go back to the senator of VP Jojo Binay when he has not proven anything as the representative of the said province in Congress.
Aside from his National Fist who became the world champion with different programs in boxing, it cannot be said that this is an example of all good public service, instead, it's still ugly to everyone after he was sentenced to the BIR for not paying taxes.
Filipinos should think about this action of Pacman because instead of becoming a true public service, he seems to be playing with the government, especially that he looks more than Filipinos that takes good care of his fights.

Valenzuela City Representative We Gatchalian said that the Filipino does not feel what the NEDA also says in the country.
This is clear from the rays of the sun since it remained hungry and can still take on the sweat in different parts of the Philippines when the rich would get even more.
According to the lawmaker, the 6.4 percent crisis which was recorded by the NEDA for the 2nd period of this year seems to be realistic because the people are still thirsty and hungry.
Gatchalian's challenge to the Aquino government to make a step so that the said growth of economy will be realistic and this is through economic and improvement in the state of the lives of the poor in the country.
