When you arrived in the discipline and the market, the start we lived in the area just like in front of the military troop in the picture of the military in the picture of the military, which was seen to increase, and Joseph.
Even if Prince was in the area, isn't it right that election yes, that's why it's no longer used by his acquaintances, that's why it's no longer used as if that is why Jojo is really in the back of us, Jojo is really not able to force Jojo.
Even if we try to try, let us try to enter a good thing when it comes to the country the problem, we saw the soldiers who are hiding in the side of the houses.
Okay, it's just two ways for us to stay here in our position now on the band that is why they are not able to go to it, because you are not able to go to it, because this is your own good luck.
We were just accompanied by the barangay captain to the mayor of the pharmacy to see the residents who have been doing something to avoid their opponents in order to prevent the soldiers who were rolling on the road when they arrived at the house of Alcala.
Directly, the military and then attacked.
Why?
He might have something not to call.
I will be held on this area.
This might be at the back of five men.
Five.
Yes, you want them.
As long as the heart has been transferred to a few minutes, the heart beat up our group so that our group will return to a different route again, and we also need to hear the troops of the military so that we will not have any enemy.
He was almost killed.
Our passing will be filled and blurry but the mud of the gun will still be heard.
Bones and bones.
Lopez.
From the local government he was beheaded by a nine thousands of residents were affected by the fire after their relatives are affected by the residents who were affected, who were affected by the local government.
Where do you now have two soldiers who have been recorded injured in the fire after only one way is seen by the local government to end the calendar of residents that is why they do not want to have a proper livelihood.
Yes right.
