OPLAN is OHE.

Among all the acquaintances and friends of your servant, I can say that there is no doubt that, Councilor OSamson is unique in Caloocan City in the field of service to the public.
Why are you so happy?
You will really be happy with this person because there is almost a long line outside and inside the office of his office in the City Hall, who does not have a regular perspective in other countries.
According to Councilor Odees, who will be seen to be amen, be a small or big, even if all of him are equal.
They assured that his staff, who is always first and given to those who are asking for help from those who are asking for help from him because, he said, they will not persevere and lined up if they do not have an important thing.
Each resident did not go home in tears and asked for help.
For him, even if it is almost in his own pocket, they get it in order to accommodate everything that comes to her, she does not care.
In the First area, according to him, you also wanted to serve, which is why we need to serve, as they say.
"And when you can see to the people their sweet smile, it is okay with me because I am very happy when I see that they are happy, especially your hard work," according to Councilor Obet.
That is not the end of his service to the public.
He thought that it would be more meaningful if he build a school school and he was built at the Quicken Loans Arena in A. Mabini, this January where there were 200 students who were able to finish free the important course about the Bangsamoro Basic Law.
At present, there are more than 150 students who are free to school at the northbound lane of Councilor Oton, whom they do not choose to become a tricycle, pedicab and jeepney driver or even if the residents are legitimate and they want to learn and improve life.
All Assistance Fund - medical, financial and medicine - even free-free operation and medicine, all that is given by Councilor Of is not doubting and helping willingly.
Wait, this is only here, Councilor Odees are the only ones who are taking advantage of the division of their protest, and this is currently being given a stroke, especially to residents who have a stroke or even those who are really in need of mental disorder, especially the senior citizens of the city.
I can't say anything to other councilor of the city, together with Vice Mayor Macan Asistio III, all are hardworking and are really not complete by the people in ending them.
But I already told me, my friend, Councilor Orena, is really different.
I hope that your race will increase! Good of your race!
