Pointing, teach him and charter change.

Last 2013, around + 12 percent is the rating of Aquino Administration, according to one captain, in the first part of this year, he went down to + 49 percent and in the last Social Weather Station survey, he went down to + 29 percent.
There is no doubt that the rating of the rating is due to some controversy in politics, just like the decision of the Supreme Court the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF), and eventually released a similar ruling in the legality of the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP).
Many believe that only senators from the opposition were charged and imprisoned in relation to the controversy on PDAF while one member of the cabinet of PNoy, who was clearly accused as "brain" of DAP, were not yet allowed.
It is also a reason that the approval of the Aquino administration is the stubbornness of PNoy against the decision of the Supreme Court in DAP, and after this, it is like the use of his allies who called for investigation at the National Development Assistance Fund and was determined to remove it.
Just recently, the President has been telling the desire to limit the power of the Supreme Court through the amendment of constitution and he considered the judiciary as the most powerful in the three branches of the government and he wants to cut off their power.
After the PDAF and DAP, the leader of the opposition of PNoy is accused of the implementation of "writ of justice." Now, they added to his / her name: "
Not only the corrupt officials and people critics of his administration should be blamed for the performance of his administration but he should also be blamed, in truth.
According to the spy, PNoy is comparable to an old dog whose head is hardheaded and they can prepare to listen to the experts from his ranks, so he will continue to listen to the advice of his close friends, his drinking buddy and Kabarilan.

Mama's mother is PNoy.
The late President Cory is also against the idea of the proposed election of a President, but now, PNoy is not against it now, which makes the President to run for a second six-year term.
Maybe it is only natural for politics, the issue of charter change in the past administrations after Cory.
Maybe, bruises on the chief executive is the idea of having a chance for a second term.
Now is the fourth anniversary of the death of PNoy's father, Senator Benigno "Ninoy" Aquino, Jr. who was shot in the international airport which is currently under his grave, what will he say to his only son?

Firing line / Robert B. Roque, Junior.
