The payment: Prince, is going to be peace with a cake on Aljur!
It clarified that it is not small, but it is also not a big "Cho" of Aljur!
By Jojo cabinet this November 15, 2016.
Prince was having a hard time to answer to the questions of Madam press on the Scud of working Baba, the film of Brigada Films (going out of November. 23), because it was not easy for him to deny the actor who was able to sleep in bed but he was not able to breathe.
Nothing can be thrown away by the answer and story of Prince because of his controversies and violent statement, "that is not good," that is not good, "that is not good," that is not good, "that is not good.
"I am more happy now, you can continue to talk.

"I am not pretending.
Aljur Abrenica is not included in the cast of working Byan, but he is talking about it because Prince was told by Prince to the famous cast program of DJ Mo about the part of the actor, Prince asked for forgiveness and he sent a cake on Aljur. But he did not answer.
"I already apologized to him, in text and then in our Friends that she is not being verified, it is probably not angry but I hope I did not say it.
"It has reached me that I hope that it did not reach that kind of level, I can still find out what"
"
"It is not too much, I did not say it's small," Prince asked for my answer to the question of Mo.

"
Prince, he slipped, considered a gay topic!
"My friend," Viceral? "
I am sorry, My God! "
We forgot to ask Prince to the news that she is said to be prudent in the news, she is still in doubt because she told him about their one-night stand.
The wonder is that Prince is registered in the face of Prince because he is part of the issue.
"You are too much stories," that's why we might just call me. We-FRIENDS.
"I am sorry! My God!" What Prince was saying, Prince was said to have revealed that she was revealed when the secret was unintentionally revealed.
"Nothing, we have nothing.

Anti-chan is a good actor, okay? "Prince says the promise that he will not tell the name of other actors who is hiding being gay.
"I never thought that I didn't want them to go out, I did not want to tell what happened," was made by KeemRebalde to me that I will not be seen.
"I was surprised when he was out of me, of course, they might still earn!"
Prince, "my godmothers, who just looked at the actor chuces!
Showbiz was only small that's why Prince was still able to see and set an incoming actor to the people who are brightened up, but they are friends.
"However, of course, of course they know that I have a wife, Casanas, my friends," the actor, who is becoming a gay, not an gay, to the Grabder, because I will meet me.
"I was all out, somehow, I was able to breathe easier when they greeted me, Vice Mayor Jed Madela... that all of them approached me.
"Prince, it does not care that he is rich.
Admitted that there is a Chinese cabbage!
"It smells like a pig!"
Since Prince who is gay, she said that the women who send him / her opinions were already gone, in social media accounts, and the rich people whom he is courting her are gone.
"Now that I am out of me, it seems like no one is courting me who is rich, I am still confused, I am still confused, I am really confused, I really have a lot to become rich.
"In FB, there is nothing more than me, women as in Zero.
"Now, he / she said that he / she said that he / she is not all gay, she says it's my beauty.
"I tasted before by a woman," when I was still in front of me, I was eating.
"If you make it a lot of things that happens, it smells like a foul odor, that is serious, when I was still a boy, I was still a boy back then," the no malice of Prince's story.
Prince, gay, is a gay.
She is a boy on her!
Prince reminded this week that his brother Paolo Ballesteros went home to the Philippines to become an escort in red caress Premiere, working, Prince Paolo, Singapore which is based on Prince's bashers on the bashers of their relationship.
"It's also deep because there are word that will not be able to prevent.
"Maybe, he is not used to this industry, you can see me, it's just quiet but I do not need to make do.
"Of course, he, not an artist, said that I was told to be nice, PAO, loving. Of course, I went to PAO.
"He will go home to 2 hours since I became an escort and become an escort but he is a boy," some of the information shared by Prince about his name.
