Gambling dens are posted, 3 years old and Khanaels in DAP.

It seems that the words from the State of the Nation Address is coming back to Malacañang, where they get a thickness of their faces? "
In the SONA 2013, "the thickness of the face" the comments on the hands of the government that did not do anything but to become rich and to abuse.
It is now that the Supreme Court has only lasted two hours against the Aquino administration.

The SC first criticized Malacañang on the Priority Development Assistance Fund led to a 14-0-1 last November 2013.
On the other day, the SC ordered Malacanang to suspend the Disbursement Acceleration Program in the vote of 13-0-1.
Like in boxing, the SC's punches in Malacanang is stronger than the punches of Juan Manuel Marquez to Manny Pacquiao and Pacquiao against Ricky Hatton.
The judges are taking advantage of the people from Malacanang.
Really thick, who?
The force of the heavens and the land of Malacanang will go before to defend PDAF and DAP.
The people of Malacanang will feel lighter from the decision of the SC in PDAF because it was used against their opponents in politics.
And they have already been imprisoned in the name of PDAF.
But here in DAP, even if the SC decides to go out, the people from Malacanang does not want to give up.
The children's children's reasoning that the judges have a direct line with the judges in front of them, good faith and have no refuge except for all P160 billion funds for the progress of the Philippines.
We, "right!
"Why is it that the citizens cannot feel prosperity," that?
"That's what the citizens are doing with too much fear.
Ask your barangay.
What is that, your face is full of face?
Why does not even say anything yet and it seems that I make the responsible or responsible for DAP?
"Isn't it, Manong Butch Abad, why?
They will be held accountable.
Cases have been filed to investigate the Commission on audit about the use of DAP.
There is Sen. Miriam that, aside from pushing the COA to investigate, there is a strong basis for the impeachment case against PNoy on the declaration of the SC which is against the Constitution.
There is also the Philippine 1987 Association of pushing corresponding cases to all those involved in DAP.
"Is it that those released by DAP, and received DAP.
If you visit Facebook and Twitter, he sat down, not only 3 point, and the score of the citizens against the group of PNoy.
The force of the call for them to be held accountable.
Bring them along.
For those from Philcontagious, Bro, some of those who received the worst DAP in the Senate are here.
Franklin Drilon - 100 million; Francis Escudero, Lito Lapid, Loren Legarda, Allan Cayetano, Lito Lapid and Pia Cayetano, Serge Osmeña, Vicente Sotto - P44M; TJ Guingona - P4.8 million; and Francis Pangilinan - 35.M; and Francis Pangilinan - 35.M; and Francis Pangilinan.
In the ranks of the senators.
Everyone knows, about the three eggs that PNoy is taking over by the Ombudsman and Department of Justice and the Sandiganbayan that they are selling ashes, Labo.
These are based on senators who were fired from ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona.
Let us even get the record, Bro, of congressmen.
But it is said that 113 million pesos of DAP was given to 100 congressmen who will be impeached from Corona.
The congressmen and senators have accepted their bribe, mean, incentives before and after the impeachment.
No.
If these senators have been charged with charges, it seems that no one will remain in the Senate but also a few new senators.
The only ones who can be left are Senators Grace Poe, Nancy Binay, Risa Ejercito, Bam Aquino and Sonny Angara.
It is very hard to think that all those who investigate the investigation of Manong Johnny, Bong Revilla and Jinggoy Estrada are stated by the bribery of the DAP.
There have been 3 point of judge at all the clean senator, perhaps aside from Joker Arroyo, just aside from Joker Arroyo who take to accept any PDAF or DAP.
Because Miriam is noisy, he did not receive DAP.
This is Bongbong Marcos, Bro, all of the complaints why he brought his name for those who allegedly asked for DAP.
It appears that the faces of these senators are really thick, who are interested to tell that they are supporting the Tuwid na Daan.
We were able to have a experience.
"It is true that DAP was the reason why many of the senators are too quiet about the decision of the SC in DAP?
We think, Bro, they are thinking how to make the excuse of DAP, especially those who received bribes from the impeachment.
These things are very noisy against the three eggs they were kicked out of the ravine from the Senate.
