
The national condition and the role of the revolution solution is a Catholic priest.

Speech at the Porum of activists in New York, January 24, 2014.

Atty. Jose Maria Sison.
Even the hacienda.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
My fellow citizens and my parents are expensive.

Thank you to invited me, that's why I can give my best unity and greeting to the New Year with the anti-governmental organization and Partido Demokratiko ng Masang Pilipino.

I am deeply saddened that you celebrate the revolutionary movement of the Filipino people for the national release and democracy this past 45 years, led by the Liberal Party of the Philippines with the guidance of Marty Go of Maire.

I am telling you to describe the current situation of the US and earth, this is the effect of the false Filipino and the role of the realization of this solution to the international solution but it would be difficult to do this within 15 minutes.

4 is one of the mayor who has a point in Kalagayan is the US and the Earth.

Since the severe crisis in the country was happening in 2008, the crisis in the US will last and we can't see when it will be finished due to the incessant policies of the production, and I can advise the incessant increase of capital through the process of financial resources through the process of financial resources.

Under the policies of plunder, the state is being used to lower the wages in any way, which is why it is more often and the rules of the supply of the state, supply of capital, activities and environment of the implementation of corruption, society and surroundings and institutions will be approved by the corruption, society and surroundings and protesters.

Free!

In capitalist countries, DepEd has launched a different kind of interview with the pro-budol Gang and doing all the violence and deception so that this should be a hard time to launch a civilized nation and other citizens) to launch a disastrous system of abuse and abuse and order to fight for human rights.

The Filipino people want to be free from the lashing of lack of livelihood, lack of houses and poverty, and lack of public services, but it is being used by the public to create work and to raise the public service, they are fed up to those who have been fed up to the public service, they are fed up to those who have lost the system.

We are trying to keep their unity and will go up to the weight of the crisis to the filipino masses and to the poor country, they continue to increase the crisis in economists, trade, politics, politics and security.

When capitalists have completely return to China and Russia, it is better to celebrate the illegal activities headed by the US in the city hall and Russia in the legislative chamber's success in the legislative chamber, especially the US, those who want to stop China through the Libingan ng mga Artista sa East Asia, and through the launch of the Trujillo.

4. II is the effect of the revolution.

The crisis made by the international system was made worse in the term crisis in the Philippines because the value of the importation of products, oil and some small needs are increasing and the result of huge debt.

The passports of the Philippines is dwindling, it is much worse than before because the price of the filipino masses is increasing and the price of the filipino masses is increasing and the price of the filipino masses is increasing in the budget, and the public funds are increasing in the budget, and the public funds are increasing.

There is no national corruption happening in the land where it is said that the progress of land is composed of electricity, a huge speculation that the companies in the private sector are not enough to say that the economic growth was being thrown in the private sector and other markets, and other markets in the market.

As a result of the severe economic crisis, there is a worsening economic crisis that the US and the local politicians are getting worse in spite of the attempt by the US and other cases of the US and other cases of the US and other cases of the public funds to eliminate the huge sum of the public funds.

The movement of the corrupt masses is expected to worsen and hit while the Marcos regime is being criticized because this is going to be abused by the country's actions and the government is pushing the public to suppress the rules of the military and the police for the people to take weapons against the campaign of the military and the police.

The armed movement is headed by the Liberal Party of the Philippines that is on the path of advancement of the advancement of immune system, and the Liberal Party which aims to raise their group of 250,000 pesos, and the expanse of local officials of the local government and the total of local officials of the political power.

4. III the role of the revolution solution is the World Production.

As a mayor of the Philippines as the role of the country which is headed by the PKP, for the immediate action given by a true party led by a true party led by a true party led by the Pambansang Kamao in the previous countries which was led by the Pambansang Kamao in the whole country's Lapian ng Masang Pilipino at the Saligang Batas of the legislative chamber.

From 1968, the PKP has shown that it will not be defeated by the concrete line of Maryo-Break, which is being used by the concrete solution of the Philippines and to be considered as a guidance for the poor US and local governments of the Philippines and local opportunistic people.

The PKP has exposed the general line of a democratic country through a long term new country, to bring the vote of the US and the primary force of the US and the primary force of the country to separate and crush their enemy.

It is being used by the local US for all the form of violence and fraud, and it is not enough to launch a race against the country, however, it has been released on the torch of the Black Nazarene, however, he still failed to crush the Supreme Court from 1986. But he failed to crush the armed revolution.

The US now is the one who has the highest military forces in the Philippines and is threatening the discretion, but it is very weak from the economic growth of the world and it causes severe suffering from the citizens of the world and in the same time, they are pushing in resolving all kinds of struggle.

Through perseverance and success of the Honor Code, the communists and workers are happy with the national movement of the national movement of the Pambansang Kamao and the citizens of the world, the PKP, and the Pambansang Kamao, the legal movement of the government, and the international law, and the international law, and the international law, and the Supreme Court.

Just like what you will notice on the top of it on the internet, the PKP is always open to share their ideas and experience with other planets, exchange of studies, seminar, and connotation.
