
Mar Roxas is Mar Roxas?

DILG Secretary Mar Roxas found an ally in accusation that he is behind the demolition of Vice President Jejomar Binay.
Then, in a scene in the corner of the corner, Binay took a deep breath on standing.
He almost can no longer be brave and get up from the attack that he is reaching for, which is why he is affected with his rating of colonies.
And Mar Roxas is the accused of Binay's camp who is responsible for the burial of vice president.
We will be returned to what we first said.
Well, he was on the side of the former President and now Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada.
Teng said that we became Special Action Force last Friday at the 20th anniversary of the National Press Club in Intramuros, Manila, Roxas is a decent person and cannot be able to do the accusation of Binay's camp.
This revelation of Erap is expected especially since we know that he is an ally of Vice President in the party UNA.
If it can be remembered, the camp of Binay said that Roxas was the one behind the "Oplan stop Nogued in 2016" which aims to destroy Vice President Jejomar Binay.
Estrada said, his opinion is based on what he met with Roxas.
"I think it's not," those who were able to take sides that are members of the Liberal Party because Mar Roxas I was an actor, he could avoid being hit by a cabinet member, he is a person, "according to Estrada.
During the President Erap, Roxas is a member of his Midnight Cabinet.
Erap is impressed by Roxas as a good person.
In his conversation with some members of the media, Erap said that he has a big debt of gratitude for Mar because if not for him, there is no call centers that gave a lot of jobs in the new chapter.
Yes, Roxas is saying that Erap is telling the mind of having a call centers in the country.
As of now, we do not know where the real side of Parally Erap is true to Binay or to Roxas?
Even though he is included in the famous leader of the UNA, it seems that Binay is getting addicted to it, especially when he can't be able to run for President in 2016 to compete with the ambition of Naytono.
With what he did in Roxas, he made a move like Roxas as well as their path to the former-tandem last 2010?
Another dream is really happening for the coming 2016.
Wait for it in the corner of the corner.
