Reditures will be held at number SONAs 2014: Aquino, "in a very young man.

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
July 29, 2014.

A big chunk of President Aquino, who has handcuffs, hung at Commonwealth Avenue for the Manileño in the State of the Nation Address.
"In the case of Pres. Benigno Aquino III in his own crimes, instead, he used his 15 State of the Nation Address (DAP) to save the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) and give the Congress to kill the impeachment complaint against him.
This is the research in the SONA of different organization under the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan).
"His use to the names of his parents to avoid criticism," says Renato Reyes Junior, general secretary of Bayan. "Instead of facing the responsibility (DAP), he is again accused of his critics of the narrow political agenda," he said.
But Aquino is the only narrow-minded people, that's why he's reported by all "lies" about the situation of the country, "it is an insult to the millions of Filipinos who are suffering from the worsening poverty and lack of work," said Reyes.
Elmer Liscano, chairman of Kilusang Mayo Uno, "like before, Aquino already lied that our country is going to progress, which is for the president of other countries, or other planet."
Stop the DAP illegal.
Even though DAP was not mentioned in an hour and a half speech, the people criticized the attempt of the President to defend and continue the program which is allegedly a well of widespread corruption.
Constitution Representative Terry Ridon, tried to encourage the Congress of Aquino to give a mental budget for the projects that will be implemented by DAP, as well as a joint forces that will change in the Supreme Court.
According to him, this is the steps to try the DAP, which was declared by the Supreme Court, but this is not allowed to amend the Saligang Batas where it is stated in the Constitution which is stated in the Saligang Batas where it has been taken out of Aquino's SONA.
Hashim is warning that there is a severe crisis if the said joint patrols of the Congress was passed, which made the members also benefited from the billions of pesos.
According to Teddy Casiño, former congressman of Bayan Muna, the objective of Supreme Court to give Aquino the power to replace or amend the budget or General Appropriations Act (GAA), that this is dangerous, especially in the issue of check, he said.
Employee of the government, "
When Aquino should answer to the illegal use of the country, they continue to call the press conference the day of the SONA of several months but Quijano.
Meanwhile, another sector was refuted by the different sectors of the alleged lies of Aquino in the SONA.
"We did not feel the improvement of livelihood, we remain picking up garbage and sell it just to have something to eat and sell it just to have something to eat with our family," said Bea Arellano, spokesperson of Kalapati, Damayang Lagi, Libacao of Kalupaan.
It has been shown that the estimated 56 million Filipinos are only living on 100 pesos every day from Aquino's proud of the level of poverty in 24.9 percent, from 27.9 percent, from 27.9 percent.
Avisado also said that the infrastructure projects that will be implemented by DAP did not benefit from, but only causing the demolition and exile to us from far relocation. "
PAGASA questioned where the P11 billion DAP went to the housing, which they did not use.
Meanwhile, the employees of the government are laid down, according to Ferdinand Galite, chairman of the ConFootball Federation of the Unity, Recruitment and Admiral Kuusuela of organization that does not feel pity, but because they are angry at the President.
"A big part of DAP - P98 billion worth P178-B - was taken from our benefits and coughs," said Guna.
He took as an example for the alleged P201 million worth of benefits that may be received by the 4,000 employees of the Metro Manila Development Authority, but suddenly the agency is declared dead and went to DAP.
Joms Salvador, general secretary of Gabriela, added that the additional funding for the Condleweight championship (CCT), which is said to be "well of corruption, and was not able to help in the peak of poverty.
"In spite of the program CCT, 2011, until now, it is still about 30 percent of women who are poor, because there is no longer new, because the Aquino administration does not have a job," said the leader of women.
Aquino also did not fulfill his promise last SONA, self-tempered in 2014, instead, the President was taking the act of his speech during his speech.
"It is also the importation of rice that he has been the reason for the increase in price of rice and increase of the price hike which is also being punished," said Salvador.
"Who is against the farmer?"
Aquino said in his SONA, "the truth is, I am not opposing this (critics), but the people who are benefiting from the straight path, and now they are seen to be doing anything from the farmers in Iloilo.
But for Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP), no one is against the farmers, but the President himself.
The group pointed out that P450 million refugees will be implemented by the DAP, which is an ally of Aquino, Senator Franklin Drilon, and was given funds even if the contract has not been exposed.
"
This is also what Pamaao has said, spokesperson of Kalsada, or Kiblawan PNP, that the use of Aquino of the indigenous people to be criticized in his SONA while the administration is being endorsed by the administration against the indigenous people.
"He said that the Philippines has been in business for business, while he still hasn't met the primary needs of the indigenous people like studying, the Lumad are almost 100 schools of the Lumad are almost 100 schools in Mindanao, he said.
For Reyes, Aquino does not need to go away from his own yard to see the truth about the suffering and lack of change, "he should just look at the farmers of Hacienda Luisita to know that no one has changed," he said.
Watch the video of a farmer in Hacienda Luisita, who joined the protest at the SONA.

Also included in the criticized by the group was criticized by Aquino the help of the victims of typhoon Yolanda "he reiterated the reports of DSWD (Department of Social Welfare and Development) that the victims of Senator Alan Cayetano, admitted the slow rehabilitation in Eastern Visayas," said Salvador.
More intense protests.
Different organization insisted that their resolve should be removed from the position of President Aquino.
They also announced that the impeachment complaint is going to push forward in the opening of Congress, and the citizens are calling for the support of the citizens.
"There will be more protests in the coming months," said Reyes.
It was announced by the group that on August 23, on the anniversary of the million-March, the New People's initiative against pork barrel will be launched in Cebu and there will be a widespread movement from the citizens.
