Mar Roxas, you are already!

One year before the 2016 elections, President Benigno Aquino III declared who will be the candidate of the Liberal Party.
Of course, there is no one else but the cediting of Interior and Local Government secretary Mar Roxas.
If we are talking to the discussion, it is not the question of Secretary March aside from being smart, it can be said that he is also recognized and found in different activities or position that is given to him, during his service to different agencies of the government.
Even before he entered the field of public service, he challenged his ability to the government's management and remember that he is one of the cedero of Araneta.
He once did the Araneta Coliseum, which is believed to have been placed in Cubao at the map of the evacuation centers after the Greenhills in San Juan.
So if the government's economy is in the economy of the country, we can say that it is a real name and Mar Roxas.
What should Mar have to be arrested with his traits!
First of all, it is normal to have a aristocratic. It is normal for him, because he is from the race of Ihmm, but for the masses, what can be heard from their will to him.
In short, it is said that it is not for the masses to be the appeal of Secretary March.
The camp of Mar has a big need for them to have political adviser and political agenda to arrest him as Ariston and image.
"
Hopefully it will also teach Secretary Mar to put it on his clothing and action in the places he will go when he is starting to go out of place. "
His Mr. market image has destroyed its hands of earthquake in Bohol and built a set up but was obviously not known to holding a hammer, but it was obvious that he did not know how to handle a hammer.
Is it really those allies of Secretary Mar who asked him like that!
But one of our personal interests to Secretary Mar is one of those who did not get caught in any anomaly and corruption.
The price of pork barrel is not enough.
He is also not greedy in position because he didn't get a sacrifice in favor of the Aquinos?
That is just a few of the real traits of Secretary Mar as a public service.
What would we look for Secretary Mar?!
No one else, Mar is indeed!
