There are crimes in Filipino government agencies in violation of the international airport.

Luis G. Apples Jalandoni.
The administrators, NDFP Neor in our panel.
25, 2013.
The National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) strongly condemned the government budget of the Philippines (GPhilippine) and the armed forces of the crime of the Filipino people in Filipino people who are in violation of the international law.

In an initial statement, the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) said that a civilian was killed by a civilian who died in the New Hunan, and the statement that the civilians who died from the incident last January 27 in La Loma, were all lies and pure attempt to malign the country which is being exported in the country.
For the initial investigation, the data spread by the AFP is not true, as it is being looked up, and it is very small if compared to the national forces of the Aquino administration, there are 748 cases filed by the armed forces of the Aquino administration, with 748 laws which were recorded by the armed forces of the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (JMC).

The use, the attack or attacks in private houses, school and other public places (example, the elements of the 58th Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army as an estimated 146 incidents, who were reported to have been recorded by the military from the New People High School in Mountain Province.

Other common violations are the greedy properties, 121 cases; killings, 102 cases; and forced to evacuate and exported back to civilians and community which are expected to be supported or under the influence of the revolutionary movement.

Other record of violation of the international law is different.

There was no firing, shooting, explosion and did not allow the bomb in the community of civilians (51 case), wherein four (4) civilians died.
Use of civilians as haunting and / Insp. or for the sake of the operations of the police, the military and the audience gar (34 cases).
Taking advantage of the children is the conduct of the armed arguments (19 cases.
Force to force the children to the children (14 cases).
And the effect is that they will serve and support the groups that are cut off inside the community of civilians (nine cases).

There are also civilians who, aside from being thrown out of their houses, are currently being experienced by the humane and full medical help (nine cases), to guard the food and students who are needy), and anti-two cases).

Those who died were identified as Valeriana, who has the rights as hness of the combat under the international law, there were also four who ran over the hands of the rebels who responded and refused to surrender the remains of the members of the BHB) who was killed in the fight.

The Philippine government needs to lead the attention of the people for the suspicious truth that the crime of the Filipino soldiers in the implementation of the Oplan Galugad conducted by the armed forces of Golovkin because they are witnesses of the said criminals in the truth that there will be no changes in the truth that there will be changes in the truth that there will be changes in this truth.

Again, the government agencies that this is responsible for the international law and the human rights are responsible for the international law, even in the international law, but also to the national peace talks to solve the peace talks in order to solve the root of the armed arguments.
