The country's building, discussed in the ASEAN Summit to maintain the Symposium.

There is a lack of support from the budget and lack of funds for the primary problems in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), according to the scholar and professor who attended the ASEAN Summit which resulted to Ateneo de Manila University from 25th of August.
"
According to Manolo, the lack of supporting and transfer of the author from the ASEAN ASEAN is the cause of the west-thinking, or high regard for the ban of northwest.
"We Arinoli, which is admirable as the Our Lady OPLAN), which is a number of time to step down and Our Lady Of," agreement with the Universes in Indonesia.
The two professor gave emphasis to the importance of having a filipino language that can coordinate with each member of the ASEAN countries.
"Sushmmmp!
Aside from the lack of the language connected to each country in the ASEAN, the problem is also a problem of a stable community in their own town, according to Production. Loh Sergio Ee of the Nihonggo.
"
He also added that because of the quick development of the country, they are forcing to destroy the rules of history to change the structures that's being implemented, which is why the youth are forgetting what they are destroying and history.
Budirey said that the government is just pretending in the field of ducks which will just rot in Indonesia which is written in Arabic, Javalliances and Malay, due to lack of sufficient funds.
Budiologists also emphasized that the works he's writing because in his country are slowly missing, the importance of examination of the writings are slowly missing, or having a type of unique writings in a country.
"Tanim-Illegal Drugs Act was extremely thankful for the concern of the Our Lady OPLAN)," says, "according to him," Wtch, it was said that this is an only daughter-mannered and Teaching Hospital.
There is also a problem of the ASEAN countries, particularly in the Philippines - the lack of interest on the course of the art of art and copra production because it is more given attention to the culture of popular and economists, according to Production. Michael Cornes, or the Symposium.
"Only, a child of a love for arts skill is being given to the sake of human beings which can be given to a civil engineering," says Angelica Eve.
"
The Filipinization of the country is dismayed in the culture of "traslacion" in the country, which is only lead to those who have been given to the Filipino, instead of being implemented by the questionable readers.
Mario Sineneng is the professor of the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office at the university of the Philippines and a direct translation of the filipino language as a bigger language compared to English which is the root of the problem in our culture of duck meat.
"
He added that the author is not only in English which is being made in English which is why even the authors of the nearby towns in Asia, which is in the filipino community in Asia, is in the filipino film, Lao or Malay.
It was also insisted by Danilo Francisco M. Reyes, who is a assistant held at the Department of English of the School of Humalig), that it is appropriate to give a corresponding scholar of the colonizers in the Filipino language and support the government their goals.
"We has a corresponding reward to BB's diment.
The goal of the three-day meeting will make a relationship between the countries in the ASEAN where they may have to eat each other.
One of the steps of the desire to make a cross-bust operation is project, which will be used in the Filipino language and will be used for teaching the author of other countries in the ASEAN countries.
Six to ten countries in the ASEAN are the representatives of the three-day meeting in Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Laos and the Philippines.
