Jinggoy is ready to be imprisoned after SI Revilla?

Senator Jinggoy Estrada is said to go to jail if he can prove that he was saved by the people's money related to the pork barrel scam.
Jinggoy is with Senator Juan Ponce Enrile and Bong Revilla who are scheduled to be charged with the Office of the Ombudsman for the plunder case in the Sandiganbayan.
The money allegedly collected by the lawmakers are for the projects of the poor but only went to their pocket.
Of course with the case Janet Lim-Napoles, the operator of scam, which is allegedly up to P10 billion.
The chief of staff of Enrile, Gigi Reyes, is the chief of staff of Estrada, identified as LULINTEL) and his staff at the office of Revilla, Richard Cambe, they are together in case.
Dennis Alcoreza is also not taken away by Dennis Alcoreza, director general of Technology) Center which is said to pass by Napoles to release the PDAF.
Applied at the witness protection program, Tuason and Cunanan's witness protection program to remove them from the list of the accused.
But their excuse is not allowed in the Ombudsman of Madam Conchita Morales.
There will be one who will be charged with a case, therefore, it is really acceptable how the corruption in the government is.
For the senators, Revilla is the biggest winner in the country but he is afraid to be imprisoned so he's praying now to the Holy Land, not like Jinggoy who is ready.
But the accused are continuing with the refusal of nothing they stole from the funds of the country, if the Sandiganbayan can see even just a little fiber of truth against the accused, they will go directly to jail and they will not be allowed to post bail.
It is also good to file a case against the senators in court because this is where they will earn the same treatment in their case.
In court, evidence will be counted, not like in the Senate that only the investigations are being done and are even used by the irresponsible senators in a standing standing.
If Jinggoy is about to be imprisoned, is Bong Revilla also ready?
