Maxine, has Chance in the crises in Macau By Allan Diones on August 21, 2016.
We are happy with the reaction of Manong Chavit Singson to the belief of many that if in the Philippines, the next Miss Universe pageant is unlikely to win the next Miss Universe pageant, our candidates is unlikely to win.
Does he agree with that?
"It seems like that is just like that, there is also a good thing, which is why, it's because we are accused in the cooked Macau - right?
"You said," you said, I am not!
"That's because it's really like that, Filipinos are really like that, if we win in our place, and we won, what will say is the Midnight Cabinet decision or" cooked Macau "(cooked as the result), right?
"But it is also not good that she is really beautiful (Maxine), because there might be a win.
"Because, it depends on the judges, judges, and judges in Miss U), not included in these."
Governor's camp still has not yet spoken to Chavit even if he has been not the governor of Ilocos Sur) in person with our bet Maxine Medina.
He could only see this since he was seen and the Interior is said to be good in the Miss Universe.
Manong Chavit is the most busy with the formation of $700 million ransom that our country will give to the Miss Universe which can be held here in the Philippines - the said beauty pageant.
He knows that the $700 million "that is hard to return is difficult, but hopefully, he can earn even just a small thing.
The government does not have to spend money here, they will just be married to the Department of Tourism if I will take care of it.
Altaserv paid for the January 2017 will be held here in January 2017 will be held here in January 2017.
Manong Chavit is worried because she knows it is good for our economy.
As a global warming, Miss U, Manong Chavit wants to show the pageant, the tourist spots in "Philippines, including the town of Ilocos Sur.
He plans to bring the candidates to Ilocos.
He is ready to use an airplane, yacht and bus, wherein Governor's party, party, and party-bus, that seems to have no direct contact party, will happen.
Aside from being full of Miss U, Manong Chavit also plans to return to a movie again.
He wants to raise the former film that is being taken by his family in Northern Star Productions.
"We talked to her," the winning Miss Universe in return of Pia Wurtzbach, she can make a movie.
It is okay for Governor to say that, hopefully, he would just accept it as a land title if ever.
