
Monday, August 4, 2014.

Alexander is not in favor, to beat the Russian man with his umbler from Manila.

Alexander at SHumalig), the Russian couple is playing with canvas before, Gregorio V. stars Jr.

It is said that even if the picture of Alexander Pad in relation to Manila is Pad to face the national tourist of Russia who died in an accident in an edge of the gun.

In the statue, it can be seen that Phhmm, who is standing in the left hand, is standing in the left hand with a cane, according to 1799 to 1837), National Fet of Russia, Unisan, the Russian Peoples "and at the top of the city of Manila.

On April 27, 2014, on Sunday, I was going to Luneta to watch Concert and the Park.

I caught a lot of photos on that day - the statue of former Manila Mayor Arsenio HLacson near the church of Sta. Cruz, including a huge percentage of the death of the former mayor; and the statue of Bonifacio Drive; and the statue of Leon Ma. Guerrero while it was hit by an improvised explosive devices in its photos.

Up to ten meters from the statue of Guerrero meanwhile is the statue of Alexander Preso, Manila and the Manila City Hall and the Manila City Hall and at the back there was a large statue of Katipunan, a few meters from there, the statue of Katipunan was there while there was a large statue of Katipunan.

It is clear on the statue of Alexander Pavas to present and the only noise that we usually hear is a small position where there is a small position where there is a small position where there is a small position in case there is a need for an umbrella in case it rains.

It is one of those who are in line with those who are treated as a gold time by the Russian couple, she is also a pickpocket, including his famous author, Eugene Obusinessmen, The Captain's daughter, Borbe Guna.

His wife, Natalia in, 1837 years old, and his children are Maria, Alexander, Grabs, and Natalia, she studied at Tutok-Tropas.

He was born in Moscow on June 6, 177, 1837, from Saint Petersburg in Russia.

According to Wikipedia, it is a common to set an end to prominent personalities that can be found in an estimation of more than ten-nine-nine months before he was killed by the Rapunzel-nine-nine-nine-nine times in the middle of the seventh place in Russia in the middle of the 19th of 19 century.

He explained that the true incident happened in the right side of the act.

Allegedly, extreme jealousy is the cause of the accident in the same time, Phhmm, is said to be courted by Pransis, George, Anlacan, who is a good wife of Preso, Annu Anito.

In order to end the gossip and to lose the anger of Phhness, they married the brother of Natanglement that Echuces, 1837) in the calendar, Julian), no one month, January 27, bleeds.

They were wounded on the arm, Anntoinette Espejo, while two days had a gunshot wound in the stomach, February 10, 1837, from the calendar, which was used in Russia from 1918, 1837, from the calendar, which was used in Russia from 1918, 1837, from the apartment that was used in Russia from 1918, 1837, from the apartment that was used in Russia from 1918, 1837, from the apartment that was used in Russia from 1918, 1837, from the apartment that was used in Russia from 1918, 1837, from the apartment that was used in Russia from 1918, 1837, from the apartment that was used in Russia from 1918, 1837 in the apartment that was used in Russia.

A lot of places were used to be accompanied by Alexander Pavas well as praises and haunting of Russia, two in Moscow, one at Saint Petersburg, and Mikhaunting of Saint Petersburg, and Mikee Mabilog.

It was also used to him by small planet 2208, which is discovered in 1977, which is discovered in 1977, which is also used by the United Nations last 2010 and is also used by the United Nations (Tantangan, along with PRTEL), together with a huge fishponds in Tantos), along with PRTEL), along with PRTEL), along with PRTEL.

According to the hh Office 4 / she was able to face the statue of Pavas / she was given to the Philippines as a proof of the friendship between the country Russia and the Philippines, and one step in acknowledging the fifth anniversary of the Philippines from 1985.

On June 6, 2019 is his 117th birthday, while February 10, 2017 is the 120th anniversary of his death, that should have been published once in the launch of February 10, 2017, or it is only five years since it will be held in the launch of February 10, 2017, or this is only five years since it is in the launch of June 6, 2019.

As a tribute to fight with the Pavas leader, I took the two thousand pesos to the filipino language and they also presented a short message for him.

Or, MG-fi is very hot-tempered because Alexander is very hot-shaped like Gregorio V. stars Jr.

There is a 14-mindedness.

Or, Mabog, hot-hot-tempered, you came out of my immediate action that I do not need to make sure that there's a roughness to his dynasties of Juvymax al is given to me!

It is not for the people who are able to pay up the cold, or to those who are thin and brave, not in the suggestions that can be provided by fitting, which is why they are going to be sent!

Your peace is a source of peace, or ill-flawless, and having sex in shame!

But you are all good ', you are the ones who will be able to step down by the guards of the Lapian ng Masang Pilipino when I forget all of the Lapian ng shame, At if I forget the name of anyone, I will happen again!

Many of our faces are red and ill-tempered in our forehead, wide and seemingly dizzy, they are ready to accept from me the mark, that is why there is something like that.

Yevasion and Bonad came from the Russian giant towards English language, December, 1999.

Milan, Alexander Phhmm, is to be able to spend free translation of Gregorio V. stars Jr.

There is a 14-mindedness.

Even though Apollo Ng was not able to ask a clean sacrifice in the world of stone in the world, it is too fast and there is no pity for the Holy Week to be peaceful; and that's why the most brightness in the world of a giant Christmas, perhaps, the most common people in the world.

But when the words uttered by the person to come to his ear to reach, and in order to always start, the heart of the owner became an ice - just like the start of a few months.

He is sad in the world of joy, lazy, to avoid being irritated, from the hands of the person whom he is running, due to the darkening of the shore as well-headed by the shore, at the woods, parts of the shore, in the forest, and many kinds of strength.

Yevasion and Bonad came from the Russian giant towards English language, November, 2003.

Alexander at SHumalig), the Russian national is Gregorio V. stars Jr.

There is a 14-mindedness.

The winner is Pavas well, in Manila whose physical appearance is not a physical form but to the statue of the statue, there is because he / she is an enemy of Russia and the Philippines, friends and friends.

Alexander is a piece of writer, Alexander Pavas well, who are made up with Eugene Obusinessmen and Bordado, his lust, Ruslan, and other writing to any kind of arrogance.

Athy on the other hand, of all sorts of times, there is a bit of light from the ducks which is why it is deliberately not be moved by the works that we have heard, and we have to be moved to by the sun.

It is a good thing to remember when the things that are made up to confused and not a different kind of contract, will not be complete, but the owner is not complete without complete.

Two twenty-nine-nine which are set to be fought was the cause of a gun without a gun which was found lifeless, and those who brought the grave.

According to Alexander at present, it is the primary root of Russia to be treated in the world, she is considered to be able to break off to the world, she's being taken care of French kisses and his name has no death.

They played around.

Hmm, / her / her / her / her / her / her ex-M / M / Insp. Rouel Mena, 16 / 39 / Insp. Rouel Mena, / Insp. Rouel Mena, / Insp. Rouel Mena, PPETantos, PPETIDs - PPETIDs.
