I am a letter.
Ate Vi's defeat.
"You cannot always remember," Sonny said to your body more.
Your way here are the two of them, who are the ones who ask me even if they are still young at me, I am also the ones who are at the same age, but I endured it, you can leave before Carl.
Drilling, very low; we will sleep together with a jeep at night at past six to people who are now in Qatar.
So they are the ones who are riding a jeep, so that, you might get hurt and fooled by it, you might become a way to thank Jeff passengers and the command of him.
Here comes when it fell to Jack Magic still the beauty after eating.
Very short; he / she can look down; we can go ahead; we can go to college; we are in Australia who are pointing at home Active people, whose legs are not laughing; the tricycle drivers who arrived, Angs, were not laughing.
Fuck, covetous; Mogadishu in the tricycle of Two.
I am very high and is always in the school that you can live, the tricycle driver, you call.
Very short; we, the mayor, and we are going to join because we can go to school; we can still go to school; I can still go to school; I can go to, even at PNoy?
This may lead from Tondo, your mother, a tricycle driver, a jeep which is parked in a jeep, to be taken by passengers, later on the tricycle, I thought to stay-in-face.
Yes, what happened together is that the motorcycle they are riding on is always visible.
They are already doing laundry in a helmet which can be cut off; as long as they park in the park; we saw each other and we talk about it.
In the trip today, the bodies of those who rides the motorcycle might fall asleep.
Very short; he / she was caught with the motor, he was caught with a motorcycle before he arrived mad.
Tita, the companies of the oil companies are not easily destroyed, they can go.
That they are not stupid; we are proud of the people to tell about the story.
The passengers are not fed up, passengers before passing by people without seeing each other on the stairs.
Let's go that you are going to have a case when you called them, I am always joking; we always think that we can get a call, that is why you can get a call on you and your face, Louie Mabingnay, really love me.
