The fight versus illegal drugs by the QCPD led by Supt. Eleazar By between Dacer July 29, 2016.
Your servant was impressed by his bravery and skill in supporting Quezon City Police District Director Senior Superintendent Guillermo Lorenzo Eleazar to resolve the severe problem on illegal drugs in his jurisdiction.
It has to be given attention by Supt. Eleazar to focus on the problem on illegal drugs because it is strong that if compared to an illness, this is one of cancer.
If our problem on illegal drugs is like a cancer, according to Supt. Eleazar, there is a need for action that will be more than the operation so that it will be totally treated or healed by the official's perspective to implement him in the implementation of the Pambansang Kamao in his jurisdiction.
The suspicion made by Supt. Eleazar was enforced by the police who are in position especially those who are in position especially those who are in the "prepaid line" of the fight against drugs.
The QCPD chief said that compared to treatment of the disease, he considered the solution to the problem on illegal drugs in his district.
Anyway, if the problem with the people, officials and personnel of the PNP will only go around, there will be a permanent solution which will be implemented, instead that they will infect other people until it worsened and difficult to cure.
This scenario is seen by the official that is why even though it is painful for him, he needs to remove the officials and personnel who failed to fulfill their duties in order to replace more active personnel and officials who are serious about the fight against drugs.
It is clear that the official made it this Wednesday, July 27 from the 88 personnel of the Anti-Illegal Drug Group of QCPD, that is not only because Eleazar had fired the 53 members of the Anti-Illegal Drugs of QCPD Station 6 and transferred them to Mindanao.
The official's basis was the recommendation of his station commanders.
As a official, it is hard to get fired from his personnel but needs to be returned to the trust and respect of the public especially that the ranks of the police should be returned.
In treatment to cancer, the treatment of chemotherapy is a painful process, it needs to be done to save the country from serious problems of drugs.
We salute the confession of Supt. Eleazar that it is clear that the welfare of the people is his priority and save our country from danger brought by illegal drugs.
Admirable is the action made by Eleazar, which led to his depth the solution that they are preparing for for a long time for a long time.
Eleazar has decided to continue his mandate and treating the fight against illegal drugs under the guidance of National Capital Region Police Director Chief Superintendent Oscar Albayalde.
Eleazar also needs to work because the support given by President Rodrigo Duterte to the police under the leadership of PNP Chief Director General Ronald "Bato" dela Rosa is insufficient.
