There is no pork?

It looks like the people from the Congress and Malacanang are really busy.
We always hear now that the congressmen do not have PDAF in the 2015 budget that reached P2.6-1090451.
The question now, most of the political companies are true that our lawmakers do not have any pork barrel, how can you convince him to remove it?
We know that everything is the life of a lawmaker, even if it is a member of the legislative chamber, even the pork barrel, that is why the majority are worried if it is true that it is true.
To our knowledge, the pork barrel of the lawmakers are only hidden in the departments of the government and this is where they have a right to say where they will spend and who will benefit from this.
Even if they are going to choose against illegal numbers, they will still choose because the cooperation between the leaders of the Congress and Malacanang is already complete.
We found out that the pork barrel of the legislative chamber's members from the former P75-million every lawmaker became 85-million every lawmaker.
Even the senators also grew up in pork and this is what we should know because the flow of P2.6-governmental fund which is being asked by PNoy in 2015 is very worrisome especially since we know that many are hidden here.
In our knowledge, more than 500 billion pesos were taken to the rehabilitation center who was called on the 2015 budget, Special Purisima Assistance Fund.
This is very scary because the said fund is possibly the cause of corruption.
It should probably be removed from the system of stray bullet, because this is the root of being a hot topic when it is being spent by the government.
Of course, if the project will not be released because they are wearing a lump sum of funds, it is certain that the leaders of the government can stop them.
"That is what the citizens should watch because the lawmakers are still very confident to analyze and get the 2015 fund because they themselves are as beneficiary of a lot of funds.
