They will start every time.
By Arnold Clavio, September 21, 2016 with the strength and strength of gratitude, you was impressed by Senator Leila de Lima with the number of those that he had a fight with, which is part of his political and political life.
In 2008, he appointed as chairman of the Commission on Human Rights (CHR) of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
At that time, de Lima faced the heinous Ampatuan massacre, where the journalists and enemies are killed in the politics of the Ampatuans, when Arroyo will be placed in the Secretary of the Department of Justice, de Lima became a thorn in his way to another country to be treated.
Despite the decision of the Supreme Court to travel the trip of Arroyo, it was blocked by de Lima and insisted that the lower court released a Temporary Protection Order (TRO) against the President who appointed him.
De Lima is also behind the candidacy of Arroyo until her hospital arrest was held at the Veteran's Hospital.
De Lima is also one of the forces behind Chief Justice Renato Corona from the Supreme Court.
De Lima is also the reason for the imprisonment of Senator Juan Ponce Enrile, Bong Revilla and Jinggoy Estrada about the PDAF scam.
De Lima became the reason for the anger of the members of the Iglesia ni Christ in relation to the case filed by the former Minoras of Lowell Menorca against the management of INC.
De Lima is also the reason for the veteran officials of the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) in the "still unknown reason.

But his bravery and now have a limit now and now that de Lima is slowly feeling the number of those he had a fight, he is returning now in relation to the accusation being a protector of illegal drugs.
It is bad for de Lima to complain about the abuse of President Duterte and his allies in order to malign him.
But it seems that de Lima has no right to complain about the reason what is happening to him now that he also did to others when he was in power and allies of the party in power.
The world was reversed and de Lima is at the right under "karma" if his cases seem to be charged and hurt, whatever was the controversy she will defend.
In the end, he took off the chairman of Senate Committee on Justice of 16 senators who believes that de Lima used the committee to personally attack the President.
Is this just a challenge for the possible happen in the future in the term of De Lima?
Now, the 16 senators are still swaying, in case Senator Tito Sotto, chairman of the Senate Committee on Ethics, "said to be a regular" or removal of De Lima as member of the Senate?
Lord, I will take care of it.
