Gigi, alright.
He agreed to share the latest director, mix, but tomorrow there is already confirmed that the names were mentioned by his names, who were said to be said to have been mentioned by the director, who were said to be known by the victims, who were said to be known by those who have already mentioned the name of the police.
So when the picture of those who didn't come out were wrong, it seems that we were the one who died in the blood of the story with the tree.
The foreigner who has a foreigner who is included in the combat this January is getting hot.
Yesterday, former director Marayeños are said to have added that Peña is already asleep.
Piolo Romy and one of those in the video were one of those in the video.
But he took it back to the first.
Apparently, Ytype John Lloyd, Villa has already been in the video and Ytype, asked for an apology to that, to the wife of Randy that is in form and then all can be received.
I thought it's because of course.
When we called the house, that is a baby who wants to die with him.
You said that you did not say that you are not her husband in the video.
The family family.
You are in trouble because they know that they are the only ones who know that they are very well-minded; they seem to be in a disadvantage.
I saw two things.
Oh yes, I said, I am not my wife because I am the one I will vote for.
It seems that it is not right when you sleep in a fight of sleep on September two right in the Church, I saw that I saw two t-shirts.
Four o'clock.
I have a picture of Puno to Pauleen 'siblings who are my wife.
And then, it would be done that a visa would not happen to him.
It is clear!
I thought it's because I thought.
Asia - under the video, isn't it possible that the video might be impossible in the video that we might get this white which is the one beside the side, thank you.
Really.
For a business that was wrong.
Police doctor Benson Yayes, who is very good in PNoy, has already been good for PNoy when I think he is sure of whoever is on their faces who have been killed?
It's because it's because the Americans do not say anything.
He / she grew up; he / she said that his older sister-in-law, who was on his own older brother, who were in his personal interests, robbed by one of the many politicians from the eight thirty-eight points.
That he will be with a person with him.
A jeepney going to Tagalog and then who killed the cunning's (NT dih Lakas ng Masang Pilipino.
She said she is confidence over him because of those who were able to give us!
If it can be proven that it has been a year since there are stories that are similar to that because they are stories and security, they might be dead from Maria.
Resigned from his duty.
For me, I am the first one in the investigation that we have been utilized for people who have evidences that we have evidence if we are elected.
You denied what we are in that position as well.
It is said that the amount is in mix in the face if there will be a new investigation.
He has already talked to Pia Wurtzbach Ricardo Marquez about this.
He added that he / she stood on the Las Piñas because they were holding a strong evidence to get carried away by a strong evidence to be able to send IGAA; she pointed out what ten people with Jenny said to have a transaction with the eight people.
Annoying!
Change the number of nine thousands that they have taken out for five thousand.
He will walk with someone who will bring money there and you will go there in the corner.
Tomorrow, there is a scheduled meeting with the president for a big part that's why he is willing to go, which is why he is willing in relation to those who are looking, they are looking for an alternative portion of the poor.
It was a while ago when we talked to him on this phone, that's why we believe that we are in favor of its investigation, especially for them, they believe that while there are those who are calling him, they are still far.
Justice for here are the victims of four o'clock and you were not able to make sure that it is not sure that there are those who are able to make sure that the people who are going to be at the same age are annoying; not a foreigner; not a foreigner; not a foreigner; not a foreigner but a person or a person.
"That is the first statement of General Santos City yesterday because he even told him that we are going to look at him, we are looking at him as a X-ray; of a A Tt-R; she is now going to eat while they are already known as their Caloocan who was already known as Caloocan.
We are anxious; we are Lucravors, but we need to be confirmed to be confirmed by those who have mentioned that we are saying that we are in the picture that we have been telling to, "this is a picture of the pictures and what we have done, but earlier they have already controlled.
This is not his names mentioned.
Know four who are former personally.
He / she said that he would get angry that he / she gets angry that he / she gets angry; he / she's very angry; he / she's the one who's in his position so that he / she's one of those in his position, he / she said that all of them were talking, "said President Aquino.
Covetous, deport; not and not.
And then it was the first who said that something bad happened to his mother.
What happened here is far from this.
Ah, according to him, he spoke with Eddie four to four o'clock in the Philippines so that he would really tell this if the president would say that she is an excuse that he / she was told by the President that he / she was told by the President that there is an alternative; that is why it came out that this kind of statement is coming out, but what is coming out.
It is also heavy because he agrees to General Tagalog that they are in the place.
I was also able to go to the store that he / she didn't want to go to the store so that he / she was able to catch up, I was able to ask for an answer that they did not even say that they were asked to ask for an umbrella for him / her and her family, who died here at four years.
Yes, somehow I can help but they are closed if they are.
Yes, we are aware; we are one of them, there is one of them here, it is different except that it is between the P10-four members of the Star Magic many thank you.
