It is at Poverty.

The point of Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada and Vice Mayor Isko Moreno is right that there is nothing involved in Port of Manila due to the restriction of their city for the empty trucks.
The truth is this is the fault of the current administrator of the Philippine Ports Authority General Manager Juan Sta. Ana and the ConFootball Federation of the truck Association of the Philippines (Con P).
It is obvious that Sta. Ana and this Con P) are still being used to being greedy.
It is said by Erap, how about the fault of the city government of Manila the exhaustion of chicken Joy in Jollibee (for now, there is a chicken in lucky Dr or?
In short, it was obvious that PPA and the CPRO) did not pay attention to this scenario to follow what they want and the roads of Manila will be followed which caused the severe flow of traffic.
It is true that the flow of trucks coming in Port of Manila is true but this is not due to the implemented truck ban in Manila except for a line of Roxas Boulevard.
The real cause of this is the lack of proper system for the PPA) of CPRO) to hope that the entry and out of the truck which contains the waves in Port of Manila was abandoned and they were able to conduct a low system even if the flow of these will be discerned.
They have already given the Access Road in Roxas Boulevard but it seems that there is still no change in their system which is the reason why the gang in Port of Manila was held.
If Sta. Ana was in the right path, he has long been able to find a solution on this problem with a few parts of their 300-hectare land in Port Area and a few roads in Port Area and some streets in Port Area and some streets in Port Area.
Through having a "Holding terminal" these trucks are easier to implement the comprehensive program centered on the road when this happens, the entry of trucks at the province will not stop together, and for sure they will not be busy with other motorists.
If the PPA) did this, it is probably no longer needed to implement the Provincial City of Manila of any truck ban on Hala Bables as Gil Bira.
