Are our next president again?

Postanes and his mind.
On June 19, 2015.
In opinion.

If the election is going to do for the next president of our country Philippines, the burial of former president Fernando Poe Jr. who is our new leader!
Yes, in the latest survey of Pulse Asia for the 2016 presidential candidates, he is already fed a lot of vices in politics, Senator Grace Poe (traditional politician) and former leading the survey, Vice President Jojo Binay.
Poe got 30 percent, while Binay fell on 22 percent, Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte (15 percent), DILG Secretary Mar Roxas (10 percent), Senator Alan Peter Cayetano (2 percent), Senator Alan Peter Cayetano (2 percent), and ex-Sen. Ping Lacson (2 percent).
Poe has not yet filed a president for presidency and giving protection to the province and to give a huge amount, not just like Binay, who has no trace of throwing of crystal meth, which has also been the mark of his name.
It was only two days ago when VP Binay turned around the market in the three towns of CoCs, San Mateo and Rodriguez in Rizal where he gave birth to the voters, but he promised the voters and attacks his possible fight to run for president in 2016.
Binay goes around the provinces using the funds of the country as member of the cabinet of PNoy in holding the housing.
Duterte, even if they are repeatedly saying that he will not run, he continues to continue in going around the pro-pro-law, because I think he is a senator or vice president.
And also Roxas, although it is too obvious that he will bet on the Liberal Party, he does not want to declare it but it has no rest in going around the entire islands.
Erap is trying to try if he will rise in the survey.
Cayetano and Lacson also said that if their rating of the survey will not improve, they will not fight for president.
Let us wait for the SWS survey that might come out of Brigada Eskwela.
It will be clear that whoever we want to become president are women again! Do not let go.

Vice Mayor Isko Moreno, Councilor Joel Chua, Councilor Let, Councilor Let cetera and Councilor Let cetera, they might know how much was the national bomb explosion in that?
