Frankly: It is hard to believe the victory of other senators.
By Ellen Toribio, 2016) in the opening of 17 Congress on July 25, there are many new faces in the Senate and at the House of Representatives.
President Rodrigo Duterte knows the situation of the country to his State of the Nation Address or SONA in front of the senators and congressmen.
The 24 senators now are Sonny Angara, Lakas ng Masang Pilipino; Bam Aquino, United Nationalist Alliance; UNA; Alan Peter Cayetano, United Nationalist Alliance; Richard Gordon, UNA; Risa Hontiveros, UNA; Risa Hontiveros, Akbayan.
Panfilo Lacson, Lito Lapid, NPC; Manny Pacquiao, UNA; Francis Pangilinan, LP; Aquilino Pimentel III, PDP-Laban, Grace Poe, Inc..
Ralph Recto, LP; Tito Sotto, NPC; Antonio Trillanes IV, NP; Joel Villanueva, LP; Cynthia Villar, NP; and Juan Miguel Zubiri, Inc..
There are also personalities who will look for the public that they are not now in the Senate like Serge Osme単a and Teofila Guingona III.
Osme単a and Guingona is in the 16th Congress and they are included in the Tuwid na Daan that the Aquino administration who is headed by the candidate for the president is Mar Roxas.
It's a shame but many were surprised that Guingona did not win because of the survey during the campaign, he / she had already sold her.
What is surprising is the not entry of Osme単a until six days before the election in the survey of the Social Weather Station.

We know that the survey is different, but the voting is really different, but they are sensible and orderly survey to know the pulse of the people.
It's not just the disappearance of Osme単a at the Magic's disappearance, "the extreme height of someone new to Joel Villanueva and Wes Gatchalian.
It is hard to believe that the results of the election to the senators is contrary to our belief that there is no cheating in the judicial system, "right before, you won the election but lost in the counting.
For the President, there is no doubt that Rodrigo Duterte will win.
For the Vice President, Ferdinand "Bongbong" Marcos has a protest against the Vice President.
It's a good thing that Marcos agrees, so the public will really know if the cheating is still the reason why the cheating is still the election.
Since the election in 2010 was when the election in 2010 has been the vote buying.
But it is still strong that there is a strong agreement that there can be a huge sum from the Comelec that will pay a lot to COMELEC (hundreds of millions to talk about SD card.
Reform Philippines -- the result of the votes of the senator in the past elections, and it is more important to be seen.

Alarming.
