Even if there is a strong product there in the Philippines last year, the country targets to have a huge product of rice and it is still too late, then the different agencies still continue to stop the different agencies to stop it from the news of us.
A rice primary food of Filipinos, that is why it's a good news that it is slowly expected that there is rice in the country that is why you are extremely saddened by one's bad news about what Agriculture Secretary Jesse said.
Our country can see us.
I am going to go here, we are going to go to school.
This is the record that ah, we are stupid; we are the ones who are strong, and what's the strong thing that I have to show up to the million peso.
Made to seem to have been made to go to school; we are anxious.
And we were already able to go out a little bit there from the former in Arellano Raj were already out.
It is said that it will be easy for the country to join the country next, but despite this big illness of their heads now, it is still rampant that they say.
I do not even know that the storm is getting worse but it is still painful.
It is his condition that the profit from our farmers watching over him is being removed from the people watching over the government, if they have not been broken into the 'Kin government, if they have not been cut off, they are being ruined because of the price.
Of the price of the petroleum, I will file a financial loss before I wish to complain.
But in Baguio, they continue to go home to some wonder that rice is important in the country just recently, there are several big nurses who are here in a road in the country, but it's as the highest end what is happening in Bombay.
To put in ame?
Yes, Two people whose bag of Japan rice i-jay is in a video karera or made a sigh of English a lot, that's why it's too much happiness for a month.
I have to add a big sea for farmers who will be in the country but the car continues to take care of whom he took in order to be able to earn rice.
As of now, it is still being studied well, which is why it is possible that the PC-C) will be the one who will get along with them.
I am just going to the same way.
Even an award which has no position if there is no electricity that is important to see, there is an illness.
The ear to each other is that there is no problem, the program that we did not want to cry, is just in flying in it.
Covetous, dearse, and what is Production.
It's a bomb in the Philippines, after that, you don't want us to be complacent.
Zero!
When we talked to some of them selling rice to friends, they say they will not know what was brought down by us.
Do you know that you are going to sell it because it is not said that the suspects are not saying anything according to always the burden now, right?
When we were able to go to school, he / she was able to go to school; he / she grew up; we were able to file a case against the big customers.
Now, he continues to get married, Dick, every time, all of the customers are weak from the beauty of the customer so that the farmers will be better.
They are so busy that's why they are proud.
