Thank you to connect with GMA 7, Carla Abellana is the fight of Gabby Concepcion and Rafael Rosell (Pilot episodes of soap).

Postigo,: Peter Ledesma,
On November 30, 2015.
In showbiz.

Carla Abellana is happy and the good actress in GMA is happy because up to now she continues to give good project to her Mother network.
At night, Pilamepisode is nice for the new television series of Carla, "molmol," of GMA Telegant, in Little Mother.
Buenacaxing, the actress is said to be in a cauldron containing the comedy at the sitcom of Ryan Agoncillo, Ismol Family that is why she is no longer difficult to become a comedian in some scenes in the soap.
Because both Men and Carla have grown up together with the smoothness of the administration with Gabby Concepcion and Rafael Rosello, the young lady prepared to face the amusement press of the new series.
She is sexy and became sexy when she was ill-tempered at all, she noticed and many had any kind to Carla in her interview with fellow press of the Kapuso actress, asked how she is working with Gabby?
Condolences as well, Carla said that she is not the First's time with Gabby because she was with a veteran actor in a movie that they had done in Regal Entertainment Television.
"When we were together with Kuya Gabby, Yagit, Toi, she does not change, he has not changed, he is still being friendly, going to the taping, she is still awake and still awake.
"He / she said that he / she was grossed for with Gabby, but I was able to go to work with a hidden talent, a lot who learned to be hidden by Bettina (Carlos) and aunt Celia (Rodriguez)."
For Gabby, she said her co-worker has become comfortable and for sure, she will be able to take care of all the reading on their show because there was a light and full of good light and full of kindness by Carla, Gabby is also thankful for her TV series that was given to her by GMA.
"I was able to look at GMA 7, because of my companion in this television series, the beauty of Split if I was still shy in my chest, I was still shy in the chest, but with Carla Abellana who is a simple man," the actor fooled her with a new woman.
Rafael is the sole fiance of Carla, Oliver and her drama she ran away from her wedding with Carla.
It is said that Carla's former boss, when he saw the series, where he saw the magazine that he saw in the magazine of Jaime (Gabby), she saved him from danger and is Jaime, who saved him from danger and is Jaime, whom he knew, Andrea, Jaime, would have something to do?
"That is what you should wait for and be able to watch out and out of firecrackers every night in Pahiram ng Masang Pilipino, Valerie Weigmann, Inocencio Street, Valerie Weigmann, Carlo Gonzales, Carlo Gonzales, Michael Flores, Michael Flores and many others.
