Manila, it is fine for the Manila.

Until now, it seems that I am still floating in heaven and joy because of more than Php283, the term for the Preso or Licensure Exmundo in the past month, my daughter Macie was not only passed by the exam.
Even though I know that my daughter is smart and inheritance from their father, I am not expecting that it will come to them in their heads especially since it is just new for BS Pad term as a course for his winning in college as well as the course of his crazy school in Manila, San Jose's College).
The percent of the have been passed by the said Licensure Exam, because around 1,290 was passed.
Many of those who took an exam came from the prestigious school like UP, UST, Ateneo and De La Salle University.
From 28 students from Manila, tana, 11 of them have been passed (there are schools that no longer have passed).
We also heard a lot of complaints about the exam because there are a lot of parts of the said test which is not in the appointed table of the said committee, which is also covered by the Board of Paving for the Commission on Regulatory Commission.
It's a good thing that it looks like the teaching of the corners of Claire Sunshine was good because he got a rating of 84 percent and only the two who took Top 1 from Ateneo and University of Santo Tomas, 0.6 per cent.
It is also surprising that the number of UP received number 8.
This is what the result is, many are saying that the quality of education in UP will not be returned?
If in the thing, once it is not in school, that is not in the school, but also to the students, what will be the outcome of inside and outside the school.
But it is also good that there are instances that the schools that give birth to our youth like Manila are not perfect, especially since all the smartest in UP and Ateneo won't do anything.
And of course, aside from school, aside from the school, the quality of a couple is also important, the quality of raising the parents is very important.
The ability of a student to be passed by real challenges in life will come from the experience and proper support of parents.
