Tinio's harassment from Aquino's new pork barrel of Aquino, was condemned by the academy.

Different acklings were united in order to support the made of ACT, Representative Antonio Tinio who are spreading the new way of Congressional pork barrel in the legislative chamber.
According to them, because the Aquino administration has no interest to remove this illegal system of the government, so even them, they are calling the citizens to oust them from his post as the king of the pork barrel, President Aquino.
"Aquino just deceived the people, he is still investigating the forbidden pork barrel system or PDAF (Priority Development Assistance Fund) and now that he violated the Constitution, especially now that the citizens can do anything but oust President Aquino," Tinio said.
Harassment of Tinio.

Some of the allies of Aquino in the legislative chamber are the ones who opposed Tinio and threatened that he will face the Ethics Committee of the Chamber to give a punishment in the coming out of the said plastic bags.

According to Gerry Lanuza, professor and chairman of the Congress of September / Eye Movement (Izzy Canillo) Democrats, UP (Conro or UP), he continued to release the truth and until now, he is still not moved.
"We are saddened because our society is reversed, our world is reversed, they are the ones who are telling the truth, they are now the protagonist right now, they are being charged with truth, they are now being charged., said Lanuza.
According to him, Tinio and Aquino could not make sure that Tinio's condemnation of the condemnation of the wrong actions of Aquino to get the "good upbringing by Aquino, because Tinio can also do what he did.
According to Lanuza, the way that Aquino used was wrong and the goal of the president was wrong and what Tinio used was right and his intention is right.
"Right, it is right that he should do this) because what we are talking about is the money of the country and it should really be revealed and it should be seen by the lawmakers because we are the only ones who are paying taxes as they are the only ones who are paying taxes.
This is also the belief of Bienvenido Meca, national law of arts and one of the signed impeachment complaint, said that it is not an issue if Tinio did it, but what is the content of the impeachment case.
"The important thing that the public can see is the growing violation of the president and his staff on the Constitution, the basis is no matter what the impeachment case should be punished, but what is the content of the impeachment case," according to Meca.

Laughed.
ACT said that it is possible that the administration and the legislative chamber are possible to join the fourth impeachment complaint against Aquino last Monday.
It is said that it is difficult for him to accept a while but it was immediately dismissed a few hours after it was accepted that day.
"What can be taught with the impeachment complaint being pushed through the impeachment complaint, we can see that in spite of the decision of the Supreme Court's decision to be illegal and its pork barrel), he is still investigating the administration's decision," said France Castro, general secretary of ACT party.
The fight continues.
The teachers joined the big movement against pork barrel in August 25, eve of one year after the million New Year.
"On August 25, we are able to deny the history of the history of bringing and unity with the huge masses to support and remove from the useless president, according to Felix Huertas," according to Felix Huertas, "according to Felix Farinas, from the all sorts of corruption.
They are also against any steps for charter change if the term of Aquino will worsen and to weaken the power of the Supreme Court.
"They should not be filed with an impeachment but it should be head to his (Aquino) removal by the strength and unity of the citizens," according to Lanuza.
