It is perfect for Vice Mayor.

Did the residents of Manila know that, with the three ordinances that was exported in Pandacan, they have also signed Vice Mayor Isko Moreno?
It is said that Isko "is said to have a big belief in the City Ordinance Number 8283 last 2012 when he was asked the relocation of the oil which is connected to the coming January 2016 and he is blamed by former Mayor Alfredo Lim because of the implementation of the ordinance.
In real knowledge of the story and history of the oil price in Manila, millions of reasons in the City Council are released to have different angles, the ordinance has different angle in the issue of oil.
It can be said that he can ask Vice Mayor Isko Moreno and the councilor who have signed the three division of the ordinance by the City Council.
Ordinance No. 827 of the former Mayor Lito Atienza, Ordinance No. 8187 of Mayor Alfredo Lim and Vice Mayor Isko Moreno, to maintain oil pot, and Ordinance No. 8283 that shows up to January 2016 when staying up to January 2016.
In the three ordinance, Vice Mayor Isko Moreno and councilors have signed.
It is really, Isko stubborn, even the Supreme Court, got confused and disrupted because of the first anniversary of the ordinance 8027, which was won by the Supreme Court, which was why the Supreme Court suddenly passed through the initial ordinance by Atienza, which was why it was no longer executed.
Many are surprised when the direction of the wind has changed because in the year 2012, the City Council made an ordinance for the leadership of Vice mayor to evict oil.
What is surprising is why he is still not contented with people from Manila, the City Ordinance No. 8127 "which makes an ongoing ordinance by former Mayor Lito Atienza who are being driven out of oil.
Atienza - it will be removed from the oil container; Lim - up to 10, oil is just there.
"Is Isko, who really is really the three ordinances, 8027, 8127 and 8283, have been signed, what is really your stand, brother Isko?
Why is it that the decision of Vice Mayor Isko and the councilor of the city of Manila has a different decision on the issue of oil.
The people of Pandacan asked, that if the oil price will be implemented, who will support the gasoline station, diesel and gas for the suspended two gasoline station of Isko?
"And" the councilor, where they are carrying gasoline in their Toyota Fortuner, wait, the COA and Kim Henares will look at the "ah, Well, other things," that is still election.
It is said that Isko is going to be in a standing standing and it is believed that he is being driven by Ordinance 8283 that they are going to be driven out of oil.

"What if that, the decision of the Supreme Court has already final, which is needed to run away by oil in Pandacan, Manila within six months, can we ask Vice Mayor Isko and for councilor who are cowards!
