The President talks frankly: The root of the problem of Malacañang press.
By Ellen Toribio, September 19, 2016, it is good for press Secretary Martin Andanar to admit the chaos in giving the public the statement about different issues.
Unlike in the previous administration, people are easily pissed and proud of the spokesperson of the President except for press Secretary Sonny Coloma.
Andanar said, that it is not perfect, "we are not perfect, but we are also mistaken, but we are fixing this mistakes, but maybe for the reason of failure, they should also adjust to the style of the President.
"That's why I explain to everyone that the style of our president is we," we, our President, is not the president to adjust to us at the PCI( Presidential Communications Office), we will be able to adjust to the president so we are we, Are, more opportunities. "
Andanar said, that they will let a Standard Lunch Program (SOP), all the statements about President Duterte will come from, from Presidential Spokesman Ernesto Abella, if Abella is not, Andanar.
If a cabinet official has an issue, those who know better there, he will be the spokesperson of the issue, "that is said.
Like the issue of release of the Abu Sayyaf Group of the Norwegian Kjartan Sekkingstad yesterday, who are assigned to the Peace Process Secretary Jesus Dureza.
Andanar also said, President Duterte approved this kind of system and he also talked to all the members of a Grab Bike.
Andanar said that he knows the reporters who look for other candidates to be able to talk to but for the "official line or official," in the Middle East.

It is funny, because there is someone who asked about the issues regarding the law, can they directly be given to Presidential Legal Counsel Salvador badge, who seems to really like the interview, Andanar said. "
The Duterte administration is bombarded with criticisms especially in the international media about the killings that continues to rise due to the campaign of the administration's campaign against illegal drugs.
I am worried for those assigned to face the media like Andanar, but the problem is President Duterte.
Just an example is what happened in the international meeting in 2016 ASEAN and two weeks ago, all the preparation is good until he was asked about the meeting with US President Barack Obama and talk about the extrajudicial killings.
That is not the lack of words, the President is the problem, which is why the work of the PCIs has control.

It seems that the fire has become liver.
"That is what the Armed Forces should study.
