Frankly said he was blamed for the failure in the UN?
By Ellen Toribio, August 24, 2016 it has been blamed by Foreign Secretary Perfecto Yasay, who is currently blamed by President Rodrigo Duterte in the United Nations.
Last Monday, he appointed a Scud in order to say that the Philippines will not be able to support the United Nations like what the President said during dawn of Sunday.
It's because Duterte got irritated with the comment of the two congressmen, who are worried about the more and more are being killed in the campaign against drugs, "Mayamot," we, who are rude to all of you, "Duterte said.
He was advised by the veteran diplomat and experts in the UN that the Philippines will lose a lot if they will leave the UN because he will no longer protect the agreement under Martial Law.
Similar to the problem of the Philippines, the agreement about the rights of the countries in the ocean according to the United Nations Convention on the Martial Law of the Sea or UPP) should be the basis.
Yasay blamed the reporters asking for an uncertain hours since he was asked, that's why he was tired, so he finished the Scuous person after doing that., "Yasay said.
And who really wants a Scud on two o'clock in the early morning of Sunday? "Is the President also?"

Because he was sleeping in the morning and he wakes up at one o'clock in the afternoon.
Hopefully if there is that kind of failure, just admit it, do not blame the media.

It's because Duterte thought, because he won the election and he got the favor of the people, he is the Lord for everyone who knows and he does not have anything wrong.
Nothing is against his fight against illegal drugs.

All Filipinos want peace and they do not want trouble and corruption.

But it does not mean that, just set aside the process of law and kill you even if it is a suspect and there is no case.
The problem will increase if set up the law, while the problem is not only drugs.
That is why the United Nations is worried.
Yasay said, Duterte is just getting irritated with what the Philippines said, that's why he said that the Philippines will just leave the UN but he said that it will not happen, "We Are, to the United States," says, "he said.
Presidential spokesperson Ernesto Abella said, just expressing the Philippines' approval of the Philippines and should not be able to work together.
