From what was done before (Andrea, Womb of Beata), it is still like that.

By Joanna.
October 7, 2014.

Scene from the movie "from what happened before."
He reviewed for a movie from whatever was the last (13th of Bethlehem) (2014), Lav up.
A piece of history from the memories of the mysterious and daring books in the village during the time of the Marcos regime was being cooked by the Marcos regime.
This is the opinion of Lav Diaz in the movie from whatever was the first opportunity from 1946, which has put in the Philippines for the very first time from 1946 in the map of Locquiao, Miss International Film Festival last year.
I am hoping that the memories they mentioned are from 12 years old before the Martial Law declared Martial Law, which was a witness of the simple life of the citizens in a mountain in the decade of 70.
Like the dream, the character of the character in this way it is being implemented in different location is being implemented at the middle of the movies, but in the end of the wind, the sea, but in the end, the shower of the wind, the sea, but in the end, is very familiar with the movement of the wind, the sea, but in the end the length of the wind is very familiar.
On the first part, it is found out that it has been watched by Bai RL) (Bambi Lab) that once it happens in "10 rainy season, it is 10 rainy season, but it was not a ritual for them to be cured of a sickness and to scare them away from this kind or bad energy.
As a native task, I think that all who attended this have a understanding and clear goal of the cooperation of the ritual for the picture of a disability, based on the good scenes of a disability, based on the true scenes of a person with disability, based on the truth that it is done by a person or the result of the bad weather.
It is said that the citizens are aware of the advancement of nature, but not the "truth that brought an example to his father before and now in twenty years old, the dwarf allegedly took his friend Trefaldighets (Reyeses).
But revealed is the more mysterious image like the burning of the three hut in one night, when there was a man with a famous corpse which seemed to have been bitten by a mad body from the forest, walking inside a crazy husband, folklore gize mother) and a trace of headache.
There was a theory among the citizens here on the last events, this is brought by the anger of the farmer in the landowner, but in the whole memory, it remained to the speculation that the propaganda of the Bureau of Health is due to the death of the cows due to the deaths of the cow.
On the part of the child, Hala, a mystery is that her birth is a mystery and he wants to cross the island of the forgotten place at Culp, Palawan), and his sister-in-law is in order to earn and to live-by Ilawod, Pacita (Joel Saracad) in the approval of the catholic Church and the concept of abuse.
The revelation of the tragedy in the murder of one force of a infant in a baby in Sitio IJ-Aran) was made a move by the military in a single school in the town of Lieutenant Shelina Calumay (Ian Veneracion), and continued to rape their bodies on the Holy Week, RTED), and her relatives in Sitio IOS and his relatives in Sitio IOS and his relatives in Sitio IJ.
The source of Babes that was intense was the grief of a Iric Arribas of the future, which was born with the trees and river in the forest, was destroyed by fear and now was taken by the darkness. "
After the two-year-arrival of HRO (Maire of story that he is afraid of going down the mat, cauldron, elegant and other things, the audience of Marcos will resign from his promotion while in the radio, the voice of Marcos was heard in giving the declaration of Martial Law.
At the end of the movie, the truth behind the mysterious smoke from the forest had a concrete impact from the forest, he became a concrete picture of the young man who was tortured, while he was trying to give them as a puzzle, but the bitter experience of many youth who opposed the Marcos dictatorship.
On the first time of Diaz's first shot by vigilantes while cleaning the gun in the hut, you will think that this is the "rebel NPA" in the long time, that the citizens were left behind in crossing the middle of the heightened bridge, as well as the Civic with military as well as the Civilian Volunteers Organization (NFNF), that is known to be the former leader of President Corazon Aquino.
From the movie "from what happened before."
Violence and silence is the answer to the political government that is a problem of lack of service and the preservation of the government, this is only a simple problem if the military is silent before the military is still a simple problem if the military is in a simple problem, "the problem of" peace "should be considered.
In the process, some of the citizens were rolling down, losing their internal organs, becoming ill-mannered but eventually left the land of Hagdan in the mask of HRO that made the mysteries in the country, which also created the legislative chamber of the military.
On a face of the complicated situation, the other people suddenly disappeared towards the forest to join the NPA, it was not directly said if this is what happened to Tabe, there is also no statement that the town of Sitio is reaching the town of Sitio Dubai and for the national democracy.
According to the conclusion of Hagdan in the conclusion of Hagdan in the house of the victims' home, he is proud that he is an avid reader of the history, but his dislogic in the preservation of the peace (Evelyn Vargas and Teng) that can't be understood.
What is clear in the movie is that the town experienced a tragic competition in the time of Marcos, it is clear that an ordinary person who is believed to have his own father is a native of his own life, aside from the competing weapon of the health, it is only right for them to have a strength for the high-ranking government position in spite of his own father's life in spite of having a strong weapon for its own life.
In the end of the movie, it can be seen that the one who served as a monk in his own land, which is why he's going back to die of his own land, "said town of those who are dead," said town of those who are dead, "the Montenero," Untalan insisted that he is looking for his own town and the reason of life.
In the tone of Crisostomo Ibark and for the heroes who went back to secluded places, he is dependent on any challenge, "in a point, he is afraid of any challenge," he is afraid of the things that he does not know: One more important point that it will not know. "
The picture of the fire floating on the body of a victim's body was burned down by the fire that could not lose the rain, but the ritual of Malay died their last wish for its immediate action.
For the brood such as Swiss, the relationship of the Marcos family and the government of Severe Acting land can bring a secret to their consciousness because of the stolen wealth of the country, along with the stolen wealth of the Marcos Fidel Ramos in the decades of 90.
But it is still the truth in the country to continue poverty, lack of cases in society, the farmers by the farmers in the system and increase of cases filed by the farmers in the systems that are forcefully taken by the Presidential sister Kris Aquino for the violent stories about his sex disease or confusion.
May the movie pass through more than 30 countries as part of the reward of the festival to recover from the dream of the Filipino people to recover from the nightmare of democracy, Visayas and Mindanao for the real change in the situation of ordinary citizens.
