Both apologized for now! By Rey Marchil on August 22, 2016.
The government decided to release the couple Benito and Wilma Tiamzon, two leaders of communist Party of the Philippines (CPP), together with the hope to end a few decades of pushing peace talks between the rebel communists.
Now that President Rodrigo Duterte gave the freedom of the couple leaders of rebel party, even a few who are trapped and pointed to be imprisoned in a separate attack of the government forces, the cooperation and help to ask the cooperation and help in order to have a fulfillment.
In the release of the couple Tiamzon, according to Joint Task Agreement (BTAC) signed last 1995 between the government peace panel and National Democratic Front (NDF), based on the mandate of Duterte to show the peace talks, may this also be done by the NPA rebels.
Even though it ended up in a "fight, Duterte said it was the first declaration of the recall of Duterte because of the misunderstanding and rub the two camps to talk and listen to each suggestions for the real peace.
In an interview, Wilma Tiamzon was calling for the youth to pay attention or pay attention to the "desaparecidos," in the government, this is not the new revolution of the modern technology, like playing with "Pokemon Go."
The issue about to be a joke is not a joke; there are many lives who are taking advantage of bullets, not only from the part of the government, not only on the part of the government, but also the youth who do not do anything but to play new games in cellphone.
It hurts on the side of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP), especially that the personnel who were hit in the fight, left the right ambush and attack in their camp.
On the side of the CPP-NPA, this is also their feeling - these are also not measured by those killed by the government troops; abused and abused and different kinds of propaganda to rally in Mendiola or which is why we sympathize with the locations they filed in Mendiola.
Whatever the rebel group and government troops went through for a long time, only one thing should be done now - accept the truth that they are both asked for their action because their lives and interest of more Filipinos are more important.
The only prayer of the public is, may it be long term.
