And Wtch.

By Campos.
February 8, 2015.

In his column "Requiestas," last February 18, Solita Coll was hesitant to resign from the position of President Noynoy Aquino, in the issue of pushing for Aquino, even if it is still better for him to replace, it is better for him to replace it with Vice President Jejomar Binay.
Probably, because according to Aquino's criticisms against Aquino, it will be said that he is against the post of his own friends, not yet because he doesn't want the government to take care of his own friends, what is the interest of those who want to take care of it?
In the case of bloodshed in Mamasapano, Maguindanao last January January, legal and not morale is what is being seen by Aquino: Violation of the Philippine National Police-Special Action Force, 18 Palestinian from the danger of the Philippine National Police-Special Action Force, 18 Palestinian from the danger of the Philippine National Police-Special Action Force, 18 Palestinian from the danger of the Philippine National Police-Special Action Force, 18 warriors are also not in the danger of the Philippine National Police-Special Action Force, 18 warriors are also not in danger.
The truth is, Monsod is not receiving intense criticisms against Aquino that it is not the failure that makes a job, aside from a decent job, which is important to support our fellow countrymen who were devastated by the typhoon Yolanda, not the direct violation of human rights violation, even if he defended the pork barrel in the government.
Monsod is just mentioned by what he boils from Aquino to make it look that he gets the judge at the same time, he can't listen to the prosecution of this, and what is the basis of those who have been suffering for a long time, and what is the basis of those who have been struggling and looking for change.
There have been a lot of answers that Aquino wants to resign from the accusation of Monsod she wants Binay to replace it, because it is possible that Binay will replace it, if it is possible for Binay to replace it, it is possible that it will be held accountable by Aquino, and to conduct the election for the winning president.
What's funny, Monsod is supported by EDSA 1 and EDSA 2; he knows, if Binay will dig up the memory, the idea of the administration of Aquino to the country will not think, that if Binay is used to resign from the President.
Because, the truth is, there is a great show that there is a huge plate number and benefit from in the middle of the dark plate by Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, that is why when the vice president Noli de Castro is over, it is more important to replace the vice president Noli de Castro.
08 February 2015.
