In Ebola: Phil. Contingent is one of those who are going home; the OFWs?

It is certain that the construction of the families of the families of those who are around 115 Philippine Contingent is certain of the United Nations Peacademics, Liberia after orders them not to go home to the Philippines because of the deadly virus.
Of course, it is certain that members of the Philippine Contingent is sure of fear because they are surrounded by dead in Ebola anywhere.
Who will not be afraid and got nervous because of the pain that caused me to cry, pee, became brave and will return to your Lord with you without the time?
Medicine!
And he was also killed, there was no medicine here.
The Americans have an experiment on the medicine but even if they are not taking advantage of people, it is given to the two Americans, a doctor and a nurse, who were hit in Liberia.
If this will become worse, no one knows.
The sure, "if you have Ebola, you are dead and a miracle when you save you.
While we are facing it, more than 938 are the total number of those who die of Ebola in Liberia and Guinea and Guinea, and including two died in Nigeria and Saudi Arabia.
Thousands of OFWs.
Aside from the Philippine Contingent, thousands of Overseas Filipino Workers were also thousands of Overseas Filipino workers in the three countries being attacked by Ebola.
Around 880 OFW in Guinea, 632, Liberia and 1,590 are from Sierra Leone.
It is the child of tofu, the government has no clear policy about these... that if they are prohibited to go home to the country or not, just like what the soldiers and our police Contingent is.
But there are news that OFWs leave or escape from these countries.
We do not know how they will be able to go out but what we know, there are many countries who stopped in flying a passenger airplane to these countries.
There are also many nearby countries that closed their border agents, pier and airport so that those from Liberia and Liberia and Guinea are not able to enter.
And because there is no rules in OFWs, "we should monitor the airport what we are doing to the Philippines.
So, the ships, are there really, duh?
Medical services.
The medical services in the said country fell.
"Is it that many hospitals or health centers are closed.
First, the doctors are going to let go of a nurse, a nurse and other local and they can research to be saved from the disease.
Second, 93 percent, with the foreign contacts, nurse, and others also run away.
Only the Doctors Wazza is only fighting for the fight for the lives of the citizens.
These doctors have first told the world not to control the spread and murder of the people in the area, we salute you, Doc.
The UN is calling for the attack of doctors and others in the said countries but we do not have much news about it.
No matter who is a doctor who we hear as a doctor to respond to the call of the UN.
Even the doctors who love the sex scandal have sex with Kim Henares in the taxes that he has no response.
Because the government is prohibited every Filipino to go there and the Philippine Contingent is not allowed to return?
Where is the preparation?
In the three countries victims of Ebola, the authorities said there that more people died from different diseases than Ebola.
"If there is an ahea, heart attack, high blood and many others.
They die because the doctors are already unemployed while their hospitals also closed.
If we enter Ebola, would we be going to be like these countries with its health system?
That is why our preparation is very important.
You two, Health Secretary Enrique Ona and Undersecretary. Eric Tabag, where are the doctors being prepared here and where the quarantine on the hospital will be brought there so that it will not spread?
We hope, Bro, the only resistance to Ebola is to separate from the people so that they can't be infected.
RL.
It was year 2005 when the death of Hong Kong and China was severe because of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome or "SARS, where around 800 people were put inside and out of them, including the doctors.
Malacanang will take a shot against those that will violate this.
She has been controlled.
In the Philippines, what will be done by the Philippine government, "when we entered the Ebola virus, duh?
We want to know this now so that the people know what they will do if ever.
Are there also a lot of practice of doctors, equipment of these and other preparation?
I don't want to see, Bro, who will go through condom and dancing, Mister Venancio, Chongqing, Chuang, beauty style of the people of DOH.
Do you know what is happening here? The children of corrupt politicians in this issue are quiet on this issue.
