Yes, wait for what are new projects.
Yes, what else is that, but of course, you know the Special Action Force, but of course, don't you take a bath in our school.
Without assurance, there is no fare in order for us to be implemented at dawn.
Yes, our things.
How many kilos are, don't you have a lot from you now that is why it is raining or that is where you will be annoyed.
Bilao has nothing to be annoyed and being annoyed now, what may be a little yes right now, but that is just like that, there is a pre-order not yet.
So how much is the effect of every cent.
I do not care about it, "that's just a few piece of pieces, when it is a few pieces, that is why it's a few pieces, that's why it's only a few thousand, that's why there are only three pieces of things that are why there are many of those who are like that.
"As time comes, we have to go to each other; that's why he / she didn't say that,"
Yes.
We also have a lot of things, right now, but I am the only ones who are at the same age; we were able to look down; we are stupid; we are the ones who will be disturbed.
On what they did for the rain yes, eggs are not right.
"Are you an allergy attack that you are not a barangay of those who have not been a barangay of nine-nine-old; we are not stupid; we can just let go," Lord, "he can just let him be," we can just let go.
We are proud; we can ask the doctor, doctor, but for the first one who paid, it depends on the same thing.
"What can I do; he / she cannot go ahead;" that is not possible that it depends on me.
I will say that this will be added to yes, isn't it that there are eggs that we are going to do, which is why we can change that we have no egg; we can take care of it, right?
"What happened was that, according to him, he / she said that," I said earlier that's why he / she was really like that.
Yes, we are okay in exchange for nine in the egg.
Keep something like that.
It's as if we are just like a little word, it seems like we are going to choose what we will buy, and of course, all of us know, "don't you know that we are the ones who are selling the customer.
