Director Brillante Mendoza, happy despite the SONA of PDigong.
By GROs at RL-July 27, 2016.
Senator Bongbong Marcos had a Standard Lunch Program in some of his friends movie press yesterday.
The favorite conversation about the first SONA of President Rodrigo Duterte is the first SONA of President Rodrigo Duterte.
Almost one thing we heard is almost the same, they did not like the director Brillante Mendoza in the entirety of the SONA, we heard a indie film that's why there's an indie film that's why there's a angle that the camera is going to be under the map.
It is more simple, and not a chaotic angle of the camera, it is fine because the audience is on top of what the president says.
After the SONA, Director Brillante Mendoza stated that he is happy with the outcome, he admitted that he was nervous when the President started to talk.
The prime director stated in the interview of him in the News by GMA News TV, "of what is nervous, because the camera was placed in places which are not yet approved by the President.
"It's a little bit of stress, something that you don't know, is all moving," it's because he has a lot to answer. "
Director Brillante Mendoza also explained the comments of some about to be under the table of this. "Fight IT.
"We, to show power, he will be the one to control and hide.
It is also important for him to take the movements of the hands, even his mouth and a tight shot on the hands and face to capture the loss of Pres.

Duterte.
"Hopefully they will get the ATM," that is really the style that he is not with, "said Director Brillante.
He is happy with the outcome of the SONA even though she became confused by the slope of the scene of the president so she does not want to see the copy of the speech.
Even if he won't win and the defeat of Senator Bongbong Marcos as vice president in the previous election, he assured that he is thankful to everyone.
He tells that all votes are important to him that's why he won or lose, he wants to give thanks to everyone.
"As a public service, thank you, thank you, an honor was given to the vote buying.
"My trust and know how to be shown in voting in the" traslacion "for me, a very big thing," said Senator Bongbong.

That's why he made sure that he would be able to keep everything in order to personally thank you.
Even if Senator Marcos was not able to finish all the whole country, but he wants to give it time to make all the joy she saved and gave him the trust.
"Aside from that, it is not talking about one or two votes, but the millions of Filipinos who voted for it," the millions of Filipinos voted for it, "said Senator.

Bongbong.
The protest that he has filed was still there and the evidences exposed on them will increase.
They are talking about the process of burial of former President Ferdinand Marcos.
He is talking to someone to fix the burial but he still cannot say when because his mother is the former First Lady Imelda Marcos, the person who will decide on the date of the burial.

According to Senator Bongbong, "Mamondiong, the burial of the burial of the former President in the Libingan ng mga Bayani, to be a member of the Heroes' Cemetery.
"The military officer, which was considered to be the first will to be defeated.
"What we will do, I am,"
"During the time of Pres. Duterte's time, it's just simple, but these bastards are saying that they also want to give tribute to the President.
"So they say they should not bring him immediately to Manila.
"In the latest plan, we had a memorial service in Sarrat, because that was something that she was able to do that, the person who was a child in Batac, was the one who went home in Batac, before we were brought to Manila."
