Ebola virus is lurking.

Other day from now, the Philippine Contingent is already coming out which is part of the United Nations Security System has come from Liberia.
More than 100 people are members of the soldiers and police and in their home, it is certain that they will go home anywhere.
This group is the possible cause of Ebola which was quickly killed by 5,000 people in the past seven months in the towns of Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea and Nigeria.
OFWs want to go home.
Aside from the Philippine Contingent, our government has also evacuated the thousands of Overseas Filipino Workers in the said countries to avoid them who are infected with the disease.
It is estimated that there are 4,000 OFWs in Liberia and Guinea and Guinea.
Forcefully pushed.
In their coming home, even if they will not put it on our airports or Landing them, the government has a order that they will increase the examination through the quarantine.
It was said that at Ninoy Aquino International Airport, there are 100 which are set to be prepared for the SEA Games and Diosdado Macapagal Airport is also ready.
We do not hear any news from the ports of the ships or other vehicles related to the quarantine on their passengers.
21 days.
It is better if they will stop within 21 days before they release and allow their families to go home in every barangay in the Philippines.
The 21 days, Bro, is the entire time that the virus of Ebola in the body of the people and at this time will be seen if infected with a person or not.
But the obligation of the government here is not finished, after our countrymen are going to go home to their respective families and barangays, they will still be followed by the authorities and know their conditions.
This is where our countrymen are affected by the rules, and the members of the family, neighbors, and neighbors should also give information and tips on what they will do, which is when there is something to happen.
They are hardheaded.
There is one American male nurses, Kaci Hala, who came from Liberia and others with the Doctors Wazole, Bordado, which caused trouble in three said countries.
He declared the Ebola-free entry of his arrival but he was ordered to take self quarantine on the house first and not outside the house.
The reason why he grew up and now he was outside outside their home, especially that he was allowed by their court to go out of the house and go anywhere.
It is being monitored by the authorities especially that the 21 days are not passed since it is infected or not.
We should not be like these and you should consider the welfare of others.
It is true that we want to free our actions but it is their obligation to ensure the welfare of others and not just our self.
Should be true.
If you think about it, the rules on the quarantine on the quarantine on especially if you think is not sure of the attack of the disease.
For the days that the authorities have the quarantine on the coming Filipinos and foreigners to our airports and ports, these should be followed in rules.
In case there will be a violation of this, the citizens should be active in the observation of these.
This is what was done in Nigeria that's why they are following all the foreigners who came from them or their fellow countrymen who came from the country with Ebola.
At least, the eight dead bodies were not followed by the Ebola in their country because of the hard work of the authorities who were waiting for the possible cause of the illness.
Their citizens are strictly coordinating with the ensure that those who have illnesses are to know and know where they are living.
In other words, Bro, people who hear Ebola and they are quickly coordinating with the authorities if there are events that are not good.
ALL-Masa.
We repeat this moment, Bro, the bad thing that happened to Almar Tungpalan was not good, the one who died from the liver hard from Nigeria.
He was denied by two to three hospitals because of the belief that he has Ebola.
It's a good thing that he / she was accepted by Quirino Provincial Hospital, he was put under the Witness Protection Program and examined it.
After six days of research, they proved that the pain in the liver has been proven that there was a few symptoms of Ebola.
He died, "he added.
It was very painful for the feelings of the doctors, nurse and hospital, no one went to the wake of his family in the belief of their friends, neighbors and relatives who had Ebola.
We will experience all of this until our lives are slow down if we were able to enter the Ebola virus.
So we all should follow rules and strictly help each other, especially if we have entered this illness.
