Just two weeks of sleep that is why the cleaning of the school days is already, Break, school, in taking care of IGAA five, together with the same brother-in-law, in Tondo.
It would be good for others to be able to stop starting your classes in the next week because I have to be able to let us go to our own safety, and so we are going to be able to give us a deep ground; and so we are talking to the Doctor Lydia Adeleza.
Money that is okay, why are you deaf to the entire Philippines that DepEd will save for the entire Philippines that DepEd will be saved by DepEd is on t-V, 1 pesos, here in how much of how much will be saved, at all of how much will be saved, at least how much will be saved, at least how much will be saved.
I am still high here.
You can make a thrifty person with any viand of settles, four, like other candidates to buy other things that needs to be needed by the children.
Yes to other Rerole that will let them sleep.
Sometimes it is no longer needed to make it happen again, what he said that almost every year, he said that it did not end up to each year, and what we are often being ruined and then our problem on the moment, I am often broken into the little by little.
That is why we also need to pick it.
I came closer to all of me, I can do all of me, who are the grandchild of libel, Girlie, Hacadi, the Philippines so-being.
"I said, thank you very much, thank you very much, so that I will go back to me, I will go back to you, my brother-in-law, who will really wake up by one of my brother-in-law, who would really wake up at the same time.
Hope for Marasigan to study and send them to help.
We will be with our friend here on the day.
Mother and Paulo know what we have.
My grandchild.
Voted in.
There is no reason.
Yes, about what isn't?
Thank you very much for you to really put you in your problem, thank you very much to all of you in Alabang, this one five hundred years.
Because it has been two years since the sibling, who is about to go home to school department, who is why we are here in the fight of Elementary School to clean the feet, vegetables and ten o'clock in the schools.
In the middle of the bathroom so of course, of course, of course, we have a wide forehead, and for a few years, we can be able to marry a few years, according to them, we are not helping each other, we can help us especially when we leave, we can be able to leave.
It is okay if you have reached there that you have to study in every place that we don't really understand and happy, we need to understand that it is very yellow that we need to understand.
It is signal here.
In the corner of those here, he should not go.
We will be playing wooden pincers which is easy for our positions easily.
Sleeping.
Sleeping.
!
We will buy a bystanders who say.
.
Pay attention to a dog.
"Why did her brother-in-law quickly, what he said?
You should keep it in order to sell.
Fuck, deport; as long as you wait for it.
