
We are truly real (1)

Every November 9 of January, many of our fellowmen go to the church of Quiapo to make a decision on the Black Nazarene, while the followers in the whole world are slowly being strong, here in us, it remains to be strong in our christian faith.
However, we show faith every feast of the Nazarene and other similar feast, we also show how we remain.
I am not saying that what we are doing is wrong, only to me, there is really a unique and a mystery that you will hold of the Nazarene but despite this, it is clear that this task is clear.
Both of them were assigned in Exodus 32: 19,20, 27, and 28, where Mabog was angry because the people got mad at the thick smoke.
According to the holiest part of Exodus: "(19), that happened to the marble table, which he saw was the thief and the dance; and the anger of Moises, was worse, and he threw the stones that was on his hands and threw the stones thrown by the mountain.
"(20), he took the ground that they were doing, and burned the fire, and opened it up to the top of water, and removed it on top of the water, and let her drink the children of Israel Malasa.
"
We are religious but it is shallow that our faith in living are shallow.
That's why it's not surprising that we always prepare in the calendar, the feast of the saint, including the Holy Week.
These days could not be seen with loneliness, rather than enjoyment and taking care of the drama.
The faith in spite of the relief and strength of the awareness is not of the awareness to be free for sins caused by evil spirits, mistreatment and poverty.
Many go with the procession but most of them have personal reasons.
There are those who continue to stand up, thankful to the blessings or teasing that is why they are asking for help to ease the difficulty.
It's a waste if we can only do this kind of devotion towards the building of a strong country, it is certain that our country will be fixed now.
We are strong but it is a shallow faith coming around the ceremony of the saint.
This is what we replaced with the mysterious sickness which is very popular and this is an unexpected event that we will be replaced by the western God.
Because we understand our faith in our faith that is why we don't get to know what is really meant to be famous.
Maybe, this is because even from the beginning, the Spaniards used and used the faith in their colonization.
I have an assumption that this is the reason why our faith is shallow.
This is also the reason even if we are saying that we are Christians but it is easy for most of those who are shameless, steal in power or doing crime., in fact, many of our "pul-politicians are proud and shameless.
If you want to take a bath in a private Starex van, you went to the Infines Subdivision, Barangay Bagong Kalsada, City of Calamba, just near Metro Manila and from here, you are looking forward to the holy mountain.
You can contact Gene Lorenzo in a fineness of a resort to be for additional information.
