I am the first of dizziness.

When I was still a child, I can hear the conversation about malignant creatures, folklore giant and child in Malaca単ang and they are living there at the chief Balite, living there until now.
And because our house in Malaca単ang is near there is a chance that I can see President Benigno Aquino 3rd (Baba 3) who has been buried under that tree.
It was said that recently, G. Aquino admitted that he hears the voice of his boss?
In the interview, in one television, there is no corruption and he has no doubt that he heard the voice of the call to run again as President.
He also admitted in an interview, that he knows that every six-year term is the president of the country.
Even when he is a congressman and senator, his voice is against the amendment of the 1987 Constitution because it is made by his beloved mother.
Mr. President, are you sure the voice of your boss "what you heard is the reason why your posture is changed?
"Can it be that it's just a stroke because you are under the chief Balite here in Malaca単ang?" The voice of the children, Mister President?
When only the students in different schools were attacked by fear, some fainted and some fainted when a crazy man seemed to be crazy and also had a different strength that could not be stopped by armed men.
A specialist doctor, one Police Senior YANOPLAN) said that it has been a gun that happened to the students who were allegedly possessed by too much sleep or hunger, in the same age!
We know that G. Aquino's love for his father is too much, especially to his mother who is also a president, so all the President had plans to amend the 1987 Constitution, he contradicted.
The truth is, Bo 3 is the style of his mother to the leadership, even the severe calamity such as typhoon, flood and earthquake in relation to the current administration of brownouts "in the whole country.
But now, because of the voices he heard, he said, the action of the President was unusual.
He is ready to dismiss the Constitution which his mother built!
Maybe your mother haunt you, Noynoy?
Thank you, thank Better "to Times, Mr. President. Gurria, just call the" voice of your boss. "
Because you go away from the chief Balite here in Malaca単ang or it is better for you to go far from Malacanang because you might help you.
