
Fight against the violation of FC-C and the privatization of Quirino, Ilocos Sur.

Alfredo Cesar?
NPA-Ilocos Sur
July 26, 2013.

Millions of troops of the AFP troops in the town of Quirino, Ilocos Sur to scare the people fighting the operation of Calamian Group (MPP) and other barangays who are fighting against the UPP) and 51st Infantry Battalion and 51st Infantry Battalion and 51st Infantry Batallion (MPP) and the accomplices of the Moro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MPP) and the accomplices in the local government of foreign contacts.

It can be recalled that 50th IB) is an avid reader of Lefur and other companies of mine in Ilocos and real companies and projects in the corners of Abra, Benguet, Ilocos Sur and Mountain Province.
The toll fee of the Southland Command (SOMC), a company that is from China, is the plant owned by their own mother (Ore) of gold and gold that is heading to China for the final process.

The citizens of Quirino are aware of the possible bad effects of the operation of MPP in nature, health and livelihood of the people, especially in the community and towns near the plant, aside from the possible use of a poisonous chemical when the process has been started.

Since the end, the wide citizens of Quirino were firm against the construction and operation of MNC last August 2012 when the citizens of MPP) and other anomalous projects are started by the citizens of Quirino and the local governments of the city of Quirino and the local governments of the city of Quirino and the local government of the city of Quirino and the local government of the Quirino Grandstand.

Aside from the lack of regular consultation to the vast citizens of Quirino, it turns out that there is no ongoing process of taking a distance between the factory of Quirino and neighboring towns that are under the port of Quirino and neighboring towns that are under the port of Quirino and neighboring provinces which are all parts of the plant, which are all parts of the factory of Quirino and neighboring towns that are under the operations of Quirino and neighboring towns that are under the port of Quirino Grandstand.

The government government budget is being used and disconcerted by the indigenous people who are going to focus on any project of foreign companies that should be implemented by the indigenous people of mine, energy and energy that will be implemented by the indigenous people of mine, energy and lot of abuse of the indigenous people and most of taking advantage of their rights to the natives.

In Quirino, the Sousa Ocean's Pacific Ocean, IP, DENR, and LGU) made the process of FC-C to use different kinds of fraud and believe that the natives could not give their agreement to the said project.

The first violation of FFC has no initial consultation to the native citizens of Quirino and nearby towns, the construction and operation of the said project are the towns of Tubo and San Emilio in Ilocos Sur to build a garbage and clings of the plant.

Second, the positive and negative effect of the operation of the plant in the environment will be sold to the rivers, livelihood and the health of the people who have been given a job in the river, but it is certain that it is going to throw millions worth of mine in the river, but it is certain that it is going to throw millions of mining companies in the entire country, but it is certain that it is going to throw millions of mining companies in the entire country, even if it is a small amount of mine in the entire country, even if it is a small amount of mining companies in the entire country, it is certain that it is going to throw millions of mining companies in the entire country, especially if it is just a small amount of mining companies in the entire country, especially in the small amount of mine in the entire country.

For the three times that was conducted by the PIP, SOMC, and other agencies, the participation of the wide citizens of Quirino is limited and only a few officials of the barangay and will be able to ask for consultation.

The influence and suspension of the LGU of Quirino will be active and influenced the process of FC-Minahan ng Quirino for the people to favor the operation of the plant and the declared mayor of Quirino for their separate consultation.

Several cases are continually being filed against the leaders and members of the organization and militant groups who are opposing in MPP such as death penalty and are blaming, they are destroying and supporters of the NPA to silence their fight in the plant operation.

In the end, the presence of 50th IB) and 51st Lieutenant Shelina Calumay in the community of Quirino last July 23 is a clear violation of the community operations to scare the people and force them to agree with the operation of MPP.

It is right that the fight between the citizens of Quirino against the projects which will destroy the environment, health and livelihood of the armed forces of the armed forces and fighting against 50th IB, and other parts of the military forces and fighting against 50th IB, and other parts of the NPA rebels, in the custody of the NPA, in his own country, and other countries who survived the citizens!
