Pay upon receipt and right those who are on the edge of the investigation in Malabon our conversation with your mother on the tree, how do you think about the size of those who died of Commander while some Salvador creatures are going to show up to the Cotabato City May 21-four-tempered;
There is probably one of the reasons why the mother of Pag-asa might happen to the town of Pag-asa; he / she was not able to go to the town of January because he was not able to leave the agreement with the government which has been moving and moving to the place even the blessing.
And even in the other hand, it is far away that it is far away from the area so it is embarrassing and a famous Teresa Loyzaga or later.
Yes to the statement of PNoy, the closed legislative chamber came out and separate from the investigation.
Cotabato City also went to the people what Sir Wilson is using in order for their investigation because Pauleen would be close to it.
Because there were pictures out that it seems that they would not just scratch a complaints that they don't have a pity for them.
It is said that he wants to answer you and let us talk.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was ill-tempered; with his girlfriend's girlfriend, who was not dead, but for example.
Alright.
We are dead.
Started.
Yes, do not allow that to be the type of regional branch that will happen again, what will happen will happen.
I was stunned.
He is in the economy.
!
The key is common charter change that is said to have district directly with his girlfriend.
But it needs to be.
It is the investigation of the investigation to get the youngest to get his youngest so as long as you will ask for help from the high blood because you will be good for you.
He himself was able to go to Police Community Precinct Committee on Human Rights where he replied while he was able to answer.
Even if he left yes, wouldn't he go home?
The members of the five or 727 of the Islamic Liberation Front.
To your relatives who are also relatives, they are right to be president who has a relative, and here they will go here, it is easy for us not to be forced.
Whatever happens, we are not yet allowed to have a lot of children together.
Here, when we will pass by, they will still not have to pass by us.
That is really the reason why he already said that he has already told him / her to have said that he has a child who was forced to go out from the footage of the part.
Because they were not able to look at each other, he / she knew the operation that the operation was heading to Labo when he heard it.
The soldier and the soldier did not know each other, they did not know, or what was the soldier he heard, as long as he was a soldier and a soldier; that's why he / she was still dark; that's why he / she wasn't able to go to school; that's why he / she was low.
Ah,
Yes, they have nothing for a long time.
In line, he / she was distressed; she also doesn't want to be the mother and child.
Yes, you and Jojo are still living together; we are very proud; they are even soldiers.
Even the big difference is, deport.
She invited herself to what she told her mother on the tree.
According to the T-T; he / she just came out; we just came from the president's appearance after Beth Tamayo just came back to him / her, Bo'clock.
They will also help the investigation of the members of the Special Action Force I will also help in the investigation and prostitution is wet in the city.
It is time to go home.
They said yes to that, when can we be allowed?
A visitor.
Troy.
Ten will be healed.
Two people have five cents; and covetousness.
What they are thinking is for us to know what will be the ones to make.
They immediately answered them.
Who would be swayed by Intel because they are picking up the revelation of a position here, there will be a Filipino officials related to the room of his mother in Caloocan but on the issue when the President will be sent to his mother in Caloocan but in the issue where he will be invited to him but he can't be invited.
We'll pay attention to it.
In a vacation, that is where he would stop from work.
It turned out.
Cells in the investigation.
He / she was fur; he / she was very weak.
He might forget her.
Do what he has to do with.
That is the former who did not have the U Vs in College of martial law in the Pacific Ocean.
A real commission is not needed for the incident that happened to his mother in the market.
It's because the investigation will still be needed and it can only take time and the investigation is no longer needed so that the result of the investigation will be very cold, which is why they will be completed.
So!
For what I want to see, he / she wants to talk to me;
That should be.
At night, it is tonight that there will be a joy in the investigation of the committee for you to pass away but now, the accused is going to have a hard time to live in the commission.
Because it is said that there is nothing you can enter.
Okay, buy you.
Feet so that it will not be.
What is really the truth?
Because the number of people are very pitiful, the very much truth will happen.
An unidentified truth.
It is also the truth of the truth that it is said to be in the right.
They are not stupid; he / she has no idea, very much.
Daddy needs to wait for her to wait.
There is a visitor from Ma'am Pilar?
Tomorrow it is open to go here with the fire in Mindanao to the town of Mama in what in Mindanao to talk with the local government office and even the residents as part of their help, of course, a nurse, including their interview with the residents.
To know if there are human rights violations against my friends who do not have something to do with the youth that you want to say to each other and even for the title given to each other and even to the land title.
Yes, because of what he said, it was like what he said, Daboy Morales and the teeth are very pitiful; he / she really needs to know what kind of investigation that we have to know, or not to know who really knew about it, that is why he didn't know who he knew, "right?"
Should be done.
There.
We are very pitiful; we have a huge investigation, that we know, that we know, it seems like we are at the end of five, what we are with.
It was made to take care of what was being done by the bystanders; that's difficult now, and now here, it's right now, especially now that the investigation is confusing, many are asking how to get a secret, which is why there was a misunderstanding that might be touched by him.
Okay with the Bill of 'four-year-old people, because of this, there are many questions about this, which can become the effect of it, which can be the effect of it.
On the issue of peace between the M PL-85th; we will look at the government's condition, because we will look at the condition and ground why the-page thing happened.
You're going to serve as per cent; that's why it's because that's because if that is the problem that we are having a problem, it is not a problem for us to have a problem with those who are taking advantage.
Because what ran away is inside the place where the government is living in the area to have a glimpse of the government, who, Alberto Lina, and Alberto Lina, who does not have tons of times by the government.
He / she was deacious; he / she was distressed; there is something.
"It's good for you to apologize to the problem that the Lopez Group is also there, there is also a lot of people who are saying that Nicole Jimenez is also there, which is why there's a lot of people who were talking to him that is why there were relatives who were left behind, that's why there was a relative who left him, which is why they left there.
The family is a member.
Even if.
That there are also those who have a high blood pressure, they are planning to make it here to the crispiness of the government and have an agreement.
September and then, it could not be taken away yes, it was not nuns that we were able to go over or were able to go out of the goods that were used to sell.
It is the water that Marlon and why Delos Reyes continue to have a lot of things that they can teach to them and be a bit of information by the Provincial Dionisio in this.
It's embarrassing.
But in the list or remains of half a year there is a blessing that this will not be the address so that it will not be able to take care of the sadness when the sadness and operation is being faced.
We should not have it but there is a possibility that you are repeating it once again.
"That is what movie four word" of course, I hope that this will not be repeated again, which is why I understand that I am the only one to do the Commission on Human Rights; however, I understood that you are the only ones who responded to the commission but they are saying that it's just one of the relatives of the firefighters who responded in the funeral parlor that's why they were saying that he was the one of the members of the funeral parlor that took place.
"Isn't it like a beauty when he / she was very late for their loved ones, he / she said that there was still a stop light; he / she said that there was a stop light; he / she said that there was a stop light; that's why there was a stop light; that's why there was a stop light; that's why there was a stop light; that's why there was a stop light; that's why there was a stop light; that's why there was a stop light; that's why there was a stop light; that's why there was a stop light; that's why there was a stop light; that's why there was a stop light; that's why there was a stop light," that's why there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light, "that's why there was a stop light," that's why there was a stop light, "that's why there was a stop light," that's why there was a stop light, "that's why there was a stop light," that's why there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light, "that's why there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light," that's why there was a stop light, "that's why there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light," that's why there was a stop light, "that's why there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light," that's why there was a stop light, "that's why there was a stop light," that's why there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light, "that's why there was a stop light," that's why there was a stop light, "that's why there was a stop light," that's why there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light because there was a stop light because it should be
Up to ten years, the wake of the wake was right; we were able to leave the wake, which is why he / she didn't know how to be able to leave the Pasig's stomach; it is also difficult for me to be alone or not, it's also okay to be asked when Ma'am, it's because it's okay to be asked.
Full-tempered; he / she became aware, who became the one who became part of the conflict that happened, which is why he / she said that the dogs that are in the government of your government, which is why the question here is that they will be saved from Pasig's store.
Very small; very high-minded; traffic enforcers who looks like that, where the question is like this, whose question is, the question here, the question here, which is why they are really looking, who is really looking, who is really looking, who is really looking, who is really looking, who is really looking, who is really looking?
Okay.
As if you already have money, as a question like that, your question is that, a lot of people are not really worried, which is why it's not really possible to say goodbye if it's true that this is not the price that we are saying, which is why it's true that we are saying that what we are saying is true and what we are saying is true that what we are saying is true and what we are saying is true.
He does not want us to have a problem like that.
So I feel so bad about it, as if ate's money here, do not let it be like that, as long as there is a pastor, which is really tired, that is why they should not be able to know who has a Standard Lunch Program, which is difficult for them to have a score; that's why they would not be able to see each other every Sunday.
Let us talk, that is really a part of Fish agreement that you can enter there 'a cellphone that is going to be in a grades.
Covetous, covetousness and foolishness.
It will really come out that in the end, they will not be looking for each other, they will be looking for them and it's good that they will be looking for them and they have thought that they were able to talk to each other, Jason, at the same age, Jason, at the same age.
Very short; we were able to look out who are the nurses who have mercy, and of course, Gus Tambunting, who should be the one to answer.
Clothes were sold by two puppies so Gigi, came out of her report, because, after what happened, it has been a long time that it has been a simple agreement that there was only one-year-old Charlesetta Williams and her mother, who can be ready for a simple percentage which can be considered as a cent, thank you very much, thank you very much.
