Gambling by Governor Jose Alvarado and the king in Laguna.

I am not directly saying that Bulacan Governor Willy Alvarado is gambling.
If this is what we are saying, we should examine this is an issue on gambling.
It was recently that the Commission on Audit questioned the government of Governor Alvarado that made an GAA in relation to the percent of the province from the pension that he is receiving.
COA also said that Bulacan should also be the program of Bulacan if its part will go from said gambling.
It means, make sure that up to these moments, Bulacan and the administrator of the STL. King-mother will not have been measured.
Well, how many million are, Governor Alvarado, what should have been went to the province from the STL?
It is not a mother, Governor Alvarado, can we blame those from Bulacan who are saying that you are just fooling the STL?
Can we blame the people in Bulacan with their doubt that your millions of money from the STL?
It would be good if there is no case of borrowing money from you.
I want to say, Governor, if he talks about stealing from the public funds, you cannot say that he is faultless!
And because of that, the people of Bulacan can even get stronger the suspicion of the people of Bulacan who are experiencing the frankness that you are experiencing now there is a trace of it!
I hope that it is not true, because if it happened, there are many who are hungry in Bulacan, because you might have been dead, you might take a bath!
That's why we are really careful, make sure, in choosing who will sit in position.
Because most of those who are unaware, have no consideration and steal, while the country is thirsty for projects and real service! "We were woken up, those from Bulacan!

If a shameless-called Laguna "booies" who is former Bay, Laguna Mayor Edwin Ramos, who is more known to the ER because of the continuing illegal gambling, what can we call for Laguna Provincial Director Supt. Florendo Saligao?
Because it seems that the official kissed him who does not care about his jurisdiction.
That is why, the suspicion of, delyn oy, that how big are the faces of the leeches, gambling dens are the same with the pockets of those introducing themselves as a bagman of Colonel.
And it is impossible that the pocket of sir!
"What, Colonel Salmorin, you should act against illegal gambling! King-mother!" All RNC / Jun Briones.
