What more often becomes the end of early and sometimes, there are many evil spirits but change what we are in Makati just like this and live from Makati with a few.
Said.
Because we know what during the weather now, many are having a serious heart for them, and what we have, there are those who are saying that there are those who are similar to those who are similar to those who are similar to those who are saying that your daddy is going to look at it.
Davao City Makati, but it is a straight to six hours for the progress and cities of many opportunities to casually walk or speed up the speed of water.
Maybe if there are many of us, it is eleven o'clock when you say that you are not saying that you are always in a hurry as if you are always in a hurry.
Yes.
Why don't you look respectable; maybe they are going to be in a hurry to enter.
For others, you need to go home.
Because, how much are the people who are proud of the Miss Universes.
In terms of time when they are going to pass or they will go to, they will be able to go ahead, they will be easy to look at.
But if many are always rushing in time.
Now, why doesn't you wait for a moment to send a moment to Ayala and live without even a moment and might help a inspiration in the ceiling of what still left ice, which is why it's too much.
That is when you are tired.
Interest to look at.
The coop of a bra under the Makati City but business district in Pangasinan is the business district in Pangasinan of the Makati commercial Estate of position because there might be a picture of Co-dic!
The customers are trying to insist on the history of Tell, and the deep operation of the former.
Here in Legazpi City, for example, it has been done five o'clock in the lungs, then I was asked to go to the ground that the others were talking.
The strength is clear.
I did not go.
No.
Let us do it.
.
The white cloth she takes care of.
That was why I did not know the past Sunday after the passed overpass of Makati that was said to have been new in the city last form that was just finished in the city of us, when there was a few meters that we saw.
You know that in the opening of the camera so that someone will go home to all of you, you will be able to go back to each other that is why they will be removed from it.
What kind of summer we saw.
You are for a resort he does not know about R!
Well.
There is no naughty slippers on where the kilos especially at times now.
It is prohibited for them to be left behind but it is not bad to treat a deep and pay attention to the color of the surroundings.
It is okay to signal here, Kuya Germs or, at the end, not every day when you see the computers that you are walking under the night, it seems like she was able to enroll for night, which seems to be given to the age of Marlboro St., whose legs are given to us.
Here in our office, what is happening here is that they are going to dialing me here, we will be transferred to us in this hospital in Legazpi, that is why we have seen that it is possible to have an inspiration in its height and you can still buy you.
"With the script" who's the ones who can take care of who are our cousins, who are doing something like that, in the ceiling because they still have a plan to do this in other number 1 in Metro Manila, I just want to do it to other number 1 in Metro Manila.
Okay, we have a plan to do something like that, in the 's outside the Makati, whatever we know, we don't know him.
But earlier, it was just earlier that reached us that we have reached us, we have to see each other, because it has only been two thousand, we can see this in Legazpi City.
But it comes to you, that there would be someone who will suffer from the overpass, even if it is possible that you think that we are in the town of Makati, you will not really think that before we have started, we have started to make sure that before we have started, we can start all the public utility vehicles.
Thank you very much.
