
"What's being called X-caliber?"

It is sad to think that the like-like arm of the corruption is like it reached to our fiscal office like what was seen in the arrest recently of a prosecutor in an entrapment operation conducted by the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI).
The agents of the NBI attacked Quezon City Assistant State Prosecutor Raul Destura while they are receiving additional money from the lawyer of Doctor Alex Gonzaga, inside a restaurant in Quezon Memorial Circle.
Desalit was said to have asked the said amount in exchange of filing the complaint filed by a retired military who will be filed against Montes is now facing the fiscal office in QC.
Justice Secretary Leila de Lima allowed an entrapment operation based on the complaint of Montes, a community doctor who was imprisoned last 2010 because of having a relationship with the New People's Army (NPA).
De Lima expressed that he will not allow the execution of a regular operations like what happened if it is going to allow the gossips in order to remove those who are worthless and getting into their ranks.
Prosecutor General CDO condemned the leader of the National Capital Regional Office of the Department of Justice, what he called "to be of the form of corruption, which was said to have entered a few members.
According to Arellano University, the arrest of Desalit was to serve as a strict warning and reminded all the people to know the "public office is a public trust," and there is no place of borrowing and corruption in fulfilling their tasks.
It is the duty of our fiscal to ensure that everyone will be given the right justice to all the implementation of our laws, so that you are not receiving any kind of favor, consideration and unity to anyone.
If the news spread that the fiscal will spread or throw money from those who are talkative in exchange of defending the case, the integrity of the whole group of prosecutor will be put in danger in the eyes of the public.
Desalit was chosen to keep quiet, that's why there was no chance to get his side with the events, but after the reports, there were praises from Doctor Elenita with his strength to reveal a task that has long been the topic of foolishness.
An entrapment operation is scheduled to be conducted during the series of arrest that we can see, if there are failure to see, if there is a failure in abuse in their position and will earn money, even if they are being raped by the accused.
However, I believe that our prosecutor will remain honest in their sworn duty, especially after the capture of Calaguana.
Let me emphasize that the wrong behavior of a person is, if it is true that he has sinned, it does not mean that all of the houses are amputated.
He / she was wearing.
Short of all comments or reaction to comments or reactions, text message on email line, folklore giants, folklore gize other side
