
Senate and DOJ to separate them!

We have no one-giving and creative in cases of corruption and corruption in the government.
The only thing we are saying is that, the people are very familiar with what the past and current administration has done.
Very confused.
One of the visible comments now, Bro, is the bad politicking against corruption and corruption.
If Aling Gloria and "those in the opposition in the Senate are said to have done something wrong, those who are in power now should be investigated immediately.
And it can be considered that in the investigation of the legislative chamber or in the Senate, it is said that he will be given a "in exchange of hearing aid."
But his twin is the full anniversary of the media, where they will put an investigation on their opponents until they declare that the "guilty" will be placed under investigation, and even if there is still no investigation in the Ombudsman, and more than the Sandiganbayan.
Slow, hide!
If it were those who are in the roof, it has been wrong to start the foul, that is why the citizens are seeing each other again.
It is obvious that there is no called investigation by the House and Senate.
It is only here that around 13 senators who are involved in the 10 billion pesos worth of Janet Lim-Napoles, you will hear nothing from Justice Secretary Leila de Lima to release the name of those involved.
Therefore, the actions of these are slow, they are still hiding something.
Involved.
There are still problems in handling those in custody of corruption and corruption.
They will take all the ones they want to involve and take care of those who will be named to defend themselves.
If those in power lived, expect that you will look like a guilty even in their investigation.
You almost cannot do anything to defend yourself in front of the people.
It is not their line on the principle that you are very innocent until the court has not carried out that the court has not carried out your mistakes.
All.
When they are already caught with the foolishness, you are waiting for the white vinegar to know who are involved in them.
An example is what de Lima is holding on the list of pro-administration who are involved in the camp of Napoles, we never thought that de Lima does not want to release the involved people.
De Lima has an excuse that he is still being verified.
The question, is this like the verification of those who are sent to the Senate which include three eggs?
Because of the refusal of De Lima to release the list of more senators, we can't blame the citizens to think that they are having people in the list.
Resign.
We cannot blame some senators who have call for the government and their fellow senators about corruption and corruption.
One of these is the plea to resign as a leader of the Senate blue ribbon committee, TJ Guingona because it is a lack of interest to send Napoles to the Senate to release her knowledge about the involvement of more senators in the abuse of the country's funds.
We also cannot blame Jinggoy about saying that de Lima should ensure the content of the affidavit of Napoles, that there are many senators who are corrupt and corrupt, and there are more than those who stole from them.
Investigation to stop.
The senators are looking for the majority, the past investigation is enough for them to make a proper law against corruption and corruption.
If there is still other investigation, it is just different, like the Ombudsman and the Sandiganbayan.
What they are good to hide and used by phenomenon, then.
Who was the biggest?
Aside from the three, there are already 13 senators who lend money from the cabinet, Nra Cam said that this is almost what ex-Senator Ping Lacson is saying.
There will be the biggest in defending everyone and not the three eggs that will be filed in the Ombudsman.
Who really is this?
They will speak.
To remove the doubts, Bro, or for the whole truth to come out and to avoid the additional wage increase in public funds, let us just talk to the public or even in the Senate the three talking about the involvement of many senators in the Senate.
It can be called by the Senate Janet Lim-Napoles to include her former lover, Jimmy who gave their own affidavit to Lacson.
Ping and Sandro will also talk.
"Is it not better for the Senate to investigate instead of DOJ because it has power to subpoena until any issue and person?
Or, the senators, do you, "if the majority of senators will not take action from Senate President Franklin Drilon and Guingona, just separate the Senate.
