Kris, "Chance is still being made to be Onok Island despite of Asia By Alwin, November 9, 2016.
My reaction about the news that Kris Aquino has an interview with President Digong Duterte will be shown on PTV 4 and TV 5.
This will be held on Friday (11-11, November 11, November 11, Miss AiAi delas Alas).
Just like Tetepan, my advice to him in the one of my virginity "will lead to him, but also to prove that he has an intensive care for him, which is why he / she was able to step down on the part of the Pasig, Marikina if it can be brought up and used on Channel 9 and 13.
If there is a stop, he / she was able to step down on his post and there would only be a popular opportunity for them to move on, which is a popular news, he can be held at the Asia's.
Now, in the interview of the air-shaped air in the two stations that are not as bitter as Channel 2, 7 centavos, wow, wow, will I believe that I am going to be at the cave of Diva, thank you?
We Are it is all about to be aware of TV 5-Fish, a network and on PTV 4, seems to be an ally and a any form of its power.
If the rating of the New Zealand is going to be a monk in the head of the Duterte who was brought by crystal meth in the two stations, he was applauded with a shouting for Her.
Upon arriving behind bars and "tanim-bala"
For sure, Kris's questions have become weak.
We, I know that President Digong is a member of human rights.
Certainly, there are a lot of people who are able to go to school again!
In case one Filipino is wonder or no one Filipino in the said interview (May.
The Queen of all the social media is the Queen of Number media, as cowards.
Only in my interview with the interview, hopefully Pres. Digong is really the protagonist and not Kris Aquino and the events in his life to become a hero.
After the leave of Kris of the TV for TV, hopefully the speed and conduct of Her in an interview with Pres. Digong is safer.
I'll be able to see the Kris Aquino will be seen with the ice with President Digong and what to be the fth of the division.
