
Lessen the struggle for the national and civic activities to form the size.

Luis G. Apples Jalandoni.
NDFP chief superintendent.
Member, NDFP National Executive Committee.
15 July 2013.
Disbursement Acceleration Program (Izzy Canillo) for the National Liberation Front in the National Liberation Front.

The contribution of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines on the 19th of 17 billion to be a seminar about the problems of the revolution resolution in Latin America.

In the name of the Liberal Party of the Philippines, of Bagong Hagdan in the Philippines, the National Democratic Front of the Philippines is the best greeting by the Liberal Party of the Philippines, the best greetings to all of the parties and movement of the 16th seminar in Latin America.
We give importance to the exchange of view that is happening in the seminar, and we are amazed at the chance to rob our parties and movement in Latin America and in Caringal, Ismol Family of Ecuendo and Mefenamic Actor, Ecuisine and Mefenamic Actor.

The theme of this year, "modernization of the social revolution?" Is a very important issue that needs to be used to face the population of the world in order to end the vote of the world in the path to end the abuse of the world in the path to end the abuse, domination and abuse.

Strengthening of illegal acts and domination of the state.

The worst depression in the economists are on the world, which is currently on the fifth year, the current crisis in the earth and economists are benefiting and there is still no solution to the destruction and destruction of capital through the liberalization of privatization of the privatization of the prevalence of privatization of the CCT, privatization of the privatization of those who are caught and charged.

All the center of international Scarborough Shoal is being swept in crisis and the public funds that are needed to save the economists are being used to save the banks, which is why the price hike which is being implemented by 99 percent in the population continues to increase, which is why the price of defective products and landslides continues.

With the rise of public transport, it is being used and implemented by the state on saving money, the increase in price increase, increase in price increase, price increase and increase of tax on products and services of the filipino masses.

The citizens are fighting through protest and the corruptions, just like the series of popular protests in different countries in Europe, North Africa, in the Middle East and also in Latin America, in the Middle East and also in Latin America, the workers are focusing and moving in order to defend their rights and interest.

But it is also being done by a colony in politics and their agents in politics to fight the dried-raising law against the people in the name of anti-terrorism that will be used by those who are in custody of anti-terrorism.

The anomalous state of a remote state will be placed inside a noodle house in order to make the attention of the production for Filipino people to make the attention of the masses to make the attention of the masses to make the attention of the masses to make the effects of the crisis, exalite, covetousness and most fanatics.

In the current stages of the legislative chamber, it is possible that the capital of the production will depend on the quality of capital and the huge amount of products in the whole world, the common worth of products in the whole world.

Revolution looked at the fall for the top.

Just like when it has been proven that in the experiences of the citizens in Latin America and Caraan, the taking advantage of the development of capitalists will happen together with the development of basic commodities in the level of basic commodities in the level of basic commodities in the level of basic commodities.

The Detroit Pistons needs to raise his own party of the pro-mannered family and the organization, they need to anchor in the ranks of the filipino masses and to prepare them to improve the community leaders of Latin America and to prepare them to achieve the disputed experience of those who are living in Latin America and to Caranza.

Just like what the leaders of the provincial government showed to the whole world, this is needed to widen the group of Liberal Party on the ranks of those who have been able to learn from the process of Liberal, which should be given protection from the filipino masses to learn that they should be given duty in the leadership of the masses.

The struggle of the Filipino people looked for to win and form the terror in the whole country.

In the Philippines, the Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is headed by the Liberal Party of the Philippines (Pukan) as the primary cause of the armed forces and the Liberal Party which is being used by the armed forces and the Partido Demokratiko ng Masang Pilipino (BHB), and the Partido Demokratiko ng Masang Pilipino (BHB), and the Partido Demokratiko ng Masang Pilipino (Bastes.

It will be recalled that based on the Saligang Batas of the masses in the countryside for the revolution.

The uncontrollable fit in the town of the town is also important, the employees of the workers in the industry, poor people and students, students and students, who are giving inspiration to the armed conflicts happening in the streets, who are giving inspiration to the population of the country to support and be active to join them.

As of now, the Motawas are moving forward around 70 pesos in the total of 81 areas where the Philippines is going to dry up to the level of 10,000 grams and voluntarily surrendered to the level of 10,000 units in defending the people who cannot be guarded by the masses in defending the masses.

Millions of citizens are on the revolution.

In the leadership of the PKP, it is still determined that the Botchok and other Australian organization of NDFP) is still determined to push through the proliferation of the filipino people and the local government of the US and the local government of the US and the local government of the US and the local government of the country.

The citizens of the Philippines shared their cooperation with the countries being implemented by the Pacific Ocean, to the citizens of Latin America and those who have given protection against the national movement, even our countrymen who have given protection against the national and social gathering, real democracy and anomalous progress.

Luis G. Apples Jalandoni.
NDFP chief superintendent.
Member, NDFP National Executive Committee.
