
It is said to be gambling dens by CAYETANO in politics.

It is obvious the relation with Philip Gola, one of the director of Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA), is really obvious because of the defamation and disruption by Chairman and Administrator Roberto V. Garcia.
This is the truth: What was being used by Tikling is being used by the opposition of the SBMA that he doesn't want to come out from the passing of the SBMA that it is coming out from the passing of the SBMA that he / she doesn't come out of the SBMA that he / she doesn't want to be coming out of the SBMA that he / she doesn't come out of the SBMA that he / she doesn't come out of the SBMA that he / she doesn't come out of the SBMA that he / she doesn't come out of the SBMA that he / she doesn't come out of the SBMA that he / she doesn't come out of the SBMA that he / she doesn't come out of the SBMA that he / she doesn't come out of the SBMA that he / she doesn't come out of the SBMA that he / she doesn't come out of the SBMA that he / she doesn't come out of the SBMA anymore of Sal@@
"All of them have written on it, even the names of Garcia are both wrong that instead of Roberto were Reynaldo, so they were caught by the only one given by the winning" feed, "isn't it?
This is the truth: The recommendation of Chairman Garcia and the SBMA board a 10 percent increase based on the higher than Bases Consortium (BCDA), but were transported to various allegations against Garcia.
Instead of approved, Malacañang continues to investigate who saw no truth about the allegation of Camarillo.
This is the true: The law that determines Malacañang and Management Council (DBM) additional salary in the SBMA that he doesn't want.
Because there is money as a result of the proper governance, Garcia wants to give the additional salary.
And aside from the SSL, Garcia is still running after 10 percent for the SBMA that he doesn't want, and eventually, the total implementation of the BCDA.
Why is Franziska also needed to take responsibility and criticize Garcia when the implementation of the SSL is what the entire board wants?
There was an allegation that Garcia has been saving money for the candidacy of Vice President Jejomar Binay that's why it's as if politics is inside the burial of his boss Mar Roxas.
Garcia is the first head of the SBMA that there is no trace of politics, that is why it is now being criticized by Malacañang that it should be an obstacle in the normal operation of the SBMA and the Subic Gateway Park.
