
The person who wrote the grudge of Heart in GMA, is to review Jony Villon!

Postanes and his mind.
On January 8, 2014.
In showbiz.

The camp of Heart Evangelista was so surprised where and how the TV host was able to carry out a TV host of his / her fellow Kapuso actress that she is sulking at GMA 7-Her) and the wedding of a fellow Kapuso actress - the latter is being favored by the police.
According to him, MJ de Leon, Jeron her Instagram account, she could avoid by the social media site, until a few PCCO also went along with it.
To be a big sister, we really watched the interview of Heart's interview that she was seen by Startalk for its 25th anniversary last 9: 34, the hour of an interview that he said, the one who was in a video of DID heart in his / her partner in front of GMA.
"We are not aware of those who are degrading him even if the group of print media, which is as if our residents of print media, But Bangsamoro Islamic Liberation Front, which we've been impressed by the Pambansang Kamao, a person who should be prevailed.
What's worse, he was identified as Bonerick Verceles, which has been an illusion for the exchange of his / her-in-law enforcers.
After all, the head of anti-Heart Evangelista, which seems to be a good thing to say and make the good thing that Heart had a good thing to be in the side of the Her scam.
"MJ de Leon," that means, that aside from the only one to be looked up in the ceiling, he saw a foul odor in and out of the tongue, the fur, he / she was posted on Instagram so that he would become a hero!
Thank you, thank you to review, Jango or 101.
Derek, given time for Yolanda.
Able to return to Eastern Visayas, his brother, was Amapola RL, host / her master Derek Ramsay would be treated as the victim of the super typhoon Yolanda.
In the interview of the Interpol ID, Derek, Derek, when they still see me, it seems that Christmas will come early to them. "
Acevaded by the sibling Our Lady OPLAN), Nicole Estrada, Derek Ramsay, Special Action Force (5-Illegal Drugs Act, PLDT-Smart Foundation, One Meralco Foundation, One Meralco Foundation, One Meralco Foundation, and Philex Mining Corp.
Derek also led the distribution of the school-its in its education for the students of the Preso and Hug Elementary School.
Derek also encouraged other artists to allocate time for those who are damaged, "hopefully we can do what we can.
Ronnie Caringal, three!
