
There are increasing number of rebels in Mindanao.

Many say that if the Bangsamoro Basic Law or it will be BBL, there will still not be peace or peace in Mindanao.
The war in government and the rebels will continue.
The BBL is not assurance for peace because of the continuous release of the rebels.
During Ramos, the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) became the disease of the head of the government.
Aside from that the Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG) who were attacking the civilians and foreigners through kidnapping and asking for ransom.
There are members of MNLF who are pointing out and called the own Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF).
It is said that the government of MILF is preparing for them to bring peace because of giving weapons.
But there are members of the MILF who have different ways and they are the new sickness of the government.
They called their group of Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (BIFF).
At present, the military attacked the BIFF because they were the ones who responded to the 44 members of the PNP-Special Action Force while they are being hunted by the International Criminal Court.
The government's problem with the MILF and BIFF is not yet finished, there is a new rebel group going out.
It is supposedly a group that should be called Justice Islamic Liberation Front (AIDG).
The confirmation of Commander (Mohammad Ali Atienza, who was a former vice wheelchair for military troop of the BIFF.
It is said that he is the one among Basit Usman, another bomb experts with Marwan.
The conflict in Mindanao was not finished because of the gave birth of groups.
Even if they want to give them what they want, there will still be an estimated armed group that seems to have been distressed as our government.
If the BBL will be implemented, it is said that the government will implement a lot of money worth of money from fear of the country, can it be sure that there will be peace in Mindanao?
Different reasons of the rebels in Mindanao are very big, which is only the only root of it.
That is why the government needs to let its iron fist prevail?
The only problem is, our President has no evidence at the corner of the corner.
