Mocha also got nervous with Kris.
"Thickness of IC-ha!" By Allan Diones, November 14, 2016.
The: 30 diologists, Mocha Uson, has a spicy post related to Kris Aquino in relation to the words of Kris in the office of Kris in Davao who has something to do with the farmers.
Mocha also said, "I am sorry but I," Kris, "Kris," Kris, when it comes to jail and in showbiz talks.
"But in this kind of issue, I seem to be no" K "because while he is saying that we should help our farmers, I suddenly disappears," because traditional politicians are so irresponsible.
"He should not forget the Hacienda Luisita to forget their place, and he might have forgotten the Kidapawan City where his sibling did nothing.
"I am sorry, this is painful in my heart while writing because you are one of what I am feeling, but Ma'am, you do not have any position to talk about the complaint of our farmers because you have not done anything for them."
Mocha also added that Kris is very lucky when the Agriculture Secretary Manny Piñol said, "let us just do not meddle with the money of the government, many money for people."
"Kris's request is," she has many money just to steal, "and then Secretary Secretary, we were not stole."
As time goes by, it seems that many are talking to Mocha a lot about what he said about Kris.
The netizens say, Mocha also has a point and agreed with her opinion.
But there was someone who hit him with it, "Mocha Mocha," what did he do for the farmers?
"Kris Aquino's call to the stunted relationship of President Rodrigo Duterte in Davao in the afternoon of Friday was" Eve.
Number GandanDialogue, who came from the K Brando), did not come from the K Brad) for the hot season of Kris because of his post in Instagram after he was dismissed by the President.
"There was an attempt to comment about it," Sula day, "
In the cness, there are those who have any kind of disappointment shown by Kris because of his acceptance of what happened, that Grace to be under the blood pressure.
But someone will also ask for someone to be happy because Kris's attempt to use Duterte was not able to use Duterte for his immediate death after 6-7-month-old he was not seen on television.
In the interview of Digong in the interview of Kris, the distress of the President is not good that's why the president's feeling is not good that's why he's not wearing his interview with Kris Aquino.
"He is just a person and he also gets sick and hopefully, we should not make a issue."
A migraine is said to be the reason for the non-arrival of Kris' one of the interview of Kris at SMX Convention Center in Davao City.
But after a few hours, Digong attended the leader of the Filipino May Puso Foundation in the front of the Islamic State University Hotel in Davao.
In his speech, the President said that he was when he was late to Foundation College so he came from the mountain and was able to step down because the rain was strong.
Nothing was mentioned about his migraine.
The said Foundation is made to know the memory of the mother of Digong, certain Soledad, "Cory, Duterte, who is one of the primary activists and tourism in Davao.
From the said place, the President even went to the wake of his two friends in a Davao funeral home.
It was around dawn when he reached the said place.
Because of this, the suspicion that the President is getting stronger is that it seems that the President is just making a reason for not allowed to be held in the city hall which should be called by Kris.
Hmmmp!
Family, Jr.
